Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
12   Iq3
Report No. 6742-ET
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ETHIOPIA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
may 12, 1988
Eastern Africa Department
Population and Huiran Resources Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. 'ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriza.ttion.



-  UQUALV
U.S. $1.00       Birr 2.07
U.S. $0.48   =   Birr 1.00
ETC  QVALENTS
1 meter (m)                  s   3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq.m)           10.76 8quare feet
1 kilometer (km)            =   0.62 miles
i square kilometer (sq.km)       0.386 square miles
GOWRWII FISCAL  MR
July 8 thru July 7
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Ethiopia in December 1986 and consisted of Mrs. N. Maraviglia, Dr. S.
Bhatia, Ms. M. Idea, Messrs. R. Heaver and F. Walker (Bank staff). and
Messrs. D. Levy, R. Wickham and Dr. I. Robinson (Consultants). The Report
was written by Mr. R. Heaver with contributions from other mission members.
The Report was rewritten following negotiations by Mr. A. Noor, Dr. V.
Jagdish and Ms. B. Bashore.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Abbreviations
CBD            Community Based Distribution
CIA            Community Health Agent
CHW            Community Health Worker
CNS            Central Medical Stores
CPR            Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
EE&RK          Ethiopian Pharmaceuticals Manufecturing Corporation
Ethiopian Pharmaceutical and Medical Supplies Corporation
BPI            Expanded Program for Immunization
PGAR           Family Guidance Association of Ethiopia
VP             Family Planning
FT             Fiscal Year
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
VA             Health Assistant
GRD            Health Education Department
ELI1           Health Learning Materials Development Unit
Bs             Health Station
IB D           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            International Development Association
INC            Information. Education. Communication
If?!           International Planned Parenthood Federation
lob            Intra-Uterine Device
UAP            Knowledge. Attitude, Practice
LCB            Local Competitive Bidding
NCM            Maternal and Child Health
mg)           ':4inistry of Health
CCP            National Committve for Central Planning
VWO            Non-Government Organization
ON=CP          Office of the National Committee for Central Planning
ORS            Oral Rehydration Salts
PDlE           Peoples Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
PER            Population and Human Resources Division of IDA
PmT            Project Preparation Facilit,
SEDA           Swedish :aternational Development Agency
TBA            Traditional Birth Attendant
TIR            Total Fertility Rate
MUFPA          United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
WHO            World Health Organization
Glossary
AWAIJA         An administrative sub-division of government
This document has a restricted distribution and nmy be used by recipients only in the perfom-ance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorlaion.



-ii-
Definitions
Contraceptive prevalence   The percentage of married women in the
rate                        reproductive ages who are using a modern method
of contraception at any given point in time.
Crude birth rate            Number of births per 1000 population in a given
year.
Crude death rate            Number of deaths per 1000 population in a given
year.
Infant mortality rate      Number of deaths of infants under one year of
age in a given year per 1000 live births in that
year.
Life expectancy at birth   Average number of years an infant will live if
the current age-specific mortality trends
prevailing at the time of birth were to
continue.
Rate of natural increase   Rate at which a population is increasing (or
decreasing) in a given year due to a surplus (or
deficit) of births over deaths, expressed as a
percentage of the base population.
Rate of population growth  Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net)
migration, expressed as a percentage of the
total population in a given year.
Stunting                   A classification system for nutritional status,
referring to small height-for-ate in comparison
to the reference standard. Stunting reflects a
chronic, long-term undernourished state.
Total fertility rate       Average number of children that would be born
alive to a woman (or group of women) during her
lifetime if she were to pass through her
childoearing years confirming to the age-
specific fertility zates of a given year.
WJasting                    A classification system for nutritional status
referring to small weight-for-height in
comparison to the reference standard. Wasting
reflects acute malnutrition in which a
reasonably satisfactory growth pattern has been
interrupted by a recent, generally severe
infective andlor nutritional episode.



-iii-
ETHIOPIA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Basic Data
All figures apply to 1984, the year of the most recent census,
=1ess otherwise indicated
Genorals Area                                              1,222,000 sq. km.
Population                                                   42 m.
Population Density                                      35/sq. km.
Rural population as proportion of total
population                                                 892
Crude birth rate                                          47/1,000
Crude death rate                                          18/1,000
Populati$n growth rate                                        2 9%
Infant mortality rate                                    135/1l,OOO
Life expectancy at birth                                  43 years
Life expectancy at birth (female)                         46 years
ODP per capita                                             US $110
Uealth
Services: Population per physician                                    39,000
Population per trained nurse                                 2,100
Population per hospital bed                                  3,750
Population within reach of modern health services             <402
Population with access to MCH services                        <202
Proportion of children immunized                               201
Contraceptive prevalence rate (modern methods)                  21
Government expenditure on MOH as proportion of
total expenditure (1986)                                  3 8Z



ETHIOPIA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Abbreviations ............ 9..   .............. .........   Ci)
DefWntions ..........................                     {l
Basic Data  .........................                     4i
Credit and Project Summary .........................      (iv)
I. * INtRODUCTION
II.   SECTOR STATUS AND ISSUES
A.   Population and Health Status       ....................    1
B.   Population Policies and Activities ... ...........    3
C.   Health Policies and Services        ....................    4
D.   Sectoral Issues and the Role of the Bank a..*e**.    8
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives and Design       ...........................  9
B.   Summary Description .......****     ...*.............   11
C.   Detailed Description ...      .........................   12
IV.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
AO  Costs....999999999.....9.9....................... 20
B.   Project Affordability and Sector Financing ......  24
C.   Project Financing ...............................  25
D.   Procurement *9***999999909960*99 999999999999999*9   26
B.   Disbursements 999999999909999990999999999*9999999   28
F.  Accounts and Audit               ........             29
V.    PROJECT IFEI3NTATION
A.   Status of Project Preparation    ..................  29
B.   Organisation and Management       .....................   30
C.   Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 99999999....    31
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  Benefits and Justification        ......................   32
B.   Risks ...........................................    34
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS



TABLES
1.   Project Costs by Expenditure Category ......................  21
2.    Project Costs by Func'zonal Component      ......................   23
3.    Project Costs by Financing Source      ..........................   25
4.    Procurement Table ........................................    27
ANNEXES
1.   Statistical Annex                   ........                     40
2.    Documents Available in Project F;le 4.......................   65
3.    Detailed Cost Tables (Summary Accounts) ..... 46
4.    Implementation Schedules                                        54
5.   Disbursement Schedules  9..e.59
6.   Guidelines for ICB and LCB  0..............60
CHARTS
1.    Structure of Ministry of Health ............................   65
2.    Structure of Proposed MOH Planning
& Programing Department ..9....... 9....  ................   66
MAP
Ethiopia (IBRD 20140) ....................0.9............    67



-iv-
ETHIOPIA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrowers          People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Credit Amount:     US$ 33.0 million
Terms:             Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.
Prolect            The project aims to increase the quality, coverage and
Descriptions       cost-effectiveness of maternal and child health (MCH)
services; to increase t.he avtailability and use of family
planning (FP) services; and to strengthen the
institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health (MOH).
It would comprise the following components: (i) area
component, to upgrade the MCHtFP services in the Shewa
regions; (ii) manpower development; upgrading of
training for nurses, health assistants, laboratory
technicians, and sanitarians in 5 schools; (iii)
institutional development; strengthening of key MOH
units; establishment of building, and vehicle
maintenance unit; (iv) health education; including
family planning demund generation activities; (v)
pharmaceuticals development; rationalizing of local
manufacturing operation; improvements to procurement,
distribution and quality control system and
pharmaceutical technician training; and (vi) studies of
the hospital sub-sector, and health financing options.
Benefits and       The project would directly ben-efit 55% of the population
Risks:             of Shewa regions through improvements in access to and
the quality of care (effective coverage is now less than
a third of the population), and through the social
benefits arising from reduced fertility levels. Women
in particular woulo btnefit from the projet;t, because of
the emphasis on MCH/FP. The country as a whole would
benefit from strengthened management, training and
educational activities; better drug procurement and
distribution; and, later, from replication of innovative
activiti-. to be tested in the Shewa regions.  The main
risks of the project relate to MOH's capacity to
implement it efficiently; the currently high drop-out
rate of community health workers; and shortfalls in
Government funding for recurrent costs. The
institutional development and area components are
designed to alleviate the first and second risks,
respectively; the study on health financing options
included in the project, would address the last risk.



Estimated Costst
Component
(US$ million)
Local         Forei&n           Total
A.  Area Component                      8.03             8.22            16.25
3.  Manpower Development                3.24             2.61             5.85
C.  Pharmaccutical Development          2.29             3.29             5.58
D.  Health Education                    1.81              1.08            2.89
S.  Institutional Development           2.56              1.08            3.64
F.  Studies                              -               0.02             0.02
G. Project Preparation Facility         0.15             0.86             1.01
Total Baseline Costs               18.08            17.16            35.24
Physical Contingencies             0.52              0.78             1.30
Price Contingencies                4.46              2.86             7.32
Total Project Costs  a/           23.06             20.80            43.86
Financing Plant
Goverment of Ethiopia  a/         ;0.36              0.00            10.36
IDA                               12.70             20.30            33.00
UNICEF                             n.                0.50 s.50
Total                             23.06             20.80            43.86
a/  Includes US$5.06 million for taxes and duties.
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credits
(US$ million)
IDA FY            89       90    91       92     93      94      95      96     97
Annual           1.80    2.27  3.87    5.60    6.55   4.95   3.55    3.05   1.36
1.80    4.07  7.94   13.54   20.09  25.04  28.59   31.64  33.00
Rate of Returns N.A.
Maps IRBD 20140



YAHIy HATH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL R11T0'
I. INlRODUCTION
1.01      With a per capita GDP of about US$110, Ethiopia is one of the
world's poorest countries. About 80% of the total labor force is employed
in agriculture, the dominant sector, contributing about 40% of GDP and
around 85% of exports. Most of the rural population lives in absolute
poverty. More than half of Ethiopia's farms are over half a day's walk from
a road, so that access to markets and social services is difficult. GDP
growth has averaged about 2.5% annually in real terms over the last decade,
sianificantly less than the rate of population growth.
1.02      Ethiopia's economic and social development was sharply set back by
the drought and famine of 1984/5. In FY86 and FY87 the economy recovered
rapidly, respectively 6.7% and 8.1% real increase in GDP. But despite these
rates of growth, the recovery was modest and incomplete compared with the
immediate pre-drought year.  On a per capita basis, real GDP in FY87 was
about 5% below that of a decade before. While continuing growth in
agriculture clearly remains critical. these somber statistics also point to
an urgent need to reduce the rate of population growth (about 2.9%) if it is
not to continue to nullify, in per capita terms, the Government's efforts to
increase economic growth and social welfare.
II. SECTOR STATUS AND ISSUES
A. Population and Health Status
2.01      Demographic Situation.  Ethiopia is the second most populous
country in sub-Saharan Africa after Nigeria. The country's first census, in
May 1984, revealed a population of 42 million as against the Government's
previous estimate of 34 million. Eighty-nine percent of the population is
rural, and more than 20% live ia the mountainous r.orthern and central
plateau, where environmental degradation is severe, and worsening. The
population is growing at about 2.9% per annum, giving a doubling time of
about 24 years. Mortality in normal (i.e., non-drought) years is at the
high end of the range for East Africa. The crude death rate is estimated at
about 18 per thousand population and the infant mortality rate at about 135
per thousand births. The total fertility rate (TFR) is estimated at about
6.8; the typical range for East Africa is between 6.5 and 8.  DrougEt  and
famines, during which more than 7 million people were in need of food aid,
interrupted the normal evolution of mortalitv and fertility, and will have
left many infants and children with stunted physical and mental capabilities
(see also para. 2.05).
2.02      Demographic Projections.  Alternative population projections have
been made by IDA on the basis of different assumptions about trends in
fertility starting from the 1984 census data (see Annex 1). On the



2
assumption of a gradual decline in fertility, such as might be caused by
steady economic development without very high priority to population and
family planning programs, the population growth rate might fall to about
2.8% per annum in 1995-2000 and 2.1X in 2010-2015. with a population of 93
million in 2015. On the basis of a rapid fertility decline, such as has
been experienced by countries, mostly in Asia. with well-developed
population programs, the growth rate might fall to about 2.5% in 1995-2000
and 1.4% in 2010-2015. with a population of about 81 million in 2015. Such
an accelerated decline would imply a TTR of about 4 and a contraceptive
prevalence rate (CPR) of about 44% by 2003, which would be a remarkable
achievement by that time given that the current CPR is about 2%.
2.03      Health Status.  Life expectancy at birth is estiwated to be about
47, and just under 23% of children die in their first five years of life.
Mortality and morbidity data are based primarily on health facility records.
which may not reflect the real incidence of disease in the population. The
leading causes of hospital deaths are dysentery and gastroenteritis (11%),
tuberculosis (11%), pneumonias (11%). malnutrition and anemia (7%). liver
diseases including hepatitis (6%), tetanus (3%) and malaria (3%). The
leading causes of outpatient morbidity in children under 5 are upper
respiratory illnesses, diarrheas, eye infections including z..achoma, skin
infections, malnutrition and fevers.  Nearly 60% of childhood morbidity -s
due to preventable causes. The leading causes of adult morbidity are
dysentery/gastro-intestinal infections, malaria, helminthiasis, skin and eye
diseases, venereal diseases, rheumatism, malnutrition, fevers, upper
respiratory tract infections and tuberculosis. The high prevalence of worm
and other intestinal infections reflects poor sanitary facilities and
education and the fact that access to safe water is only available to less
than 14 percent of the population. Schistosomissis, leprosy and yellow
fever are important in particular regions of the country, while malaria is
endemic in 70% of the country. AIDS is a potential health problem in
Ethiopia. An AIDS department has been set-up to organize and coordinate
prevalence surveys, preventive education and related activities.
2.04      A sociological survey of a ssample of the population in Shewa and
Arssi rel+ions financed under the IDA Project Preparation Facility (PPF) (see
para. 3.U3) illustrates that there is little understanding of the true
causes of diseases, hence inappropriate traditional treatments are
widespread. For example, measles is widely believed to be caused by
spirits, and malaria either by spirits or vapor from the ground. Diarrhea
in infants is commonly thought to be caused by worms in the gums, and is
often treated by extraction of the milk teeth, with infection resulting.
Kwashiorkor (severe malnutrition caused by a diet high in carbohydrates and
low in proteins) is commonly believed to be caused by the evil eye, and is
sometimes treated by sorcerers burning the swollen parts of the body with
hot iron rods.
2.05      Nutrition status data are few and dated.  The most comprehensive
survey geographically was carried out in 1979-80 in urban areas of 11
regions; of a sample of 1,250 children from 0-5. 18.5% were stunted, 7% were
wasted and 40-60% had first and second degree malnutrition. During the
recent droughts, famine was widespread in the north of the country, and at



3
its peak over 7.7 million people were in need of food aid. Winile serious
malnutrition, even in drought years, has been concentrated in the north.
studies in the food surplus south have shown that malnutrition begins in the
womb, as a consequence of undernourished mothers, often exacerbated by heavy
agricultural labor during pregnancy. Malnutrition-related deaths peak in
the first 18 months of life, due to malnourished mothers' inability to
produce sufficient milk and to the late introduction of weaning foods.
Micronutrient deficiencies are widespread, in particular goitre (mean
prevalence around 30%). Vitamin A (around 20% of children) and Vitamin C
(around 10% of children). Iron deficiency anaemia is a serious problem in
areas where malaria and hookworm are highly prevalent and where teff, an
iron-rich staple, is not grown. The prevalence of goitre is 50-70% among
the primary school population in the highlands above 2,000 meters, where
erosion has reduced the iodine content of soil, water and food.
B. Population Policies and Activities
2.06      Populatior Policy.  Ethiopia has not yet developed a policy aiming
to reduce fertility. The Office of the National Committee for Central
Planning (ONCCP) has however indicated that work is progressing in the
preparation of a draft policy on population for development which should be
completed by the end of the current three-year plan period (1987-1989). The
next five-year plum (1990-94) will include a chapter on population outlining
policies and programs for the plan period. In addition, with UNFPA
assistance, ONCCP has established a demographic planning unit and the
Ethiopian Central Statistical Office plans to undertake a national fertility
survey in 1988-89 which would examine the determinants of fertility and
mortality.
2.07      Population Activities.  It is Government policy that family
planning for birth spacing purposes is an integral part of maternal and
child health (MCH) services.  The extension of birth spacing services
throughout the country will lead to a gradual reduction in fertility. This
is a good first step, but faster declines in fertility would require
development of information, education and communication (IEC) programs on
the need to limit family size (as opposed to just birth spacing), and the
ready availability of contraceptives to the general public. Family planning
services were first developed by the Family Guidance Association of Ethiopia
(FGAE), a non-profit affiliate of the International Planned Parenthood
Federation (IPPF), founded in 1966. The FGAE runs two clinics of its own;
trains Government staff involved in FP service delivery; and carries out IEC
activities, consisting mainly of seminars given to target groups such as
industrial workers, students and teachers.  Prov-.sion of FP services in MOR
facilities began in 1979 and by the end of 1987 services were available to
at least 365 health facilities (64% of hoskitals, 94% of health centers, and
only 10% of health stations). Overall, about 18% of health facilities offer
FP services, none on an outreach basis. In addition, contraceptives are
available, at relatively high prices, at private sector pharmacies in urban
areas.



4
2.08      The CPR (modern methods) is about two percent; traditional
methods, mainly abstinence, might account for another 22, although there is
little quantitative evidence. In 1984, of 121.000 acceptors. 41% were new
in that year and 59% continuing from previous years. The method mix was
oral pill 81%, IUD 7%. condom 5% and other methods 7%. Reliable data on
discontinuation rates are not available; an estimate of 47% for the pill was
made by FGAE for 1980.  There has been no systematic study of the unmet
demand for contraception. However, widespread illegal abortion and rapid
increases in acceptors at clinics newly offering FP services suggest that
there is unmet demand in rural as well as urban areas. The majority of
people, however, have little awareness of contraception and continuing
desire for large families. For example, a KAP (knowledge, attitude,
practice) survey financed under the PPF indicated that in the Shewa and
Arssi regions. only about one third of women had heard of at least one
family planning method, most commonly abstinence; about a quarter had heard
of the pill and an eighth of the injectable; and very few had heard of any
other method. 60% of woman with 7 - 9 children and 35% of women with over
10 children indicated that they wanted more, or were undecided. Clearly, if
fertility is to be reduced, there is a great need for education about the
desirability of having fewer children, as well as for greater access to
family planning services.
C. Health Policies and Services
2.09      Health Policy and Plans.  PDRE's ten-year health perspective plan.
produced in 1984, sets out the following major goals: (a) to expand health
services to where the masses live and work; (b) to expand EPI (Expanded
Program for Immunization) services and control all major communicable
diseases; (c) to ensure the provision of comprehensive health services to
special population groups, such as mothers and children, students, the
under-privileged. etc.; (d) to foster full and active community involvement
in all health activities; (e) to ensure multisectoral collaboration and
coordination in health action among the concerned Government and mass
organizations; and (f) to create a healthy living, working and recreational
environment. PDRE has not yet articulated a policy in respect of nutrition.
although the NCCP has recently submitted for government approval a draft on
food and nutrition policy. The quantitative goals of the ten-year health
sector plan were extremely ambitious; for example. an increase in health
service from 45% (of a population then assumed to be 34 million) to 80% by
1993/94. which would have required annual budget increases of over 10% in
real terms. In the light of budget constraints. the target rates for
construction of new facilities have been reduced for the interim three-year
plan period to do no more than equal the likely rate of population growth.
2.10      Organization and Management of Services.  Traditional health
practitioners probably serve more than half of the rural population.
Government provides about half of modern health services, followed by
private drug vendors (about 30%) and private practitioners (about 20%).
Private practice in modern medicine appears to be significant. Health
policy and planning are collective responsibilities of three organizational
units; The MOH; the ONCCP, which has a social services department overseeing



5
health and education; and the Council of Ministers which has a health bureau
coordinating health policies within the Government. A new organizational
structure for the Ministry of Health has recently been approved by the
Government (Chart 1). The new structure emphasizes the importance of
functions related with health professional training, health education,
pharmaceuticals and medical supply by upgrading them into fully fledged
departments. In addition. the planning and programming functions have been
attached directly to the Minister (Chart 2). The Minister of Health also
has access to a Policy Advisory Committee at the apex level. There are two
vice ministers, under the minister, one responsible for health training and
research, and the other for coordinating health services. The line
responsibility for the administration of health services, within guidelines
provided by MOH, belongs to Regional Health Departments in each of the 32
administrative regions reporting through the Regional Medical Officer
directly to the Minister of Health. MOH has begun an experiment with the
establishment of district-level health management teams, with the aim of
making health services more responsive to the needs of local populations.
The regional health department also reports to the regional councils.
2.11      Health services are provided through a network of community health
services, health stations, health centers. rural hospitals, regional
hospitals and central referral hospitals. At the bottom of the health
pyramid is the community health service, designed to provide each 1,000
people with a Community Health Agent (CHA). with three months training in
environmental sanitation and treatment of siaple diseases, and a Traditional
Birth Attendant (TBA), with one month training in ante- and post-natal care
and safe delivery practices. To date, only about a quarter of the
population is served by a CHA or TBA. CHAs and TBAs, who are volunteers
chosen by the community, are supported by Health Assistants (HAs), full-time
NOH workers with 18 months' training, based at Health Stations (HS)
ultimately to be provided at the rate of 1:10,000 population (the ratio is
currently about 1:21,000 population).  Bach HS is ultimately to be staffed
by 3 HAs. With the assistance of staff from health centers, HSs are
designed to provide preventive MCH care and basic curative services. Ten
health stations are supervised by one Health Center (HC), which is designed
to provide referral services for each 100,000 population and is to be
staffed by two doctors, three nurses, two MCH nurses, two sanitarians, two
laboratory technicians, two pharmacy technicians and six health assistants.
HCs provide both preventive and ambulatory curative care, and are
responsible for training CHAs and TBAs. Health Centers are supervised by
the Regional Health Department. Rural Hospitals with an average of 75 beds
and general Regional Hospitals (most with 100-250 beds) provide referral
services for health centers. Regional Hospitals are equipped and staffed to
provide care in the four basic specialties of Medicine. Paediatrics, Surgery
and Obstetrics/Gynaecology. The Central Referral Hospitals. six in number,
are organized to provide care in all important specialties, to train health
professionals, to also do research and to act as referral centers for
Regional Hospitals. There are some specialized hospitals, mainly located in
Addis Ababa, for leprosy, tuberculosis, etc.



6
2.12      Facilities. Despite the priority given to rural health service
development, the effective coverage of health facilities remains extremely
low - probably less than a third of the population - and the urban and
hospital care bias of the system remains, reflecting the pattern of health
infrastructure inherited from before the resolution, and severe financial
resource constraints since. The Government's current emphasis on building
health centers and health stations rather than new hospitals reflects its
awareness of this problem. Facility maintenance budgets have been
inadequate for many years. and hence almost all facilities are in need of
rehabilitation.
2.13      Manpower.  There are serious shortages of health manpower (see
Annex 1 p.3). The population per doctor ratio is about 1:39,000, one of the
worst in the world; of 4,000 posts for nurses in existing facilities, nearly
2,000 remain unfilled; and nearly half of all health stations are menned by
one Health Assistant instead of the planned complement of three. As a
result, supervision of volunteer CHWs is weak. Because of poor supervision,
lack of refresher training, and uneven material support from the local
peasant associations, the drop-out rate of CHWs is as high as 60% in many
regions. Training facilities are in a poor state of repair, and many are
poorly designed for their function, lacking library, kitchen or dormitory
facilities: students are sleeping in classroome in some health assistant
schools. PDRE has increased the output of trainees from the schools to
about 385 nurses and 650 health assistants a year, in an effort to fill the
staffing gap. However. this rate of entry of new trainees into the health
system has proved more th&n the health budget can afford to absoxo (see
para. 2.17). The emphasis on training quantities of new staff has been at
the expense of quality; currently no in-service training programs are
available for medical or paramedical staff.
2.14      Pharmaceuticals.  Nearly 80% of Ethiopia's pharmaceutical
requirement is imported.  The remaining 20% is formulated from imported raw
materials by the Ethiopian Pharmacet.tical Manufacturing Compaay (EPHARM).
In 1976 the Government established the Ethiopian Pharmaceutical and Medical
Supplies Corporation (EPHARMECOR) with the ultimate objective that it would
take over the import. manufacturing and distribution of all drugs for both
the private and public sectors. All public sector needs are met by
EPHARMECOR. However. because of inadequate storage facilities at the
regional level, most public health institutions obtain their supplies from
the ce.; al stores, using their own transport and thereby increasing
distribution costs. Erratic procurement practices frequently lead to stock
shortages and ad hoc procurement at higher cost. Shortages of funds
restrict drug supplies at most rural facilities. Real per capita
pharmaceutical imports fell from US$0.70 in 1980 to US$0.35, reflecting the
deteriorating macro-economic situation. In addition, many institutions
order expensive drugs which may not be appropriate from an epidemiological
standpoint. thereby further exacerbating shortages.
2.15      Service Delivery.  Service delivery in practice does not yet
reflect the emphasis of policy on preventive and primary health care for the
masses. Only about half of health stations currently offer basic MCH
services, and only 10% offer fami"y planning. Immunization coverage is less



7
than 20% of the population. Part of the problem is the under-staffing and
-ider-funding of health facilities; outreach activities are difficult when a
health station has only one HA, and under-utilization of clinic services is
inevitable when drugs are unavailable for six months of the year. as is the
case in most health stations. Shortages of transport (over 80% of the
vehicle fleet needs replacement) and low gasoline and maintenance allowances
mean that outlying health stations are supervised no more than once every
six months. But management and training problems are as important as
shortages of funds, staff and equi?ment. Service provision at health
stations, for example, is not integrated, so that even where there are MCCH
services, they are offered only two mornings or afternoons a week. and
clients coming from a distance may find them effectively unavailable.
Insufficient time is programmed for outreach activities. Clinic services
are curative in emphasis, reflecting client demand, and misprescription is
widespread and wasteful of scarce drugs. Hospitals take approximately half
of the national health budget, and it is likely that their inefficient
management may be diverting resources away from rural, primary services.
2.16      Health Finance. Little is known about traditional providers of
health care in Ethiopia, and expenditure on traditional medicine, though
undoubtedly substantial, is hard to estimate. The main sources of finance
for modern care are government (272), private contributions (66%) and
external assistance (7%). Sixteen percent of the MOH recurrent budget comes
from user charges for drugs and services - a remarkable figure for Africa.
MCH services are provided free. User charges for other services are levied
on those regarded as able to pay; the right to free care is determined by
peasant and urban dwellers' associations on the basis of their knowledge of
individuals' means. PDRE is actively exploring the options for additional
sources of health finance.
2.17      Total MOH expenditures have remained at about four percent of
total government expenditures for the past six years; this is low, but in
line with other low-income African countries with similarly low levels of
service coverage. The recurrent health budget has averaged substantial real
increases of 7 - 8 percent per year since the revolution, but the ratio of
salary to non-salary operating costs within that budget has worsened from
55:45 in 1982/3 to 69:31 in 1985/6, threatening the quality of care. The
rate of construction of new health facilities has been relatively modest;
the main cause of deterioration of the ratio has been the influx of new
paramedical staff into existing facilities (see para. 2.13). inflating
salary costs and squeezing MOH's capacity to provide the staff with the
materials and supplies they need to make them productive. A recent survey
of a sample of health facilities in two regions of the country indicated
that health stations needed an increase in non-salary operating budget of
about 582 and health centers of about 78% if they were to provide a
reasonable level of service.
2.18      Donor Activities.  At about US$ 10 million per annum, donor
contributions to the long-term development of the health sector (as opposed
to the recent short-term relief efforts) are modest, and reflect the low
overall level of external assistance going to Ethiopia (US$ 6 per head as
against the US$20 avc'-age for sub-Saharan Africa). The main foreign donors



8
in the health sector are Italy (hospital construction, blindness and leprosy
control). Sweden (MCH. nutrition and training development). UNICEF (MCR.
training, essential drugs). WHO (essential drugs, many small projects) and
UNFPA (health center construction, training, contraceptive supply). It is
unclear whether, after the famine. significant funds will be reprogrammed by
foreign governments and NGOs from relief to long-term development efforts.
D, Sectoral Issues and the Role of the Bank
2.19      Population.  IDA's Population. Healtb and Nutrition Seuctor Report.
(No. 5299-ET, issued in grey cover in September 1985) identified rapid
population growth as a key problem facing the country. It poinced out that
continued rapid population growth would absorb most of the gains to be
expected from economic growth, making significant increases in living
standards impossible; that food imports would increase as demand outstripped
domestic production; that the burden of financing health, education and
other services would become intolerable; and that, due to the increasing
demand for firewood, the steady deforestation and soil erosion which has
already denuded the north of Ethiopia would affect the whole country by the
end of the century. PDRE has accepted these arguments. The conclusions of
the sector report were widely discussed by Ethiopian policy-makers at a one-
day workshop on population and development co-sponsored by ONCCP, IDA and
UNFPA, held in March 1987.
2.20      Since tben. government hPs taken a number of initiatives to deepen
its understanding of population issues including thorough study tours
assisted by UNFPA. Government now intends to develop a multi-sectoral
population policy by the end of 1989 and has decided to include a chapter
addressing population issues in the next five year plan 1990/94 (para.
2.06). With regard to family planning PDRE's current practice has been not
to make PP services available outside MCH services but is now prepared to
offer FP services outside conventional health facilities. using social
marketing and community-based distribution (see Chapter 3). During
negotiations, government submitted to IDA a work program fur development of
a national population policy. Government also agreed to exchange views with
the association on population policies aud related annual implementation
plans which it is developing within the framework of the preparation of the
five year plan. Finally, government indicated to IDA its interest in early
financing of a population project, the preparation of which would provide
further opportunities to deepen the dialogue with IDA on population matters.
2.21      Healtb.  The main issues in the sub-sector are the very low levels
of coverage of modern health services. and the poor quality and curative
emphasis of most existing services. Financial constraints are behind the
low coverage and the serious shortages of resources -n existing facilities.
Because of these shortages. and following discussion of the sector raport
Government and IDA agreed that emphasis should be put first on the
consolidation of existing services, and only then on major expansion. This
principle was reflected in the three year health plan. which provided for
cutbacks in construction targets. IDA and PDRE also agree on the need to
seek additional sources of health revenues and discussed a draft IDA study



9
of health financing options during January 1988 in Addis Ababa; the main
options considered in the report are increases in user charges, increased
allocation of funds from the Government budget, and development of health
insurance schemes. During negotiations of the proposed credit. Government
agreed to exchange views with IDA on the health financing alternatives it is
examining, for the purpose of experimenting with those identified as the
most promising. In addition, the project includes funds for assisting the
Government in further exploring such financing options.
2.22      Managerial factors are as important a determinant of health
service quality as the availability of funds. In order to make the most
efficient use of existing resources, the key needs in the health sector in
Ethiopia are (a) to focus field staff on the delivery of selected
interventions which meet the key epidemiological needs; (b) to use IEC to
increase the demand for preventive care (including FP), and hence reduce the
need for expensive, curative care; and (c) to make better use of the drug
budget through more efficient procurement and distribution, and reducing
misprescription. Development of an improved field staff supervision system
and of an in-service training system are necessary preconditions for the
above. Improved management of the existing health delivery system, as well
as expansion of the availability of FP services, is a key aim of the
proposed IDA project.
2.23      Nutrition.  Three different causes of malnutrition in Ethiopia
have received different responses on the part of IDA. A first cause is the
drought and in FY85, IDA's response was to rapidly develop a US$30 million
Drought Recovery Project, and provided transport, seed and fertilizer to
assist PDRE in making a rapid recovery in agricultural production. The
second, and enduring cause of malnutrition in Ethiopia is poverty. Given
that most Ethiopians are farmers. PDRE's agricultural policy is the major
influence on both poverty and nutrition. Following the land reform in 1975,
land is quite equitably distributed, so that increases in agricultural
output are likely to translate directly into income and food consumption
increases for the rural majority. In addition, government and IDA are
pursuing an active dialogue on methods to improve producer incentives. A
third cause of malnutrition consists of cultural practices. which lead to the
inappropriate or inadequate feeding of children and pregnant women: IDA
proposes to address this issue by assisting MOH with its nutritior. education
efforts through the IEC component of the proposed Family Health Project, and
with the distribution of key vitamin and mineral supplements.
III. THE PRJEBCT
A. Objectives and Design
3.01      The objectives of the proposed project, IDA's first operation in
this sector in Ethiopia, are: (i) to increase the quality, coverage and
cost-effectiveness of maternal and child health (MCH) services; (ii) to
increase the availability and use of family planning (FP) services; and
(iii) to strengthen the institutional capacity of MOH. The proposed project
focuses on MCH services as the health interventions which will most directly



10
reduce the high rates of mortality in Ethiopia, and as an appropriate
vehicle for the expansion of family planning services. Given the poor
quality of existing health services, the project would focus primarily on
increases in quality rather than coverage, and the amount of new
constru.ction (as opposed to rehabilitation) of health facilities proposed
would .e limited, because of the constzaints on the recurrent health budget.
While each component would have output and process targets against which to
measure progress, the overall project objectives are not expressed in terms
of health status improvements, both because these are hard to measure and
because it is not certain that they would be clearly attributable to the
project rather than other factors.
3.02      To achieve the above objectives, the project would finance the
development of MCH/FP services in three of Ethiopia's 32 newly established
administrative regions and activities at the national level which would both
support the area component of the project, and also develop tae
institutional base needed to support future lending in the sector. The
specific aim of the area component, which would be the core of the project,
would be to develop an effective uiervice delivery and management and
supervision system for MCH/FP in che Shewa regions, which could then be
extended to further regions of thLe country in subsequent projects (A project
using the same design is to be financed in parallel by the Italian
Government in the Arssi region.) The Shewa regions were chosen because of
their substantial population (8.8 million in 1987, approximately 19% of the
national population) and relative accessibility; because health status and
health service coverage are close to the average for the country- and
because of their cultural and geographic diversity. The Shewa regions are
the most densely populated area of Ethiopia, with four main ethnic groups -
the Oromo. Amhara, Kembata/Hadiya and Gurage. The majority of the
population is Orthodox Christian, and about 30% is Muslim. This ethnic and
religious diversity will help to ensure innovations developed in the area
component would be appropriate for and likely to succeed in other parts of
the country. Activities to be financed under other components in support of
the area component would include manpower, pharmaceuticals. health education
and institutional development.
3.03      Because of the need to experiment and learn in this first project.
a special effort was made during preparation to learn about the project
beneficiaries and health care providers in the area component regions, and
to build flexibility into the project design. Three major surveys in Shewa
regions and also in Arssi, along with other preparation work, were funded
under a project preparation facility of US$500,000. An epidemiological/KAP
study (see para. 2.08) surveyed health conditions and knowledge, attitudes
and practice about contraception, and will serve as a bencbmark against
which to measure progress. as well as feeding into project design; a
functional task analysis looked at the way a sample of health care providers
use their time, and provided a detailed diagnosis of service delivery and
management problems (see para. 2.15); and a sociological survey of the
beneficiary population (see para. 2.04) used participant observation and
interview techniques to assess clients' beliefs about diseases and remedies,
and attitudes toward modern and traditional health care. The project would
fund the establishment of regional level management teams in Shewa regions



11
(seie para. 3.10) to help develop a service delivery system which would be
responsive to beneficiaries' needs, by learning through experience during
implementation.
3.04      The remaining components of the project are designed to support
the long term institutional development of the sector as well as successful
development of the area component. The health education, pharmaceutical,
manpower development and institutional development components would each
strengthen the staffing and planning and management capacity of MOH and
other key institutions at the national level. A hospital sector review to
be financed under the studies component would provide the knowledge base for
possible future lending in a subsector which absorbs about half of MOH's
recurrent budget. Studies of health financing options would provide the
basis for the design if programs to increase resources for the health sector
and studies of the organisation and management issues of the MOH would
enable the design of an effective management system.
B. Summary Description
3.05      The project, with base costs of US$ 35.2 million, is designed to
be implemented over an eight year period. It would consist of the following
components (costs given below are base costs):
gi) Area Development (US$16.3 million). Strengthening of MCH/PP
services through rehabilitation, furnishing and equipping of 3 rural
hospitals, 18 health centers and about 180 health stations; development of 3
new health centers; provision of additional staff, vehicles, MCH drugs,
contraceptives and supplies; establishment of 3 regional management teams;
support for innovative activities' in MCHRFP service delivery; and monitoring
and evaluation studies.
(ii)  Manpower Development US$5.8 million).  Improvement of the quality
of health manpower training through rehabilitation of one nursing school on
two campuses, 2 health assistant schools. 1 laboratory technician school.
and 1 sanitarian school; and support for incremental per diems, transport
and other operating costs;
(iii)  Institutional Development (US$3.7 million).  Strengthening of
the Planning and Programming Department of NOH and key units in MOH,
including the architectural unit; the management information unit and the
procurement unit and the MCH unit; and establishment of a new unit
responsible for building, vehicle and equipment maintenance.
(iv) Health Education (US$3.9 million). Strengthening of health
education capacity through construction of a health learning materials
development unit; renovation and equipping of office facilities, together
with related incremental operating costs.
(v) Pharmaceuticals Development (US$5.6 million). Support for
investments to increase the production of MOH's existing drug manufacturing
plant; renovation and equipping of central medical stores, and establishment



12
of 7 new regional stores and one bonded warehouse; provision of trucks;
support for technical assistance; and provision of incremental recurrent
costs.
(vi) Studies(US$0.02 million). Support to MH for studies to carry
out a review of the hospital sector, health financing options, and to
develop a management system.
C. Detailed Description
Area Development
3.06      The broad objectives of the area component would be to contribute
to improvements in health status, particularly of mothers and children, and
to increase the contraceptive prevalence rate in the Shewa regions; and to
develop a cost-effective MCH/FP service delivery and management system
suitable for replication in other parts of the country. The specific
objectives of the component would be to (a) increase effective health
service coverage in the three regions within the project period from the
current less than 20% of the population to 55%; (b) immunize at least 45% of
the children against communicable diseases; (c) educate mothers to recognize
dehydration and ensure that 45% of them can prepare ORS; (d) reduce
diarrhea-related hospital admissions by 50% from current levels; (e) provide
50% of pregnant women with two doses of tetanus toxoid, and with ante-natal
and post-natal care, including key vitamin and mineral nutrition
supplements; (f) ensure an increasing trend in the identification and
referral of high risk pregnancies; (g) provide family planning service at
all health facilities and as a community-based program; and (h) increase the
contraceptive prevalence rate to 17% of the total eligible population from
the current 2%.
3.07      In view of the extremely poor state of repair of existing health
facilities, the project would finance the rehabilitation, including
furnishing and re-equipment as necessary, of about 180 health stations, and
18 health centers and 3 rural hospitals which would provide referral back-up
to the health stations. The project would also finance construction of 3
new health centers in Chebo-Gurage, Kembata-Hadiya and Selale awarjas, where
existing health centers must now supervise from 14 to 24 health stations
instead of the norm of 10.  Appraisal estimates for civil works and
equipment costs were derived from surveys of a sample of health facilities.
It is expected that surveys and architectural design work for at least 6
health centers and 60 health stations would be completed by September 1988,
by MOH's architectural unit. Sites would be acquired for the 3 new health
centers, Chebo-Gurage, Kembata-Hadiya. and Selale awrajas also by that date.
Completion of survey and architectural design work for all remaining health
facilities would be completed by September 1989.
3.08      Most health stations in the Shewa regions now have only 1 health
assistant (HA). as against the 10 year plan target of 3, making the
provision of regular outreach services and supervision of community workers
impossible. PDRE would therefore finance outside the project, the salaries



13
of additional HAs to work in the health stations, so ai to achieve a level
of 2 per facility, the minimum required for effective service provision.
Similarly, to relieve serious staffing shortages at health centers and rural
hospitals, PDRE would finance additional doctors, nurses, technicians and
health assistants to bring existing facilities up to minimum staffing norms,
in addition to providing the staff needed to establish the 3 new health
centers. During negotiations, government confirmed that it would finance
471 new staff outside the project for the area component and have them in
place according to the schedule set out in the Action Plan attached to
Section VII below.
3.09      A survey carried out under the project preparation facility for
the proposed project indicated that the availability of basic drugs is about
50% of what is needed to meet existing levels of demand at health stations
and health centers. The project would therefore finance essential MCH
drugs, materials and supplies to a total value of about US$ 3.0 million with
the aim of doubling the supply at health stations, health canters and rural
hospitals in Shewa regions by the end of the project. While funding these
additional drugs will add to MOH's recurrent cost burden after the project.
they represent a conservative estimate of the minimum required to make an
impact on health status, since they do not take into account the increase in
demand for services which is likely to follow project-sponsored increases in
service quality. This additional demand would have to be satisfied from
private sector sources. The project would also finance contraceptives to a
value of USS 2.9 million, required to meet the project's prevalence rate
target (see para. 3.06). The planned contraceptive mix at the end of the
project is pill 702, condom 132, IUD 9.52. injectables 2.52, sterilization
2.5Z and other 2.52; the mix now is pill 87X; ID 62; condom 52 and
sterilization 2%.
3.10      In order to make efficient use of the facilities. medical supplies
and technical staff to be provided, and to meet the targeted coverage
increases, the project would finance improvements in the management and
outreach capacity of health services in the three regions. The project
would assist the establishment of 3 regional level management teams.
Additional per diems and two vehicles would be provided to increase the
supervision capability of the Shewa regional health departments, plus office
accommodation- In order to increase the outreach and supervision capacity
at lower levels, 11 vehicles would be provided to health centers and rural
hospitals without adequate transport; one bicycle would be provided for each
of 180 health stations; and provision would be made for a motorcycle for 36
health stations, and funds for renting mules at health stations where
distance or terrain make these the best form of transport. Operation and
maintenance costs would be financed for all vehicles. Under the
institutional development component (see below), assistance would be
provided to upgrade the management information system, and a small amount of
funds has been included in the area component to finance operational
research efforts that may be identified during project implementation.
3.11      Two specific service delivery innovations would be tested under
the area component. First, the project would finance supplies and equipment
for 9 "maternity villages", simple accommodations built by local communities



14
and attached to hospitals and health centers. where high risk pregnant we en
could spend their last weeks of pregnancy with access to specialist car.,
yet attended and financed by family members. The aim would be to provide a
cheap, culturally acceptable way of encouraging institutional deliveries.
Second. the project would include experimentation with delivery by community
workers (CHAs and TBAs) of a simple package of MCH services, including
provision of barrier methods of contraception and resupply of oral pills.
The aim would be to establish a method of extending family planning, as well
as the basic health services for which CHWs are already responsible, to
areas outside the reach of clinic facilities. In view of the importance of
the community workers to the success of the project, Government submitted
during negotiations to IDA a detailed plan to reduce the dropout rate of
community health workers in the Shewa regions. Assurances were obtained
from the Government at negotiations that it would limit an experiment with
the delivery of contraceptives by community workers in the first three years
of the project to the catchment areas of 4 health centers in Shewa regions
to be expanded to the rest of Shewa regions by the end of the project period
if the proposed mid-project review concluded that the first phase had been
technically successful &nd culturally acceptable.
3.12      During negotiations Government agreed to exchange views with IDA
from time to time on the results of the measures introduced to improve the
effectiveness of the community health workers and other innovations in
bealth care such as maternity villages in the Shewa regions. Progress in
implementation would be monitoted against annual implementation plans and
through the service statistics system, which contains indicators for each of
the specific targets above (para. 3.06). In addition. an evaluation of the
component effectiveness would be carried out in the middle and final years
of the project by MOH with the assistance of 2 man-months of project
financed technical assistance. These evaluations would include sociological
surveys of the reactions of project beneficiaries to project-financed
changes in service provision.
Manpower Development
3.13      The overall objectives of the manpower development component would
be to improve the quality of paramedical and managerial staff in the health
service. Specific targets for the component would be the provision of in-
service training for all health managers, nurses, technicians and health
assistants in the Shewa regions; provision of in-service training in
management for all managers in the MO head office who need it; and
strengthening of the MOE Manpower Department's capability in the areas of
manpower planning, curriculum development and evaluation. Routine
monitoring against annual workplans of progress toward the above objectives
would be complemented by field evaluations of the quality and effectiveness
of training by MOH's Manpower Department, beginning in the second year of
the project and continuing annually.
3.14      In order to upgrade the quality of paramedical staff, the project
would improve pre-service training and develop in-service training. which is
not now undertaken on a systematic basis, at the following schools: nursing
at St. Paul's and Zewditu in Addis Ababa; health assistants at Menelik in



15
Addid Ababa and at Awassa in Sidamo, sanitarians at Jimma; and laboratory
technicians at Addis Ababa. These schools would serve as models for
upgrading other schools in the same categories in the future. All of che
above schools are existing, but in a poor state of repair; in several cases.
basic kitchen, library and dormitory facilities are missing. The project
would finance rehabilitation, refurnishing and re-equipment of the existing
buildings, construction of facilities essential to carrying out their
existing pre-service training function, and construction of additional space
for in-service training with the aim of providing refresher training for 120
HAs. 80 laboratory technicians, and 120 nurses each per year. A condition
of disbursement of the funds relating to the civil wvcks for rehabilitation
of the nursing school, would be the preparation by Government of a
satisfactory detailed plan of action to develor a program for tutor
training, post-basic nurse midwifery, post-b.xsic MCH, and in-service
refresher training of health staff in the ,newa regions.
3.15      In order to improve the functuoning of the above schools, the
project would finance one 4-vheel drive vehicle and one bus for transport to
field training areas, together with operating and maintenance costs;
training materials, stationery and medical supplies used for training; per
diems for trainees; and the salaries of 14 additional tutors. Tutor
training and curriculum development for the new in-service training courses
would be carried out with bilateral assistance. During negotiations.
Government confirmed that approved curricula for in-service training courses
for nurses, HAs and CHWs would be developed, that training for 8 trainers at
the health training schools to be assisted under the project would take
place, cad that 4 new tutors would be in place according to the schedule set
out in the Action Plan attached to Section VII below. Government also
confirmed that architectural surrey and design work for the proposed 2
nursing school campuses, 2 health assistant schools, 1 sanitarian school and
1 lab. technician school would be completed by June 1989 as per the above
Action Plan.
Institutional Development
3.16      The overall objective of the institutional development component
would be to strengthen key units in MOH, both to assist in implementation of
the proposed project and to develop the Ministry's overall planning and
management capacity and absorptive capacity for future IDA lending.
Progress measures would be the appointment of additional staff, and a
management review carried out by MOH at the end of the third year of the
project, and again in the final year.
3.17      MOR's architectural unit, which would be responsible for
architectural survey and design and construction supervision work for the
project, would receive support for 2 vehicles and for 7 additional
professioral staff together with office materials and supplies and vehicle
operating costs. The procurement unit of the Ministry would be strengthened
with 3 additional professional staff, 2 support staff and equipment to
handle project-related procurement and disbursements. The MCH coordinating
office, would be strengthened with 1 additional professional financed under
the project and technical assistance from an MCI advisor, financed outside



16
the project by SIDA. The planning and programming department would be
strengthened through provision of two staff to help coordinate the proposed
project; and of one additional management information specialist. Equipment
such as photo copies, typewriters, micro-computers, calculators, office
furniture and one vehicle with operational and maintenance costs would be
provided to strengthen the departments capacity to implement the project and
rapidly collect information and use it for managerial purposes. The project
would finance 4 man-months of technical assistance to set up the computer
system and train staff in its use. Support would also be provided for
training community workers in simple progress reporting. The sdditional
staff for the architectural, procurement, and planning and programming units
would be recruited during 1988 and financed under the PPF, since they are
essential to making a rapid start with implementation. Government confirmed
during project negotiations that the additional local staff to strengthen
these units would be in post according to the schedule set out in the Action
Plan attached to Section VII belom.
3.18      The component would also finance the establishment of one new unit
in MOH. Because of the poor state of repair of existing capital assets in
the sector, a maintenance unit for health buildings and vehicles in the
Shewa regions would be established, consisting of workshop facilities at
Addis Ababa, 58 technicians and 23 support staff, 7 vehicles, a mobile
repair shop and various maintenance equipment. The head of the maintenance
unit would have overall responsibility for developing a routine preventive
maintenance system which would serve as a model for later replication in
other parts of the country. Funds would be provided for building, vehicle
and equipment maintenance under each component of the project.
3.19      A Health Management Working Group would be created to bring
together the key MOH staff, central and regional, involved in the management
of health service delivery in the Shewa regions, to review managerial
constraints; to improve performance in the field and test innovative ways
of overcoming them. Government also indicated that it would carry out a
study of public health management training and the role of the Ministry of
Education (including the University of Addis Ababa) and the Ministry of
Health (including the Jimma Institute of Health Sciences) in that area. The
study is expected to be completed by the end of 1989 and might lead to
possible IDA financing of public health training.
Health Education
3.20      The overall objective of the health education component would be
to increase the practice of preventive health care and better nutrition in
the home and to increase demand for key MCH services, including family
planning as r. M%H intervention. Specific targets by the end of the project
would be that (a) 75% of pregnant women would be informed about ante-natal
services (especially tetanus immunization); (b) 75X of women 25 years and
younger would know about modern methods of contraception; (c) 45% of mothers
with young children would be able to practice oral rehydration therapy for
diarrhea; (d) harmf-l myths and superstitions about communicable diseases
would have been modified among 50% of the population below 25 years of age;



17
and (e) acceptable levels of knowledge about good maternal and child
nutrition habits would have been established among 50% of the population.
3.21      Progress toward the above targets would be measured first by
monitoring against annual workplans key products and processes such as
radio, audio-visual, press and other health learning materials developed;
curriculum development, training and workshop activities held;
institutional, house visits and community meetings held etc. Second, impact
would be monitored on a periodic basis by the Shewa Regional Health
Departments through administration by nurses, HAs and literate CHWs of
simple questionnaires to check the degree of knowledge in key MCH areas.
More systematic KAP surveys would be undertaken annually by the MOH's Health
Education Department, timed so that the results would feed in to the
formulation of the ne-t year's annual plan.
3.22      MOH has located its new health education department (HED) in
existing buildings at Ras Imru, adjacent to the site of the proposed Health
Learning Materials Development Unit (HLMDU). The newly-formed department
(see Chart 1) would be responsible for developing and implementing a
national health education strategy coordinating the work of the MOH
(including the Ethiopian Nutrition Institute) and the Ministry of Education.
the Ministry of Information, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of
Labor, the mass organizations, and the Family Guidance Association of
Ethiopia. Project funds would be channeled through the HED to these
organizations for the implementation of specific educational activities. A
condition of project effectiveness would be the provision by Government of
evidence that the 7'!M had been established and posts within it sanctioned;
and that MOH would have established a health education coordinating
committee, including the above implementing organizations, for the purpose
of coordinating the implementation of the overall health education strategy.
3.23      The broad outlines of the health education strategy were agreed at
appraisal. A mix of centrally monitored mass media campaigns and
interpersonal communication through government workers and community
volunteers would be aimed at the following target groups; mothers with
children under 6, pregnant women, youths and students. health personnel.
community leaders, and the mass organizations. The main he4lth
interventions to be supported would be the priority interventions in the
area component. To assist in implementation of this strategy, the project
would finance minor renovations to the existing building at Ras Imru
allocated to the HED, and construction of a Health Learning Materials
Development Unit; one vehicle and operating costs; printing and audiovisual
equipment, materials and supplies; training workshops; and salaries and per
diems for 15 additional technical staff. The project would also provide
support for 180 man-months of local technical assistance, consisting of
local audiovisual and film production technicians, writers, graphic
designers and artists, to be used as needed throughout the life of the
project. Twenty-four man-months of overseas training for communications
specialists from the HED would be financed. Nine man-months of technical
assistance have been provided under the second PPF tranche to assist in
preparing a detailed health education strategy, training of IFC trainers and
the establishment of the IEC production unit. This technical assistance



18
could be continued in 1989 and 1990 with financing from UNFPA and other
donors outside the project.
Pharmaceuticals Development
3.24      The overall objectives of the component would be to improve the
supply of drugs available at peripheral health facilities, through
rationalization of manufacturing, better demand forecasting, inventory
management and distribution; to develop a system for regular drug quality
testing; and to increase the efficiency with which drugs are used, through
reductions in over- and misprescription. Progress ig the implementation of
construction, staffing, training etc. would be measured against annual
plans. Improvements in the efficiency of procurement and distribution would
be measured through the following indicators: Number, type and volume of
tenders placed annually by EPHARMECOR; port clearance and order lead-times;
actual value of order lead-tii   as compared to past averages; and value of
annual drug consumption of essential drugs and inventory turnover rate at
the Central Medical Stores (CMS), the zonal branch. and the regional stores
for the Shewa regions. Improvements in drug quality control would be
indicated by changes in the percentage of imported and domestically
formulated drugs tested by the Pharmaceutical and Medical Supplies Control
Department. Progress in reducing misprescription would be measured by
regular surveys of prescribing trends, following in-service training of
health workers in prescription practices, at a sample of health centers and
health stations in the Shewa regions.
3.25      In order to increase the domestic output of drugs, the project
would finance the purchase of a small amount of manufacturing equipment to
modernize and rationalize production at the Ethiopian Pharmaceuticals
Manufacturing Corporation's (EPHARM) essential drugs plant in Addis Ababa;
and 4 man-months of technical assistance in production to assist in the
rationalization of production flow and product mix. Necessary overseas
training in manufacturing (about 12 man-months) will be obtained on a grant
basis from other donors.
3.26      In order to improve the drug distribution infrastructure, the
project would finance minor renovations to the Central Medical Stores in
Addis Ababa; construction of 7 new regional drug stores at Bale, Gama Gofa,
Ilubabor, Gondar, Tigray, Arssi and Addis Ababa. where storage facilities
are small and unsuitable; and construction of a bonded warehouse at Asseb
port, where drugs must now be stored in the open in conditions of high heat
and humidity, leading to considerable loss due to deterioration. Addition-
ally. the project would finance materials handling equipment for the central
and regional stores and the bonded warehouse; three 20-ton trucks for
transport of drugs between CMS and the ports and 13 4-ton trucks (6 for the
existing, 7 for the new regional and zonal stores); pharmacists, pharmacy
technicians and drivers to staff the new stores; 9 man-months of technical
assistance in logistics. and 4 man-months in computer systems would be
provided. The technical assistance would assist in establishing, improved
ordering, inventory management, distribution and demand forecasting systems,
which should result in savings in operating costs through more efficient
materials flow, and facilitate savings in procurement by permitting larger



19
bulk orders. Government confirmed at negotiations that the additional staff
to be financed under the project for the pharmaceuticals component would be
in post according to the schedule set out in the Action Plan attached to
Section VII below. Training in stores management and financial management
will be obtained on a grant basis.
3.27      Assistance would be provided under the project to improve the
quality of training of pharmacy technicians by renovating and adding minor
additional dormitory. library and reading-room space at the pharmacy
technician sebool attached to Menelik Hospital in Addis Ababa. Government
would obtain tht necessary technical assistance in the area of drug therapy
to review the pharmaceutical aspects of pre- and in-service training courses
for health peorsonnels to train trainers; and to develop training modules,
integrated into the existing training program, in the areas of drug
prescription. drug interactions and patient information. Training in
improved prescription practices would be financed as part of the in-service
training courses to be established under the manpower development component.
3.28      The project would support the establishment of a pharmaceutical
and medical supply control department with the capacity to quality test
imported and locally produced drugs on a routine basis; to function as the
drug registration and drug regulatory authority; and to disseminate
information on drugs (para. 2.10). Currently, the physical facilities,
equipment and staffing of the existing National Drug Quality Control
Laboratory are adequate to allow only the testing of new drug types imported
into the country and not the regular testing of samples of all drugs, both
imported and domestically formulated. The project would therefore finance
construction and equipaent of new office and laboratory facilities for the
proposed Department in Addis Ababa. and 6 vehicles for the use of inspection
staff. Government would obtain on a grant basis the necessary overseas
training in pharmaceutical quality control. Recurrent costs to be financed
under the sub-component would include the salaries of eight additional
professionals, support staff and drivers, building. equipment and vehicle
operation and maintenance costs. As a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit. Government would have established and staffed the
Pharmaceutical and Medical Supply Control Department within MOH. In view of
the number of personnel for the training of whom government expects to
obtain bilateral or other grant assistance it confirmed during negotiations
that it would train such qualified personnel in adequate numbers. in health
management and health teacher training. nurse-midwifery and MCH nursing. and
for the other institutions participating in the Project.
Studies
3.29      The project would finance a review of the hospital sector in
Bthiopia. for which 12 man-weeks of technical assistance. 6 local and 6
foreign, would be provided. Hospitals now consume about 50% of the
recurrent bealth budget in Ethiopia; the proposed study would review the
efficiency of resource use in the hospital sector and the effectiveness of
the sector in providing support and referral services to primary care
providers. A study of health financing options aimed at generating
additional funds for the health sector would also be undertaken. Finally, a



20
review of organizational and management issues related with MOH would be
conducted in order to develop a more effective and efficient system. These
studies might lead to proposals for assistance under a future project.
IV. PROJCT COSTS AND lINAUC
A. Costs
4.01      On the basis of a 9-year disbursement period. i.e., an 8-year
implementation period (see para. 4.11). total costs of the project amount to
B 90.78 million or US$ 43.86 million equivalent. Base costs are calculated
at US$ 35.23 million equivalent (802) and contingencies at US$ 8.63 million
equivalent (20%). Foreign exchange costs account for US$ 20.79 million or
47% of total project costs. Taxes and duties amount to about 11 percent of
total project costs.  Project costs by expenditure category are summarized
in Table 1 below, and details are provided in Annex 3. Capital costs for
civil works account for 31% of base costs; furniture, equipment, vehicles.
supplies and materials for 18%; technical assistance for 1%; training for
1%; research and evaluation for 32; project preparation facility 32 and
incremental equipment and vehicle operation and maintenance) for 432.
4.02      Project costs have been estimated at prices as of April 1988.
Civil works costs have been estimated on the basis of the value of current
contracts for comparable buildings. Furniture and equipment lists and
costings have been drawn up and are being finalized by MOH. Project costs
also include provision for a total of 61 vehicles, at a unit cost of about
USS 18.300 (on CIF basis); 118 months of overseas training (at an average
monthly cost of about US$1,500) and 119 months of technical assistance.
Incremental salaries, local training costs and operational and maintenance
expenses are based on current government scales and rates.



21
Iofl - Ih1LY fEALTI ?RJC
?.be.1t* ftyleetl Louts' W  Mu                      - Lot.g.z
(Local Currence '000)                                (USS '000)
I Total                                        I Total
Z Foreign    se k                                Foreign  Base
Local  Foreign   Totl  Exchan     Costs    Local   Foreign   Total  Exchange   Costs
I. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. CIVIL GS                      10,107.4 12,425.2 22953246         55      31  4M982.8  6,002.5 10.885.3           55      31
3. VEHICLES                             -  24310.4  2,310,4        100       3          -  1,116.1  1#116#1        100       3
C. FURNITURE                        290.4  1,161#5  1,451.9         80       2      140*3    561.1    701.4         80       2
D. EOUIPIENT    *1037*2  4#148.9  5186U1                           80       7      501.1  24004.3  2M505.4         80       7
E, NATS / NUPL                    1,957.0  1,968.9  3,925.9         50       5      945.4    951.2  1.896,6         50       5
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 -    748*3    748.3        100       1          -    361.5    361.5        100       1
B. TRAINING                         911.1        -    911.1          -       1      440.1        -    440.1          -       1
H. OVMERAS TRAINING                    -     46.4      46.4       100       0          -     22.4     22.4        10O       0
I. RESEARCH MJD EVALUATION        19827.9    422.3  2t250.2         19       3     883.0    204.0  1,087.0          19       3
J. PROJECT PREPARATION FUNDS        305.8  1t7977  2,093,5          95       3      147.7    863.6  1.011,3         85       3
Total INVBESTENT COSTS              16t436.8 259019.5 41,456,3         60      57   7,940.5 12,086#7 20902724          60      57
Phwuical Contingencies            19077.1  1,623.6  2W700.7         60       4      520.3    784.3  1.304#7         60       4
Price Contingenciss               3,311.6  3,422.1  6,733.7         51       9   1,599.8  1.65342  3.253.0          51       9
-- ------  ----------- - -- -----------  --------  ---
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES       20,825.5 30,065.2 50489007         59      70  10,060.6 14,524.2 24.584.9          59      iO
ika_=   t:::S::2  :--:StS -:5=:1:  S=: x  S=:   :::::: xxZ=ZZZ=     va:s_=-S=V  =-===Z=
II. RECDURENT COSTS
A. SALARIES                      54962.2        -  54962.2                  8   2p88N.3         -  2.880.3          -
So PER DIEN                      4,988.9        -  4,998.9                  7   2,410.1         -  2t410#1                  7
C. STIPEND                         328.1        -    328.1          -       0      158.5        -    158.5          -       0
, UTIL / SUPPLIES               1,231.5  1,239.0  2,470.4         50       3     594.9    598.5  1.193,4          50       3
E. DRUGS / MED SUPPLIES          6,085.6  6,122.7 12208.2         50      17   2,939.9  2t957#8  54897.7          50       7
F. VEHICLE OPRATION
AND M TINT                    1.157,3  2,712#2  3,869#5         70       5     559.1  1,310.2  1v869.3          70       5
6. BUILDING NAINT                  789.8     41.9    831.7          5       1     381.5      20.2    401.8          5       1
H. FURNITURE MAINT                  96.9     10.8    107.7         10       0       46.8      5.2     52.0         10       0
I. EQUIPENT HAINT                  351.9    354.0    705.9         50       1     170.0    171.0    341.0         50        1
Total RECURRENT COSTS               20t992,0 lO480.5 31l472.6         33      43  10,141.1  5,063.1 15P204.1          33      43
Price Contingencies               S,927.9  2,496.9  8,424.7         30      12   2,963.7  1,206.  4,069.9           ze      12
total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES       26,920.0 12.977.3 39,897.3         33      55  13,004.8  6,269.2 194274.1          33      55
g   3223:    23222232 2222222 2:3___    32222:=3  =32222  222222:: ==_:=:.  =: =
Total BASELINE COSTS                 37,428.8 35,500.0 72,928.8         49     100  18,081.5 17,149.8 35.231.3          49     100
Ptwsical Contingencies             1,077,1  1,623.6  2,700.7         60       4     520.3    784.3  1.304.7          60       4
Price Contingencies                9,239.6  5,918.9 15,158.5         39      21   4,463.6  2,959.4  7.322.9          39      21
---------
Total PROJECT COSTS                  47.745.5 43,042.5 90N788.0         47     124  23,065.5 20,793.5 43#848.9          41     124
:n- ==-    --:::: --22222 -w--:-  ::              -



22
4.03      The total project costs include an allowance of US$8.63 million
equivalent for contingencies. Physical contingencies have been assumed at
10% for civil works and 5% for vehicles, furniture and equipment. and
comprise US$1.3 million equivalent or 4% of base costs. The following price
contingencies have been included: (i) on foreign exchange expenditures. 3S
from 1988 to 1989 and 4% from 1990-1995; and (ii) on local cost
expenditures. 3.5% from 1988 to 1995. Overall, price contingencies account
for US$7.3 million equivalent or 21% of base costs.
4.04      The foreign exchange component of US$20.79 million equivalent is
based on estimates of 55% for civil works; 80% for furniture; 80X for
equipment; 100% for vehicles; 50% for supplies and materials; 1002 for
technical assistance; 100% for overseas training and study toursS and 19%
for research and evaluation. The incremental recurrent costs involving
foreign exchange mainly cover pharmaceuticals, contraceptives, equipment
maintenance and vehicle operation.
4.05      Project costs by functional component are shown in Table 2. The
area component would absorb 46% of base costs; manpower development 172;
pharmaceutical development 16%; health education 8S; institutional
development 10%; projection preparation facility 3M; the percentage for
studies is negligible.



2:
EMOPIA - PAILTY EMIR PRJECT
(Local Currn  '000)                                (M5* '000)
2 Total                                      I Total
Z Foreign  Bae                               X Foirun  Im
Local  Foruign  Total  Exchane   Costs   Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange   Costs
At AREA COMPONEN
1. AACmON T                          166S32.3 17,005,5 33t637#8       51      46  9,034,9  89215.2 16.250.1         51      46
SubTotal AREA CMPENT                    164632.3 17,00'.' '33637,9       51      46  9.034.9  89215,2 16.250.1         51      46
i. NIPWR DEVEOPH
1. ST PAW  AND ZEiDITU
uSE TRINING SCHOOL                 1,185.0  1,039.9  20:1 .0        47      3    5m,5   501.9  1,074.4           47       3
2, NENEIL  HEWALTH
ASSISTANTS SCvHOOL                 1160,8  1.015,1  2,176.0         47      3    p60.8   490.4  1.051.2          47       3
3. AAS    HEALTH ASSISTANtS CHOOL     1710.7  1,275.5  2,986.2        43       4    82o.4   616.2  1.442.6          43       4
4 ,SAITARIANS SCMOL , J1101A          1,884.6  1.200.1  34084.6       39       4    91c 34   579.7   ;490.2         39       4
5, LRATORY TECHNICIAN SCIIOL            759.2   871.8 1W6310          53       2    366.8   421.1   787.9           53       2
Sub-Total NANOER DE'EOPn                 6,700.3  5,401,5 12,101.9       45      17   3.236.9  2,609M 4  5,846.3       45      1.
Co PHAM TICALS DE'ELOPH
1. PHMUtICALS DEVOPN                  49745.4  6W906.9 11.552,3       59      16  2,292.5  3,288.4  5,580.8         59      16
Sub-Total PAMCEUICALS DEVELOPH           4,745,4  6.806.9 11,552.3       59      16  2,292.5  3p288.4  5M580.9        9l    16
D. HE4LTH EDUATION
1. INFORtATIONK EDUCATION
AND COMMJNICATION                  3r747.8  2.226,1  5.973#9       37       8   1,810,5  1,075,4  2,985.9        37       8
Sub-Total HEALTH EDCATION                3,747.8  2,226.1  5,973.9       37       8   1,810.5  1,075.4 2M995,9         37       9
E. INSTITUTIONAL DEELOPII
to NEu UNITS                          2,905.0  19348.1  4W253.1       32       6   1,403,4   651.2 2,054,6          32       6
2. STRENGTHENING
EXISTING UNITS                     2P38498   890,6  3.275*5        27       4   1,152.1   430.3  1,582.3         27       4
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPH         5,289.8  2,238.7  7,528.5       30      10  2,5555  1.081,5  3,637,0          30      10
F. STUDIES
1. STUDIES                                7.4    33.7    41.1         82       0       3*6    16.3      19*8        82       0
Sub-Total STUDIES                            7,4    33.7    41.1         82       0       3.6    16,3      19,8        82       0
G, PROJECT PREPARATION
FACILITY
1. PROJECT PREPARATION
FACILITY                             305.8  1,787.7  2093.5        85       3    147.7   863#6  1#011.3          8S       3
Sub-Total PROJECT PREPARATION
FACILITY                                305.8  1,787.7  2,093.5       85       3    147.7   863.6  ltG11.3          e5       3
Total BASLINE COSTS                       37,429,8 35,500.0 72,928.8       49    100  18,081.5 17,149.8 35,231.3         49    100
Physical Contingencies                  1,077.1  1,623.6  2,700.7       60       4    520.3   784.3  1.304.7          60       4
Price Contingencies                     9,239.6  5,918.9 15,158.5       39      21   4,463.6  2,855.4  7t 2c          39      21
Total PROJECT COSTS                       479745,5 4304245 90788.0         47    124 23,065.5 20,793.5 43.8SB.9          47    124
_Z:  =s        n ___:: Zz.g s.z                       - = :   :=:       =====:=== =::r-



24
B. ProJect Affordability and Sector Financing
4.06      The project hab been designed to limit the additional recurrent
cost burden on the Government after completion as far as is consistent with
increasing health service effectiveness; for this reason, the project would
contain very little new construction as opposed to rehabilitation. The
incremental real recurrent costs of the project and of tthe parallel project
to be financed by Italy in the Arssi Region in their final year would be
approximately B8.5 million (US$4.1 million), which would represent from 16%
to 35% of the real incremental recurrent budget available to )OH in the year
after completion, if the MOH budget grew at 42 or 22 per annum respectively
in real terms. Outside these two projects, MOH has modest plans to
construct new health facilities and more ambitious plans to increase the
number of doctors and paramedical staff in the health system, which
currently might imply incremental real recurrent costs of about B10 million
(US$4.8 million) per year; these current plans together with the project.
would absorb from 34X - 772 of the incremental real recurrent resources
available to the sector in 1995, on the two alternative growth assumptions
used above.
4.07      Notwithstanding the above, there remain serious health financing
issues to be resolved at the sectoral level. as indicated above (para 2.21).
Indeed. it was estimated that in order to achieve nationwide coverage of
basic health services by the end of the century. the total recurrent budget
implications would be about B240 million p.a. in 1986 prices. To reach this
level of funding would require an average real rate of growth in the
recurrent health budget of at least 5% a year from now until the year 2000,
which would require in turn development of one or more of the financing
options mentioned in para. 2.21. During negotiations assurances were
received from the Government that it would exchange views with IDA from time
to time on the health financing alternatives that it would be examining, for
the purpose of experimenting with those identified as the most promising.
The project would support such experiment. Government would also propose
measures to increase the recurrent resources available for non-salary
expenditures for the health sector in the Shewa regions.



25
C. Project Financing
4.08      Of the total project cost of US$43.86 million, US$10.36 million
(24X) would be financed by the Government. US$33.0 million by the proposed
IDA credit and US$0.5 million by UNICEF on grant terms. Project costs by
financing source are shown below in Table 3.
ETIOPIA - FAMILY EALTRH PROJECT
Table 3: Project Costs by Finsmcii  Source
(US$ o00a-
UNICEF       GOE         IDA      TOTAL
T. Investment Costs
a. Civil works                 0.0       1,535.4   12,422.7  13,958.1
b. Vehicles                    0.0           0.0    1,268.4   1,268.4
c. Furniture                   0.0         211.7       635.0     846.7
d. Equipment                   0.0         542.9    2,473.2   3,016.1
e. Materials/supplies          0.0         322.5    1,975.4   2,297.9
f. Technical assistance        0.0           0.0      386.6      386.6
g. Training                    0.0           0.0       545.5     545.5
h. Overseas training           0.0           0.0        24.7      24.7
i. Research/evaluation         0.0           0.0    1,229.5   1,229.5
j. Project Preparation
Facility                   0.0           0.0    1,011.3   1,011.3
Subtotal Investment Costs      0.0       2,612.5   21,972.3  24,584.8
II. Recurrent Costs
a. Salaries                    0.0       3.666.9         0.0   3.666.9
b. Per diem                    0.0         554.6    2,500.0   3,054.6
c. Stipend                     0.0          70.7       137.0     207.7
d. Utilities/supplies          0.0         481.5    1,000.0   1,481.5
e. Drugs/medical supplies   500.0        1,718.8    5,297.1   7,515.9
f. Vehicle Oper. & Maint.      0.0         686.6    1,603.8   2,290.4
g. Building maintenance        0.0         322.1       219.0     541.1
h. Furniture maintenance       0.0          25.3        44.3      69.6
i. Equipment maintenance       0.0         217.5      228.9      446.4
Subtotal Recurrent Costs    500.0        7,744.0   11,030.1  19,274.1
Total Inv/Rec. Costs         500.0      10,356.5   33,002.4  43,858.9
2                              1            24          75       100
2 less taxes and duties        1            14          85       100



26
D. Procurement
4.09      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4. About 449 of
total project costs would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB). 18% through local competitive bidding (LCB). and 382 would
not be subject to procurement. Procedures for procurement under IDA
financing would be in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines "Procurement
under IBRD loans and IDA credits (May 1985)". Separate civil works
contracts following ICB procedure would be awarded for each of the training
schools to be upgraded or constructed: 1 nurse training school with 2
campuses at St. Paul's and Zewditu in Addis Ababa (US$0.6 million); 2 health
assistant schools at Menelik and Awassa (US$1.4 million); upgrading of 4
rural hospitals (US$1.65 million); and a bonded warehouse for
pharmaceuticals in Aseb (US$0.54 million). Local firms bidding for ICB
contracts will receive a preference of 7.5%.  The remaining civil works are
estimated to cost less than US$500,000 per contract and not more than UB$2.5
million in aggregate, and would be undertaken in accordance with LCB and
other procedures because of the large number of scattered sites with
relatively low upgrading costs. These would include: the upgrading of
about 180 health stations (US$2.59 million). 18 health centers (US$0.66
million). the construction of 4 new health centers (US$0.79 million); a
sanitarian school at Jimma (US$0.2 million), a laboratory technicians school
at Addis Ababa (US$0.49 million); a new maintenance unit in Addis Ababs
(US$0.48 million); 3 regional health department buildings at Shewa Regions
(US$1.5 million); CMS renovations, EPHARM modernization, a pharmacy
technicians school and improvements to the drug control and pharmaceutical
services (US$1.0 million) in Addis Ababa; and 7 new regional drug stores
countrywide (US$0.79 million). Local procurement procedures have been
reviewed by IDA and found acceptable.



27
lm OPIA - FAMILY UIAL   PROC
Table 4s ftut Table
(US$ millions)
I.       -NA.                                                         IQIE
a. Cbrl uozk                      5.47        733           1.16       13.96
(5.47)     (6.96)        (O.OD)      (12.42)
b. ezid1                          1.27        0.00          0.00        1.
(1.Z7)     (0.00)        (0.00)      (1.27)
c. bmitme                         0.43        0.42          0.00        0.5
(0.43)     (0.21)        (0.0M)      (0.64)
d. Bp4ant                         3.02        O.00          0.00        3.M2
(2.47)     (0.00)        (0.00)      (2.47)
e. IhtoU/seoWles                  1.96        035           O.O         2.30
(1.9)      (0.02         (0.0)       (1-97)
f. Ta;buieW amdatom O.0                      0.00          0.39        0.3
(0.0)      (0.0)          (0.39)     (0.39)
v.'hudz                           0.0         0.00o         0.55        0.55
(0.00)     (0.00)        (0.55)      (0.55)
b. Oue tmiza                     0.0         0.00          0.02        0.02
(0.00)     (0.W0)         (0.02)     (0.02)
I.  _     mnauWevabat1mi          0.00        0.00          1.23        1.23
(0.00)     (O.00)         (123)      (1.23)
J. Pzoject Prq  Fality            0.0         0.00          1.0         1.0
(0.00)     (0.00)        (10)        (1.01)
I. a    I Cot:
a. blarhm, per dim and            0.00        0.00          6.93        6.93
dpu                            (0.00)      (0.00)        (64)        (264)
b. Udlim an   lies                0.00        0.00          1.48        1.48
(0.00)     (0.00)        (1.00)      (1.0)
c. Dzs  d :Auical                 7.01        o.00         O05          7.51
1m;                            05.30)      (0.0)         (0.0)        S.0)
d. Vehlcle qmm and                0.00        0.W0          334         3.34
.     _au    co               (0.00)      (o.0)         (.10)       (210)
1~ Pnxdroja CO                19.15       8.10           16.61      43.86
ImL   sais)                             (.9            (8.94)    (33.00)



28
4.10      Equipment, furniture, materials and suppliesi would be procured
through ICB as far as possible in packages of over US$100,000 except thats
(1) miscellaneous items valued at less than US$100,000 could be purchased
under LCB, provided that the aggregate value of such contracts did not
exceed US$1 million; and (2) items valued at less than US$20,000 could be
procured through prudent shopping with at least three price quotations.
provided that the aggregate value of such contracts did not exceed
US$200,000. Suppliers of equipment and vehicles would be required to agree
to maintain an adequate after-sales service and an inventory of spare parts.
Prequalification will be a requirement for all prospective bidders on IDA-
financed contracts to be procured through ICB. and both lists of
prequalified bidders and draft contracts would be subject to prior IDA
review. Other contracts would be subject to selective post award review.
Under ICB procedures, local manufacturers would be allowed a preference of
15S on the CIF bid on imported goods, or actual customs and duties.
whichever is lower. All consultants for this project would be employed
under selection procedures, qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. and in accordance with the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and The World Bank as
Executing Agency" (August 1981).
E. Disbursements
4.11      The expected schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 5.  It is
based on an implementation period of 8 years and a disbursement period of 9
years. It is modelled after the Kenya Integrated Rural Health and Family
Planning Project. which has the most relevant disbursement profile, as it
relates to the only near-completed Bank/IDA-assisted family health project
in Eastern Africa. This profile is also closely similar to the 9 1/2-year
disbursement period which is the average for standard investment loans
completed to date in other sectors in Ethiopia.
4.12      Disbursements would be made for 100% of foreign expenditures and
85X of local expenditures for civil works, furniture, equipment and
materials/supplies; and for 1002 of the costs of vehicles, technical
assistance, training, research and evaluation. All salaries would be funded
by the Government. With regard to non-salary project recurrent costs (per
diems, stipends, utilities/supplies, drugs/medical supplies, vehicle
operation and maintenance and building, furniture and equipment
maintenance), disbursements would be made for 100l up to US$1.01 million of
project expenditures on these items through December 31, 1990, for 802 up to
US$2.14 million from January 1, 1991 through December 31, 1992, for 50X up
to US$2.14 million from January 1. 1993 to December 31, 1994, and for 302 up
to US$2.14 million from January 1, 1995 and thereafter. This disbursement
schedule is designed so that IDA would pay for incremental recurrent costs
other than salaries in the first three years of the project, while new
sources of health finance are being developed; and that the Government would
pick up a gradually rising share of non-salary incremental recurrent costs
after that, reaching 702 in the last year of the project, so as to avoid the
need for a sharp increase in the PDRE budget to fund these costs after
project completion.



29
4.13      In order to expedite the flow of funds for disbursements, a
special account with an initial deposit of US$2.0 million would be
established and maintained in the National Bank of Ethiopia. Withdrawal
applications for expenditures for civil works. equipment, supplies and
materials, local training programs, per diems. stipends and maintenance
costs under contracts or purchase orders of less than US$100,000 for civil
works and US$50,000 for all other items will be submitted against statement
of expenditures; supporting documentation will be retained in MOH for review
by the project auditors and 1DA supervision missions. All other
disbursements will be fully documented. Replenishment applications for the
Special Account will be submitted on a regular monthly basis, accompanied by
bank statements and appropriate supporting documents. The Account will be
used to the maximum extent possible to cover eligible expenditures, and all
payments of less than US$200,000 (102 of the authorized allocation for the
Special Account) will be made from the Account. No withdrawal applications
for less than US$50,000 would be submitted. All payments below US$50.000
would be pre-financed by Government. It is expected that the credit would
be fully disbursed by July 1. 1997. six months after project completion.
F. Accounts and Audit
4.14      Separate project financial records and accounts would be
maintained by the accounts and audit unit of the MOH. The project
accountant would receive training by local IDA staff in IDA accounting.
auditing and disbursement procedures. The project would be subject to
normal governmental accounting and auditing procedures. which are
satisfactory to IDA. Audits of project accounts and statements of
expenditure would be carried out by the Auditor General or by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and would be made available to IDA within six
months of the close of each fiscal year.
V. PROJECT
A. Status of Project Preparation
5.01      The project was prepared by the Ministry of Health in
collaboration with the ONCCP and the Ministry of Finance; and with technical
assistance under a US$500,000 IDA-financed Project Preparation Facility
which funded pre-project studies and detailed preparation work for the major
components. PDRE has received a second PPF tranche of US$620.000 to be
disbursed between project appraisal and credit effectiveness. in order to
finance key pre-project activities and help launch project implementation
including by strengthening the MOH architectural unit with adequate staff
and vehicles.
5.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
a firm timetable for key implementation steps. such as completion of surveys
and designs and staff recruitment. as reflected in the Action Plan attached
to Section VII below. Equipment, drug and materials lists are available for



30
the various health facilities to be rehabilitated under the project. Terms
of reference have been prepared for the foreign long-term technical
assistance. As a condition of project eff!ectiveness, the Government will
submit to IDA for review a detailed implenentation plan and budget for the
first year of the project. Assurances hive also been received from the
Government that annual implementation plins and budgets for each year of the
project would be submitted to IDA for review five months before the
beginning of the Ethiopian financial year. and that the final plan would
take into account the comments made by the Association.
B. Organization and Mana8ement
5.03      The Minister of Health would have overall responsibility for
project implementation, which is expected to start in October 1988 and be
completed by December 1995. The closing date for the credit would be
December 31. 1997. The project is designed to be implemented through the
normal management structure of the MOH. The head of MOH's planning and
programming department, reporting directly to the Minister of Health, would
be designated as project coordinator. He would be assisted by the Head of
External Assistance and project preparation team for the routine
implementation of the project (see Chart 2). The latter head would be
assisted by one expert, one assistant expert and one junior expert. The
project includes funds for two staff. During negotiations Government agreed
to maintain such project management unit with qualified staff in adequate
numbers. A project coordinating committee would be established. It would
be chaired by the project coordinator, and would consist of the component
managers listed below. and a representative of the proposed health
management working group.
5.04      The head of MOH's architectural unit would be responsible for
project-related architectural survey work. all architectural drawings,
production of bid documents for civil works, and supervision of tendering.
contracting and contract execution for the construction, civil engineering
and electrical inputs of the project. The purchase of the furniture.
equipment, vehicles, materials and supplies for the project would be the
responsibility of the procurement unit in MOH's Department of Finance and
Administration, to be strengthened under the second tranche of the PPF and
the institutional development component. Maintenance of buildings,
equipment and vehicles would be the responsibility of the maintenance unit
to be established under the institutional development component.
5.05      The head of the Health S cvices Department of MOH would be
responsible for the implementation of the area component of the project.
working closely with the Secretary and members of the proposed health
management working group on development of the management and service
delivery system. The head of the Manpower Development Department of MOH
would be responsible for implementing the manpower development component.
The head of MOH's Planning and Programming Department would coordinate
implementation of the institutional development component. working closely
with the head of the Finance and Administration Department and the heads of
the departments which the component would strengthen. The head of the



31
kelth Education Department would be responsible for implementing the health
education component, working closely with the other agencies involved in
implementing the component, through the proposed health education
coordinating committee (para. 3.22). The head of the Pharmaceuticals and
Medical Supply Control Department of MOH would coordinate implementation of
the pharmaceuticals component of the project, working closely with the heads
of PIHARM and EPHARMECOR and the Health Services Department of MOH. The
hospital sector review would be the responsibility of the head of MOH's
Health Services Department. The review of health financing would be
coordinated by the Planning and Programming Department, while that of
management by the Organization and Management Services Department.
C. Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
5.06      The Project Coordinator would have responsibility for monitoring
the progross of project implementation. He would prepare progress reports
every siz moutbs covering construction, training and retraining, staffing,
procurement, implementation of MCH/FP and health education activities,
technical assistance, monitoring and evaluation activities, and project
expenditures. These reports would also highlight major issues needing
resolution. The reports would be approved by the project coordinating
coemittee (para. 5.03) and the Minister of Health before being submitted to
IDA.
5.07      Primary emphasis in monitoring and evaluating the project would be
placed on output and process indicators, as discussed component by component
in Section IV above, and on evaluating the effectiveness of the innovative
activities (paras. 3.11 and 6.06). Management strengthening and the
reactions of project beneficiaries would also be evaluated systematically.
An independent management review would be carried out in the third year of
the project and again as part of the final evaluation in the last year of
the project. to evaluate changes in the Shewa regions in: staffing levels
and performance; job descriptions, work programs and supervision protocoles;
the management and s%pport of community workers; financial management
systems; the collection sd use of information for managerial purposes; and
the plaming and problem-solving process at district and regional levels,
including the effectiveness of the health management working group. The
reactions of beneficiaries to the project interventions would be evaluated
tbrough sociological assessments similar to that funded under the first
phase of the PPF (para. 3.03), both to see how far services are responding
to felt needs, and to follow changes in beneficiaries' knowledge, attitudes
and precticeo relative to family planning, health and nutrition.
5.08      The Governtmut gave assurance during negotiations that a project
performance review, includlng management and beneficiary assessments, would
be carried out in the third and final years of project implementation, under
terms of reference acceptable to IDA; and that the review findings and
recommendations, together with the Government's proposed action plan to
rectify identified constraints, would be discussed with IDA within four
months of completion. Two man-months of technical assistance have been
included in the project to assist with these reviews.



32
VI. PROCr BENIMT, CUTGIIC&I    AND ARS8
6.01      The proposed project is justified in terms of thre types of
benefits: direct benefits to the population of the Shewa regions; direct
benefits nationally; and indirect benefits to regions other than Shewa which
would be realized as various innovations being developed and tested in the
area component were applied in other parts of the country.
Benefits to the Shewa Regions
6.02      The effective coverage of modern health services in the Shewa
regions is probably no more than 20% of the population. If the targets of
the area component of the project are met. 55% of the population would have
access to modern care by the end of the project, through development of
outreach services which would bring care to the people, and through
improvements in the quantity and quality of care at existing facilities.
which would increase the effective demand for services. Within the
population, 45% of the children would have been immunized against
communicable diseases. up from less than 20%; 45% of the mothers would know
how to recognize and treat dehydration; 50% of pregnant women would receive
ante-natal care, including tetanus immunization and post-natal care; and 17%
of eligible women would be practicing contraception. up from the current 2Z.
It is not possible to say how far these outputs would have an impact on the
levels of infant, child and maternal mortality and morbidity, since the
degre of impact will depend not just on improvements in health care, but on
concomitant improvement in the education, incomes and nutrition of the
population, which are aims of other parts of the Government's development
program.  In view of the particularly strong linkages-in both directions-
between disease and malnutrition. the success of the Government's
agricultural policies and programs, in terms of improvements in food output
and in the rural incomes needed to buy the food produced, would be a
critical factor in whether the planned health service improvements translate
into lower mortality and morbidity.
6.03      Wider acceptance of family planning in the Shewa regions would
have important benefits for the health of both mothers and children; spacing
births by at least 2 years can halve the number of infant deaths, because
mothers are stronger during pregnancy and lactation, and infants begin life
with higher birth-weights and better maternal care. But increased
acceptance of family planning would also have broader benefits to the
economies of Shewa, by moderating the fertility rate. Smaller families and
more widely spaced births would lessen the rate of growth in the demand for
food, fuelwood and social services, making access to these scarce resources
easier for all. It should be noted, however, that the increase in
contraceptive prevalence which appears feasible on current plans is modest.
and is likely to lead to a moderation of fertility insufficient to stop
population growth outpacing the rate of economic growth in the three
regions. If this situation were to be reversed, more than double the
targeted rate of contraceptive prevalence would need to be reached in Shewa
by the end of the century. and this :!ould require the sustained commitment



33
of Government to a multi-sectoral population program, and efforts to
increase the demand for contraception going beyond those envisaged in the
health education component of the proposed project. It is hoped that such
programs will be developed as part of the Government's next five-year
Development Plan and will benefit from IDA assistance.
6.04      The services provided wider the area component of the proposed
project would be of particular benefit to women, since mothers, together
with infants and young children, are the main beneficiaries of the
particular health interventions to which priority will be given-examples
are ante-natal care, including vitamin and mineral supplements; the special
effort being made to identify, refer and treat high-risk pregnancies; and
the benefits of family planning. Again, the benefits of family planning are
not limited to improvements in maternal health; access to contraception
gives couples in general greater freedom of choice and women in particular
more control over their own futures.
Benefits Nationally
6.05      Several components of the project would benefit most or all of the
country. The MOH units assisted under the institutional development
component of the project would strengthen the management of health services
nationwide. The pharmaceuticals component would improve procurement.
distributicn and quality control systems nationwide, and increase storage
capacity in six administrative regions of the country other than Shewa. The
development of an IEC strategy and the development and dissemination of new
IEC materials under the health education component would also have an impact
on a national basis. Strengthening of MOH's manpower development department
would establish a national capacity for manpower planning, for curriculum
development, for post-basic and managment training, and for the planning and
evaluation of all types of health training. The strengthening of the lab
technician school at Addis Ababa and the sanitar4an school at Jimma would
provide trainees in these fields for all regions of the country. Overall.
more than 40% of the project investment would directly benefit the nation as
opposed to just the Shewa regions.
Spin-Off Benefits from the Area Component
6.06      The project investments which would immediately benefit the Shewa
regions are designed to have important spin-off benefits for other regions,
starting with the Arssi region which will benefit from parallel financing
from Italy, in that the area component would test a number of systems and
approaches for later replication. The component as a whole is designed to
develop a health intervention package which would both be manageable by the
limited number of paramedical staff available, and meet the priority
epidemiological needs; and to develop outreach and management and
supervision systems which would be models for other regions. The project
would also develop and test several specific innovations in Shewa for later
nationwide replication, including: the maternity village concept for
referral and treatment of high-risk pregnancies; the delivery of basic
health services, including contraception, by community health workers; the
regional level management concept; plans for reducing the drop-out rate of



34
community workers; an in-service training system for all paramedical
workers; a system for routine, preventive maintenance of buildings, vehicles
and equipment; and sociological assessment techniques to learn more about
beneficiaries, and to increase feedback from beneficiaries and hence the
accountability of the health program to its ultimate clients. The study on
health financing will test out innovative forms of revenue generation in
Shewa also for later nationwide replication. From a financial standpoint,
it is estimated that the interventions being made in the Shewa regions under
the proposed project would be replicable nationwide providing that
Government took steps to develop new sources of health revenue.
B. Risks
6.07      The proposed project has four main risks.  Firet, that the
implementation capacity of MOH would prove inadequate to manage the diverse
activities in the six project components, and in particular to supervise and
manage the large number of scattered clinics and community health services
to be strengthened in the Shewa regions. The project is designed to avoid
this risk by: a) limiting the proposed investments to accivities which the
Government already planned to undertake (albeit at a slower rate if it had
not had foreign assistance) as part of its health development plan; b)
limitng the burden on managerial capacity by focusing the project on
rehabilitation of existing facilities and increasing the quality of existing
services. rather than expanding the infrastructure network; c) dividing the
managerial responsibility for implementing different components among
different departments of HOH (paras. 5.03 ff) so that no one department is
overburdened; and d) the substantial efforts designed into the project to
strengthen MOH's managerial capacity. The last include the addition of
staff to the architectural, procurement, MCH and planning and budgeting
units; the formation of a health management working group; the provision of
technical assistance and overseas training for key staff; and the
development of in-country health management training courses. The second
phase of the Project Preparation Facility is also designed to reduce
implementation delays nuring the project by making a start with key pre-
project activities and the strengthening of key units before project
effectiveness.
6.08      A second risk relates to the cultural acceptability of family
planning and the feasibility of the project's contraceptive prevalence
target in an environment where large families are likely to remain the
cultural ideal for the majority of the population for some time. There has
been insufficient experience with family planning on a large scale in
Ethiopia for confident judgments to be made about the rate of increase in
contraception. However, the 17% prevalence rate for eligible women in the
Shewa regions has been chosen as a modest target. Experience in other
African countries (and in the few clinics in Ethiopia where FP services are
already offered) suggests that the climate toward contraception is changing.
and the rate of adoption chosen is consistent with what has happened
elsewhere. In addition, the health education component of the project has
been designed to help overcome some of the cultural barriers associated with
contraception.



35
6.09      A third risk relates to the high drop-out rates of volunteer
community health workers. now about 50-60% in the Shewa regions; if these
rates continue, the development of outreach services for the 55X of the
population targeted by the area component will prove impossible. The
project has been designed to increase the motivation of community workers by
financing improved training for them; by financing workshops for community
leaders focusing on the value of CHWs to the community and ways in which
communities can support CHWs; and by financing transport and in-service
training in supervision for health assistants, the line supervisors of CHWs.
MOH has now developed a detailed plan to reduce the drop-out rate of CHW8
along the above lines; the implementation of and mid-course corrections to
this plan will be a critical area for attention during project supervision.
6.10      A fourth risk relates to the adequacy of Government funding of
recurrent costs to implement and sustain the proposed project and the
broader health program. While the recurrent cost implications of the
project are in themselves reasonable in relation to the likely incremental
budget available after the project (para. 4.06), the increasing share of
salaries in the health recurrent budget (para. 2.17) threatens to reduce the
quality of existing services in the health sector as a whole, by starving
them of operating resources like drugs and fuel. While adequate allowances
have been made in the project for recurrent costs to implement the project.
these costs are signiicantly higher than the budgets available in regions
outside Shewa. In order to ease the sectorwide recurrent budget constraint,
Government is now seriously studying options for health financing reforms
and will experiment with the most promising new sources of revenue
generation to arise from a health financing study included in the project
(para. 4.07).
VII.  ASNDRAUcS AID
7.01      During negotiations People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
(PDRE) agreed to exchange views with IDA on its population policies (para.
2.20). on health financing alternatives (paras. 2.21 and 4.07), on measures
to increase the non-salary expenditure for the health sector in the Shewa
regions (para. 4.07), and on the measures it has introduced to improve the
effectiveness of community health workers. and other innovations such as
maternity villages (para. 3.12). PDRE also agreed to carry out the project
according to an Action Plan (as per paras. 3.08 and 5.02) focusing on site
acquisition and architectural services (paras. 3.07 and 3.15), staffing
(paras. 3.08, 3.17. 3.26), and curriculum development and staff training for
the health training schools (para. 3.15). Government also provided
assurances on: (a) the pace at which it would experiment with delivery of
contraceptives by community health workers in the Shewa regions (para.
3.11), (b) the training of adequate numbers of personnel (para. 3.28). (c)
annual submission to IDA of project implementation plans and budgets (para.
5.02). and (d) the arrangements for project implementation (para. 5.03). and
for mid-term evaluation (para. 5.08). Conditions of effectiveness for the
proposed credit are the establishment of a Health Education Department, a
health education coordination committee (para. 3.22), a Pharmaceutical and
Medical Supply Control Department (para. 3.28), and submission to IDA of a



36
detailed implementation plan and budget for the first year of project
implementation (para. 5.02).
7.02      A condition for disbursement of the funds relating to the
rehabilitation of the nursing school would be the preparation by PDRE of a
detailed plan of action to develop a program for tutor training. post-basic
nurse midwifery, post-basic MCH and in-service refresher training of health
staff in the Shewa regions (para. 3.14).
7.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would
constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$33 million equivalent on
standard terms with a 40-year maturity to the People's Democratic Republic
of Ethiopia.



37
NhOPIA - TMMY NALTR PROM=
ActLon Pla"
1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
L  Area Component
(a) Completion of surveys
and architectural design
work for at least 6 health
centers/60 health stations
in the Shewa regions          10/88
(b) Acquisition of sites for 3
new health centers            10188
(c) Completion of all surveys
and architectural design
work for all health
facilities to be upgraded    10/89
(d) Appointment of following
staff:
Hospital
General mnedical                            1     1
Practitioner
Surgeon                                     1
Pharmacist                                  1
Staff nurses                                4     4     4     4
Midwife nurses                                    6     4      4     3
Pediatric nurses                                  4     4     3
MCH nurses                                  4     2     2      2
Anesthesiologist nurses                           4     4      5
Laboratory technicians                      3     3     3
X-ray technicians                           2     2     2
Pharmaceutical technicians                  4     4
Sanitarians                                 3
Dental hygienist                                  3     4
Opthalmologist assistants                   7
Health assistants                          20    20    20



38
1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
Health Centers/Health Stations
Health assistants                   20    40    40    47
MCH nurses                                11    11    12
Nurses                              10    20     6
Sanitarians                                8     4     4
Laboratory technicians              12     6     6
Pharmaceutical technicians           8     6     3
3 New Health Centers
Nurses (3x3 HCs)                                 9
MCH nurses (2x3 HCs)                             6
Sanitarians (2x3 HCs)                            6
Laboratory technicians                           6
Pharmaceutical technicians                       3
Health assistants (2x3 HCs)                      6
2. Manpower Development
(a) Completion of curriculum
development for in-service
training course for nurses,
health assistants and
community health workers             6189
(b) Completion of training for
8 trainers at the health
training schools                     6189
(c) Appointment of 4 new tutors           6/89
(d) Completion of architectural
survey and design work for
the nursing school on 2
campuses, 2 health assistant
schools, 1 sanitarian and 1
laboratory technician school         6/89
3. Institutional Development
(a) Appointment of following staff
in New Units A and E Division
Building Engineer                          1
Transport
Sr. Auto. Elect. Engineer                        2
Jr. Auto. Elect. Engineer                        2
Cashier/Accounts                                           3



39
1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
(b) Appointment of following staff
in Existing Units
Strengthening A & E Units
Architect                            1
Sr. Engr/Bldg. Surveyor              1
Draftsman                            1
Jr. Engineer                         1
Jr. Survey Engineer                 3
Strengthening MCH Procurement
Chief Officer                        1
Asat. Officer                        2
Strengthening Project
Coordinator's Office
Expert                               1
Assistant Expert                     1
Junior Expert                        1
Strengthening MCH Unit
Area Coordinator                     1
4. Pharmaceutical Development
Appointment of following
additional staff:
Drug standards specialist                        1
Section Head                                     1
Section Head                                     4
Sr. Inspector-HQ                                 2
Jr. Inspector-HQ                                 2
Pharmacists                                     10
Pharmaceutical technician
(2x8 regions)                                   16
Procurement Marketing
Data Specialist                                  2



40
Pes 1 of 5
Tab1A1-4 -0S DUKOGRAPHIC PROJFCTIONS1I
1985     1991990  1995     2000      2005     2010     2015
TOTAL POPULATION (IN MILLIONS)
A  No Fertility Decline             42.265   48.783   56.992   67.050   79.461   94.712  113.587
B  Gradual Fertility Decline        42.266   48.783   56.528   64.134   74.407   84.012   93.332
C  Accelerated Fertility Decline   42.265   48.783   56.208   63.555   69.883   75.875   81.377
AVERAGE A_NNUAL RATE OF POPULATION GROWTH (PERCETIj
A  No Fertility Decline                       2.87     3.09     3.28      3.40     3.51     3.63
B  Gradual Fertility Decline                  2.87     2.94     2.84      2.66     2.43     2.10
C  Accelerated Fertility Decline              2.87     2.83     2.46      1.90     1.65     1.40
;l Based on 1984 population census.



41
Pop 2 o2 5
8Bsr-  _Ui
Tab,.--1-.02:  GROWTH IN NUMBERS oF HEALTH FACILITIES
Type of Health
Facility                    1961/2     1972/3     198112      198314             Remark
Health Stations                  354        650        1761       1949           Only years in
which reports
Health Centers                    41         93         131        141           were available
are included.
Hospitals                         54         84         86          83
Hospital Beds                   5158       8415       10993      11296
*Excludes Bonga, Hisan and Carta Hospitals



42
I
J  . .
Tsble*-l-;Q3:  AVAILA3ZL?T! OP =&TLI NaMIPOUU COMPAIU TO 10-YB U  PLAN NORM
---------      eec e         eSeeO--eeeefleeaeeeee-----ee.eeeee m-------
Available                                               Percent
Type of Medical Personnel            1983184             Need            hortage           available
(a)               (b)             (b-a)           (a/b x 1000)
--------------_ee  eacee                   eneneineeenenf.eeeee                  efe n -          e------
All Medical Doctors                    729               2000              1271                36.5
- Specialists                       349               819               470                42.6
Pharmacists                            217                231                14                93.9
Nurses (all types)                    1960               5498             3538                 35.6
Sanitarians                            298               1962             1664                 15.2
Laboratory Technicians                 425               1209              784                 35.2
X-Ray Technicians                      138                183                45                75.4
Pharmacy Attendants                    150                646              496                 23.2
Health Assistants                     6991              13500             6509                 51.8
____________________.____ _____ _____ _____         ._____ _..
TOTAL                    10908              25229            14321                 43.2
----------------------------------__                  _  ----__._------_ ._------._._       ____  ____



43
Am=e 1
48e 4 of 5
Tablee-1-44: ESTIMATED SUMMAKX Of PRISRM  FINANCING Of ETIHOPIAS HEALTH
CARE SYSTEM, 1986
Financing Sources                              Amount (in million Birr)
Recurrent      Capital
(1)  Private Individual Payments
(a)  Modern Private Doctors                   50.0           ----
(b)  Traditional Medicine                     30.0           ---
(c)  Private Pharmacies                       70.0
(d)  Glasses                                   1.5           ----
(e)  Fees Paid to NOH Facilities              19.0
(f)  Other Payments                           56.0
Total Private Payments             226.5
(2) Government of Ethiopia
(a)  Total Expenditure                       118.0          25.4
(b)  Less: Fees Collected from Individuals    19.0           ----
(c)  Less* External Donor Assistance          20.0           22.0
Net GOE Financed Health Care             79.0            3.4
(General Subsidy and Free Care)        a=====
(3)  External Donor Assistance                     20.0           22.0
(4)  Private Health Insurance                       0.6           ----
(5)  Local Philanthropy from Churches and NoOs      4.5
(6)  Cooperatives
(a)  Clinics                                   1.0           ----
(b)  CHAs and TBAs                             0.2           ----
Total Coop Support                        1.2
Estimated Total Financing               331.8           25.4
Source: Ethiopiat A Study of Health Financing Issues and Options
(forthcoming)



44
Ani 1
Page 5 of 5
UAWnCU- -M=
T*le-4-05: MOH BUDGET AND EXPEHITURE, ETHIOPIA, 1973/74 TO 1985/86
(in million Birr)
_   ..    ........................................................... . .... ......... ...... ............... .......... ...................... ...
Year    Recurrent   Expend-       S of    Total MOH      Ex-       Capital      Ex-        Rgal2/   Tot. Real   Tot. Real
Budget      lture       Total   Rea. Exp.    pendi-       Alloc.      pends-              Bxpenditur    Expend.
NORinal    GOE Rc. 2 of GDP at  tures         Budget      tures                Rae. and    as S of
Exp.     Nkt. Price   Reall/                Nominal                Capital    Real GDP
19808 100
73/74       NA          NA         NA          NA                     NA         t7.8        11.1       NA          NA
74/75       40.8        33.8        4.6         0.61      45.4        14.0       11.8        15.8       61.2         0.81
75/76       51.8        43.2        5.0         0.72      54.8        20.1       11.6        14.7       69.5         0.90
76/77       58.8        49.7        5.1         0.73      57.0        25.1       17.7        20.3       77.3         1.00
77/78       63.4        51.8        3.8         0.72      55.7        22.5       20.0        21.5       77.2         1.01
78/79       68.9        59.7        4.6         0.75      61.9        16.9       11.9        12.3       74.2         0.92
79180       76.2        65.4        4.2         0.77      66.5        16.7       10.0        10.2       76.7         0.90
80/81       81.2        77.2        4.7         0.81      77.2        25.1       14.6        14.6       91.8         1.02
81182       88.0        75.8        4.3         0.83      74.2        29.6       23.8        23.3       97.5         1.06
82183       97.4        79.6        3.5         0.79      76.4        47.3       28.0        26.9      103.3         1.08
83184      100.1        83.0        4.0         0.83      76.6        48.9       28.7        26.5      103.1         1.12
84185       NA         105.2        4.7         1.06      95.2        56.0       18.4        16.7      111.9         1.25
65186                   NA         NA          NA                     47.9       25.4        22.1
____________________._____________________________________.___________________________________._______________...._.....
Sources: MOF, Statistis and Research Division, 3CCP, Social Service Division, World Bank, Sector Review EthiopiA
Population. Health. and Nutitlon, 5299-T, Sept. 30, 1985.
Notes$    (1)  Deflated by the GDP Deflator.
(2) Deflated by the Fised Investment GDP Deflator.



45
Annex 2
Page 1 of 1
Documents Available in Proiect File
1.     World Bank.  'Ethiopia Population, Health and Nutrition Sector
Review," September, 1985.
2.      World Bank.  "Ethiopia - A Study of Health Financing: Issues and
Options," draft, April 1987.
3.      Government of Ethiopia, MOH.  Preposal for Family Health Project,
October, 1986.
4.      World Bank.  Detailed Cost Tables for the Proposed Family Health
Project.
5.      Wickham, R.S.  Working Papers on Manpower Development Component of
Proposed Family Health Project.
6.      Levy, T.  Working Papers on Health Education Component of Proposed
Family Health Project.
7.      Robinson, I.  Working Papers on Pharmaceuticals Development
Component of Proposed Family Health Project.
8.      Government of Ethiopia, MOH.  Comprehensive Health Service
Directory for 1983/84, January 1986.
9.      Cooper, Lauren.  Analysis of the Community Health Worker Problem,
October 1987.
10.     Government of Ethiopia, Proposals for Reducing the Drop-Out Rates
of Community Health Workers, November 1987.
11.    Walker, F.  Architectural Report, July 1987.



46                    Annex 3
Page 1 of 8
Detailed Cost Tables (Su=arv Accounts)
1.    Project Costs by Expenditure Category and by Year Including Foreign
Eixchage Amount and Percentage (Birr)
2.    Project Costs by Expenditure Category and by Base Costs and
Contingencies (Us$)
3.    Project Costs by Expenditure Category and by Year.  Totals Include
Continegncies (Birr and US$)
4.    Project Costs by Expenditure Category and by Base Costs and
Contingencies (Birr)
5.    Project Costs by Functional Component and by Year (Birr)
6.   Project Costs by Functional Component.  Totals Include Contingencies
(Birr and US$)
7.    Project Costs by Expenditure Category and Functional Component (Birr)



47
Anm=x 3
Pagp 2 of 8
tmvb keosits bu ysa
(Local Curkwsa '000)
D e Codts                                 hotdiwn Exchmnue
Ios    I9s,    19o    9I        1992    1993   1994    1 99    total       I    Amount
It INESI" cosn
A. CIVIL 111(3                     - 3763.9 54211.5 6299.9 4p3331 24919.2                -    22532.6   55.1  12,425,2
I. VUOE3a                          * 1,515.?   491.9   302.7        -           -           - 24310.4  100.0  2#310.4
C. F1INMII1E                     4*2    59.7   3016   M7t    96.3   199.4    6.4          6.4  IP451.9   80.0  1.161#5
0. EIPNT                       1753   03   7*9 1.042.0 2914845   11439  57.6    57.6 54186*1   80.0  4,148.9
E NATS / mm9                   2.0*    501.0  M3.    4.5  1=o.0   49.o  496.0   475.6 3,925.9   50.2  1,969.9
F, TE011IC.L AI5                   -   715.0    16.6        -       -        -   166       -   748.3  100.0    748.3
Go l6Ul                         943      43   13.0   121.8   130.0   125.0  Ilh1          4.3   911t1    0.0        0.0
NHOVERIEMT  N                          - TU1111  46.4                                       -     46    1000       46A4
I      3 EIS gIIIs             902.1   493*0   64.               73*4    31.4  101.3        - 200.2   18.8    422.3
Jo PROJECT  WIASII  FU    2.35             -                -       -       -       -       - 2,035   95.4  1M77
Totl I_STT  elmS               3J5302   We9.0 771.9  ,993.3 7odQ 3863.5  792.9   6h0 41456.3   60.4 25.019,5
::. E0t COlST
A* GM"1                       236*3   3552    d.ol   645.   .0l9   1009.3 10093  10090 5,962.2    0.0              0.0
so. E  DIEM                   269.4   34.0   597.5   57.5   605.1   805.1  805.1    05.1  4#913.9    0.0           0.0
C. STWID                          -       -        -    36.5    72.9    729   72.9    72.9   =2.1    0.0          0.0
.D. UTL  19911                 41.5    41.5   317.1   4141   414.1   414.1  414.1   414.1 2,470.4   50.2  1,239.0
E. gm/ a /IE    I               6.1     6.1   015.4 1.216.9  1t.949 2,133.7 2713.5  3,237.7 121206.2   50.2  6d122.7
F. VWCLE WN11
meD 11                      40.7   147.7    0.3  5U5.0   64.5    6.5  646.5   646.5 3,369.5   70.1  2971'.2
9. IUL.1    ll                  -       -       -    25.5    32.7   132.2  281.1   360.1   831.7    5.0         41.9
H. FURNITUE mm1117                                -      3.4     6.0    23.3   32.7    42.3   107.7   10.1        10.8
1. EOIIHEHT ON                    -               -    13*5    10.    207.2  224,6   241.7   705.9   50.2    354.0
Totatsl E  i CIS                  594.0    4.4  29.0  333.0  4,974.3 5o4.6 625.3  6130.1 31,472.6   33.3 10.480.5
Total  AIE  Con                  4p144.2   WA.4 1037.9 1253o 12,614.9 9o336#3 6a.3  7,514.1 729238   48.7 35,500,0
Piwalcal Cioctin  s               9.0   9.6   594    M.1   55.6   3076    3.2              3*2 2,700.7   60.1  1,623.6
PriCantei_wl                    16.l   762.l 1,63.7 2t20.3  2W3.t 239.1 22401  275.3815158.    39.0  5,919.9
Totol PROJECT CUS                4       0321.0 10,121. 12,979#9 15,5792 1010.3 1223.0 9,249.6 10t29. 90,713.0   47.4 43G042.5
_me. mmmm em=  ms                                                  -                _ _r=r
TM$                              97.4    909t 1f3  21A2.4 2.14.0  142t1t   64,2  1.134.7 10,479.8    0.0            0.0
Fvelin Exhmdo                 2,143.0   31h1  655*3 0174*6 785.0  5,114.7 3M1O5. 36.7.9 43,042.5    0.0             0.0



ETNIA
FAILY 10Lt PRWECT
BKMOW OF Mgpg  ACESIIT
(US '000)
PImical CGtlnkcies              Price Cenrics                                                     Pbxsical
DMe Costs                                                                                        Total Inl. C4nt.            Coat. Plus  bw Costs +
Local                             al                                                          Price Cont. Price Cont.
Local (CEx. kAties I        Fat. (Excl, bies I                   (Excl. Dutius I                  Local (Excl. Mimi I          an Ph"i-cal   on Di
Faht Exch.   Taxs)    Tas   Totl   E3xMi TaxeS) Taes  Total   For* Exd. Tas)  Tas  Total   For. Exib.   Taxe)    Tm    Ttal                  Cat.        Costs
I.t         1t5SRWCa
A. CIYU on055                  6t002.5     39250.0 1,632.8 10195.3 600.2 325.0   163.3 I,0O9,;      939.0  747.6   297,6 199.2    7,541.8      4,322.  2,093.7 13*99.1     1:268.9    12:9.2
3.  HIEt                       1t116,1          -       -19116,1  55.8       -       -   55.11      96.5    0.0       -   96.5    1,268.4           -       - 1:268.4        60.4      1,208.0
C. FIIOTWtE                      561.1       -0.0   140.3   701.4  28.1   0.0      7.0   35.        98.2      -    22.0  110.2       677.3       -0.0   169.3   846.7         40.3       906.4
P.  UMEIWt                     2,004.3        0.0   501.1 2t505.4 100.2   0.0    25.1  125.1        308.4    0.0    77.1  395.5    2t412.9          -   603.2 34016.1        143.6     2t372.r
E. rATS / 53P1                   951,2       660.9   294,5 1:896.6     -     -       -              176.9  164.3   60.2  401.3    1128.0        925.2   344.? 2*297.9           -      2,297.9
F. TEOCII 689ISTAWCE             361.5          -       -   361.5      -     -       -              25.1       -       -   25.1      386.6          -        -   3H6.6          -        386.6
9, 38flfl*                          -       440.1      -   440.1      -     -       -                 -  105.4       -  105.4           -       545.5      -   545.5           -        545.5
R. OWERJ  THAININS                22.4          -       -    22.4      -     -       -       .       2.3      -        -    2.3       24.7          -       -    24.7           -         24.7
1. fESECND EP4IMTION             204.0      983.0       - 1M0O7.0      -     -       -               16.8  125.6      -  142.4       220.8    1*000.7       - 1,229.5           -      1229.5
J. PFBJMT PiMTIUN FUIDS          863.6       147.7      - to11.3       -     -       -                 -      -        -      -      863.6       147.7      - 1,011.3           -      1*011.3
Tatal INDESNT COSTS              1296.7      5,391.8 25598.6 20,027.2 784.3 325.0   195.3 1,304.l    1:453.2 1,142.9   457.0 3,253.0   14,524.2    6:349.7 3,211.0 24:584.9   1,513.3    23,071.6     @
II. RECSEt COSTS
A. SAIES                            -     2,8C0.3      - 2880,3       -     -       -                 -  796*6        -  786.6          -     3:666.9       - 3S666.9          -       3,666.9
B. PER DIEII                        -     20410.1       - 2:410,1     -     -       -       -         -  644.5        -  644.5          -     3,054.6       - 3,054.6          -       3,054.6  
C. StIPEIID                         -       158-5      -              -     -       -       -         -   49.2        -   49.2          -       207.7       -   2077            -       207.7J 
Do UTIL / SU1PLIES              5S9.5       415,9   179.0 1U193.4     -     -       -       -      129.3  115.5   43.2  298.1       727.9       S31.4   222.2 1*481.5          -       1,481.5  w
E. D9 J IED 919U1C5           2,957.9     2,05.2   964.7 5,897.7      -     -       -       -      739.6  635.9   242.7 1,618.2   3*697.4    2:691.1 19127.4 7-S1S.9           -       7*515.9 
F. WSICLE OPn
AND MINT                    1,310*2      279.7   280.4 1,869.3     -     -               -      290.9   77.0    63.2  421.1    1,591.2       355.7   3436 29290.4            -      2,290.4
6. DIflIJIN  amNT                20.2       321.3    60.3   401.8     -     -       -       -        6.0  112.5   20.9  139.4        26.2       433.8    91.2   5411.           -       541.1
H. FUITIE OMII                    5.2        39.0     7.9    52.0     -     -       -       -        1.5   13.4    2.6   17.6         6.7        S2.4    10.4    69.6           -        69.6
It ESUFEt MNT                   171.0       118.8   51.2   341.0      -     -       -      -        48.9   40.7   15.3  105.4       219.9       159.5   67.0   446.4           -        446.4
TOW     t AC   MMS                5:063,1    8,677.8 1463.3 15:204.1    -      -       -      -    1,206.2 2475.3   383.4 4069.9    6.269.2    11153.1 1,851.7 19t24.1            -     19*274.1
tal                               17:149.0    14,059,6 4,029 35,231.3 784.3 325.0   195.3 130107    2 A.4 3:618,l   845.4 7m22.9   207M.5    1M002.7 5012.7 4359               1.513.3    42:345.7
1  18. 1998 10:32



ETHIOPIA
FilLY IHIALN POJECT
Smauw Acouts by Year
Totals Inrluding Cmtii                                                Totals Itneludir Cmtiimies
(Local CurrM '000)                                                         (ti '000)
1918    1989    1990    11    192         9    1994    1995   Totl    198   19         1990   19    192   1993   1994   1"95   Total
It -t         COSTS
A. CIVIL  mS                      - 49509.6 6454.2  8,100.0 583.9  4,045.4         -       - 28t993.2      - 2.178.6 3.118.0 3,913.1 29794.2 1954.3    -      -139953.1
B. EIMCIES                        - 1.692.9   568*7   364.0        -       -       -       - 24625,7       -  817.8  274.8  175.8       -       -      -      - 1,2634
C. FllIITIE                      4.6    66*7   348.7   935.3   120.5   259.3    8.6      9.0 1752.6     2.2   32.2  168.4  451.8   58.2  125.3    4.2    4.3   846.7
D. EJIPENT                     190;1   937.4   868.1 1,252.9 2O86.6   149.2   71.0    B1.1 6.243.4    9l8  452.9  419.4  60S.3 1.297.9   72.1   37.7   39.2 3,016*1
E. NATS / 9WVL                 m.o   547.0   421.7   522.4 1,044.4   626,6  650.3   647,3 4,756.7   14.5  264.3  203*7  2*4  504.5  302.7  314.2  312.7 2297.9
F. TEIIUCAL ASSISTNCE             -   760.6    19.3        -       -       -   21.4        -   B00.3       -  367.4    9.8       -      -       -   10.3      -   386.4
SO IMRINJIS                    103.2   106.8   153.2   152.5   1U4.2   163.4  151.7   131.3 1.129.2    49.8   51,6   74*0   73.7   79.3   7B.9   74*7   63.4   54,5.
N*OJRSEASTRIIN8                   -        -    51.1 --    -                               -    51.1       -           24*7      -      -       -      -      -    24.7
I. RESEACH AIID EVALIJNTI     986.8   543,7   745.5        -    92.1    40.8  13461        - 2,545.0   476.7  262,6  360.2       -   44.5   19.7   65.8       - 19229.5
J. PROJECT PTATION FUNDS   2,093.5        -        -       -               -       -       - 2.093.5 19011.3      -       -      -      -       -      -      - 19011.3
Total IWESTNT COS              3,675.1 9h164.7 9,69,6 11,327,2 9V891.6 5        lt4.7 1,049.2   968,6 5s089.7 1,775,4 4,427.4 4,6S2.0 5,472.1 4r779.5 2,S53.0  506.9  419.6 24584.9
-.====    t=i   mm   mm    mm                   ---- -- mm-   mm -                          _ m:--==--- -
II. REI T   CMSTS
A. SAIES                      258.5   402.1   790,1   307.4 1t267,5 1,311.9 1,3578 1.405.3 79590.4   124.9  194.2  3768  390.0  612.3  63.7  65S.9  678*9 3,66*9
B. PER DIEu                   294.6   344,1   700,1   724*6 1,010.6 1,045.9 1,092*5 1.120.4 69323.0   142.3  166.2  33.2   350.1  488.2  40.3  523.0  541.3 3054.6
Co STIIEI                        -        -       -    44.2    91.5    94.7   98.0   101.5   429,9        -       -      -   21.4   44.2   41.8   47*4   49.0   207*7
D. UT!. I SUPPLIES             43.9    45.3   358.3  t48.6   504.0   523.1  543.0   563.5 3.066.7    21.2   21.9  173.1  234.6  243.5  12i7  262.3  272.2  19481.5
E. MS / NO SUPPLIES            6.5      6,7   921.4  1.485.8 2496.7 2,701.9 3t54*6 4,474.3 1S,557,9     3.1    3.2  445.1  717.8 1,157.9 1305.3 17M2.0 2161.5  7,515.9
F. VEIICE OPERATION
mND oAINT                   42.5   158.9   590.5   6536   777.1   807..  M291  971.9 4*741.2    20.5   76.8  295.3  315.9  375.4  390M1  405.4  421.2 2,290O4             U
6. UILDIN M                      -        -       -    30.8    41.0   171.3  377.0   500.1 1#120I.        -       -      -   14.9   19.8   82.7  182.1  241.6   541.1 o'
H. FtlUl1lMINT                   -        -       -     4.2    7?5    30.1   43.8    58.    144.1         -       -      -    2.0    3.6   14.5   21.2   28.3    69*6  
I.  _PNT 1INT                    -       -        -    15.8    ;2.9   261.8  214.6   329,0   K4.0         -       -      -    7.6   11.1  126.5  142.3  159.9   446.4    
Total RECINENT COSTS             646.0   957,0 3,350.4 4.252,0 6.118,8 6S9483 8,200,4 9P424.S 39.897.3   312.1  462.3 1,618.5 2.C54.1 2,95.9 3,356.7 3,961.5 4,552.9 19274.1
u  mm"  mm  muuinmu  m M anmm                  = uuuumm=  mm=- ====-    in=  mum.  uzms ininu   mom== =u u -===m  m
Total PRBlECT COSTS             4,321.0 10,121.9 12.979.9 15579.2 16.010.3 12,233.0 9,249.6 1023.1 90*788.0 2,0B7.5 4989.8 6,270.5 7,56.2 7,734.5 5,909.7 4,460.4 4972.5 43.589.9
_m              m    -        m     mm=                       _m      m     m      m      m _==s2_  =x  ====Z-- -  =  =
APr1l 18. 198B 10:32



ETMIA
FlillLY IE*ILTh PIOJT
ImInu   E  mm  ICChITS
lLxal CU r    o '000)
Phsicd Contimemces               Price Cantlaniu                                                    Phisical
Ds  Costs                                                                                            total Icl. Cent.            Cont. Plus
Loca                             Local                                                        Price Cant.
Local (bcl. Dtize S a                 (Exi, Mli  S                    (Excl,  bAti  I                   Lcal (Exil. Duties I         an Ubisl*sl
For. EIch.   Tas)    Tas   Totl   Fot. Exch. Tam) Taxes  Toa    For. Eh Tas)  Ts   Totl   Fot. Ech.   Tan)    Tas   Tobl                          Cmt.
It  TWNN COMI
A. CIIL WmI                   12.4252      6,727.5 3v37#99 2253.6    1,242.5 672,8   338,0 2,253.3    1,943.9 1,547.5   616.1 4.107.4   15.611.5   8947.8  4934.0 28M89.2    2,66.7
B. 1EHICS                      2,310.4          -       - 2,310.4      115.5     -       -  115.5      199.     0.0       -   1998    2,42.7           0.0       - 2,2.7         15.0
C. FlIDUUE                     1,161.5       -0.0   290.4 1,451.9       3,81   0.0    14.5   72.6      182.5    0.0   45.6   228.    1402.1           0.0   39.5  1,752.6        93.5
B. EUIFEDT                     4,14899          - 1.037.2 5186.1       207.4   0,0   5Sl9  259*3       M3.4    O.0   1596   M.0    4994.7              0.0 1248.7 6,243.4       27.3
Es HATS / SU1                   19468.9    1,38.1   5889 3,925.9           -     -       -      -      366.1  340,1    24.6   ms8    2P.50         1,708.2    13.5 49756.7         0.0
F.  TUA  ASISTANCE               748*3          -       -   748.3          -     -       -      -       52.0      -       -    52.0      900.3           -       -   800.3          -
6. 13*l1lB                          -       911.1       -   911.1          -     -       -      -          -  218.1       -   218.1          -     129.2         - 1,12.2         -0.0
N.o lI*  TRAININS                 46.4          -       -    46.4          -     -       -      -        4.7      -       -     4.7       51.1           -       -    Sl.t          -
I. REEANCA  AN  EVMTION          422.3   12827.9        - 250,.2           -     -       -      -       34.8  260.1       -   2949       457.1     24087.9       - 2W56M0         -0.0
J. FUICT PMM FTIOI FUNS        1787.*7      305.        - 2093.5           -     -       -      -          -      -       -       -    1,?87         305.8       - 2.093.5          -
Totl IiKSIIIT COSTM              25,019.5    11,140.4 5296.4 41,456.3    1,623.6 672.8   404,4 2W00     34221 2,365.7   945.9 673.7   30,065.2    14,178.9 6t646.7 Sh80.7    3.12,4 V
11.          COMB
A. SIfIlES                         -      5,962.2      - 5,962,2          -     -       -      -          - 1629.2       - 1,623,2          -     7,590.4       - 7,590.4         0.0
at 1 DIEII                          -     49985.9      - 4w988.9          -     -       -      -          - 143341       - 1^3341           -     6h323.0       - 6,323.0         0.0
t., STIPED                         -       DM.l        -   328.1          -     -       -      -          -  lOt.8       - t201.2 -                 49,9        -   429.9           -
3, DMh / S mLIEB              1423940      860.9   370.6 2,470.4          -     -       -      -      267.7  239.2   89,5  596.3    1506.7        1,100.0   460.0 3,0617            -
E. WM  / IED SIUPIES          69122,7    4h254.3 1,631.2 12,208.2         -     -       -      -    1530.9 1,3163   502.4 3,3496    7,653#5    5,S70,7 2t,3.7 15,S5.9             0*0  .
F. UN9CLE W1ITION
AnD mm117                  2,712.2       576.9  510.4 3,869.5          -      -       -      -      581.5  159.4   230,7   871.6    3t9.7         736.3   711.2 4,741,2        0.0
8. SUILDIN.313am                 41.9      665.0   124.7  831.7           -     -       -      -        2.3  232.9    43.3   238.5       54.2       897.9   168.0 1,12.1         -0.0  '
N. FUINITUE MINT                 10.8       80.7    16.2   107.7          -     -       -      -        3.1   27.8    5.5    36.3         4.O       108.5    21.6   144.1        -0.0  
to UfiINT MINIT                 354.0      246.0   105.9   et6.9          -     -       -      -       10122   94.2   32.7   218.2       455.2      339.2   13.6   92.0          -0.0 0
TOt  EIElIT CISIS                10,480,5    17,963.0 3,029.0 31,472,6       -      -       -      -    29496.8 ,t123.9  904.1 84247   12,.3    23086,9 3,833*1 39,897*3             0.0
Toal                              354500*0    29M1034 68325,4 79288    1623.6 6728   4044 2t700.7    5.918 7M489.5 1750,0 154.1.5   43,042.5    37,265#7 10479,8 90t798.0          3,132,4



EIHIOPIA 51
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT                                  Annex 3
Project Couronents by Year                               Page 6 of 8
(Local Currenci '000)
Total
as  Costs
Local
1988    1lff      1990    1991    1992       1993    1994     1995    Curtencw  (US$ '000)
Suan                      *an  e2=2    UM's                    a =   *a=
A. AREA COMPONENT
1. AREA CNPOUENT                       692.6  5t094,8  4M721  4641#6  5,343.7  5,004,2 30766,0  4,322.9  33,637*8  16W250W1
Sub-Total AREA COIPOENT                   692.6  5.094,8  4M721  46416  5,343,7  59004.2 39766.0  49322.9  33,637.8  16,250.1
o   1ANPOI  DEUELOPI
1. ST PAUL AND ZEIDtTU
NURSE TRAINING SCHOOL                105.4    105.4   430.4  1,040.0   135,7   135.7  135S7    135.7  2,224.0    1,074.4
2. NEJEILK HEALTH
ASSISTANTS SCOOL                      90.3    90.3    360.8  19223.3    73.3   112.6  112.6    112.6  2,176*0    14051.2
3. AHASSA HEALTH ASSISTANTS SCNOOL      143.3   274,2   519.4  1,417.3   129.6   167.5  167.5   167.5  2,986.2    1442*6
4. SANITARIANS SCHOL * JIIMA               -    146.4   793,0   391.8   443.4   443.4  443.4    423.1  3.084,6    1,490.2
5, LAiORATORY TECHNICIAN SCHOL           8.1      58.7    994.7   211.8    89.4       89.4    89.4     89.4   lt631.0      78.9
Sub-Total MWAPOtIR DEKVELOPH               347,0   675.0  3S09S.3  4W2S4.2   871.5   948.7  948.7   928.4  12,101.8   5,846,3
C. PAWiRMCEUTICALS DEVELOPN
1. PHAMAICE LS DEVELOPF                 31.6  1,013,9  1s634.7  1#209,5  40726#9  1W6837   626.0   626.0  11,552#3   5,580.8
Sub-Total PHARMACEUTICALS WJELOPN           31.6  1.013#9  1.634,7  1,209.5  49726,9  1W6S3.7  6260    626.0  11,552.3   5,580.8
D. HEALTH EDUCATION
1. INFORMATION. EDUCATION
MD !OthWTATTON                       M09.9  1*404.01   89.9    62.7 7?       9    498; 15 AU          ;
Sub-Total IALTH EDUCATION                  309.9  1,404.0   869.9   672.7   727.9    698.2  656.1   635.3   5.939    2.885,9
E. INSTITUTIONAL DEVLOPil
, IIEN UNITS                            17.6      10.2     10.2  1,472.1    643#3   699.9  699.9    i99.9  4,253.1    2,054.6
2. STRENGTHENING
EXISTING UNITS                       652.1    602.5    512.8   301.6    301.6   301.6   301.6    301.6   3            1,582.3
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPH           669.7   612.7    522.9  17M77    944.9  1,001.5 1,001.5  1,001,5   74529,5    3,637.0
F. STUDIES
1. STUDIES                                 -     41.1         -       -        -        -       -         -      41.1       19.8
Sub-Total STUDIES                             -      41.1        -        -        -        -       -        -      41.1       19.8
9. PROJECT PREPARATION
FACILITY
1. PROJECT PREPARATION
FACILITY                          2,093,5         -        -        -       -         -       -        -  2,093,5    14011.3
Sub-Total PROJECT PREPARATION
FACILITY                             24093.5         -        -        -        -        -       -        -  2,093.5    1,011,3
Total BASELINE COSTS                      4144N.2  8,841.4 10.897.9 12,581.8 12,614.9  9,336,3 6     .998,3  7,514.1  72,928.8   35,231.3
Physical Contingsncies                     9.0    497.6    598,4   736.1    545.6   307.6    3.2          3.2   2,700.7    1.304.;
Price Contingencies                       167,8   782.8  1,483.7 2,261.3 2,849.9 2,589.1 2,248.1  2,775,8  15,158.5    7t322.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                       4,321,0 10,121.8 12,979.9 15,579.2 169010.3 12,233,0 9,249.6 109293.1  90,788,0  43,858.9
=33=2:3 ------       223 22             2x=23222                33 :_-33 --3 2
Taxes                                     97.4    990.9  1,555.3 2.132,4  2,148.0  1,456.9  964U2  1W134.7  10,479.8    54062.7
Foteign Exchanse                       21U43.0  6,316.1  6,565.3  9,174.6  7,865.0  5,114.7 3,185.9  3677.9  43042.5   20793.5



EThIOPIA
Ft M4ILT IOLTH PROJET
Pm .,ct Caovoocts bv. Yost
Totals Ircludins Cci tina. itcies                                       Totals Iaeludurd C;ontinftmcies
(Locsl Cu.rnev 'C                                                             (UlS$ '000)
1919    1919    1990    1991    1992    1?' 3   1994    199    Total    198   1919   190   1991   1991   199    1994   199    Total
A. wAM CWUeNT
1. OKA COWUIENT                      757.5 5,95.2  5,691.9  59731.9 6.904.4 6.5 2.5 4.92..7 54S96.5 4:459.7   3M4.0  .975-! :*749.7  2.769.0 3,2 87.1 3975.1 2,592.6 .2844.6 20,463.6
Sub-Total maK  Cl3PUEJ(                 757.5 5.952.2 5,91.9 5.731.9  6.304.4  6.5 2.5 4,952.7 5,996.5 42,359.7   366.0 2,873.5 2#749?.7 2s769.0 3*487.1 3.1).1 '.39'1.6 :*848.6 20.463.6
3. -LV MV.OPH
1. Si PAM AND ZEUSITU
amI  TRAMININ  SCOlOL              113.0   116.0   523.0  1.310.9   166.9    a3.0  179.4   186.1 2,769.2    54.6   56.4  252.6  633.3   80.6   83.6   86.7   19.9  1,337.8
2. IEKMIS EALTH
ASSISTMNTS SCOON.                   97.9t   101.3   441.0  1v.53.     91.1 I   5.0  150.3   155.7 2r'19.2    47.3   48.9  213.0  7421.0   44.0   70.1   72.6   75.2  1#313.1
3 . MNA69A HEALTH ASSISTANTS SCHOOL  156.0   306.9   632.6  1,790.2   160.9   25'.7  223.5   231.5  3,717.0    75.4  149.2  305.6  964.9   77.7  104.2  107.9  111.9  1,7M.7
4. SANITRIMNS SCHOO  s JIWIA             -   163.2   941.0   464.1   545.9   2 4.10  596.8   590.7  3,947.7          -   73.9  454.6  224.2  263.7  273.4  293.5  280.5  1.95.8.
5. LAITCRYT TEDIUICIAN S01001          8.9    65.7  1,219.6   25.7   109.5   131.6  117.9   122.2 2,010.0          4.3   31.7  599.2  122.1   52.9   54.9   56.9   59.0   971.0
Sub-Total NAHM     VEWLOPH              375.9   753.9  3,757.1  *53.8. 19074.2 1,l 3.3 1.257.8  1#276.2 150462.0   181.6  364.2 1.81S.0 2,596.4  518.9  586,1  607.6  616.5  7,276.3
C. PIAIACEUICS4.S IEWLpH
I. PwimUEUicM.s 1IEw1                 33.4  1.136.9 1,919.2  1.480,7 69051.7 2.2I 9,3  8290   95.4 14,569.6    16.1  549.2  927.2  715.3 2,92.5 1,091.5  400.5  415.2 7,03.4
Sub-Total W1 ACEUTICM.S DEVEIPH          33.4  1.t136.9 1,919.2  1,490.7 6,051.7  24 i9.3  929.0   95.4 14569.6    16.1  549.2  927.2  715.3 2923.5 1.09? -  400.5  415.2 7,03.4
3. NEM.TN EDtCATION
t. IWOHATIONv EDUCATION
AND coIUWICATIoN                   332.6  1.564,9  1.017.1   810.0   901.3   195,.1  971.2   V74.3  79266.5   160.7  756.0  491.4  391.3  433.4  432.4  420.9  422.4 3,510.4
Sub-Total NE.TN EDUCTION                332.6  1.564.8  1.017.1   810.0   901.3   VPS5.1  971.2   874.3 7,2166.5   160.7  756.0  491.4  391.3  435.4  432.4  420.9  422.4 3.510.4
C.INSTITUIONM  ICUELW
1. NEU WITS                           19.7    11.0    11.3  19039.6   802.6   103.2  935.5   968.9  5.49.?         9.0    5.3    5.5  998.7  3W.7  436.3  451.9  448.0  2,652.5
2. STROEISTO
EXISTIMS UNItS                     709.5   659.0   583.2   363.2   376.1   :;9s403.4   417.9  3,901.9   342.9  319.3  291.7  175.5  191.7  199.2  194,9  201.3  1~.94.
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONSAL DEWOPN         729.2   669.9   594.6 2,2O.  1,178,8  1.M2.8 19339.9  1,396.6  9.392.5   351.8  323.6   9721,064.2  569.5  624.5  646.3  669.9 49537.4
F. STUDIES
1. STUDIES                               -    44.2                 -                       -              44.2       -   21.4       -       .                        -          21.4
Suib-Total STUDIES                          -    44.2                 .       -        -                     44.2       -   21.4       -.                            -             21.4
6. MECT PVPRATION
FACILITY
I. MRDECT PUEP?ATION
rACILITY                         2.93.S 5                                                           2,093.5  1.011.3                     -       .      -1.011.3
Sub-Total P1010  PUEPANAIIONI
FACILITY                            2.093.5       -                        -        --2#0925  1.011.3                               .       -       -              -       -1,011.3 
Total PROWC  COSTS                      4t321.0 10, 121.9 12.99N.9 159579.:' 16.010.3 %212. 3.0 99249.6 10#29.1 90,79.0  29017.5 4,999.8 6*270.5 7,53.2 7.734,5 5*99.7 4,468.4 4.972. 43,959.9 
3833333 333*3*3 333333  :3*328=*8:3.3:3. *a*,#*** v33***33233333 938*8   3333333 1333*3  3323333*333223333"32323
~tsti 13. 199 10.32



cinu
FUlLY IEMLTH PIlO.ET
_s        vwA    bw Pao,ect Cagnt
(LO   C n   000)
Po=
NAMO                                                       IEMLtH  EIATO                                       wtmITW
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ -                     P1IWJ TACE M .AS                                                     PACIL MT
CW i       ST FAL AM      NIEIIX                DREL                                           INIFIIWITSM      ITtflJI      U                                           Plmical
-            MNEZEiTN   am  ILIN                                LADLTt0                          UE TW    f-_              StUD I                 FRES T               Cmtineis
A0  Off  t1M            t 01T1S1  ASSISTUT   S/IItM5  TEDMIC MWA 5COI8Tmm_I   -                                                            1W1TIU
c    u        I           StII        scam       StOOOL. JIMA   St       D     wi*U"           CunmacAO         WTS EXISTING   TS   MMinS       fAMnm         TOta      I  _nt
1. IIO13I  Thar
A. amL V                       12471.7        1.073.3    1,070.3       1.42.4          366.2      981.0          4,904.8            396.5     840.3              -        -           -   22t532.6  1.0 2.43.3
3.  aIIaLES                     1,037.3             -          -          80.0          91.4       50.1            930.0             40.8     180.3                                   -    2,310.4   5.0  115.5
C. FIZIME                        525.4          102.0      274.1         236.8          20.4       44.Y            1609              19.9      67.5              -                          1451.    5.0   72.6
D. lffEIWIT                    1S048.0           51,0      112.2          42.8          51.0       77.5          2,600.0           6O,4       381.2          151.0        -           -    Ste6.1   5.0  Z9.3
E. 3*1s / Sum                    740.6          355.9       61.0         122.0         101.7       50.             393.6          2,100.2         -              -        -           -    39.9   0.0    0.0
F. TEIJMM  AI83STAE               33.J              -          -             -             -          -            346.9            244.8         -           89.8     33.7            -      748-3   0.0    0.0
8. Tls                                                                                                                -             9             -                       -           - -11.1   0.0    0.0
No OmanlElS 111M                     -                                                                                                 #4-  -                                                  46.4   0.0    0.0
I. RffO  411) EZUtTA           1,401.3                                                                                              209.6         -           M3        74 9                2.250.2   0.0    0.0
J-. PRECT P A         FNS            -              -          -            -              -                           -                -         -              -        -      2,9.5    2,0M3.5   0.0    0.0
Total Ill'ESJWT CGtS              t7t257.6       1.92*2    1,517.6        1,10.0          60.7    1,104.1          8E336.0           4640.7  1t469.3            872.6     41.1      2,093.s   41,456.3   6.5 2,00.7
It. EtIJtEN COStS
A. SMES                             -              -       87.5         175.0         313.5          -          1930.1             761.2   1,376.2        1690s.8        -            -     5,962.:   0.0    0.0
B. PER DIEN                   1sB51.5          34.8       375.8         6140           242.4      45.4                             419.8     S30.3          254.8        -            -     4,8.o   0.0    0.0
C. STtPEll                          -              -          -            -          32B,1          -                                 -                        -        -            -      323l.  0.0    0.0
0. UTiL J SWPLtS                 353.0         127.1       14.6          30.9        1,366.7     286.9                                                      286.3        -            -     2,470.4   0.0    0.0
C. Wm    g  SUI'ES           12P159.4          48.8          -            -              -          -                -                -         -              -        -            -    1.2208.2   0.0    0.0
F. WMOCLE OmTIWI
mm0 ImINT                   149,1            6t.1       31.5         142.6          142.6       61.1         1240.7              71.3      407.5         163.0        -            -     3,869.5   0.0    0.0
G. 8utLDnG rAMIT                 317.1          10.6       63.8          93.0          29.2       87.6            15.7              44.8      49.8              -        -            -      831.7   0.0    0.0
H. fRENTURE MiNT                 36.3           12.7          -          18.9          10.1        4.6             15.2              3.0       7.0              -        -            -       107.7   0.0    0.0
1. EOUIPWT MINT                 159.9           26.7       35.1           1.8          21.4       40.7            274.6             32.9     112.9             -         -           -       705.9   0.0    0.0
Totl RWCWEINT OSTS               16,380.2          641.8      65984       1t076.1       2?453.9      526.1          39216.3          I,333.1   2s793.7        2t402.9       -            -    31.472.6   0.0    0.0
Total BASEINE COSTS               334637.8        2o224.0    2.176.0      2,986.2        3.084.6    1s631.0         11.552.3          59M.9   4253.1           3,275.5     41.1      293.5    72,921.8   3.7 2,7C0.7
Phrsical Cm,tinuurins            1.377.7         1t5.0      126.3         160.8          44.8       96.8            580.0             76.3    1t5.5             7.5        -           -      2,700.7   0.0    0.0
Price Contingbnihs               7,344.2         430.1      415.9         570.0         718.2      282.3          2.437.2          1t216.4   1,122.2          618J       3.1           -    15.158.5   2.8  431.8
Tolu FRET  STS                    42t359.7        2,769.2    2.718.2      3*717.0        3,847.7    2,010.0         14M5U9M6          7,266.5   5,490.7       3901.8       44.2      2t093.5    90,788.0   3.5 71.32.4  0 0
5tG55-- _=           =5 tlt85    585555513  5555             =  5t585   t5555=               555=_    55C5555555                                  r _           5    55   55-t
Tans                            5,672.5          358.7      345.7         415.7         395.6    m2.              1,860.2            645.8     380.2          113.3        -           -    10,479.8   4.5  470.2  o '
Foreign Efcud                  21,006.2        1,270.4   1t24B.1        1,557.2       19444.0    1,049.3          9.391,8          2,601.0  1t664.4           986.4     35.8      1,707.7    43,042.5   4.3 18448.9
pril 19, 1988 10132



54
Annex 4
rag 1 of 5
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: SHEW REGIONS
1988   199t  19W0  1991   1992   19O   1994   1995   1996
1. Civil works
Reserch and evaluation                  xx     xx     xx      xx     xx
New works                               xx     xx     xx      xx
S.  Procurement of vehicles           xx      xx     xx
4.  Procuremnt of furniture                   xx     xx     xx      xx     xx
S. Procurment of equlpmont
MCH equipment, hoop., HC*       xx
Midwife kits, clinietix         xx     xx      xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx
first-ald kite
S. Procurement
Materials and supplie                                 xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
Water satatilon materiala       xx
7. Technical assistance
Evaluation study                               xx                                   xx
S. Research and evaluation
Research study                  xx      xx     xx
Evaluation study                                                                    xx
9. Posting of staff
a. Awriaj
Managers                             xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
MCH nur ee                           xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
Environmental health off.            xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
Pharoaceutical tech.                 xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
CHS coordinators                     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
Accountants                          xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
Property Managers                    xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
b. Hospital
GiP (1999-1; 1990-1995.2)            xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx
Surgeon                              xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx
Pharmacist                           xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx
Staff nurse                          xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx
Midwifo nurses                       xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx
Pediatric nurses                     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx
MCH nur                              xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx
AnaeatMheologist nure                xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx
Laboratory technicians               xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx
X-ray techn cians                    xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx
Pharmae utical technicians           xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx
Sanitarian$                          xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx
Dental Hyglnlst                     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx
Opthaloloiolst aast.                 xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx
Health assistante             xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx
c. Health Centers and
Health Stations
Shew* health assistnte        xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
She  IMCH nuree                      xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
Shewa nurse                   xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
Shewa sanitarlans                    xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
Shewa laborstory tech.               xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
Sh"ea pharmaceutical tech.           xx      xx     xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
d. Now Health Centers
Nurses                                              xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
MCH nurse                                           xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
Sanitarians                                         xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
Laboratory technicians                              xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
Pharmacy technicians                                xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
Health assistante                                   xx     xx      xx     xx     xx      xx
April 18, 1988



55
Annex 4
Page 2 ol' 
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
1988   1909   1900   1991   1992   1098   1994   1995   1996
1. In-servic, training
T.A. curriculum dovel.         xx
Trainer training                 xx
2. Curriculum devel. and
Evaluation Unit,
Dept. of Manpower
Sanction
addltional post             x
appoint staft                       xxxx   xxxx
8. St. Paul'. & Zewditu
In-oervice training                    xxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
Basic traini n                        xxxx   xxxx          xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
Staff training abroad:
long-term                          xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
short-term                          xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
4. Menelik N.A. School
Appoint In-service tutors            x
In-service training                    xxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
Basic training                         xxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
S. Awaess H.A. School
Appoint In-service tutors             x
In-service training                    xxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
Basic training                         xxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
6. Sanlterian school, Jima
Staff training abroad                 xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
Long-term T.A.                        xxxx   xxxx
In-service curr. dovel.                 xx
In-service training                     xx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
Appoint *taft                                xxxx   xxxx
Basic training                               xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
7. Lab. Technician School
Procure vehicle                        xx
In-service training                    xxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx



56
Annex 4
Page 8 of 5
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
19M    1989   1990   1991   192   1998   1994   1995   1996
A. Now Units
1. Maintenance Unit
Civil Works                                          xxxx
Procure Equlpment                                    xxxx
Recruit Staft                                               xxxx   xxxx
B. Exietina Units
1. MCH Unit
Recrult staff                   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
2. Planning Unit
Recruit MIS stff          xxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
Procure Equipment        xx    xx
8.  Procurement Unit
Recruit Staff              xx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
Procure Equiplmt           xx



57
Annex 4
Page 4 of S
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: HEALTH EDUCATION COMPONENT
Activity                        1986   1969   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1990
1. Health Education Dept.                  xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
2. ZEC Div. Staffing/Training
Senior Staff                 xx      xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
Tech./Support Staff                  xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
8. Materials Production
Div. Staffing/Training
-   Sonlor Staff             xx             xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
-   Tech./Support Staff      xx             xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
4. T.A. - IEC/Production/
Tutor Training I/            xx      xxxx   xxxx
- Local IEC Specialist       xx              xxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
5. IEC Coordination Committee       xx     xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
0. Coordination Committee
Policy/Strategy Workshop                            xx
7. FP Reg. Sensitization
Workshop V/                  xx        xx
8. IEC Reg. Plan/Implemontation
Workshop                               xx           xxx
9. Prep./Implementation Health
Education Materials                  xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
10. Prep./Implementation H.E.
Mass Media Campaigns                 xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
11. Production/Distribution Health
Learning Materials j/                xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
12. Plan/Implementation Inter-
Personal IEC activities                     xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
13. Civil Works - RAS IMRU                         xxxx   xx
14. Equipment/Supplies
Procure/Install                             xxxx   xx
15. IEC Roference/
Resource Library                                   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
16. Evaluation A Monitoring
-   Materials and
Strategy Feedback                       Mxxx            xx   xxxx
-   Program Impact                                        xxxx                  xxxx
/ Funded by PPF2 and then UNFPA.
Il UNFPA-funded and lmplemented with FGAE/MOH.
Utilizing other facilities prior to Ras Imru completion.



58
Annex 4
Page 6 of 6
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: PHARMACEUTICAL COMPONENT
Activity                        1980   1988   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1998
A. Civil Works
1. CUS Renovation                              xxxx
2. Now Bonded Warehouse                                              xxxx
8.  Now Regional Stores                               xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
4.  EPHARM Modernization                                             xxxx
S. Pharm. Tochical School                                            xxxx
S. Drug Control                                                              xxx
B. Procurement of Equipment and
Furnlture                                                xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
C. Procurement of Materials
. nd Sepp II4e                                                  xxii
1. Training/Teaching Aids               xxx    xxxx   xxxx
2.  Computer Software                    xx
D.  Procurement of Vehicles                               xxxx   xxxx
E.  Overseas Training                       xxxx
F. Local Training
1. Curriculum Development       xx      xxxx
2.  In-Service Training                 xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx
0.  Technical Assistance                    xxxx
H. Posting of Staff                                       xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   Yxxx   xxxx   xxxx



59                      .ANNEX 5
ETHIOPIA FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$' 000)
IDA Fiscal Year           Disbursement                                   Accumulated
and Quarter                 During              Accumulated            Disbursement
Ending                  Quarter              Disbursement                 (Z)
FY89
Dec. 31, 1988             1,000                     1,000                    3
March 31, 1989              850                     1,350                    4
June 30, 1989               450                     1,800                    5
FY90
Sept. 30, 1989              450                     2,250                    7
Dec. 31, 1989               600                     2,850                    9
March 31, 1990              600                     3,450                   10
June 30, 1990               620                     4,070                   12
FY91
Sept. 30, 1990              620                     4,690                   14
Dec. 31, 1990             1,000                     5,690                   17
March 31, 1991            1,000                     6,690                   20
June 30, 1991             1,250                     7,940                   24
FY92
Sept. 30, 1991            1,250                     9,190                   28
Dec. 31, 1991             1,400                    10,590                   32
March 31, 1992            1,400                    11,990                   36
June 30, 1992             1,550                    13,540                   41
FY93
Sept. 30, 1992            1,700                    15,240                   46
Dec. 31, 1992             1,700                    16,940                   51
March 31, 1993            1,600                    18,540                   56
June 30, 1993             1,550                    20,090                   61
FY94
Sept. 30, 1993            1,550                    21,640                   65
Dec. 31, 1993             1,200                    22,840                   69
March 31,1994             1,200                    24,040                   73
June 30, 1994             1,000                    25,040                   76
FY95
Sept. 30, 1994           1,0090                    26,040                   79
Dec. 31, 1994               850                    26,890                   82
March 31, 1995              850                    27,740                   84
June 30, 1995               850                    28,590                   87
FY96
Sept. 30, 1995              850                    29,440                   89
Dec. 31, 1995               750                    30,190                   92
March 31, 1996              750                    30,940                   94
June 30, 1996               700                    31,640                   96
FY97
Sept. 30, 1996              700                    32,340                   98
Dec. 31, 1996               660                    33,000                  100



60
Annex 6
Page 1 of S
GUIDELINES FOR ICB AND LCB
ICB                           LCB
Common Issues in             AcceptabilitI/Coument         Acceptability/Comment
Procurement Procedures
1. ELIGIBILITY
1.1     Exclusion of parti-  Not acceptable; should be    Foreign firms not expected
cipants              open to all Bank member       to participate, but as for
countries, Switzerland, and  ICB, if they wish to do so
Taiwan, China subject to
boycott provision
2. ADVERTISING
2.1    Insertion in          Required for general          Not required
"Development         notice; encourages for
Business'            specific notices
2.2     Local press          Required                      Required
2.3     Notification of      Required                      Not required
ISRD members'
-,embassies and
trade
representatives
2.4     Specialized          Optional; preferable for      Not required
technical journals   all large complex projects
2.5     Language of          English, French or Spanish   Local or international
advertisement
2.6     Time period for bid  Normally not less than 60    Normally.-not less than 30
submission from      days                          days
appearance of
advertisement
3. PREQUALIFICATION
3.1     Use of               Advisable for large,          Advisable where capacity
prequalification     complex works and custom      and experience of bidders
procedure            designed goods                may be in question



61
Annex 6
Page  2 of
ICB                           LCB
Common Issues in              Acceptability/Coment          Acceptability/Comment
Procurement Procedures
3.2     Basis of evaluation  Experience, capacity, and    As for ICB
financial status; minimum
requirements should be
prescribed
3.3     Method of             Individual advertisement     As for ICB, or from a
prequalification     for each contract             standing approved list
(based on criteria of
3.2), provided foreign
firms not precluded from
competing
3.4    Joint ventures vith  Should not be mandatory;       Acceptable provided this
local firms          final agreement not           does not affect
required at time of          competition and price
prequalification; intent
of parties and their
contribution to be
indicated; joint and
several responsibility
3.5     Number to be          No limit to number; only     Limited Lumbers
accepted             those clearly not             acceptable, provided
qualified to be rejected     adequate competition
4. BIDDING
4.1     Mandatory prior       Not acceptable; restricts    Acceptable, provided
registration of      competition                   qualified foreign firms
bidders with local                                 not precluded from
-authoritLes,                                       competing
institutions, etc.
4.2     Local agent           Not acceptable               Acceptable
required
4.3     Documents in local   Not acceptable (English,      Acceptable
language             French, Spanish)
4.4     Bid bond only         Not acceptable. (see         Acceptable
through local bank   SBD'8)1
1 SBD's, Sample Bidding Documents (Goods and Works).



*62
Annex 6
Page 3 of 5
ICB                           LCB
Common Issues in             AcceDtability/Comment         Acceptability/Comment
Procurement Procedures
4.5     Currency of bid       Expected local                Local
expenditures in local
currency; expected foreign
expenditures .n bidder's
own, or in country of
origin or in borrower
specified international
currency
4.6     Currency of payment  As above                      Local, with no obligation
to convert
4.7     Domestic
Preferences
4.7.1   Banks Goods          Acceptable at Borrower's      Bank preference not
(General)            option; 15X or import         applicable; competition
duty, whichever lower, of    with foreign bidders not
CIF price of imports          expected to arise, but if
provided domestic product    so, comparison made on
qualifies                    delivered price inclusive
of prevailing duties
4.7.2   Banks Goods          Acceptable at Borrower;s      Bank preference not
(Regional)            option in 6 groups of         applicable
trading countries
4.7.3   BanksWorks           Acceptable at Borrower;s      Bank preference not
option; 7.1/21 for           applicable
qualifying domestic firms
in eligible borrowing
countries2; qualifying
criteria for firms should
be prescribed, preferably
in prequalification
documentation
2 The list of eligible countries is updated annually and circulated by the
Secretary's Department under the title 'Per Capita Income Guidelines for
Operational Purposes* (See SecM84-953 of Nov. 8, 4.984).



63
Annex 6
Page 4 of 5
ICB                           LCB
Common Issues in              AcceDtability/Coument         Acceptabilitl/Comment
Procurement Procedures
4.7.4   Other borrower        Not acceptable                Not acceptable, unless
preferences                                         justified ors sound economic
relating to                                         grounds
economic
development, e*g.,
poverty
alleviation,
unemployment
relief, greater use
of local products,
small scale
industries, public
parastatals, etc.
4.8     Restriction on        Not acceptable                Acceptable
sources of
transportation and
Insurance
4.9     Boycotts              Only primary acceptable       As for ICB
4.10    Public bid Opening   Mandatory                      Recoumended, but other
procedures acceptable if
fair to all bidders
4.11    0Two step' bid        Not normally acceptable       Acceptable
opening (all         except under special
technical envelopes circumstances
opened in the first
step, and after a
review, price
envelopes of only
qualified/respon-
sive bids opened in
the second step)
4.12    Automatic rebidding  Not acceptable; single bids  Acceptable provided no
if less than 2 or 3  should be evaluated            serious delays result
responses
4.13    Inexplicit bid        Not acceptable; all factors  As for ICB
evaluation criteria  to be used must be
described explicitly in bid
documents
4.14    Bracketing' in        Not acceptable; is an         Acceptable, provided
works bid evalua-    arbitrary criterion            margins justified and
tion, i.e. rejec-    unrelated to the capacity/   approved by Bank in advance
ting bids outside a  experience of bidders          of bidding
margin or bracket
of average bids



Annex 6
Page 5 of 5
ICB                           LCB
Common Issues in              Acceptability/Comment         Acceptability/Comment
Procurement Procedures
4.15    Award to lowest       Mandatory                     Mandatory
evaluated
responsive bidder
4.16    Price negotiations   Not acceptable, unless with  As for ICB
with bidders prior   prior concurrence of Bank
to contract award    and confined to the lowest
evaluated bidder (a) before
rejecting all (high) bids,
and (b) concerning any
errors, alternatives or
deviations which were
priced in bid evaluations
5. CONTRACT IMPLEMENTATION
5.1     Performance           Not acceptable; bank          Acceptable
security restricted  guarantees may be issues
to bank guarantees   by:
issued by local      a) a local bank; of
banks                 b)a foreign bank through a
local correspondent bank;
or
c) directly by a foreign
bank, if acceptable to the
borrower
5.2     Performance           Not acceptable; at the        Acceptable
security on works    bidder's option, may be in
contracts in form    form of a bond issued by
of bank guarantee    insurancelbonding company
only
5.3     Price adjustment      Required normally for         Not normally required
provisions for long  contracts over one year        because contract duration
duration contracts   duration                       short; recommended if
inflation rates high and
for long duration
contracts; if used, may be
simple
5.4     Settlement of         Strongly recommended that    Acceptable
disputes by local    international arbitration
courts or local      be used; (ICC, UNCITRAL,
arbitration          ICSID for foreigners; local
procedures           courts or arbitration for
locals)



MINISTRY OF HEALTH ORGANOGRAM
I SIISTR's      - -              POLICY ADVISORY|
| OFF CE | | ~~~COMM. OFFICE 
* I              I  ~~~[I                                  1-1I
PLANNINC AND PROGRAM                            ORGANIZATION &        AUDIT AND INSPECT. |   ADMINISTRATION      PUSUC RELATIQNS
DEPARTENXt             LEGAL SERVICES      MANAGEMENT SER .           SERVICE            & FINUNCE DEPT.         SERVICE
I  o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
rHEALTH IRAINING & RESEAROI                        HEALTH SERICES
M AIN DEPARmNTw                                                  F    M  AIN DEP MTLEN
l  ~ ~TA I                                OF                              HELi WX  I IHAT              PHRMCUTCL
EPIDEIOLOGY        TRADITIONAL MEDICINE  rEALrH  F.    |           aIE    It
DEPARTMENT               DEPARTMENT        TRAININ DEPT.          HEALTH DEPT.        DDEPT.         EPT.       & MED. SUPPLY
l                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~CONTROL DEPT.
NATIONAL HEALTH      ETH. PHARM. &          ETH. NUTRITION |       JIMA HEALTH SCIENCE          MALARIA CNtrOL|
RESER     S.       MED. SPLY CR.              INSTITUTE                 INSTITUTE M   DeORvA DTIONe
M/ Lnpmo r Dev lop ent Department.



PLANNING AND PROGRAM DEPARTMENT
M I N I S T E R
r[ H}AD   OF DEPARTME
PHYSICAL PLANNING          MANPOWER PLANNING             EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE         HEALTH INFORMATION A          HEALTH SERVICES
TEAM                        TEAM              a PROJ. PREPARATION TEAM           EVALUATION TEAM             RESEARCH TEAM
HEAD              1        HEAD                1       HEAD                    1       HEAD                                           1 HEAD
EXPERT            1        EXPERT             1        EXPERT                  3       EXPERT             3
ASST. EXPERT      2        ASST. EXPERT       2        ASST. EXPERT            3       ASST. EXPERT        3      ASST. EXPERT        1
JUNIOR EXPERT     1        JUNIOR EXPERT      1        JUNIOR EXPERT           3       JUNIOR EXPERT      3       JUNIOR EXPERT       1
SEC./TYPIST       1        SEC./TYPIST        1        SEC./TYPIST             1       JR/EXP. COMPUTOR   1       SEC./TYPIST         1
OFFICE BOY        1                                    DRIVER                  1       STAT. CLERK        8       OFFICE BOY          1
OFFICE BOY             1        SEC./TYPIST        1
DRIVER1
OFFICE BOY         1 I



NOTES



NOTES



MAP SECTION



IBRD 20140
I   ARAB REP \    \                                                              KAU ,  -.  R                      \ ?
{IRYA I   .Yir \,        SAUOI         Li 
s F r ARABIA  -r                                  A                                                                               FAMIY          ETHIOPIA
OPAL} I  XAXF   t - JiW8S,    \   t  E  >   0,7  "                                            FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
t    S            U                                          I^N/   , > .'/Nl  JJ AsA                                               ;I                                    IPOK  htt
'-I  I"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~~~~~~d  B~~~~~~~~~~~kE~~~~~~~~ ~~P.O  Dli,[,d,
*4ENIAR,,'      Cl _                                                         J                          4                                                                      A.p| R, AAsJhI.W1EAlW*r, M.[., Prh,r.y
HER    \       \\  ,EIHOPIA, /                                                                       .5G5Z   l.WOX,F,5C-
A                                                                                                                    -     0r00M, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~       ~~~~~~~AJI.W"#I.R, F..I.,, S d.Rodoy 
iuaDt    7  4 I A 0O                                                -     Rrrel and/op Dry WROIhR
A    A    'RA           ,tZIU
ZAIRE L|     CV                                            _                   A5                                                   }                                 IIRlrd
Adi aA                                                                                        D-oti, AirpORh
v~~~~~~     ~           ~          ~~~~~~~~~~            ~      ~~~                                     ~         ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NaRloRaGRt     et.s tSek    Capiale_-
ER    Ad,,ftERR,tIER RORIOR C.aptalU
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  4 'it  A                                                                              A' s 
A'                                                                                                                                                                                                               C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.,  S    U  D    A     N                                        Af6U-       tl"h K7t\+ZRi_   i    robo               4'               _ ilA4
9,CIdlz '~~~ iWZ 1_ | bty-_-( ~~DJIBOUTI 
.__                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~               ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S    O   fA     A  L I A
._.,                              S                                                                                                    ,,I7
Nt                              2t %                                                                          M/  _     sI o    M 5 M  150          M3 rCH 'M
UGANDA                                                          "                                                                                                                                                        2,eNY   lt 00   5
MARCH I1987



