Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1913 ET
                      (Family Health Project)
                              between
             PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 14, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1913 ET
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  14,  1988, between PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA (the  Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from the United Nations
Children's Fund  (UNICEF)  a  grant  in  an  amount  equivalent to
$500,000 to assist in financing  part  of the Project on the terms
and conditions  set  forth  in  an  agreement  to  be entered into
between the Borrower and UNICEF; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special Account" means the  account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "MOH" means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower;
     (c)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters, dated August 31, 1985, October 4, 1985,
October 12, 1987, and December  1,  1987, between the Borrower and
the Association;
     (d)  "MCH" means maternal and child health;
     (e)  "FP" means family planning; and
     (f)  "fiscal year"  means  the  fiscal  year  of the Borrower
which begins on July 7 and ends on July 6 of the following year.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to twenty-three million  eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 23,800,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain  in  dollars  a  special  account in its Central
Bank, on terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to this
Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn  balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The  Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1997
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  3
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.O7. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual  installments  payable   on   each   February  15  and
August 15, commencing  August  15,  1998,  and ending February 15,
2028. Each installment to and including the installment payable on
February 15, 2008  shall  be  one  percent  (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above,  the  Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic  condition  has  deteriorated  significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
Page  4
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a)  The  Borrower,  having declared the objec-
tives of the Project set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
reiterates its commitment  to  such  objectives  and, to this end,
shall carry out the  Project  through  MOH, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, engineer-
ing and public health  practices,  and  shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds,  facilities,  services  and other resources re-
quired for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and  except  as  the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Action Plan  set  forth  in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall,  from  time to time, but no
less than  once  every  twelve  months,  exchange  views  with the
Association on:
     (a)  the population policies  and annual implementation plans
which the  Borrower  is  developing  within  the  framework of the
preparation of the  Borrower's  five-year  plan  for the 1990-1994
period;
     (b)  the health financing alternatives  which the Borrower is
examining for the purpose  of  experimenting with those identified
as the most promising;
     (c)  the measures proposed  by  the  Borrower to increase the
recurrent resources available for  non-salary expenditures for the
Borrower's health sector in the Shewa regions; and
     (d)  the results of the  measures the Borrower has introduced
to improve the effectiveness  of  the community health workers and
other innovations in health  care,  such  as maternity villages in
the Shewa regions.
     Section 3.04. (a) During  execution  of the Project, the Bor-
rower shall  maintain  a  health  education coordinating committee
which shall meet on a regularly scheduled basis.
     (b)  During execution  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower shall
maintain  a  project  management  unit  with  qualified  staff  in
adequate numbers.
     Section 3.05. (a) By February 1 of each year during execution
of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for
comment, a  draft  implementation  plan  and  budget  covering all
activities  to  be  carried  out  under  the  Project  during  the
subsequent fiscal year of the Borrower.
     (b)  By July 1 of each  year during execution of the Project,
the Borrower shall furnish to  the Association the final implemen-
tation plan and budget for the  subsequent fiscal year of the Bor-
rower; such implementation plan  and  budget  to take into account
the comments made by the Association.
     Section 3.06.  By  September  30,  1991,  the  Borrower shall
prepare a  project  performance  review,  including management and
beneficiary assessment, under terms of reference acceptable to the
Association, and, by December 31,  1991, the Borrower shall review
Page  5
the findings and recommendations  with  the Association to rectify
identified constraints.
     Section 3.07. During the  first  three  years of execution of
the Project, the Borrower shall limit the experiment with delivery
of contraceptives by community  workers  to the catchment areas of
four (4) health centers in  the Shewa regions. Thereafter, in case
the project performance review, referred to in Section 3.06 above,
concludes that the experiment  has been technically successful and
culturally acceptable,  delivery  of  contraceptives  by community
workers shall be expanded to the rest of the Shewa regions.
     Section 3.08. The  Borrower  shall train qualified personnel,
in adequate  numbers,  in  health  management  and  health teacher
training, nurse-midwifery and MCH nursing and for the institutions
participating in the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
Page  6
               during such  fiscal  year,  together  with the pro-
               cedures and  internal  controls  involved  in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.O1. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower  shall  have  established  and  staffed the
Health  Education  Department  within   MOH  responsible  for  the
development, implementation and coordination  of a national health
education strategy;
     (b)  the Borrower shall  have  established a health education
coordinating committee  with  the  participation of multi-sectoral
institutions for the purpose of coordinating the implementation of
the Borrower's overall health education strategy;
     (c)  the Borrower  shall  have  established  and  staffed the
Pharmaceutical and Medical Supply Control Department within MOH to
carry out, inter alia, drug quality control functions; and
     (d)  the Borrower shall have furnished to the Association the
final  implementation  plan  and  budget  for  the  first  year of
execution of the  Project  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement.
     Section 5.O2. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Minister  of  the Borrower responsible for
Foreign Economic Relations is  designated as representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.O3  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 6.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry for Foreign Economic Relations
          P.O. Box 2428
          Addis Ababa
          Ethiopia
          Cable address:                      Telex:
            ONCCP ET                            21531
            Addis Ababa
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
Page  7
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                             PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
                                REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                             By /s/ Girma Amare
                                         Authorized Representative
                             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             By /s/ Michael Gillette
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Works:
     (a)  Nurse train-             550,000       100% of foreign
          ing school                             expenditures
                                                 and 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (b)  Other                  7,000,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures
                                                 and 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
(2)  Equipment,                  3,400,000       100% of foreign
     materials and                               expenditures
     supplies                                    and 85% of local
                                                 expeditures
(3)  Vehicles                      950,000       100%
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated            % of
                              (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
Page  8
(4)  Recurrent cost
     (excluding salaries)
     (a)  through
          December 31, 1990          790,000       100%
     (b)  from Janu-
          ary 1, 1991
          through Decem-
          ber 31, 1992             1,540,000       80%
     (c)  from Janu-
          ary 1, 1993
          through Decem-
          ber 31, 1994             1,540,000       50%
     (d)  from January 1, 1995
          and thereafter           1,540,000       30%
(5)  Training                        330,000       100%
(6)  Studies                         780,000       100%
(7)  Consultants'                    260,000       100%
     services
(8)  Refunding of                    820,000       Amount due
     Project Prepara-                              pursuant to
     tion Advance                                  Section
                                                   2.02 (c) of
                                                   this Agree-
                                                   ment
(9)  Unallocated                   4,300,000
                                  _________
         TOTAL                   23,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of  this  Agreement, and no withdrawals shall be
made in respect  of  payments  made  for  expenditures under Cate-
gory  1(a)  until  the  Association  has  received  a satisfactory
detailed plan of action specifying  the measures undertaken by the
Borrower in the development of a program for tutor training, post-
basic nurse  midwifery,  post-basic  MCH  and in-service refresher
training of health staff in the Shewa regions.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are  to increase the quality,
coverage  and  cost-effectiveness  of  maternal  and  child health
services, to increase the availability  and use of family planning
services, and to strengthen the institutional capacity of MOH.
Page  9
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof, as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon, from time to time, to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Area Development
     Strengthening  of  MCH/FP  services  through  rehabilitation,
furnishing and  equipping  of  three  rural  hospitals,  18 health
centers and about 180  health  stations;  development of three new
health centers; establishment  of  three regional-level management
teams;  support  for  innovative   activities  in  MCH/FP  service
delivery; and carrying out of monitoring and evaluation studies.
Part B:   Manpower Development
     Improvement  of  the  quality  of  health  manpower  training
through rehabilitation of one nursing  school on two campuses, one
health assistant school, one laboratory technician school, and one
sanitarian school; and expansion  and rehabilitation of one health
assistant school.
Part C:   Institutional Development
     Strengthening of the  Planning  and Programming Department of
MOH and key units  in  MOH,  including the architectural unit, the
management information  unit,  the  procurement  unit  and the MCH
unit;  and  establishment  of  a  unit  responsible  for building,
vehicle and equipment maintenance.
Part D:   Health Education
     Strengthening of health  education capacity through construc-
tion  of  a  health   learning  materials  development  unit;  and
renovation and equipping of office facilities.
Part E:   Pharmaceuticals Development
     Support for investments to  increase  the production of MOH's
existing  pharmaceutical   manufacturing   plant;  renovation  and
equipping  of  central  medical   stores,  and  establishment  and
staffing of seven new regional stores and one bonded warehouse.
Part F:   Studies
     Carrying out by  MOH  of  a  review  of hospital services and
health financing options  and  a  study  on  the  development of a
management system.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders  for  works  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of
$500,000 or more shall  be  prequalified as described in paragraph
Page  10
2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.   To  the  extent  practical  and  consistent  with appropriate
technical  standards  and  procurement  procedures,  contracts for
works, equipment and vehicles shall be grouped.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1  hereof,  goods manufactured in the People's
Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia  may  be  granted  a  margin of
preference in accordance with,  and  subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56  of  the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  the  Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment, materials and supplies estimated to cost less than
the  equivalent  of  $100,000  per  contract,  but  more  than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of  $1,000,000, and civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $500,000  or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to  exceed  the equivalent of $2,500,000, may
be procured under contracts  awarded  on  the basis of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Equipment,  materials  and  supplies  estimated  to  cost the
equivalent of $20,000 or  less  per  contract,  up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the  equivalent  of $200,000, may be procured
under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  comparison  of price
quotations solicited  from  a  list  of  at  least three suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
3.   Civil works related to  selected  health centers and stations
may be carried out by force account.
Part E:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent  of  $200,000  or  more and with respect to
each contract for  vehicles  and  equipment  estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of the  contract  together  with  the other information re-
quired to be furnished to  the  Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
Page  11
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis of statements of  expenditure.  Such  contracts shall be re-
tained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such  consultants shall be selected in
accordance with  principles  and  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers  and  by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "Eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated, from  time  to  time,  to  the  Eligible  Categories in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to  be  withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for Eligible
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion  from  the  Credit  Account  under  the  respective  Eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
Page  12
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request,  showing  that  such   payment   was  made  for  Eligible
Expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the Eligible  Categories, minus the amount
               of any outstanding  special commitment entered into
               by the Association pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
               General  Conditions,   shall   be   equal   to  the
               equivalent of twice  the  amount  of the Authorized
               Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
Eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  Eligible
Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii)  was  not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
