Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2966-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA
FOR A
ROMP IN - ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 26, 1981
Programs Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in ithe performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Elank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00        =     1i$2.15
M$1.00         =     US$0.46
M$l million          US$465,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)           2.47 acres
l kilometer (km)   -       0.62 mile
1 meter (m)   -       3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq m)           10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (cu m)          35.31 cubic feet
=      1.308 cubic yards
1 kilogram (kg)           2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB   -   Asian Development Bank
BPM   -   Bank Pertanian Malaysia - National Agricultural Bank
CCL   -   Critical Consumption Level
DARA  -   Pahang Tenggara Development Authority
DID   -   Drainage and Irrigation Department
DOA   -   Department of Agriculture
DOF   -   Department of Fisheries
DOVS  -   Departmnent of Veterinary Services
FELCRA-   Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority
FELDA -   Federal Land Development Authority
FOA   -   Farmers' Organization Authority
LPN   -   Lembaga Padi dan Beras Negara - National Padi and Rice
Authority
MARDI -   Malaysia Agricultural Research and Development Institute
MOA   -   Ministry of Agriculture
O&M   -   Operation and Maintenance
PWD   -   Public Works Department
SMEC  -   Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation
T&V   -   Training and Visit Extension System
UNDP  -   United Nations Development Programme
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Government of Malaysia
Amount:                US$40.0 million
Terms:                 17 years with 4 years grace at 9.6% per annum.
Project Description:  The proposed project provides for construction of
irrigation works and development of new land for double
cropping of rice on about 11,400 ha in four subprojects
along the Rompin, Pontin, Anak Endau and Endau rivers
in southeastern Pahang State on the east coast of
Peninsular Malaysia and for housing and social facili-
ties for about 4,750 settler families. The proposed
project would focus on the smallholder rice farmers,
who experience a high incidence of poverty in
Malaysia. It addresses the two main factors responsible
for their poverty, the small size of holdings and the
low productivity of rice land.
All of the direct benefits from the project would
accrue to the settler families, about 24,000 people,
whose present income is about US$125 per capita, well
below the 1981 absolute poverty level income of US$320
per capita. At full project development in 1992 the
per capita income of project beneficiaries is expected
to be about US$700 or slightly less than the estimated
US$790 critical consumption level in that year.
There are no unusual risks associated with the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the lperformance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:       The table below summarizes the total cost of the
project:
Local    Foreign    Total
…---- (US$ million) ----
Civil works                       48.2       29.3       77.5
Service buildings
and staff quarters               2.7        0.8        3.5
Equipment, vehicles &
supplies                         1.0        5.7        6.7
Land acquisition                   0.5        -          0.5
Consultant services                1.8        4.2        6.0
Administration & engineering    2.7           0.3        3.0
Subtotal:  Base Cost            56.9       40.3       97.2
Physical contingencies             7.8        5.9       13.7
Price contingencies               17.3       12.8       30.1
Total project cost /1       82.0       59.0      141.0
Financing Plan:
Bank                               -         40.0       40.0
Government                        82.0        -         82.0
Co-financing being sought          -         19.0       19.0
Total                       82.0       59.0      141.0
Estimated
Disbursement:      Bank FY   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Annual                          3.0    7.0    8.0    8.0    7.5    3.5    3.0
Cumulative                      3.0   10.0   18.0   26.0   33.5   37.0   40.0
Rate of Return:       17%
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 3160-MA, dated February 19, 1981.
/1 Exempt from all known duties and taxes.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO MALAYSIA
FOR A ROMPTN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Malaysia for the equivalent of US$40.0 million for a Rompin-Endau
Area Development Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years grace, with interest of 9.6% p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report, "Malaysia:  New Perspectives on the
Third Malaysia Plan" (No. 1594-MA), is dated October 14, 1977. Since that
report was circulated, a book has been prepared at the request of the
Government, which reviews the overall performance of the Malaysian economy
since 1960, discusses current issues and assesses future prospects.
Entitled "Malaysia: Growth and Equity in a Multiracial Society," the book
was published in July 1980. Detailed data on Malaysia's economy are shown
in Annex I.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia has done well in the past.
The per capita income of US$1,320 in 1979 is among the highest in Southeast
Asia. During the past two decades, the Malaysian economy achieved an
average real growth of GNP of about 7% a year.  This sustained high growth
rate is basicallv a reflection of the country's wealth in natural resources,
especially its ample reserves of cultivable land; an outward-oriented growth
strategy; good, albeit cautious, economic and financial management; and, not
least, stable social and political institutions. Three specific factors
were important:  sharp rises in productivity in the rubber sector - rises
which cushioned the effects of steep price declines and helped maintain
the Malaysian share in the world rubber market; a big push for export
diversification through rapid expansion of the production of palm oil and
the extraction of timber; and rapid manufacturing growth, which has averaged
about 13% a year since 1968 and has been increasingly oriented toward exports.
4.        A look beyond the macroeconomic aggregates reveals that Malaysia
has been trying to overcome a serious poverty problem.  Since 1960, signi-
ficant improvements have been made in raising production in agriculture,
diversifying output and improving social services. However, the impact of
these improvements on the incomes of the poor has been offset to a
/1 Part I is essentially the same as the corresponding section of the
President's Report No. P-2705-MA, dated August 7, 1980, on the Kelantan
Land Schemes Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 1899-M1A), which was approved on
August 26, 1980.



- 2 -
significant extent by other factors. Continuing rapid population growth has
substantially reduced the impact of production increases on per capita
incomes. In addition, Malaysia suffered a serious and sustained terms of
trade loss during the 1960s which further reduced average real income growth
during the period. As a result, a serious poverty problem persists: the
Government estimates that almost 40% of the population have incomes
insufficient to provide minimum requirements of food, shelter, clothing and
other basic needs. Further, this problem is complicated by considerable
racial inequalities in income and employment. Malay income on average is
only about 40% the income of Chinese and about two thirds the income of
Indians. Malays still predominate in employment in agriculture and
non-Malays in the industry and services sectors.
5.        Because the problems of poverty and racial inequalities are both
serious and persistent, the Government has given top priority to solving them.
Thus, the twin objectives of the New Economic Policy, introduced by the
Government in 1971, are to eradicate poverty and to reduce the racial
imbalance in income, employment, and the ownership of assets. More
specifically, it is targeted that by 1990 the incidence of poverty will be
reduced by two-thirds, that the pattern of employment will reflect the
racial composition of the population, and that the share of bumiputras /1 in
the ownership of the corporate sector will increase from 2% in 1970 to at
least 30%. The New Economic Policy emphasizes the need for rapid growth in
the industrial and services sectors as the principal means by which these
objectives will be attained. The Governrment's long-term plan is based on
the requirement that about 2 million, or almost 90%, of the new jobs to be
created during 1975-90 would be in industry and services. This requirement
implies a substantial reduction in the share of agricultural employment. It
also implies a net shift out of agriculture of more than a million jobs from
the number that would be employed if present employment patterns were to
persist.
6.        If the targets of the New Economic Policy are to be reached, the
economy must maintain a long-term GNP growth rate of at least 8% a year.
The growth of the manufacturing sector will have to be even more rapid. A
more moderate growth rate would substantially reduce the creation of new
employment in the modern sector and make it more difficult to achieve the
targets for restructuring employment and reducing poverty.
7.        Malaysia-s strong natural resource base together with a favorable
outlook for the prices of her major commodity exports should provide the
economy with sufficient financial resources to achieve rapid growth. Aside
/1 Bumiputra literally means "son of the soil." The word is used to refer
to Malays and other indigenous groups.



-3-
from short term fluctuations, the balance of payments current account should
continue in surplus for the foreseeable future enabling an adequate level of
reserves to be maintained together with a moderate level of debt service.
The elasticity of tax revenues should also enable the Government to finance an
expanded development program. Thus the availability of resources, which
has not been a serious problem in the past, is expected to be even less of a
constraint in the future. Compared with most other developing countries,
Malaysia is fortunate in this respect.
8.        Although Malaysia appears to have the financial capacity to achieve
rapid growth, the economy will no longer be able to rely so heavily on rapid
growth of primary production. While Malaysia is rich in naturial resources,
which will provide a reliable base for the expansion of the economy, the
growth rates of the production of such commodities as rubber, palm oil,
petroleum and forest products are all likely to be lower than in the past.
With growth decelerating in the resource sectors, rapid industrial growth
will increasingly become essential to successful economic performance. This
imperative arises not only from the viewpoint of production and the creation
of real incomes but also from the viewpoint of employment and its racial
restructuring.
9.         In addition to rapid industrial growth, successful achievement of
the targets of the New Economic Policy will require a concerted effort to
accelerate the pace of rural development. Most of the poor live in rural
areas. Although rapid growth of industrial employment can ease the problem of
rural poverty by absorbing migrants from rural areas, poverty will continue to
be a largely rural phenomenon.  The projections of the Third Malaysia Plan
indicate that,even if there is rapid sustained growth of employment in
industry and services, more than three-quarters of Malaysia-s poor will be in
rural areas in 1990. An expansion of income and employment opportunities for
rural Malaysians is of high priority. Furthermore, the expected decline in
the growth rates of the production of rubber and palm oil makes expansion of
government programs to alleviate poverty even more necessary. These programs
include accelerating land development, expanding replanting oi- rubber
smallholdings, expanding extension and credit for rice farmers, promoting
intercropping by coconut smallholders and improving the access of poor
families to basic services. The greater availability of publiLc resources will
enable the Government to undertake that expansion. But the main constraint to
mounting a more effective attack on rural poverty appears to be the capacity
of the public sector to identify and prepare projects that can affect large
numbers of rural poor.
10.       The Government does not have the direct control over private
investment that it has over public investment, but it can play a strong role
in providing a policy framework conducive to vigorous growth in the private



- 4 -
sector.  Because the more obvious areas of import substitution have been
exhausted, sustained rapid growth in manufacturing will have to rely
increasingly on export expansion.  Policies will therefore have to ensure a
favorable export environment. With regard to institutional factors, the
Government has already acted to alleviate fears in the private community
about the Industrial Coordination Act and the Petroleum Development Act.
The Government has also stressed that it will implement the Industrial
Coordination Act in a flexible and pragmatic manner so as to encourage
investment and growth. Because much of the concern in the private sector
has been over how that Act will be implemented, flexible implementation by
the Government should help to ease the concern in the business community.
11.       In summary, the prospects appear to be good for achieving rapid
growth and for ameliorating the twin problems of poverty and racial im-
balances. Certainly there should be no serious constraints imposed by the
availability of resources. To achieve the targets of the New Economic
Policy will nevertheless require vigorous action by the Government along a
number of fronts.  The policy framework will have to be readjusted to ensure
sustained growth of the industrial sector. A pragmatic attitude will be
needed in interpreting and implementing the quantitative restructuring
targets to ensure that sight is not lost of the overall goal of improving
the racial balance.  Growth in the supply of technically trained manpower
will require close scrutiny to ensure that it does not constrain the
restructuring potential made possible by rapid economic growth. Finally,
larger and more effective programs to reduce poverty by direct action will
require a concerted effort to expand the capacity of the public sector to
prepare and implement such programs.
12.       Assuming a continuing 7-8% rate of economic growth during the
1980s, Malaysia's balance of payments is projected to remain in modest
surplus. The cumulative current account surplus is projected to average
about 1.0% of GDP during the 1980s. Net direct investment medium- and
long-term loans equivalent to about 4.0% of GDP would be required to
maintain a reasonable level of reserves and to offset short-term and other
outflows. At present about 15% of public debt outstanding and disbursed is
from the World Bank; this percentage may increase somewhat during the early
1980s. Debt service is expected to be maintained at a level equivalent to
about 4% of exports. The Bank's share of debt service is currently about
10% and may increase to about 20% by the end of the decade.
13.       In general, over the next few years, it is likely that the
Government will need less external capital than previously forecast, largely
because of strong commodity prices and oil earnings.  At the same time,
Malaysia has a serious income distribution and poverty problem. The
country needs technical assistance and expertise to help develop poverty
alleviation programs and to assist in designing and packaging projects that
reach out directly to low-income families. The Malaysians believe strongly
that project borrowing, particularly from development institutions such as



- 5 -
the World Bank, is necessary to assist them to mount an effective attack on
poverty. Bank lending is therefore focused on strengthening direct
government efforts to reduce poverty.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
14.       The Bank has made 49 loans to Malaysia, totalling $1,157.5 million
for projects in agriculture, education, population, power, water supply,
sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads, and urban transport.
Although in a number of cases disbursements have been slower than expected,
the execution of Bank projects in Malaysia has generally been satisfactory.
As of December 31, 1980, the effective loans to Malaysia held by the Bank
amounted to $1,006.3 million. Twenty-one loans have been fully disbursed.
Annex II contains a summary of Bank Loans and IFC investments, as well as
notes on the execution of current projects under implementation.
15.        Since Malaysia is currently a resource-surplus country, it can
finance most infrastructure projects without Bank assistance. The Bank-s
present lending strategy in Malaysia is to support the Government s programs
to combat the deep-rooted problem of poverty in the country, particularly in
the rural areas. The thrust of this strategy is not simply to provide
financial support to poverty alleviation projects but to develop an
institutional and policy framework to enable the Malaysians eventually to
design and implement antipoverty programs independently. With this in mind,
the Bank has proposed to undertake projects with relevant institutions, such
as the Agricultural Credit Bank (BPM), the Federal Land Consolidation and
Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA), the Rubber Industry Smallholders
Development Authority (RISDA), and area and state development agencies in
the poorer states in Malaysia, which should broaden their experience in the
designing of projects and serve as a basis for building managerial and
technical skills within these institutions. Technical assistance of this
nature with a financial underpinning is considered to be the most effective
way in which the Bank can best support Malaysian development at present.
16.       Malaysia's own commitment to assist its low-income groups has
strengthened significantly in the past few years. The Bank has been heavily
involved in helping Malaysia identify and prepare projects geared toward the
rural poor. Prior to 1975, this was done primarily through expansion of
irrigation and land development as means of expanding output, raising incomes
and creating employment opportunities. To reach more rural households,
greater emphasis has since been given to programs designed to raise produc-
tivity in existing smallholder areas. The number of rural development
projects recently financed and in the current pipeline is impressive. Eight
rural development projects were financed in the last three years, which
include improvement of irrigation and drainage systems, rehabilitation of
tree crops, national extension and research. At least 13 additional rural
development projects have been identified for possible Bank support in the
next few years. The proposed project focuses on improving the incomes of the
smallholder rice farmers, one of the poorest groups in Malays-a.



-6-
17.       The Government's capability to develop such projects, however,
remains weak, largely because of a shortage of trained manpower. With the
help of the UNDP-financed and Bank-executed State and Rural Development
Project, which provides technical assistance to selected federal and state
agencies, the Bank is helping the Government to develop further its programs
and projects for reducing poverty.
18.       As part of its lending strategy, the Bank proposes to continue its
involvement in the education sector in Malaysia by concentrating more heavily
on technical and skill training. It is also taking initiatives in providing
support to the manufacturing sector in Malaysia, especially in promoting the
growth of small-scale industries, in order to enable the Government to
realize its growth, employment and restructuring objectives. Assistance to
infrastructure will be selective, concentrating on providing access to rural
areas and rural electrification.
19.       IFC has made six investments in Malaysia totalling $8.69 million.
The total investments held by IFC as of December 31, 1980 amounted to $1.14
million (Annex II).
Part III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
20.       The agricultural sector plays a dominant role in the economy of
Malaysia, though its relative importance is declining as the country
proceeds toward industrialization. The sector accounts for about 24% of
GDP, 40% of export earnings, and 42% of employment. GDP in agriculture grew
at an average rate of about 5% p.a. between 1973 and 1979. Based on past
investments in tree crops and new land development, and continuing public
sector investments, growth is likely to be sustained at 4-5% for the next
decade. Agricultural production has been heavily export-oriented since
colonial times; however, the composition of exports has changed significantly
in the last decade due to the Government's policy of diversification in the
sector. Rubber continues to be the single largest export earner, but its
share has dropped from 40% in 1969 to 21% in 1979 as earnings from palm oil,
wood products and cocoa have grown. Malaysia is the world's largest producer
and exporter of both rubber and palm oil, supplying 42% of the world's natural
rubber output and 49% of palm oil production in 1979. Agriculture's share of
total employment has gradually declined from 53% in 1970 to 42% in 1979. The
government expects the agricultural labor force to grow about 1% per annum for
the next decade with industry and services absorbing increasingly larger per-
centages of the total labor force. Continued growth in volume and favorable
prices in agriculture, along with the expansion of manufacturing and the
recent development of Malaysia's oil and gas reserves, have enabled the
country to maintain a healthy trade surplus, estimated at about US$2.1 billion
in 1979.



-7-
21.       Peninsular Malaysia has about 3.2 million ha, or 25% of its area,
under cultivation, of which almost 2.3 million are in rubber and oil palms.
Nearly two thirds of the tree crop area is in smallholdings. The other
major crops are rice, grown on 478,000 ha, of which about half is double
cropped, and coconut, with 337,000 ha. Other crops (each occupying below
40,000 ha) are pineapple, cocoa, cassava, sugarcane, tobacco, coffee, pepper
and groundnuts. Output has grown rapidly over the past decade; rubber
output increased 100% and oil palm by 300%. Output of rice increased by
90%, primarily due to improved and expanded irrigation facilities. Domestic
production of rice supplies 85-90% of consumption requirements. With
population growing at 2.7% p.a., an additional 45,000 tons of rice are
required each year just to maintain the current per capita consumption
level. The Government has formulated three basic objectives with regard to
rice: (a) to increase the incomes of padi farmers; (b) to achieve
self-sufficiency in rice production; and (c) to provide reasonably priced
rice to consumers.
22.       Notwithstanding the impressive overall performance of the
Malaysian economy, some 36% of the population had incomes below the official
absolute poverty line in 1978. Two thirds of those were in agricultural
households, where the incidence is about 55%. Among rice farmers, about 74%
have family incomes below the absolute poverty line. According to a 1980
Bank report on rural poverty in Malaysia, a farmer with no off-farm income
needs 2.4-2.8 ha of single cropped rice to achieve an absolute poverty level
income of US$300 per capita; however, the average and median size holding is
1.2 ha.
Government Strategies for Agricultural Development
23.       Having officially adopted in 1970 the objective of poverty eradi-
cation, the Government has employed two basic strategies. The first has
been land development to allow the absorption of workers from low-income
rural occupations to higher productivity employment. The second has been
the provision of projects and programs aimed directly at increasing
smallholder productivity. Aided by strong growth in the secondary and
tertiary sectors, implementation of these strategies has conitributed to a
significant decrease in the incidence of rural poverty: from 67% in 1970 to
55% in 1978. Strong industrial growth during this period provided enough
employment opportunities outside agriculture to absorb two thirds of the
increase in the rural labor force. Large scale irrigation projects that
came into fruition in the early 1970s provided increases in rice
productivity that significantly changed the income position of the project
beneficiaries and allowed the country to reduce its imports from 42% of
consumption requirements in 1967 to about 10% in 1979. Government agencies,
such as the Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA), carried out land
development projects opening up over 1.1 million ha of new lands, mostly for
tree crops and resettled about 250,000 rural families.



- 8 -
24.        With Malaysia's strong industrial base and its financial resources,
it is in a position to continue its efforts to increase the productivity of
small farmers as a principal thrust of its poverty strategy.  It could also
implement income distribution measures such as increasing the prices
received by poverty households for their output, reducing the price of
essential consumer goods, or increasing net incomes by direct supplements.
The Government has already begun to move in this direction as is
indicated by the recent reduction in the rubber export tax and the increases
in padi price supports, and subsidies for fertilizers and pesticides to rice
farmers. Most recently, the Government has introduced a policy of
eliminating interest charges on funds provided to agencies for poverty
alleviation projects.
Irrigation Development
25.        Irrigation in Malaysia is confined mainly to the cultivation of
rice. The Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID) was established in 1932
after a serious rice shortage in the early 1920s and the realization that
overdependence on other countries for basic food supplies was risky. DID's
responsibility was land improvement and water resources development,
particularly with regard to rice, which had been cultivated as a wet season
crop over some 100,000 ha, and treecrops, which had been established on
about 40,000 ha in coastal areas subject to tidal inundation.  Until the
early 1960s, irrigation schemes were designed to stabilize production of a
single crop of rice during the wet season, providing water to supplement
rainfall during short periods of drought. In the early 1960s, the expansion
of irrigation was accelerated as part of the massive rural development
program after independence, and DID began aiming its programs toward double
cropped rice by building storage dams, pumping stations, and upgrading
distribution systems. DID has now provided irrigation facilities for all
major rice producing areas, with the result that 80% of the country s
478,000 ha of rice land now has some form of irrigation facilities and over
50% is technically capable of double cropping. Although the major part of
DID's program has been to provide irrigation systems in traditional rainfed
rice areas, they have also undertaken projects to develop new land for rice
production.
26.       The Bank has participated in irrigation development in Malaysia
since 1965 when it financed the Muda Irrigation Project (Loan 434-MA),
followed in 1967 by the Kemubu Project (Loan 500-MA). Together, the project
areas amount to nearly 120,000 ha, about 25% of the rice land in penin-
sular Malaysia, and accommodate some 73,000 farm families. According to the
Project Performance Audit Report (Report 1295, September 24, 1976), they
were successful projects which helped to reduce rice imports from 42% of
national requirements in 1967 to 17% in 1974 and resulted in increases of
75-100% in the incomes of project beneficiaries. Five other Bank-financed



- 9 -
projects under implementation will improve, expand and intensify irrigation
over 116,000 ha of rice land and drainage over 212,000 ha of tree crops.
These projects include, in addition to the irrigation and drainage
infrastructure, provisions for strengthening agricultural support services
such as credit, extension, processing and marketing.  Coordination of the
various agencies and departments is a major element in the successful
implementation of the projects, and the Government has developed an
effective organization for this purpose. A Steering Committee of federal
and state officials is appointed for each project to guide and support a
project manager, who is responsible for the progress of all components of
the project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
27.       An extensive, largely undeveloped jungle area between the Rompin
and Endau Rivers in Southeastern Malaysia was identified in 1976 for
possible development as irrigated rice land. The National Small-Scale
Irrigation Project (Loan 1444-MA) provided for a feasibility study of an
integrated irrigation and land settlement project in the area. The
Government engaged Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation (SMEC) to prepare
the feasibility study under the guidance of an interagency Steering
Committee. The consultant submitted an inception report in May 1978, an
interim report in December 1978, and a final report in November 1979. Early
study results revealed that the total area south of the Rompin River
suitable for rice was much less than originally anticipated, and the terms
of reference were amended in early 1979 to include the study of an
additional 4,200 ha north of the Rompin River. The Steering Committee
considered the consultant's final report in March 1980 and accepted it for
implementation. The project was appraised in April 1980. Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C. from January 22 to 29, 1981. The government
delegation was led by Mr. Yahya Yaacob, Deputy Under Secretary, Ministry of
Finance. Details of the project are provided in the Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Malaysia - Rompin-Endau Area Development Project" (No. 3160-MA,
dated February 19, 1981) which is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Supplementary project data are given in Annex III.
28.       A major issue during project formulation was the amount of padi
land to be allocated to each settler family. Consideration was given to
estate rice culture or to relatively large, fully mechanized family farms
from 4 - 8 ha in size. Both of these alternatives were rejected because the
quality of management necessary for operation of such farms is not available
and because their contribution to the alleviation of rural poverty would be



- 10 -
negligible. The alternative of a 1.2 ha (3 acres) size holding (the average
size padi farm in Malaysia) was also rejected on the grounds that farmers on
such holdings would not be fully employed and would not earn enough to raise
their families out of poverty.  The size chosen, 2.4 ha (6 ac), would fully
employ the head of each settler household and give substantial part-time
work to other family members.
29.       A second important issue is how the project would affect the
traditional life style of about 200 aboriginal families (Orang Asli) in the
project area. While there would be some loss of agricultural land and of
some areas which traditionally have been used for gathering of forest
products and hunting, the project would result in a general improvement in
the economic opportunities open to the Orang Asli and would require little
physical displacement.  The Orang Asli families, along with other local
residents, would be given priority for settler status in the project. They
would be allowed to maintain their small units in contiguous housing blocks
within the new farm settlements nearest their traditional homes. They would
also be given priority rights to participate in the fishery cage culture
scheme in the project area. The Orang Asli welcome the project and several
of the village leaders have expressed to the Government their group's desire
to participate in it.
Project Description
30.       The proposed project would provide for construction of irrigation
works and development of new land for double cropping of rice on about
11,400 ha in four subprojects along the Rompin, Pontian, Anak Endau and
Endau Rivers in southeastern Pahang State on the east coast of Peninsular
Malaysia (see Map 15104). It would also provide for construction of
housing, and social facilities for about 4,750 families who would be settled
in the project area to work the new irrigated rice farms. The proposed
project would focus on one of the major identifiable groups with the highest
incidence of poverty - the smallholder rice farmers - and address two of the
main factors responsible for their poverty, the small size of holdings and
the low productivity of rice land.
31.       The main features of the project are:
(a) land clearing on about 13,800 ha of swampy tropical forest;
(b)  construction of an earthfill dam on the Anak Endau river, a
cutoff channel and ancillary works on the Rompin river, and three
weirs, one each on the Pontian, the Anak Endau and Kembar rivers;
(c) construction of about 110 km of main and secondary canals, 130 km
of drains, 95 km of dikes, and 12 pumping stations;



- 11 -
(d) construction of tertiary and quaternary canals and drains for a
net irrigable area of 11,400 ha;
(e)  construction of about 45 km of access roads and about 150 km of farm
roads;
(f) construction of two subregional centers and six farm settlements
with physical and social infrastructure for about 4,750 settler farm
families;
(g) construction of office buildings, staff quarters, workshops,
stores and agricultural service facilities;
(h) procurement of equipment, vehicles and supplies for project opera-
tion and maintenance and for agricultural support services; and
(i) consulting services for detailed design and construction
supervision of project works.
Project Implementation
32.        The project would be implemented over six years, from mid-1981 to
mid-1987. The Government has appointed consultants to prepare the final
designs, construction plans and tender documents and to supervise construc-
tion of the project works. Preparation of detailed designs and tender
documents is sufficiently advanced for procurement to start shortly after
loan approval and for construction to start on schedule. CorLtracts totaling
about US$18 million would be awarded during the first year of the imple-
mentation period. These would include land clearing, river diversion works,
main roads, drains, dikes and appurtenant structures in the E'ontian, Anak
Endau and Rompin subprojects. Land clearing would start in April 1981 on
the Pontian subproject, which is the most accessible; this would be followed
by the weir, the irrigation works and the tertiary development. Farm settle-
ments would be completed in coordination with the irrigation infrastructure.
The work on other subprojects would be undertaken progressively as the design
and tender documents are prepared. The agricultural support staff and
facilities would be built up in phase with the completion of the irrigation
and settlement infrastructure, and the selection and placement of settlers.
The first rice production in the project area would start with the
off-season crop in 1984. The entire project area would be unider cultivation
by the beginning of 1988.
Project Cost and Financing
33.        The total project cost in mid-1981 prices is estimated at US$141
million with a foreign exchange component of US$59 million or 42% of the
total cost. Because of the tax-exempt status of the implemeniting agencies,



- 12 -
the costs do not include taxes and duties. Quantity estimates for all major
work items, based on feasibility designs, were prepared for the project
works. Unit prices for the work items were based on recent contracts for
similar works carried out for DID, Public Works Department (PWD) and the
Pahang Tenggara Development Authority (DARA) in this region of Malaysia. All
construction costs were updated to reflect recent unit cost increases. The
costs for equipment and vehicles are based on recent bid prices. Physical
contingencies of 20% were applied for irrigation, drainage and road works,
10% for settlement works and 5% for project buildings, vehicles, and equip-
ment. Expected price increases over the project implementation period of
six years amount to about 27% of the base cost plus physical contingencies,
assuming cost escalation (for both local and foreign elements) of 9% in
1981, 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% in 1983-85 and 6% in 1986-87.
34.       The proposed Bank loan of US$40 million would finance 68% of the
foreign exchange requirements of the project cost. The Government's
contribution of US$101 million would finance the balance of the costs
through annual budgetary allocations. Currently, the Government is
exploring possible cofinancing arrangements to secure the additional US$19
million of foreign exchange required. Operation and maintenance costs of
the completed works as well as the costs of agricultural extension would be
financed by the State of Pahang.
Procurement
35.       Construction contracts scheduled for international competitive
bidding (ICB) and local competitive bidding (LCB) are as follows:
Construction Contracts
ICB                LCB
…-------- US$ million --------
Land clearing, main drains & roads         (5)/a  21.5         (2)/a   2.5
Diversion works                            (4)    27.5         (1)     0.5
Irrigation works                           (-)      -         (10)    23.0
Settlement works                           (2)    24.0         (6)    13.0
Project buildings                          (-)      -          (3)     4.0
Total                                (11)    73.0       (22)    43.0
/a  Figures in parentheses are numbers of contracts.
Five contracts combining land clearing with construction of main drains and
access roads would be awarded following ICB procedures in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement. These contracts will combine land
clearing with site development in order to ensure early access to the sites



- 13 -
and minimize the problems of coordination among contractors. ICB would also
be used for the Rompin cutoff channel and dikes, the Anak Endau dam and
weir, the Pontian weir and the two subregional centers. There would,
therefore, be eleven ICB contracts totalling about US$73 million including
contingencies, ranging in value from about US$2.5 to US$15 million. The
remaining works would be spread over the project area and would be phased
over six years. Previous experience in Malaysia indicates that these are
not large enough to attract a response from ICB, therefore, about 22
contracts would be awarded following local competitive bidding procedures,
which are acceptable to the Bank, in which foreign bidders would be eligible
to participate. The LCB contracts would range in value from about
US$100,000 to US$2.5 million, totalling about US$43 million.
36.       Purchases of agricultural and O&M equipment, service vehicles and
supplies totalling US$4.7 million would be scheduled into convenient
packages for procurement under ICB procedures in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty if
lower, would be extended to local manufacturers of these items. Off-the-
shelf items costing less than US$35,000 each and limited to a total of
US$2.0 million, would be procured through normal government procedures.
Local competitive procedures are acceptable to the Bank, and foreign firms
are allowed to participate. Force account work would be limited to the
fabrication and supply of gates and hoists for water control structures.
This is estimated to cost about US$0.6 million, which is less than 1% of the
total project costs. DID has been fabricating its own gates and hoists in
its Federal Workshop in Ipoh for more than 15 years.
Disbursements
37.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the
foreign exchange expenditure on directly imported equipment and vehicles,
100% of the ex-factory cost of such items manufactured locally, and 80% of
the cost of imported items procured locally. Disbursement for civil works
executed by contract would be 24% of total costs. For consulting services,
disbursements would be 100% of the expenditures incurred. No disbursement
would be made for force account expenditures. It is expected that
disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1988.
Accounts and Audits
38.       The agencies involved in the project are all subject to normal
Government controls and audit procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that all agencies involved
in project implementation would maintain separate accounts which would be
collated by the Project Manager, and that the Government would furnish the
Bank such information regarding these accounts as the Bank might reasonably
request (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
Organization and Management
39.      Appointment by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) of a suitably
qualified and experienced Project Manager is a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government foresees no
difficulty in making this appointment promptly. The Project Manager would
be guided in policy matters by a Steering Committee co-chaired by the
Secretary General of MOA and the Chairman of the Agricultural Committee of
the State of Pahang. This follows the pattern of several previous area
development projects in Malaysia, beginning with the Western Johore
Agricultural Development Project (Loan 973-MA). The Project Manager would
coordinate all the project functions including timely land alienation, land
clearing, construction of irrigation and other infrastructure, placement and
administration of settlers, and provision of supporting services. He would
be the Secretary of the Steering Committee and have direct access to the top
officials of the State Government and the Federal MOA. This structure has
worked well in the past and is in line with the federal and state responsi-
bilities and jurisdictions under the Malaysian Constitution. To improve
this structure, the Government has recently decided that in the future all
funds for implementing integrated agricultural development projects will be
allocated to MOA which will in turn allocate them to the implementing agen-
cies. The Project Manager would have adequate support staff to assist him
in administration of the project.
40.       DID would be responsible for design, tendering, and supervision of
land clearing and civil works construction. However, as DID is currently
designing and supervising construction of six other Bank financed projects -
140,000 ha of irrigation and drainage for rice and 230,000 ha of drainage
for tree crops - in addition to numerous Asian Development Bank and locally
financed projects, it is experiencing a shortage of mid-level engineering
manpower. Due to these manpower constraints and the need in this project to
design large irrigation works, the proposed loan would finance consulting
services to assist DID in the detailed design and construction supervision
of the project works.
41.       Construction of the eight villages would be the responsibility of
the Pahang Tenggara Development Authority (DARA), which is a statutory body
created in 1972 for promoting the economic and social development of
Southeast Pahang. Its Board consists of both federal and state represen-
tatives and it receives funds for infrastructure development as grants from
the Government.
Consulting Services
42.       The Government has engaged a consultant, Sepakat Setia Perunding
Sdn Bhd, in association with the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation
(Australia), to design, prepare tenders and supervise construction of the
irrigation, drainage, road and land clearing components of the project under



- 15 -
DID supervision. This arrangement has been accepted by the Bank. The
consultant would be required to prepare a designer's operating manual and a
technical record of design and construction. Consultant costs would be
about US$6 million. This provides for about 850 man-months over a period of
six years, vehicles, engineering survey costs and equipment, local
transportation and other minor costs. The average man-month cost (including
international travel and subsistence) is estimated to be about US$3,800; the
average local man-month cost is about US$2,000 (550 man-months) and the
average expatriate man-month cost is about US$7,000 (300 man-months).
Agricultural Support Services
43.       Under the general direction and administrative control of the
Project Manager, agricultural support services will be provided by the
various departments and agencies under the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and
by the semi-autonomous National Padi and Rice Authority (LPN) and Farmers'
Organization Authority (FOA). Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Government would provide adequate funds for the National Padi and
Rice Authority (LPN) and the Farmers' Organization Authority (FOA) to supply
padi drying and storage, and rice milling and marketing facilities in the
project area as needed (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
Department of Agriculture (DOA) will have responsibility for agricultural
extension, and will prepare an agricultural services operations manual as a
guide for field staff by January 1, 1984 (Section 3.07(b) of tbLe draft Loan
Agreement). Livestock/poultry and fishing extension services wrill be
provided by the Department of Veterinary Services (DOVS) and the Department
of Fisheries (DOF), respectively. DOA will operate a 60 ha seetd farm and
farm mechanization development center. The seed farm operation will produce
appropriate high quality seed sufficient to allow seed stock re!newal for all
project farms every third crop. DOA will also monitor and report crop
progress, disease or pest outbreaks, etc., and will manage the supply of
fertilizers and other agricultural chemicals under the national padi subsidy
scheme. Mechanization services - plowing, combine harvest and transport
will be provided, at cost to the farmers, by FOA through its local farmers'
cooperative. It is anticipated that, as this is a new rice area, most
plowing and harvesting services will have to be provided by FOA in early
years of the project, with private contractors and the farmers themselves
taking over up to one-half of this task as the local rice economy matures.
Rice research and field variety trials will be conducted in the project area
by the Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute (MARDI).
The Kuala Rompin branch of the national agricultural bank (BPM:) will provide
needed agricultural credit and general banking services.
Operation and Maintenance
44.       The State DID would operate and maintain irrigation and drainage
facilities and works to the tertiary level. Quaternary irrigation ditches
and drains would be maintained by the farmers. Diversion structures, dikes,
farm roads and tracks would also be maintained by the State DII). Main
roads, built to PWD standards under contracts administered by DID, would be



- 16 -
maintained by the State DID until'project completion, when PWD would take
over maintenance responsibilities. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that DID would prepare on completion of the final design of each
subproject, an operations manual for the project works (Section 3.07(a) of
the draft Loan Agreement). State DID personnel would work as a team with
agricultural extension personnel in dealing with farmers on such matters as
irrigation and planting schedules, water control and management, and other
matters relating to operation and maintenance of the irrigation system.
Safety of Dams
45.       During negotiations it was agreed that the Government would employ
an independent expert or panel of experts, acceptable to the Bank, to review
the consultant's design of the Anak Endau dam and the Pontain weir before
start of construction and to determine during construction the need for any
design modifications (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
Government would prepare an engineering inspection program to ensure the
safety of the Anak Endau dam and the Pontian weir which would be furnished
to the Bank for review no later than one year before the completion of the
dam and the weir (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Environmental Effects
46.       Adverse environmental effects of the project would be minimal.  No
loss of habitat critical to endangered species is expected. The declaration
as "Environment Forest" of the peat swamp areas between the Rompin and Endau
rivers and extensive areas to the southwest, as recommended in the Pahang
Tenggara Master Plan, would provide additional sanctuary to the displaced
deer, monkeys, birds and snakes. The DOF plans to increase significantly
the production of fresh water fish in Pahang State by fostering aquaculture
in the irrigation canals and reservoirs. Project development would not
interfere with the migration of commercial prawns between the estuarine and
riverine sectors for the breeding and maturation phases; however, the extent
of the natural breeding habitat may be reduced. The incidence of malaria is
low in the project area. There would be a possibility of introduction of
malaria through the immigration of settlers. The Malaria Eradication
Program and Pahang Health Department would institute monitoring procedures
and undertake appropriate remedial measures as needed. The malaria control
program in the state is making good progress. Preventive and remedial
measures for the project area would be integrated into the regional
programs. Health centers would be provided in the farm settlements and
subregional centers in the project. During negotiations an assurance was
obtained that the Government would take all measures necessary to ensure
that the design, construction and operation of works under the project are
carried out in accordance with appropriate ecological and environmental
standards (Section 3.12 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Settler Selection and Administration
47.       The settlers would be traditional lowland rice farmers,
able-bodied, either landless or owning uneconomic holdings and would be
selected by the Pahang State Government, partly from within the state (about



- 17 -
2,750) and the balance (about 2,000) from rice farming areas in other states.
Priority would be given to farmers living in the project area. Each settler
would sign an agreement specifying the rights and responsibilities of the
settler and the Government. Settler selection criteria have been agreed
with the Bank in substance and will be submitted in detail, along with the
Government-settler agreement, for final review and comment prior to June 30,
1981 (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). The project management
would develop the land to a stage where farmers can prepare theLr own fields
for planting the first crop; they would be obligated to follow prescribed
cropping schedules and practices. The settler would repay the czost of
developing his land and constructing his house and the cost of any
subsistence and agricultural inputs given to him before his first rice
harvest. He would ultimately own the land and the house after 'he has paid
back the costs. During negotiations assurances were obtained t'hat the
Government would take all necessary measures to ensure that no farms in the
project area would be fragmented or fall into the hands of absentee
landlords (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
48.       Water charges would be treated along the lines of previous
Bank-financed irrigation projects in Malaysia. In Malaysia operation and
maintenance costs are being funded from general state and federal revenues.
Nominal water and drainage rates are collected by state governments and form
part of the general revenue. As Muslims, most settlers would be subject to
the compulsory religious tithe which in Pahang State is levied at a rate of
10% of gross value of annual padi production less a one-ton subsistence
allowance. Proceeds are utilized by the state government for maintaining
community facilities and services. The tithe would average about US$500 /1
per farm per annum at full development, about twice the irrigation system
operation and maintenance costs per farm. Settlers would be required to
repay the capital costs for their houses and for land clearing following the
FELDA model. However, no interest would be charged for the housing and land
clearing loans since it is current government policy to eliminate all
interest rate charges for projects aimed at poverty alleviation.
49.       Repayment of housing costs over 15 years with a 2-year grace
period would require annual payments of US$140 per family. Repayment of
land clearing costs over 20 years with a 10-year grace period wqould entail
annual payments of US$320 during the repayment period. Altoget:her, settler
families would have annual tax and debt retirement obligations of about
US$630 (17% of pre-tax net farm income) for the 3rd through 101th years after
receiving their land, US$975 (25%) during the 11th through 15th years, and
US$835 (22%) during the 16th through 20th years and US$515 (13%) thereafter.
Based on present values of project rent, costs, fees and taxes discounted at
/1 All cost and benefit estimates are valued in 1981 prices unless other-
wise indicated.



- 18 -
10% (excluding settlement costs and housing cost recovery), the total
project rent recovery index is 44%. The cost recovery index is 24%, which
index is comparable to those of other Bank-financed irrigation projects in
Malaysia. The projected level of cost recovery is considered adequate
because, even after full development, settler families are expected to have
per capita incomes of about US$700, which is less than the estimated 1992
per capita critical consumption level of US$790.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
50.       By developing new land, providing flood and salinity control,
irrigation and drainage infrastructure and integrated agricultural support
services, the project would result in 190% cropping intensity on about
11,400 net ha currently under swamp forest. About 4,700 families, mainly
new settlers, or about 24,000 people, would directly benefit from the
project.
51.       The project would contribute to the Government's goals of self-
sufficiency in rice and more balanced regional development at a capital cost
of about US$23,000 per farm family or US$9,600 per ha in financial prices.
The cost per farm family is higher than in other recent Bank-financed
irrigation projects in Malaysia, which range between US$2,000 and US$4,400,
because, unlike previous projects where existing physical works were
upgraded, in this case all works are new and the project includes settlement
of new families. Incremental padi production per hectare at Rompin-Endau is
expected to be higher than recent projects. As a result the capital cost
per ton of incremental padi production capacity (US$1,250) is comparable to
such projects (US$1,590 at Muda and US$870 at Krian-Sungei Manik). Compared
to previous land settlement projects, the cost per family (in 1981 prices)
is lower than Keratong (US$48,400) and Johore (US$34,600) and higher than
FELDA VI (US$12,500). This project would provide somewhat better income
levels for the direct beneficiary families than would the other projects.
Most eligible settler families are expected to have present annual incomes of
about US$125 per capita. By 1992 at project completion they should have
achieved per capita income levels of about US$700, above the projected
absolute poverty level of US$320 per capita yet below the critical consumption
level of US$790. In contrast, the Krian-Sungei Manik and Muda II irrigation
projects will provide average per capita incomes of about US$350 and US$400
respectively and the Keratong, Johore and FELDA VI settlement projects incomes
from about US$400 to US$600 per capita.
52.       The incremental annual production of 87,000 tons of padi would
result in annual net foreign exchange savings of about US$29.7 million.
In terms of its employment impact, the project would create an annual demand
for farm labor of about 2 million labor days, equivalent to some 9,500
full-time jobs.



. 19 -
53.       The overall economic rate of return for the project is 17%.  Rates
of return for the subprojects are 15% for Rompin, 17% for Pontianl, 17% for
Anak Endau, and 19% for Endau. Respectively, these subprojects account for
39%, 14%, 37% and 10% of total project costs. The poverty redressal aspects
of the project would contribute to a high social rate of return. Capital
costs of settler housing and other settlement facilities and services,
US$25.2 million, were not included in the economic analysis because it was
assumed that benefits of this project element, though unquantifiable, would
be at least equal to its cost. The sensitivity of the estimated rate of
return for the entire project was tested to cost overruns, reduction of
benefits and implementation delays. Under various assumptions, the economic
rate of return remained acceptable. For example, taking the worst case, if
net agricultural benefits decreased by 20% and capital costs increased by
20%, the economic rate of return would be 11.1%; if agricultural benefits
and costs were delayed 4 years, the economic rate of return would be 10.9%.
54.       This project involves no unusual risks.  Those risks normally
associated with area development projects based on irrigated agriculture
have been taken into account in estimating yields, cropping intensities,
rates of development, and investment costs.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. The appointment of a suitably qualified and experienced Project
Manager is a special condition of effectiveness. Special conditions of the
loan are listed in Section III of Annex III. The draft Loan Agreerent
conforms to the normal pattern for loans for irrigation projects.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART IV - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
February 26, 1981



-20 -                                                   A2NEX I
PAge 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAYSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAYSIA                          REFERENCE CPOUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%ArES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. IKM.)                                                          - MDST RECENT FSTIIIATE )-
TOTAL            329.8
AGRICULTURAL      65. 1                               MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTLYIATE /b       ASIA 5 PACIFIC    LATIN AHERICA 6 CAPIBBFAr
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 250.0       470.0    1320.0                1114.7                  1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    242.0        469.0     716.0                 842.4                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      8.0        10.7      13.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENIT OP TOTAL) 25.2       2 7.0     28. 8                 39. 1                   63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      20.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        30.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHES                 2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 104.                      24.0        32.0      40.0                 376.1                    20.1
PER SQ. Of. AGRICULTURAL LAND    152.0       185.0     204.0                2350.4                    81. 7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         45.1        45.4      42.2                  40.4                    41.4
15-64 YRI.                         51.3        51.5      54.4                  56. 2                   54. 7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.6         3.1       3.4                   3.4                     3.9
POPULATION GROWTh RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.5         2.9       2.7                   2.4                     2. 7
URBAN                              5. 5        3.6       3.6                   4.1                     4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    39.1         32.6      29.0                  28.7                    34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      9. 1        6.8       6.0                   7.9                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..          ..        1.9                  1.9                     2. 5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        56.0      00.4
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOHEN)   ..          7. 0     36.0                  39. 0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          85.0        99.0     107.0                 116.9                   106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENIT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  105.0       113.0     117.0                 108.9                   107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          48.0        51.0      57.0                  60.3                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       16.0        18.0      22.0                  18.8                    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      9.0         5.0       3.0                   5.3                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    57. 0       64.0      67.0                  63. 0                   63. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           75. 0       41.0      31.0                  52.8                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                       -       ..          ..      62.0                  42.4                    65.9
URBAN                               ..          ..      93.0                  62.1                    80.4
RURAL                                                   49.0                  29. 7                   44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        59.0      60.0                  52. 8                   62.3
URBAN                               ..       100.0    100.0                   71. 1                   79.4
RURAL                                         43.0      43.0                  42.4                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          6937.0      4260.0    4347.0                4120.1                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     1776.0/d    1246.0    1079.0               2213.6                   1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            265. 0_/    285.0    306.0                  819.4                   480.3
URBAN                               ..        86.0
RURAL                                       1900.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..      17.2                  28.08
8OS0ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.9         5.6/e
URBAN                              5.9         5. 9/.
RURAL                               ..         5.5/e
AVERAGE NU0BER OF PERSONS PER 00H
TOTAL                              3.0         2.6/e
URBAN                              2. 3        2.3/       .
RURAL                               ..         2. 8/e ..   .                    .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        43.0/e
URBAN                             82.9        84. 7       *     
RURAL                                         3



- 21 -                                                ANINEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAYSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAYSIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE  CAES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMA     Aa
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME           MICDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBFAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                96.0        91.0      93.0                   98.6                    99.7
hlALE               108.0        95.0      94.0                   99.2                   101.0
FEPIALE              83.0        87.0      91.0                  97. 7                    99.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 19.0        35.0      43.0                   55.5                    34.4
MALE                 25.0        40.0      47.0                   60. 7                   33.5
FEMALE               13.0        29.0      38.0                  49.9                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)  5.0          3.2       2.9                   13.7                    38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           28.0        31.0      32.0                  34.6                     30.5
SECONDARY                         38.0        26.0      27.0                  28.5                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       53.0        55.0        ..                   85. 8                   76.3
CONSUtlPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..                    9.0                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..                  118.9                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3. 2       18.0      45.0                   39.4                    84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 61.0        65.0      87.0                    ..                     63.3
CINEIA ANNUAL ATTEIEDANCE PER CAPITA 16.0        9.4       9. 1                   4.9.
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     2745.3      3622. 2   4789.0
FE;ALE (PERCENT)                  27.0        31.4      33.0                   36.8                    22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             63.1        56.0      50.0                   51.9                    37.1
INDUSTRY (PERZCENT)               11.7        14.0      16.0                  21.9                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               34.2        33.8      33.9                   39.1                    31.5
MALE                                48.8        45.7      45.9                   48.5                    48.9
FEMALE                              18.9        21.5      21.5                   29.6                    14.0
ECONOtMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1. 4        1. 5      1.3                    1. 1                    1. 4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOtiE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 3 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         27.0
HICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   ..         56.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          3. 3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HIOUSEHOLDS    ..        10.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     279.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     252.0                  192.1                   190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     313.0                    ..                    474.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     283.0                  182.5                   332.5
ESTILATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..     i1.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      46.0                  33.2                       .
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of date and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1957;  /d 1962;  /e West Malaysia.
Host recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 22-                                                                                         ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DtEFINITIONS ijf SOCIAL INUTCATORS
Notes'  Although the dat  are drao fro   sore  gnrly jugd  h  most authooccati-m aid reliabl,_it should a.lsoh  noted that they may net be inlte-
natonll  cmprale  ecus  o  te  oo  of...audardiend deifintion   -ed ootpt   nd  ydfrIr                   ntrtes in  -o11etring the dta.  Th. data arm, none-
theless,.. usful tobdeso,,rtl  orders of   antuc,idicae  trends, andosate te   rnsnmjor diff.eo..te  bet.ee.                        outres
The.neree  rup           -r (1)1 the same  -nunry grop ot the nubjut, country and Ill a.counry group nub  sonehat higher s'eetge inoee than the  -oratry geuP
of theIIieico r  (enep  fur "aPital Suplus oii Enpoer"grop wher  "Midgdle income North Aflicc and Middle tact  is nhnsen henaus  of sr e
lenI    afo   h   ooilni     ru   a,ui   o   htidoto.Snetertr  ge                                      ..of  conres amog the indi.t...r depends Os tha avilability o
darae   isu       -uiform, cationms    e ouroined inrlaing noroges of one indtciro. to nootler .  These.. averge    re only ..sefol in toaparig the veins
ofueindice- or atce oinoog the  ouury and oofroc  groaps.
LADOf AREA (thou....d sq.k..                                                                   ...  olilon. ger Ph,.sitis   ?-fpotlei    dtvidsd hy nbna or e  pn...tttnia   Phy-
Trotal - Totalsuft  ars -pmtiletog land area aod tnlaadwa-rom-                                 ait.n. qaslifted true andioe1 sobool am anio ity level.
Agricultural - bst eatof agricultralae   r    eprrlio esnoly                                 fplnu  per Nftrsin   Pesron - Pepalatien dioided by n'bsr nf pet.tiefag
PooltlnBe  tsitol Bed - total   tan   a  esa    Ppsltien  (ftatl.
lNif PIER CAITA (11$) - GNP pero  -pite e tmnEn a t  .u...nt market prIce, ca1-                  arba, and eatsl) didebytir reaettes. nsbee  beepita1 ha."
calne  b  nt cuvolo  mthod on lurid Bank Atlas 7i97P79   seo;19601,b, vial  in public  rdprivate genral and aplohlised hapita1 sadem
19170, and  1979 dat.bbittirn tennr.dH.ptl  aesnhiheespea.nl   tf
.byitlnss t oe  hsiin.itahlisormentblpendi   priseistly  etefdha
EaNERGt CoONSUMPTION PE i AP IayTA - annual connoption of cueca   nry(ol                         caeaennicue.ieral, tboeissle. hesrever  pine                     led elth atd mdi
and lIgnite, petroleum, 8ntra        -e end hydr--, malarad geotherns  elec-                   totneee  Pot peraently ateffad hy * phyincan  (bet by a medieal asiBtmat,
tricity) In kilogese  of coal eqaba_e.  pot c..pita; 1960, 197i 0.t.d 19798are   Idwife, etc.) whith mf.se in-patient aes-datis   ad pemedA a
deta.                                                                                          ltitted eange of medical fniliniss.  Po  astisnital peepes   asbi  bao-
nels inniade Z.n priuipa1 general and apmialied heapitale   - d enea1
POPLILATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                        ~~~~hoepitele local or meal h-apitas and medial md  stateity n-tsem
Total Popullaion, fild-Ye-  (silli-os) - Au of Joly 1; 1960, 1970, end 1979                 Admia,      srtNeia   e      ea   abrn   disnat   edahea
deta.                                                               from ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h.epitol  dtidsd by cte. saber ef beds.
IrbarPpltnelecn  of tn-ai  - natlo of orb an to tonal populariu-,
different defiitint_n of  rbao  ress map effect ...nparability of darn                  HOUSING
am.g ron trile; 1960, 1970, aud 197f dacs.                                                Av-rgn  tia. of goos..ho!d fee.....e ear h.-seheld) - totel. -bha. tad  leti-
Pre... lonProti  ctinaA h...ehold t-nistsfagespo    idlid-:aa   e share litcing qeatrtesa
Popula~tion is year  C200  - Cuoe-    poplation projectom  see base.d on 19N0                and thei.   anm e   A hoarder or lodgermy-n  may met he inldad ha
tona  Pupalatior by age end sted their mortality and fertili-ty raise                     the householid for sttistinel porposes.
Prjcinpseetea          lor etrlipy rtote   aonprias cf three levels asec-         A-erogenmbee of persons Pet en_m- teta.1  eba,. ad fetal - Av-na  s
ing lit. e. _t_ctc   as bith istr ... ig with ounv'  per ispita Inoum                     btr of persons Per Om           oil urban  and me   en1enpied enmoatinn1
level, en  femlelife  ecysot-oocy etahliaiug at 77 .1 Yet..'         The pare-            danIitige, r-p-oiey   Issellings erlde s_n-seaet ateanesad
mees foefetilty rt  ashvethree leel-            asuin  deolioe Io                   unoocupied perta.
fertility acoorTding to lucerne leve  and past famIly pleaing perfnrma.u....             ooses to Eleotrioitr (reroent of d.allisas) - tta. sebma   VWd essal-
tech. cnutoy is then assigned one of thea  alas cmbination of nortality                        onetoon  delig  wt  sisoteinity in living qagetete saplfetaga
and ferYtIlityItrends for proJettien  puro                                                 f  o ol,bode, end total desklingrs-peotiv-ly.
Stationar pneatio -l a s  .tationa.ry paps1iatio there Is un grmeth since
the bIrth rate is equal tote  et  res,me  asoth    e  tructue.sre-                       CAI
mains constant.  Th is in achlnvd onlY aftrferiiY et declinat                            Ndod tenlatiteio
the roplacement level of utit set tepodunmion rate, when ...h geneosItion                 Piayehe      oal   aeadt                  l-eesta,ml  a                     l
adone  epats    ift  ..actly.   heertiniypoultinalsdaso Enlmn  o   l   ge   tte  rmr1lvlaspeaagse tsas
esiaedaf       h  bssoftepo_re    haatrlnr   f  b   oulto                                    piayscoiee   onatit                  eeal   seam .,ds   ae   -
In the Year dill, and the rate of decline of fertility rtPorpae                               easbtaiee    orpifrn   aab    fpiayaaein   e
'Pt eet                                                                             cutries witb an fv-re              t 1dnst tn aenDen  maIy aaad-.1ff pfrea
tea  aatomroooalaio   t  rocad- The yea  when  t-tiomry ppoplation                 mYt  some paplsg aore heiti or              otv th eftinlal  anham  as.-
else has hma reached                                             Seconday school - total.mlanfas - Cn.esd -  atne; .a-.md-Y
Pouain Hsat                                                                             ednootian esquires i  aet,  10  hrrr.)  f  t  ..s.  fPoer yasra nof  pp_ed pefa_e   i_aeeim
iotsl area-                                                          usna1i~~~~~~~~~~:~llydof 12 to 17 yeses of age; onre...p-nea.. .ewe_m  as   ina
Pea sq  ha. l,griculturad land-In oe  a   bo  fcc aglrioltucl1 land                         Vo-t.oluda..1-tV ti l    tti
PouainAeitrucure (perc...t) - Children  (0-iA  years), corking-ag   715-                 icuen         nis,idetris,meocher pnrsebe   prt   naa
NAyas,edretired (65 years andnoeasprntgsof mid-eaPP                                    detrly o.rhas     l d Ianet   f  eodr   ntittea
Pauoto    rownh Rso   (enroen) - total-  Anual gr.h racsfmoe  mi-Frimary and secendary levels divided by eabers of esan.he.e in ths
Populatina iroeh bat   per.tni -rha   - Annual ge-s  rates of urban popo-                      Adult Iltracy rate (esrloet) - Litera.te edulsa (ahis te rad and -its)
loinsfe  9160,, l9O6-7I, and 1970-78.                                                   epernentoge  of total adelt pmpalatinn aged1  yass and mvet
Crude Birth ltane artouad) - Annual IveI births Per thouo...d nf mid-year
popalation; 1960, 1970, end 1979 dote..                                                 CONSUMPTION
Crude Death Mtse (rem  thouseodi - A-nua  ds-th, pet she....nd of mId-year                   Psene ,Cr  lose th-asad popalation   - Psa..n..   tars- eaPeas eater
poulto  ObS  197t, sad 1978 data,oas _atig  less Thee eight per.e.n; excldes  -belanea, hearse  sad
lreose Ierdatto    eehtaenme   fdahem    oa ill Rt                   :1  bmrIn m.ilitary v-hinle..
her nernl repdrdnttor Period if she anPeti ..enrspeetseseii                                 ai   eeor   orhuan    ouair       l  ys   feoiaat rd
ttlity rtes.; _usualy fire-year" avrges ending In 1960, 1970, andii 197.                     bodat.e   eaa  pbf   e   husdo   eplse;atae el
faIl   lnio-A Usrs..   rcatofmarid  oem -A-eronrtge of marie                           cdiotR.ins- ahaiPed ho- licensing.tp~                       o    -~r.f.r4
alimrrie  women insame.ag  Pelot                                                           genral pnhlt pr thoen P-l.Papla;aerlada...           s ofp mltionad  9ease
F-ilY Pl.orioR   -ri~~~~~~d  -o  -g                       g... Inunnerie   and in...j yerswasraitet                      h InfT  ea-ts io was i   dn attet
Indem of Pn   rduto   e  Cpt hb9710  Idnden o  pt  cap titaanal                               tn  o"diygneI ine                  Yetnesppe"  defne  anap ...ia  pa
praacto iatal  fond c      15n 44oditiet . Praonio   buled--ne med iand  Eea  adblcaiomde hed primar.ito  eoriggnea    es    t  aamhes
ineeadat  age) wirlareedile  nd  ontin   ntrene   (eg.  offe ad-Cnem  ptabli Pterdanh  mrd PCa1ri-a -e tVs    Base  em                   . th .a.. o
Pe   -eia  nelyo  P-oCorie t (rero     10tof reqire ents)f Coputed...trot_
enrg quvletofd me_ edsplesaalbei  cary  .perta pia__l                              t OC
PerdyCvial   upiesot                  rsedmci      c p196duatn   net en                    tota  Lbo forc d   toasady                             Shn-omoa     enriv   perane  inaedie
eatd sea ditrbaia)      o  pophr udilaiod, nad ltoiag Iipenttte   atea                    Agriculured(-tcnn  I-r1 tmar fo .rte ttasing   frey,haing anid-
honnehali level; 1961-95, 1971, and 1977 dots,                      fishing    ly ia patesgea p;rCltitallbrfrs;16,it  ad1                    aa
Pe.r.crn   ncyo   rti   em   s  daud)d- Pertain                    g isat off pe.spt .dtyietnt      oe   en   nmnm,  narmie    aassem
animal protein as an ri. avra e tr  tief wrld,pair.omed   hC -PARimted  Thrdt             190   97,ad195dtadhs  seaili...itaetitipattn   ramaefl
Chld(se  iA)NetIPyiaelpe           lhonod        -Id.J- afesideth  pe  mbaad  i              te  oa   abrtra
qu..Eiti.. ...d 1.  ..d Pro.1pecet,olier20penem.peret20psnms,anNetes  4  p_Pn
Li ntI...nya.Brh.yne)-Avng  nm                        tofdyearnb of  . lif  taiti           o  boneo ds.          -i,'ul:..i    .                    :
at birth; 1960, 1970 andf 19o78 data.                                                                           ot  o,".bl;  960  19; 
laf ty tfoteth  lae: re t   housand) d-ir Annual deei..gth1..s of t     -roa  nueroe  ea  IVRT   Att   al
wateomupply 7(inclddna1treatsd-surf one.waters orruntreated but..mtugbamiosted1affordable.
PerosaPtogs  f heity of spr             Per pouain.y In onp ra  aeapblnlroreaie                                   ee    fama lve  is ome-tied of~j overag  pa   aIt
fonanorfsdosnlctdntmtrhn20mtr   ts    os   a  be-                                     peruoml income2   o  ther foontey. Urban levl _i dtived taf_thete
considered  a  heogd Persdyt resNabet  scue of   ta   oo.i  ua   res                        lne   ihsjsestfrhge   ataIlvn   nahnaes
family' seaterr                                                                                                                           .    6       70uds17de..
dipoa  as 6ten n ol fttheir reeoti             DA pou Ptiine. Osreti ie-tom lradS ieOts ivim
Puml. may  incad  th  coletion ran  d          byss,u ibS or  itbo           1 treatment                   ty         lomt omi Anlyi  end Pr tjeatinna  fDspatm 9a         0
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ilbc16
offumaheneat   aed  gnt-wtr b  mae-1dbornetnyetti ortthe ass of
irde priviesa-  sImilar          7 intal tions.L .....P



-23 -                                      ANNEX 1
page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - MALAYSIA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979:                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(% in constant prices and M$)
US$ Mln      x         1961-70  1970-76  1977  1978  1979
GNP at Market Prices             19,370    100.0          6.4       7.7      7.1   7.0   8.3
Gross Domestic Investment         5,082      26.2         6.7       9.4    19.7   9.5  10.5
Gross National Saving             6,173      31.9           .
Exports of Goods, NFS            11,744      60.6         6.0        7.9     3.9   7.9  10.1
Imports of Goods, NFS             9,774      50.5         2.9       6.9    13.7  13.9  18.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Output               Employment        Output Per Worker
US$ Mln      %           Mln      Z          US$          X
Agriculture               4,041      25.6          2.0    43.9         2,049       58.5
Industry                  5,017      31.8          0.9    20.0         5,568      159.0
Services                  6,701      42.5          1.6    36.1        4,188       119.6
Total/Average        15,759    100.0          4.5   100.0         3,502      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
M$ Mln                        % of GDP
1979          1979         1971-75          1976/78
Current Receipts                   12,424          28.0           24.0             27.5
Current Expenditures                9,875          22.3           22.5             24.5
Public Authorities Surplus            369           0.8            0.8              1.1
Current Surplus                     2,918           6.6            2.3              4.1
Development Expenditures            5,544          12.5           10.8             12.4
Foreign Borrowing (net)                754          1.7            2.3              1.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES         1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
(Million M$ outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi-Money           4,131  4,666  5,770  7,574  8,729  10,001  12,769  14,861  17,520  21,738
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                          833  1,045  1,186  1,375  1,746   2,148   3,036   3,583   3,379   3,873
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                       2,246  2,572  3,014  4,586  5,278   6,084   7,471   8,970  11,627  14.109
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money
as % of GDP                    33.3   36.0   40.4   40.0   37.8    45.1    46.4    46.4    48.0    49.0
Consumer Price Index
(1967 = 100)                 101.3  102.9  106.2  117.4  137.8   144.0   147.7   154.8   162.4   168.3
Annual Percentage
Changes in:
Consumer Price Index              1.9    1.6    3.2   10.5   17.4         4.5      2.6      4.8     4.9      3.6
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                         -8.4   25.5   13.5   15.9   27.0    14.6    41.3    18.0    -5.7    13.7
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                         21.9   14.6   17.2   52.2   15.1    15.3    22.8    20.1    29.6    21.3
. not applicable
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.



- 24 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-79)
(US$ Million)
1977   1978   1979
(US$ million)                                             %
Exports f.o.b.                 6,038  7,295  10,857   Rubber                      1,561    21.2
Imports f.o.b.                 4,467  5,749   7,860   Timber                      1,235    16.8
Nonfactor Services (net)        -505   -651  -1,027   Petroleum                   1,058    14.4
Resource Gap (deficit)         1,066    895   1,970   Tin                           820    11.1
Factor Services (net)           -517   -606    -880   Palm Oil                      800    10.9
Net Transfers                    -32    -42      -53   All Other Commodities    1,880    25.6
Balance on Current Account       517    247   1,037
Total                7,360   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment        477    542      594
Net MLT Borrowing /a
Disbursements                  644  1,044      978   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Amortization                   318    558      245
Subtotal                       326    486      733                                    US$ Mln
Other Items n.e.i.              -644   -464  -1,121   Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed   3,004
Increase in Reserves (-)        -199   -269  -1,244   Nonguaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed   3,004
International Reserves         2,973  3,243   4,487
(end year)
DEBT-SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                   %
Imports                        578    634
Exports                        854  1,010            Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed        4.0
Of which:  Crude Petro-                            Nonguaranteed Private Debt
leum           770    969            Total Outstanding & Disbursed        4.0
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                       IBRD/IDA LENDING (December 30, 1980)
(US$ million)
Average rate during period:
IBRD
M$ per US$    US$ per M$
Outstanding & Disbursed           489.46
1971             3.05           0.33               Undisbursed                        516.84
1972             2.82           0.35               Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  1,006.30
1973             2.44           0.41
1974             2.41           0.41
1975              2.40          0.42
1976             2.54           0.39
1977             2.46           0.41
1978             2.32           0.43
1979             2.19           0.46
/a  Medium and long-term capital flows are obtained from World Bank debt data and are not
comparable with balance of payments estimates.
not available



- 25 -                      ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (AS OF December 31, 1980)
Amount in
US$ million
(Less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year   Borrower          Purpose                        Bank   Undisbursed
Twenty-one loans fully disbursed                                 399.47
810     1972   Malaysia          Education (II)                 15.50      0.73
880     1973   Malaysia          Population                      5.00      1.20
931     1973   Malaysia          Highway (II)                   19.50      3.28
967     1974   Malaysia          Land Settlement               40.00       3.43
973     1974   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    45.00        28.11
974     1974   Malaysia          Education (III)                19.00      8.39
1044     1974   Malaysia          Land Settlement               36.00      16.53
1115     1975   Malaysia          Agricultural Research
and Extension               20.50      11.78
1178     1975   National
Electricity
Board          Power (VII)                   35.00       7.40
1213     1976   Malaysia          Sewerage                      21.50      12.39
1214     1976   Malaysia          Urban Transport (II)          26.00      13.12
1294     1976   Malaysia          Rural Development             21.00      15.70
1329     1976   Malaysia          Education (IV)                35.00      29.09
1376     1977   Malaysia          Highway (III)                 35.00      18.68
1443     1977   National
Electricity
Board          Power (VIII)                  22.00      12.61
1444     1977   Malaysia          Irrigation                    39.00      31.67
1493     1978   Malaysia          National Extension            19.00      17.69
1522     1978   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    26.00        24.62
1580     1978   Sabah Ports
Authority      Ports (II)                    13.00       8.27
1590     1978   Malaysia          Land Settlement               28.00      26.51
1608     1978   Malaysia          Population (II)               17.00      16.20
1618     1978   Malaysia          Coconut Smallholders Dev.   19.50        16.79
1632     1978   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    26.50        22.19
1657     1979   Malaysia          Education (V)                 38.00      36.92
1717     1979   Malaysia          Irrigation                    31.00      28.56
1808     1980   National
Electricity
Board          Power IX                      50.00      50.00
1899     1980   Malaysia          Agriculture Development /a  25.00        25.00
1900     1980   Malaysia          Agriculture Credit /a         30.00      30.00
Total loans (less cancellations)                    1,157.47
of which has been repaid                            136.29
Total now outstanding                               1,021.18
Amount sold                                44.81
of which has been repaid                 29.93       14.88
Total loans now held by Bank                        1,006.30
Total undisbursed                                                516.84
/a Not effective as of December 31, 1980.



- 26 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF December 31, 1980)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year                                          business         Loan    Equity    Total
1964  Malaysian Industrial Development    Development
Finance Ltd. (MIDF)                     financing        -      1.31       1.31
1966  Tasek Cement Ltd.                       Cement           1.28      0.28       1.56
1968  Malayawata Steel Ltd.                   Steel            2.45      1.01       3.46
1969  Malayawata Steel Ltd.                   Steel               -      0.23       0.23
1970  India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.           Textiles         1.25     0.25        1.50
1974  Malaysian Industrial Development    Development
Finance Ltd. (MIDF)                    financing         -      0.63       0.63
Total gross commitment                                  4.98      3.71       8.69
Less: repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs                     4.09      3.46       7.55
Total commitments now held by IFC                       0.89      0.25       1.14
Total undisbursed                                           -      _           _



- 27                         ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14 pages
MALAYSIA
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
GENERAL AGRICULTURE
LonTi No. 967 Johore Land Settlement Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1974; Effective Date: May 16, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of clearing 81,000 acres of land and
planting about 65,000 acres of oil palms, construction of 5 palm oil mills,
8 villages, roads, provision for power and water, and settle..ent of
6,500 families.
Clearing of 82,800 acres has been completed and 72,500 acres of oil
palms have been planted. Planting and maintenance standards are satisfactory.
All schemes are now in production and production has recovered from
initially disappointing levels. A major resupplying program to replace losses
to game is underway and boundary trenches have been completed. Due to delays
in infrastructure development, village development is one to three years
behind schedule. About 4,080 settler houses have been constructed and 3,980
families settled. Rising timber prices and labor shortages are also creating
difficulties for contractors. Regular coordination committee meetings have
improved interagency relationships, but shortfalls in construction of water
supply and access roads will cause some further slippage. About 1,130 miles
of agricultural roads have been constructed. The Lok Heng mill is under
construction and expected to be operative by mid-1981.
Loan No. 1044 Keratong Land Settlement Project; US$36.0 Million Loan of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of clearing about 63,000 acres of land and
planting and maintenance of about 55,000 acres of oil palms; construction
of three palm oil mills and establishment of two urban settlements for about
5,500 families.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14 pages
About 60,200 acres have been cleared and 52,500 acres planted to oil
palm. On four schemes, 25% of palms were damaged by game. Perimeter trenches
are being dug and seedlings resupplied. So far, 2,238 houses have been
completed and 1,854 settlers moved in in schemes 1, 2, 4, and 5. The
Bahau-Keratong highway has been opened for all traffic and the project area is
no longer isolated. About 625 miles of agricultural works have been
constructed. The second mnill is under construction and expected to be
operative by spring 1981.
Loan No. 1115 Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$20.5 Million
Loan of May 30, 1975; Effective Date: October 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is designed to expand and strengthen research programs
and establish 'an Extension Liaison Unit in the Department of Agriculture.
The project was restructured in July/August 1979 to cover all
agricultural research programs of the Institute, substantially reduce the
man-years of consultants, reduce the loan from $28.5 million to $20.5 million,
and extend the Closing Date to June 1984. Progress since restructuring
has generally been satisfactory except for the hiring of consultants.
Loan No. 1493 National Extension Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of January 10,
1978; Effective Date: September 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
This project is designed to strengthen agriculture extension and
related services on a national basis in Malaysia. An uncertain federal/state
relationship continues to constrain implementation. Specifically, the main
constraints are (a) employment of project staff as temporary employees due to
the federal system, and (b) the inability of the Public Works Department to
prepare timely civil works designs. However, the interest and enthusiasm in
the T&V extension methodology has spread but some of the states are suffering
from inadequate staffing to provide effective supervision and guidance and
separate extension and regulatory functions at the field level and from lack
of fully understanding the concept of impact points. Sabah and Sarawak have
not yet accepted federal control of staff; physical implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily in Sarawak.
Loan No. 1590 FELDA VI Land Settlement Project; US$28.0 Million Loan of
August 11, 1978; Effective Date: March 9, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project consists of land clearing, planting and maintenance of
62,000 acres of rubber, up to 10,000 acres of cocoa and 500 acres of
experimental plantings of other crops in the states of Pahang and Negri
Sembilan, recruitment and settlement of 6,200 rubber smallholders and 1,500



- 29 -AN                         t
Page 5 of 14 pages
hired laborers, and construction of necessary housing and infrastrulcture
facilities. About 29,000 acres have been cleared and 23,000 acres planted to
rubber.
Clearing and planting operations are seriously delayed in Pahang
State due to delayed forest clearances by the State. FELDA is reviewing
alternative development proposals to offset slow development in Pahang, one
possibililty being the expansion of the project areas in Negri Sembilan.
Planting and maintenance standards are satisfactory. The cocoa planting
program has been tentatively postponed till 1983 pending further soil and
climatological studies. A start has been made (100 acres) with the crop
diversification experimental program. Some fruit and annual food crops will
be grown on areas of 5 to 50 acres each.
Loan No. 1618 Coconut Smallholders Development Project; US$19.5 Million
Loan of October 24, 1978; Effective Date: February 23, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project consists of rehabilitation of about 40,500 acres of
traditional MT Coconuts and intercropping with cocoa, coffee, fruits, etc.;
re/new planting of about 17,000 acres with hybrid coconuts and assocLated cash
crop gardens in the initial years; the provision for the importation of about
6,600 crossbred dairy animals for the development of about 3,350 integrated
dairy and beef operations; and the strengthening of support services for crop
and dairy production.
The overall crop component is ahead of schedule with uneven
performance. About 3,800 farm families have received assistance to
rehabilitate 13,000 acres and replant 2,650 acres in 1979. The dairy/beef
component is about one year behind schedule due to delay occured in importing
crossbred heifers. However, the scheduled delivery of 6,600 imported
crossbred heifers from early 1981 through mid-1982 should help the livestock
component to catch up to the implementation schedule. Additional staff
recruitment and training programs are also behind schedule but substantial
progress is now being made.
Loan No. 1899  Kelantan Land Schemes Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 Million
Loan of December 1, 1980; Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Assistance will be provided to 5,700 settlers on TAKDIR land settle-
ment schemes to complete development of their holdings and to replant or
rehabilitate existing crops. One thousand eight hundred (1,800) households
will be settled to develop landholdings on the schemes. Basic infriastructure
will be completed on the schemes and TAKDIR will be strengthened.



- 30 -                     ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1900 Rural Credit Project; US$30.0 Million Loan of December 1, 1980;
Not Yet Effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is designed to support the expansion of BPM s portfolio
of agricultural production credits, and term loans for rural development and
increased agricultural production.
IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 973 Western Jobore Agricultural Development Project; US$45.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: August 14, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes main and feeder drains, farm roads, coastal
embankments and tidal gates to improve drainage and access in the tree crop
area of about 135,000 ha in southwest Peninsular Malaysia, as well as an
integrated agricultural development program to introduce intercropping and
other changes in cropping patterns, construction of farmers development
centers, and improvements in research and extension. Civil works got off to a
slow start and are about 3 years behind schedule, but progress is now
accelerating. Staffing and land acquisition problems have been largely
overcome. Work is progressing on drainage and farm road contracts. Construc-
tion of the Macap Dam began in October 1979 and should be completed in October
1981. Bids have been invited for Bekok and Sembrong dams. Progress on the
agricultural side is generally satisfactory, particularly in developing an
integrated agricultural service system to coordinate the efforts of the
crop-based development agencies with the extension activities in the project
area. Work is also proceeding on the preparation of a second phase project.
Loan No. 1294 North Kelantan Rural Development Project; US$21.0 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: October 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project includes drainage and flood protection for 30,000 ha
and intensive irrigation for 12,000 ha of padi land; construction of 190 km of
rural roads; 15 small irrigation schemes serving 1,300 ha; construction,
rehabilitation and equipment of 25 farmers development centers; and
establishment of agricultural extension services. Implementation of civil
works has fallen about four years behind schedule, due mainly to staffing
shortages, particularly at DID headquarters for design and tendering, delays
in land acquisition, the need for studies to define the final alignments of
flood protection bunds and longer construction periods necessitated by lack
of adequate construction capability. Progress of establishment of agricul-
tural support services is generally satisfactory. Project completion is
expected by December 1984.



- 31 -                    ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1444  National Small-Scale Irrigation Project; US$39.0 Million
Loan of August 3, 1977; Effective Date:  October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
This project includes construction of small irrigation systems with
a total irrigable area of about 54,000 ha distributed throughout Malaysia;
technical assistance and training for DID; procurement of equipment and a
feasibility study for the Rompin-Endau irrigation project. Construction is
proceeding satisfactorily and most schemes should be completed on schedule
by the end of 1982, although some work may extend into mid-1983. Of the
195 proposed schemes to be implemented under the project, 67 schemes have
been rejected/deleted by the Preparation and Evaluation Team and 18 new
schemes have been added; the revised number of schemes proposed under the
project is now 146. Of these, 111 have been approved by the Bank for inclu-
sion in the project following appraisal by the Preparation and Evaluation
Team. Construction of 22 schemes had been completed and 64 schemes were
under construction as of June 30, 1980. The final draft of the feasi-
bility report for the Rompin-Endau Project was submitted by the consultants
to the Government in December 1979.
Loan No. 1522 Northwest Selangor Integrated Agricultural Development Project;
US$26.0 Million Loan of March 8, 1978; Effective Date:
June 21, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project includes intensification of irrigation network for
20,000 ha of padi; drainage work for 77,000 ha of tree crops; and facilities,
equipment, and training to support an intensified program of agricultural
services for the Northwest Selangor region-s smallholders. The project
started out about one year behind schedule due primarily to staff shortages,
but no significant progress has been made on staffing, design anid tendering
of structural tertiaries, and planning, survey and design of drainage works.
Progress on the agricultural component is satisfactory. A drafl: agricultural
services operation manual has been prepared. The project is expected to be
completed by end-1983, about one year behind appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1632 Krian-Sungei Manik Integrated Agricultural Development Project
US$26.5 Million Loan of December 13, 1978; Effective Date:
March 6, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide improved drainage and irrigation facili-
ties, access roads, training and intensifed agricultural supporting services
in two separate areas, covering a total of about 30,000 ha of padi land in
the state of Perak. Due to initial staff shortages and continuing delays in
land acquisition, project completion is now expected by the end of 1985, two
years behind the appraisal estimate.



- 32 -                      ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1717 Muda II Irrigation Project; US$31.0 Million Loan of
July 30, 1979; Effective Date: September 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is the first phase of tertiary irrigation and drainage
development in the Muda irrigation area, whose storage facilities and main
canal system were constructed under a previous Bank-financed project
(Loan 434-MA) during the period 1965-70. The project will provide tertiary
irrigation canals, drainage channels, and farm roads to serve nearly 25,000 ha
of padi land, representing about 25% of the total command area. It also
includes establishment of a highly organized extension system, improvement of
operation and maintenance facilities, drainage and coastal protection works
serving the entire 98,000 ha area. Project completion is now expected end-
1985 as compared to end-1983 at appraisal.
EDUCATION
Loan No. 810   Second Education Project; US$15.5 Million Loan of April 5,
1972; Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project provides for: (a) educational television in Peninsular
Malaysia; (b) a national curriculum development center; (c) a science
university; and (d) technical and vocational secondary schools. Physically
the project has been completed and disbursement is practically complete. The
Closing Date will not be extended.
Loan No. 974   Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of April 5,
1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The Project includes eight general secondary schools, four teacher
training colleges and one polytechnic institute in Peninsular Malaysia and
education mass media in Sabah/Sarawak. Project implementation is about
three years behind schedule because of site selection problems, slow design
and tendering, poor performance by contractors and shortages of building
materials and labor.  The implementation staff has been expanded and
strengthened and construction is in progress at all project locations.
Disbursements are improving.
Loan No. 1329 Fourth Education Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of
November 18, 1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project provides for: (a) improved planning and construction of
approximately 850 primary schools in seven most disadvantaged states of
Malaysia; (b) establishment of four educational resource centers and one



- 33 -                  ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14 pages
teacher training college; (c) expansion of two and establishment of three
industrial training institutes; and (d) further study of community education
needs. The pace of primary school construction program (75% of project total)
is satisfactory. Over 50% of the primary schools have been completed; the
remaining project items are under construction.
Loan No. 1657 Fifth Education Project; US$38.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1979; Effective Date: May 7, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
The project provides for: (a) construction and equipment for 76
lower secondary schools to be located in areas of poor access to education;
(b) establishment of administrative training institutes for headmasters and
other educational officers; (c) a new central campus and three regional
centers to expand the capacity and improve the program of the national public
administration academy; and (d) assistance to long-range planning of occupa-
tional training. Implementation performance is good, and overall the project
is on, or slightly ahead of, schedule.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1178 Seventh Power Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of December 17,
1975; Effective Date: March 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Extension of Prai Power Station under the Seventh Power Project is
proceeding satisfactorily, about 98% complete at the end of September 1980.
Units No. 4 and 5 were taken over by NEB in December 1979 and June 1980,
respectively. Unit No. 6 was commissioned in October 1980.
Loan No. 1443 Eighth Power Project; US$22.0 Million Loan of August 3,
1977; Effective Date: January 9, 1978; Closing D)ate:
June 30, 1982
Progress on the Pasir Gudang Thermal Power Station under the Eighth
Power Project was about 50% complete at the end of September 1980, about 3
months behind the revised schedule due to bad weather in the early part of
1980 and the shortage of skilled labor.
Loan No. 1808 Ninth Power Project; US$50.0 Million Loan of May 21, 1980;
Effective Date: November 6, 1980; Closing Date: August 31, 1985
The project, estimated to cost $232.9 million, will be cofinanced by
Commonwealth Development Corporation (UK), Canadian International Development
Agency, Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan) and commercial banks. It



- 34 -                 ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14 pages
includes construction of two dams and hydroelectric power stations (192 MW)
and about 174 km of transmission lines and associated substations. Site
preparatory works have commenced. Contracts for major electrical and
mechanical works have been awarded.
Loan 1213-MA Kuala Lumpur Sewerage Project; US$21.5 Million Loan of
March 11, 1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is the first stage (1976-81) of a 30-year master plan
for sewerage development in the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area. It includes
the extension of sewage collection (about 70 miles of trunk and lateral
sewers) and treatment facilities to serve an additional population of 200,000
in the Kuala Lumpur Federal Territory; the institution of a separate Sewerage
Department within the Kuala Lumpur City Hall with its own accounting system
and finances; engineering and management consultant services; staff training;
and the preparation of sewerage and pollution control system in the Kuala
Lumpur metropolitan area. The engineering of the project has been satisfac-
torily completed. Construction of the three major contracts is progressing.
Land acquisition and resettlement of present occupants have created serious
problems but these are now being solved. Sewerage surcharges on water bills
were instituted after delays. Compliance with covenants regarding long-term
sewerage and urban planning in Selangor State is lagging. The project is
expected to be completed by mid-1982, about two years behind the original
schedule, at about the estimated cost.
TRANSPORTATION
Loan No. 931   Second Highway Project; US$19.5 Million Loan of August 22,
1973; Effective Date: October 25, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project includes: (a) construction and improvement of two
sections of Federal Route I totalling about 90 miles in length; and (b)
consultant services for (i) feasibility studies and detailed engineering of
about 22 miles of Route I and connecting roads in the vicinity of Kuala
Lumpur, (ii) detailed engineering of about 200 miles of roads in West and East
Malaysia, (iii) town development studies for Kuantan and for the region of
North-East Negri Sembilan and an urban road improvement study for Kuala
Lumpur, and (iv) supervision of (a) above.
The project, several months after its original completion date, was
about 95% complete. All studies and detailed engineering were completed. The
new Kuala Lumpur-Seremban Expressway was open to traffic for about 80% of its



- 35 -                   ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
length by the end of 1977, and except for a one-mile section at the northern
end, the balance of the Expressway and its access ramps were opened to traffic
by the beginning of June 1979. The northern extremity, while completed, will
be open to traffic in about June 1981, after the completion of the interchange
and access ramps which form part of the Kuala Lumpur Traffic Dispersal Scheme
(Loan No. 1214). The Expressway is operating fairly well under traffic and
Government is taking steps to remove traffic hazards which had been created
by unauthorized use of road and shoulders for commercial activities. The
Kuala Lumpur-Seremban Road improvement works have been completed and the
entire length of the road is open to traffic. Difficulties with land
acquisition have been largely responsible for long delays in the completion of
the widening and improvement works for the Kuala Lumpur-Batang Kali Road,
construction of which began in November 1976; it is now 90% completed.
Construction costs have escalated sharply due to the delays in project
execution combined with rapid inflation and the total project cost is now
estimated at US$53 million compared to an appraisal estimate of US$37 million,
an increase of 43%.
Loan No. 1376   Third Highway Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1977,
Effective Date: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of: (a) reconstruction and improvement of
trunk roads in Sabah; (b) four-year maintenance program for Sabah, including
procurement of equipment, upgrading 290 miles of 13 road sections and
consultants services for supervision of construction and technical assistance
to Sabah's PWD; (c) development of pilot road maintenance and pavement
strengthening programs for the states of Johore, Perak and Kelantan in
Peninsular Malaysia, including pavement strengthening of about 120 mi in
Johore; and (d) a transport/railway study for Peninsular Malaysia and an
urban study of Kota Kinabalu.
The project overall is about 80% completed. Construction work on
the east and west coast roads in Sabah (three contracts) started in September
1977, about five months behind schedule. The west coast road is completed.
Of the two contracts comprising the east coast road, one has recently been
rescinded and was assigned to the other contractor who was the second lowest
bidder. The Highway Maintenance and Road Upgrading Program in Sabah is now
proceeding satisfactorily with the help of consultants but the program is more
than a year behind schedule. Progress is now satisfactory on the Pavement
Strengthening Program in the three pilot states in Peninsular Malaysia, but
the reorganization and upgrading of the State Maintenance Sections and of the
Maintenance Unit within the Federal Public Works Department is behind
schedule, primarily due to staff shortages. The urban study of Kota Kinabalu
in Sabah and the transport/railway study in Peninsular Malaysia have been
completed. Procurement of the first and second tranches of maintenance
equipment for the Sabah Highway Maintenance Program has been completed.
Proposals for procurement of additional equipment and some technical
assistance, which would represent the balance of the loan, is under
preparation.



-36 -                        ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1580   Second Sabah Ports Project; US$13.0 Million Loan of
September 20, 1978; Effective Date: November 10, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project aims at: (a) providing Tawau Port with the capacity to
meet forecasted traffic; (b) providing the ports of Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan
and Tawau with cargo handling equipment to meet future traffic growth and to
replace worn-out items; and (c) improving the performance of the Sabah Ports
Authority by providing technical assistance and staff training. Civil works
commenced in December 1979 and are about 35% complete. Traffic and financial
results for 1980 were generally better than forecasted. Management
consultants completed field work in July 1980 and a draft final report in
December 1980, which is now being reviewed by the Sabah Ports Authority.
POPULATION
Loan No. 880   First Population Project; US$5.0 Million Loan of February 9,
1973; Effective Date: June 21, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The objective of the project is to: (a) strengthen administration
of the family planning program; (b) extend family planning services to rural
areas; (c) expedite in-service training of medical and paramedical personnel
in family planning; (d) introduce population education in schools; (e)
improve family planning, nutrition and health education programs for the rural
population; (f) broaden research and evaluation through establishment of
population research centers.
The National Family Planning Board (NFPB), by activating the
national and state level committees and subcommittees, has recently gained
greater managerial control over project implementation. With the creation
of the Project Construction Coordination Unit (PCCU), the Government has
succeeded in halting the slow progress in the civil works. To date, 453
buildings out of a total of 571 have been completed and a further 95 are
under construction. According to the revised schedule, construction of some
facilities will be completed only by mid-1981. Due to this delay, the closing
date has been extended to December 31, 1981. Annual contraceptive acceptors
rose from about 75,000 in 1976 to over 87,000 in 1979; nearly 40% of these
acceptors were reported to have been recruited through the integrated
rural health facilities supported through the project. The percentage of
women in childbearing age using contraception increased from 16% in 1970 to
over 39% in 1978. The estimated rate of current users of contraceptives is
about 45% of the women in reproductive age.



-37 -                       ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1608 Second Population and Family Health Project; US$17.0 Million
Loan of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978;
Closing Date; December 31, 1983
The project is designed to strengthen further the national family
planning program in order to achieve the demographic goal of reducing the
birth rate from 30.3 per 1,000 in 1975 to 26 in 1985, with a corresponding
reduction in the population growth rate from 2.4% to 2% in Peninsular
Malaysia, and to extend family planning services to Sabah and Sarawak for the
improvement of maternal and child health.
Due to recent changes in several key management positions in the
Ministry of Health and National Family Planning Board and those agencies'
preoccupation with the preparation of the Fourth Malaysia Plan, progress of
project implementation has slowed down. Procurement of equipment and vehicles
is proceeding on schedule. National program performance, in terms of the
number of new acceptors, reached an all time high of over 87,000 during 1979
compared to about 85,000 in 1978. Project components related to health in
Sarawak and those under the Ministry of Agriculture in the whole of Malaysia
are progressing well. Of the 200 buildings under the project, sites for 150
have been acquired, of which 22 are either under construction or have been
tendered. The Government has taken action to locate and acquire sites for the
remaining 50 buildings. NFPB will review NFSC building plans in terms of its
special functional requirements and seek Bank's comments prior to its final-
ization. Considerable progress has been made in establishing specialized
services, training, and research under the National Family Planning Center.
URBAN
Loan No. 1214  Second Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project; US$26.0 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effective Date: November 11, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The main objective of the project is to increase the efficiency of
the transport system in Kuala Lumpur. Public transport services will be
improved while the use of private cars will be restrained. Al-though primarily
concerned with urban transport, the project also introduces new approaches to
residential development for low-income families. The main components are:
(a) road and intersection improvements, traffic engineering and control
schemes and construction of new radial roads; (b) transport policy measures
including introduction of minibus services, traffic priorities for high-
occupancy vehicles and area road pricing; (c) provision of new serviced plots
for households and businesses, and improvement of infrastructure services for



- 38 -                       ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
existing households; and (d) technical assistance to support traffic manage-
ment and transport planning, to prepare an urban development project for
Kuantan, and to review national housing policies and programs. The major
problem in project implementation has been the Government's unwillingness to
pursue the transport policy measures. Bus and minibus services have not been
expanded significantly, only one priority lane for buses has been introduced
and area road pricing has been delayed indefinitely. After initial delays,
new road construction, road and intersection improvements and traffic signal
procurement and installation have generally proceeded satisfactorily,
although problems are being experienced with one contract for major roadworks.
Execution of the residential components has been unsatisfactory due to
administrative problems and the Government-s lack of commitment to the
policies on which the components are based.



ANNEX III
Page 1
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:        4 years
(b)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  March 24, 1980
(c)  Date of completion of negotiations:       January 29, 1981
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness:            July 31, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A. Condition of Effectiveness
A suitably qualified and experienced Project Manager would be
appointed (para. 39).
B. Other Special Conditions
(i) the implementing agencies would maintain separate accounts for the
project; these would be collated by the Project Manager.  The
Government would furnish the Bank such information regarding these
accounts as the Bank might reasonably request (para. 38);
(ii) the Government would ensure that adequate funds are allocated
to LPN and FOA to provide drying and storage, and rice mill-
ing and marketing facilities in the project area as needed
(para. 43);
(iii) DOA would prepare an agricultural services operations manual as a
guide for field staff by January 1, 1984 (para. 43); and DID would
prepare a designer's operations manual on completion of final design
of each subproject (para. 44);



- 40 -                              ANNEX III
Page 2
(iv) an independent expert or panel of experts, acceptable to the Bank,
would be employed by the Government to review the consultant-s
design of the Anak Endau dam and the Pontian weir and associated
structures before start of construction, and to examine during
construction whether any changes in the designs are needed (para.
45);
(v) the Government would establish a suitable maintenance and
inspection program for the Anak Endau dam and the Pontian weir and
would propose to the Bank appropriate implementation arrangements
for the Bank's review no later than one year before the expected
completion of the dam and the weir (para. 45);
(vi) the Government would take all measures necessary to ensure that
the design, construction and operation of works under the project
are carried out in accordance with appropriate ecological and
environmental standards (para. 46);
(vii) the Government would forward to the Bank, for its review and
comment by June 30, 1981, settler selection criteria and the
Government-settler agreement (para. 47); and
(viii) the Government would take all necessary measures to ensure
that no farms in the project area would be fragmented or fall
into the hands of absentee landlords (para. 47).



IBRD 15104
10-20                                     10325'                                    iF 1t90c
MALAYSiA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
jw~~~~                                           ------- Dr~~~~~~~~~ainas (Proposed)
U-I- -   ExCtstng Ater
--U-Proposed Weir ond D)om
El    Proposed Pumping Stotions
___ Cujlve~t wvith Outlet Sluice
flood PIrotoction, B.Isds
'~~~~fx.    ~ ~~~~~                                     7~~~~3  Pa~~~~opose"i Irrigation Area
LII,,   Proposed Parm Settemenrt Areo
Subregional Cnremrs
Fodo Oil PaIrm ScKenTe
Coatf faighways
,J______IROMPIN __UBPPOJFCTJ         W\ Vl7J   c\                     ----  ExistuAgUnpovp   Rood
--------- Existing togging Trcks
-2 45'                                                                                                                I. -r/  IP9Koolo  roposed Moin Raols
t\ ?erX S .. % \rm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P,                                          n            .....  Rivers
8iot\rtdnaories
n,8 ocap haseet     th P  A O     A  N  G  c th                                                                                           -    ,ONET '
Wort  'e,k  Sta, ecjtS,ca, fKor:                                                                                           <   :      :    ;
X    d~~~~~ e   9    y7,,1\  Q . -5                                                                  '   '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e 
2-40'         |<                                                                         S       .       /          ,\                            S5er
the tthcat ,anCr oh the re ader  of       Ih  :: 
The   ht b    d e.d b the,
tooccdantes Shoath on tOt map                                                                                                                                   Poon   tndo/rr Iss
dc  f  hctct,th HIr O°f the pac7Tdt f- =tithes\ 
~dthw?t' 9-. f,a                                                                                                    Sd'                          R   
-y = ,                                          I I   1    -    O                                       [INA It  DA
TYPICAL IRRIGATION LAYOUT OF TERTIARY BLOCK                                        Kg   o                                     - __ _ 
INOT IN SCALEI                                                            c,
-2 35'  ('   4                                 l   i   , ___; ,vfV         ~    ~~~ 2-35'
(Mao,rsoIUO          -         -                                                                                            H -                            E,
icc1
I e   __ _ _ _   __  _   _                                                                                    c >   0    UBPRI RETIG
l~~~~~~~~~~ -d. C-I,g 
1  __   _  _   C _    _   _    Seco4rfTc Camol                               103-30      1) hEtlT
I2 4ho                        ___Tecrctc0 Conot           ;        i            FEtf       _                             NGay,
SI                                                                   E -d                  J C,c,ot        - Chott-  :tC
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,   O   .   ..                              iY 1                                                   WN T ELh N3
511m 5f C C                                             Rf                                                                            103-35'
ii  0  ____                          1at,ut               'hratdeet~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PP, )~j                        '3'
--------   -                                             k~~~~~~~~S-- .. 
II                                                    r~~~~~~~~~~~~~cac   ArnoccP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L IID'
II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
SUMATRA 
I I                                                    or~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0'5



