Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3160-MA
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 20, 1981
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00              M$2.15
M$1.00         =     US$0.46
M$1 million   =      US$465,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)          2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)          0.62 mile
1 meter (m)   =      3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq m)         10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (cu m)         35.31 cubic feet
=     1.308 cubic yards
1 kilogram (kg)          2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AA    -   Agricultural Assistant
AAO   -   Assistant Agricultural Officer
AO    -   Agricultural Officer
AT    -   Agricultural Technician
BPM   -   Bank Pertanian Malaysia
DARA  -   Pahang Tenggara Development Authority
DID   -   Drainage and Irrigation Department
DOA   -   Department of Agriculture
DOAA  -   Department of Orang Asli Affairs
DOF   -   Department of. Fisheries
DOVS  -   Department of Veterinary Services
FAMA  -   Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority
FDC   -   Farmers' Development Center
FELCRA-   Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority
FELDA -   Federal Land Development Authority
FOA   -   Farmers' Organization Authority
LCC   -   Local Credit Center
LPN   -   Lembaga Padi dan Beras Negara - National Padi and Rice Authority
MARDI -   Malaysia Agricultural Research and Development Institute
MOA   -   Ministry of Agriculture
MOHA  -   Ministry of Home Affairs
NEB   -   National Electricity Board
NPV   -   Net Present Value
O&M   -   Operation and Maintenance
PPAR  -   Project Performance Audit Report
PWD   -   Public Works Department
SEDC  -   State Economic Development Corporation
SMEC  -   Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation
T&V   -   Training and Visit Extension System
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA: APPRAISAL OF THE ROMPIN-ENDAU
AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  BACKGROUND ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
Introduction .I...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  I
The Agricultural Sector                                                     1
Government Strategies for Agricultural Development . . .                    2
Irrigation Development ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
Project Formulation   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  4
2.  THE PROJECT AREA    ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  6
The State of Pahang   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  6
The Rompin-Endau Region. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   6
Climate and Hydrology.                                                     7
Topography and Soils.                                                      9
Population . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   9
Agriculture   ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  10
3.  THE PROJECT   .1.0...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  l0
Project Description   .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  10
Project Works .11
Water Demand, Supply and Quality   . . . . . . . . . . .                  15
Design Standards          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               16
Status of Engineering .18
Project Implementation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   19
Cost Estimate .19
Financing    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  21
Procurement    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  21
Disbursements    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  22
Accounts and Audits .22
Environmental Effects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   22
4.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    23
Project Coordination .23
Settler Selection and Administration   . . . . . . . . .                  24
Agencies and Agency Responsibilities                      . . . . . . . . .  25
Consulting Services .31
Land Acquisition .32
Operation and Maintenance    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  32
Safety of Dams .33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
5.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      33
Land Use and Production  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     33
Farm   Size  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  34
Crop Management  ... .  .  .  .  .   .....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  34
Drying, Storage and Processing . . . . . . . . . . . . .     37
6. MARKETS, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY  . . . . .      37
Markets  .    .    .  .    .  .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .  37
Prices   .    .    .    .  .    .  .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .  .    .    .    .    .  38
Farm  Incomes  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  40
Cost  Recovery    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  40
7.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . .     42
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . .      46
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
2.1  Climatic Data
3.1  Net Irrigable Area
3.2  Road Widths
3.3  Cost Summary
3.4  Schedule of Construction Contracts
5.1  Present and Projected Harvested Area, Yields and Production
6.1  Rice Price Structure
6.2  Summary Budgets for 2.4 Ha Padi Farms With Alternative
Supplementary Enterprises
ANNEXES
1.  Crop Water Requirements
2.  Cost Estimates, Expenditures, Disbursements and Allocation
of Loan Funds
3.  Production Coefficients and Farm Budgets
4.  Economic Analysis
5.  Schedule of Critical Events
6.  Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
LIST OF FIGURES
3.1  Implementation Schedule
3.2  Implementation Schedule
4.1  Project Organization
5.1  Proposed Padi Cropping Calendar
MAP
IBRD 15104 Rompin-Endau Area Development Project



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01      The Government of tIalaysia has requested Bank assistance in finan-
cing the Rompin-Endau Area Development Project, which would provide for the
development of about 11,400 ha of new land for irrigated rice cultivation in
Pahang State. The proposed project would provide 4,750 settler families
with 2.4 ha each of irrigated rice land. They would also be provided with a
0.17 ha housing lot, housing, community infrastructure, and agricultural
support services. The project focuses on one of the major identifiable
groups in rural poverty, the rice smallholders, and addresses two of the
major constraints to achieving an income above poverty level - the small
size of holding and low land productivity. The proposed project would open
up one of the few remaining areas in Peninsular Malaysia suitable for
large-scale irrigation of rice and would contribute to the country's goal of
self-sufficiency in rice production.
1.02      A feasibility study for the project was prepared under the
provisions of National Small-Scale Irrigation Project (Loan 1444-MA) by
Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation (SMEC) of Australia in association
with International Land Development Consultants (ILACO) of the Netherlands
and KPM Khidmat Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia. Planning for the agricultural,
fisheries, and livestock support services for the project was done by the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). This report is based on the findings of an
appraisal mission composed of Messrs. R. Qureshi, A. Menkir, T. Daves (Bank)
and G. Thorksy (consultant) which visited Malaysia in April 1980. Mr. R. Dy
and Ms. K. Hill assisted in the preparation of the report.
The Agricultural Sector
1.03      The agricultural sector plays a dominant role in the economy of
Malaysia, though its relative importance is declining as the country
proceeds toward industrialization. The sector accounts for about 24% of
GDP, 40% of export earnings, and 42% of employment. GDP in agriculture grew
at an average rate of about 5% p.a. between 1973 and 1979. Based on past
investments in tree crops and new land development, and continuing public
sector investments, growth is likely to be sustained at 4-5% for the next
decade. Agricultural production has been heavily export-oriented since
colonial times; however, the composition of exports has changed
significantly in the last decade due to the Government-s policy of
diversification in the sector. Rubber continues to be the single largest
export earner, but its share has dropped from 40% in 1969 to 21% in 1979 as
earnings from palm oil, wood products and cocoa have grown. Malaysia is the
world's largest producer and exporter of both rubber and palm oil, supplying



42% of the world's natural rubber output and 49% of palm oil production in
1979. Agriculture's share of total employment has gradually declined from
53% in 1970 to 42% in 1979. The government expects the agricultural labor
force to grow about 1% per annum for the next decade with industry and
services absorbing increasinglylarger percentages of the total labor force.
Continued growth in volume and favorable prices in agriculture, along with
the expansion of manufacturing and the recent development of Malaysia's oil
and gas reserves have enabled the country to maintain a healthy trade
surplus, estimated at about US$2.1 billion in 1979.
1.04      Peninsular Malaysia has about 3.2 million ha, or 25% of its area,
under cultivation, of which almost 2.3 million are in rubber and oil palms.
Nearly two thirds of the tree crop area is in smallholdings. The other
major crops are rice, grown on 478,000 ha, of which about half is double
cropped, and coconut, with 337,000 ha. Other crops (each occupying below
40,000 ha) are pineapple, cocoa, cassava, sugarcane, tobacco, coffee, pepper
and groundnuts. Output has grown rapidly over the past decade; rubber
output increased 100% and oil palm by 300%. Output of rice increased by
90%, primarily due to improved and expanded irrigation facilities. Domestic
production of rice supplies 85-90% of consumption requirements. With
population growing at 2.7% p.a., an additional 45,000 tons of rice are
required each year just to maintain the current per capita consumption
level. The Government has formulated three basic objectives with regard to
rice:  (a) to increase the incomes of padi farmers; (b) to achieve
self-sufficiency in rice production; and (c) to provide reasonably priced
rice to consumers.
1.05      Notwithstanding the impressive overall performance of the
Malaysian economy, some 36% of the population had incomes below the official
absolute poverty line in 1978. Two thirds of those were in agricultural
households, where the incidence is about 55%. Among rice farmers, about 74%
have family incomes below the absolute poverty line. There are two main
factors responsible for the high incidence of poverty among rice farmers -
small size of holdings and low productivity per unit of land. According to
a recent Bank report on rural poverty in Malaysia a farmer with no off-farm
income needs 2.4-2.8 ha of single cropped rice to achieve a poverty level
income; however, the average size holding is 1.2 ha, with over half the
holdings being smaller than this and 90% of all holdings less than 2.6 ha.
To reach a poverty level income on an average size holding would require
either double cropping or supplemental income equivalent to padi income.
Government Strategies for Agricultural Development
1.06      Having officially adopted in 1970 the objective of poverty
eradication, the Government has employed two basic strategies. The first
has been land development to allow the absorption of workers from low income
rural occupations to higher productivity employment. The second has been
the provision of projects and programs aimed directly at increasing small-
holder productivity. Aided by strong growth in the secondary and tertiary



- 3 -
sectors, implementation of these strategies has contributed to a significant
decrease in the incidence of rural poverty: from 67% in 1970 to 55% in 1978.
Strong industrial growth during this period provided enough employment
opportunities outside agriculture to absorb two-thirds of the increase in
the rural labor force. Large scale irrigation projects that came into
fruition in the early 1970s provided increases in rice productivity that
significantly changed the income position of the project beneficiaries and
allowed the country to reduce its imports from 42% of consumption
requirements in 1967 to about 10% in 1979. Government agencies, such as
FELDA, carried out land development projects opening up over 1.1 million ha
of new land, mostly for tree crops and resettled about 250,000 rural
families.
1.07      With Malaysia's strong industrial base and its financial resources,
it is in a position to continue its efforts to increase the productivity of
small farmers as a principal thrust of its poverty strategy. It is also in
a position to implement income distribution measures such as increasing the
prices received by poverty households for their output, reducing the price
of essential consumer goods, or increasing net incomes by direct supplements.
That the Government has already begun to move in this direction is indicated
by the recent reduction in the rubber export tax and the increases in padi
price supports and fertilizer and pesticide subsidies to rice farmers.
Irrigation Development
1.08      Irrigation in Malaysia is confined mainly to the cultivation of
rice. The Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID) was established in 1932
after a serious rice shortage in the early 1920s and the realization that
overdependence on other countries for basic food supplies was risky. DID-s
responsibility was land improvement and water resources development,
particularly with regard to rice, which had been cultivated as a wet season
crop over some 100,000 ha, and treecrops, which had been established on
about 40,000 ha in coastal areas subject to tidal inundation.  Until the
early 1960s, irrigation schemes were designed to stabilize production of a
single crop of rice during the wet season, providing water to supplement
rainfall during short periods of drought. In the early 1960s, the expansion
of irrigation was accelerated as part of the massive rural development
program after independence, and DID began aiming its programs toward double
cropped rice by building storage dams and pumping stations, and upgrading
distribution systems. DID has now provided irrigation facilities allowing
double-cropping over practically all major rice producing areas, with the
result that 80% of the country-s 478,000 ha of rice land now has some form
of irrigation facilities and over 50% is technically capable of double
cropping. In addition, DID has constructed drainage schemes on some
425,000 ha of land devoted to treecrops. Although the major part of DID's
program has been to provide irrigation systems in traditional rainfed rice
areas, they have also undertaken projects to develop new land for rice
production. The largest single system of this type is the Tanjong Karong



- 4 -
Irrigation Scheme, under which 20,000 ha of coastal mangrove swamps and
shallow peats were developed into productive rice land during the late 1930s
and early 1950s.
1.09      The Bank has participated in irrigation development in Malaysia
since 1965 when it financed the Muda Irrigation Project (Loan 434-MA),
followed in 1967 by the Kemubu Project (Loan 500-MA). Together, the project
areas amount to nearly 120,000 ha, or about 25% of the rice land in penin-
sular Malaysia, and accommodate some 73,000 farm families. According to the
PPAR (Report 1295, September 24, 1976), they were successful projects which
helped to reduce rice imports from 42% of national requirements in 1967 to
17% in 1974, and resulted in increases of 75-100% in the incomes of project
beneficiaries. The design of field distribution and drainage systems,
based on the standards prevailing in East Asia in the 1960s, involved widely
spaced secondary canals and field-to-field irrigation and drainage. At that
time, there was neither the experience in design and construction of more
intensive on-farm developments nor widespread use of the HYVs which depend on
precise water control at the field level.  Higher standards of on-farm
development are now being initiated in the Muda II project (Loan 1717-MA) on
an area of 25,000 ha. Five other Bank-financed projects under implemen-
tation will improve, expand and intensify irrigation over 116,000 ha of rice
land and drainage over 212,000 ha of tree crops. These projects include,
in addition to the irrigation and drainge infrastructure, provisions for
strengthening agricultural support services such as credit, extension,
processing and marketing. Coordination of the various agencies and
departments is a major element in the successful implementation of the
projects, and the Government has developed an effective organization for
this purpose. A Steering Committee of federal and state officials is
appointed to guide and support a project manager, who is responsible for
the progress of all components of the project.
Project Formulation
1.10      In the Third Malaysia Plan, 1976-80, an extensive jungle region
between the Rompin and Endau Rivers in the state of Pahang was identified as
one of the few remaining areas in Peninsular Malaysia suitable for
large-scale padi development. Subsequent investigations showed that out of
some 60,000 ha in the area, about 16,000 ha might be suitable for irrigated
rice cultivation. To allow further examination of the area's development
potential, the National Small-Scale Irrigation Project (Loan 1444-MA)
provided financing for a feasibility study. The Economic Planning Unit
(EPU) engaged consultants to identify and examine alternative development
strategies, and to prepare preliminary layouts and designs of major
structures and irrigation and drainage systems for the proposed project.
The study was guided by a Government Steering Committee chaired by EPU and
consisting of representatives from relevant agencies. The first stage of
the study, carried out in April/May 1978 resulted in an Inception Report
that identified about 8,600 ha suitable for rice cultivation. Since this
was less area than anticipated, the Government amended the consultant-s
contract to include an additional 4,200 ha north of the Rompin River.



- 5 -
The final study report, submitted in December 1979, identified a gross area
of about 19,200 ha of clay and shallow peat soils suitable for rice. The
net irrigable area is about 11,400 ha (12,700 gross) after eliminating areas
with unsuitable location or topography and deducting right-of-way for
project works. The report was accepted by the Steering Committee and formed
the basis for the appraisal of the proposed project.
1.11      A major issue during project formulation was the amount of padi
land to be allocated to each settler family. Consideration was given to
estate rice culture and to large scale, 4 to 8 ha, fully mechanized family
farms.  Both of these alternatives were rejected because the quality of
management necessary for operation of such farms is not available and
because their contribution to the alleviation of rural poverty would be
negligible. The alternative of a 1.2 ha size holding (about the national
average rice farm size) was also rejected, on the grounds that farmers on
such holdings would not be fully employed and would not earn incomes
sufficient to raise their families out of poverty. The size chosen, 2.4 ha
(6 acres), would fully employ each settler head-of-household and give
substantial part-time work to other family members. It would also move the
settler families out of absolute poverty (US$320 per capita), providing an
income of about US$700 per capita in 1992.
1.12      A second important issue explored by the appraisal mission, was
the impact of the project on the aboriginal population (Orang Asli) in the
project area. The project would affect the traditional life style of about
200 Orang Asli families. There would be some loss of agricultural land and
of some areas which traditionally have been used for gathering of forest
products and hunting. However, the project would result in a general
improvement in the economic opportunities open to the Orang Asli and would
require little physical displacement. The Orang Asli families along with
other local residents would be given priority for settler status in the
project. They would be allowed to maintain their small units in contiguous
housing blocks within the new farm settlements nearest their traditional
homes. They would also be given priority rights to participate in the
fishery cage culture scheme in the project area. The Orang Asli welcome the
project and several of the village leaders have expressed to the Government
their group's desire to participate in it. Most of the Orang Asli families
have farming experience. Collectively they now cultivate about 630 ha of
which almost 60 ha is rainfed rice. The timing of the proposed project is
appropriate because the Government, in consultation with the Orang Asli, was
already considering a scheme to move them from their dispersed habitat to a
planned settlement on the coastal highway. As elsewhere in Malaysia, any
families affected who choose not to participate in the proposed project
would be compensated under Government procedures for the loss of traditional
use areas and resources.  The Bank mission fully discussed the matter of the
Orang Asli with the Director General of the Government Department of Orang
Asli Affairs who agreed with the plans made in the proposed project.



-6-
2. THE PROJECT AREA
The State of Pahang
2.01      The State of Pahang is on the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia
with the States of Trengganu and Kelantan to the north, Perak and Selangor
to the west and Negri Sembilan and Johore to the south. It is the largest
state in Peninsular Malaysia, with a coastline of 220 km on the South China
Sea and an area of about 36,000 sq km. Much of the state is thickly covered
with virgin equatorial forest and is rich in timber. It is also rich in
land resources and is consequently the subject of Malaysia's major thrust in
land development. In recent years, Pahang has achieved one of the highest
economic growth rates in Peninsular Malaysia and now stands among the
higher per capita income states. With continued development of its large
land and agricultural resources, and rapid expansion in manufacturing
industries, Pahang offers relief for people who can be resettled from the
land-poor States of Kedah, Kelantan, Melaka and Perlis. Seven industrial
tree crop estates have recently been developed in the state and about one
hundred factories have come into operation, while over one hundred more have
been approved for construction. Industries like motor assembly, cement,
woodchip, and timber complexes are also being set up, some on a joint
venture basis between the private sector and agencies such as the State
Economic Development Corporation (SEDC). Kuantan, the state capital, is
being developed into a major growth center to attract urban and industrial
development to the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia. Future growth will
be stimulated when the M$250 million port at Tanjung Gelang, 30 km from
Kuantan, becomes operational. Plans are in hand to establish new industries
in the area, which will serve not only the regional market but also the
national and export markets.
The Rompin-Endau Region
2.02      The Rompin-Endau region, within which the areas proposed for
development are located, is a flat coastal plain in the extreme south of
Pahang State. It is bounded by the Rompin River/Bukit Ibam road in the
north, the Endau River in the south, the South China Sea to the east, and
the foothills of the central escarpment to the west (map 15104).  It has an
elevation of between 2 m and 10 m above mean sea level, varies from 5 km to
20 km in width and is approximately 40 km from north to south. Large parts
are swampy and are regularly inundated by the Rompin, Pontian, Anak Endau
and Endau Rivers and numerous creeks draining the foothills. By far the
major part of the region is covered with jungle, mainly consisting of
primary and secondary forest and scrub. The region is in the administrative
district of Rompin and covers parts of the subdistricts (mukims) of Rompin,
Pontian and Endau. The main business and administrative center is Kuala
Rompin, situated at the mouth of the Rompin River, 134 km by paved road
from Kuantan and 195 km from Johore Bharu. Another much smaller center is
the fishing village of Kuala Pontian while Padang Endau, located in the
State of Johore, acts as a service center for the southern part of the
region. Kuala Rompin and Kuala Pontian have independent treated water



-7-
supply systems and plans are underway to provide treated water to more
villages in the southern part of the project. There is regular bus service
along the coastal highway and telephone communications facilities are good
to the towns on the highway. Rural electrification has been completed to
most population centers and more is planned. Two unpaved roads connect the
Pahang Tenggara developments in the hinterland with the coastal road; one of
these, the Bukit Ibam road, runs parallel to and north of the Rompin River
and the other is on the right bank of the Pontian River. Except for these
roads, and some tracks, access is restricted to river transport. The
development of the region is the responsibility of the Pahang Tenggara
Development Authority (DARA), an autonomous federal authority created in
1972 to plan and implement economic and social development of the southeast
part of Pahang State.
Climate and Hydrology
2.03      Climate.  The climate is tropical with high temperatures, rainfall
and humidity, and only minor variations in temperature and day length (Table
2.1). The mean annual rainfall is about 3,500 mm and is affected by the
northeast monsoon and to a lesser extent by the southwest monsoon. About
40% of the annual rainfall comes during the northeast monsoon, between
mid-November and mid-January. Average rainfall is quite high in both
cropping seasons; it is also highly variable. Although some wet season rice
is grown without irrigation, no dry-season rice is curently grown. For
double-cropping irrigation water is needed in both seasons; particularly,
during the presaturation/land preparation stage for the dry-season crop.
Furthermore, to ensure high yields and cropping intensity and proper timing
of agricultural operations, supplemental water to bridge temporary droughts
of up to 10 days in the wet season and 20 days or more in the dry season
must be provided. Conversely, there is often excessive rainfall for optimum
rice growth, particularly during the November-January period, which requires
a high standard of drainage. The average sunshine varies from 3.9 hrs/day
in December to 7.4 hrs/day in April.
2.04      Hydrology.  The Rompin River, with a catchment area of 3,950 km2,
covers about 90% of the hydrological area studied and extends up to 70 km
inland. The smaller Pontian and Anak Endau Rivers have their source on a
range about 25 km from the coast. The highest parts of the catchments reach
elevations of 500 m to 800 m above sea level.  The lower areas of all rivers
are flat and swampy with poorly defined tributary drainage networks and are
regularly inundated during the northeast monsoon. Rainfall data have been
recorded for about 10-50 years at 20 stations located in and around the
project area; evaporation data are available for 7 locations covering a
period of 7-15 years. There is a gauging station on each of the rivers, the
Rompin, Pontian, Anak Endau, and its tributary, the Kemelai. The available
records, however, cover only about half of the recording periods since
installation in 1974-76. There are no hydrological data available for the
Endau river. During project formulation, additional stream flow
measurements were taken by DID for 11 locations on the rivers. Use was also
made by the consultant of the results of previous studies, the Pahang



Table 2.1: CLIMATIC DATA
Total
Jan      Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun    Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct    Nov    Dec  average
Rainfall (mm) /a
Average 1964-79              333    210    174    168    199    203    208    220    209            266    443    912   3,546
1977                          52    626       40      52    108    205    305    247         96    164    681    598   3,174
1978                         n.a.    380      59      50    202    210    131    157        169    276    214    289            -
1979                         454    121    192    154        53    177    100    102        119     171    761      791   3,195
Minimum                       24      13      40      50      53    136    100    102         96    120    198    301   1,233
Evaporation (mm) /a
Average 1962-1979            129    135    156    156    158    143    149    151           146     144      124    119   1,710
Number of rainy days  /b
Average 1952-79               13      10      10      11      13      11     13      13      14       14      16      17      155      0
Temperature (°C) /b
Average 1960-73             25.5   26.1   26.5   26.8   26.7   26.2   25.8   25.6   25.8   25.7   25.5   25.1    25.9
Relative humidity (%) /c
Average 1963-73             84.8   84.2   84.2   84.8   86.0   86.2   86.4   86.5   85.8   87.2   88.8   89.7    86.2
Sunshine (hrs/day) /c
Average 1968-72              5.8    6.7    7.3    7.4    7.1    6.4    6.5    6.3           5.7     5.5    4.1    3.9         6.1
Windspeed (m/s) Ic
Average 1968-72              4.8    4.5    3.8    2.8    2.6    2.1    2.8    2.7           2.8    2.6    2.8    3.3          3.2
/a Paya Sepayang Station.
/b Mersing Station.
/c Average of Mersing and Kuantan Stations.



-9-
Tenggara Water Resources Study (1979) and the Pahang River Basin Study
(1974), in estimating water availability and design floods. Mathematical
models and correlation techniques were also used to determine a rainfall-
runoff relationship for extending runoff records.
Topography and Soils
2.05      Topography.  The project area is situated on a portion of the east
coast alluvial plain that slopes gently from about El. 9 m near the foot-
hills to the South China Sea. The land also slopes to the Rompin and Endau
Rivers which have bank levels in the project area of about El. 2 m. The
smaller rivers (Pontian, Anak Endau and Mentelong) have more deeply incised
beds. Although the macro relief is quite flat, detailed topographic surveys
have shown that the micro relief is irregular, caused by beach ridges,
swales, creeks and old river beds.
2.06      Soils.  A succession of parallel sandy beach ridges, alternating
with elongated sandy swales, extends from the coast inland to an average
distance of 4 km. These soils are unsuitable for growing rice. Large areas
of clay soils have been deposited along all rivers and are suitable for rice
cultivation, except near the mouths of rivers where they have become saline.
Large areas between the beach ridges and clay soils on one side and the
sedentary soils of the foothills on the other side are covered with peat, in
some places to a depth of 6 m or more. Where the depth of peat does not
exceed about 1 m these soils are suitable.  The above pattern is general but
several different soil series can be found within relatively small areas.
The soils most suitable for irrigated rice cultivation are clays, about
15,000 ha; organic clay and muck, 1,700 ha; and shallow peat, 3,200 ha.
There is a possibility that acid sulfate soils might develop in some areas,
primarily peat areas underlain by clay; however, those judged dangerous were
excluded from the planned development. Proper water management and suitable
rice varieties would control the problem in other areas. Thus a total of
19,900 ha out of 61,000 ha studied by the consultants would be suitable for
rice. Approximately 37% of the area studied is deep peat and 30% is too
sandy or has other serious deficiencies. Also, not all of the 19,900 ha can
be included in the project. Many areas with suitable soils are too small
and scattered or far from a water source or have too high and unfavorable
topography to warrant development. The total area available for development
is therefore about 12,700 ha.
Population
2.07      The population in the subdistricts of Rompin, Pontian and Endau,
estimated to be about 12,000 persons in 1976, has been declining at a rate
of 3.8% per annum in recent years. Approximately 90% of the population is
Malay. There are about 4,450 Orang Asli (aboriginal people) in the entire
district of Rompin; one fourth of them live in the project area. The
majority of the population live in Kuala Rompin, Kuala Pontian and villages
along the coast road. Settlements are also found on the left bank of the
Endau River where wet season rice and tree crops are grown and where



- 10 -
recently there has been an influx of rice farmers from other states. In the
Paya Sepayang area there are small settlements of migrants who came 10 to 15
years ago, mainly from rice growing areas in Kedah, Perlis and Trengganu.
There is also some outmigration, mainly by young people, to new land
development schemes or to urban areas as far away as Singapore. This
accounts for the decline in population in recent years. The average family
size is 6 persons. Most households derive their income from subsistence
agriculture supplemented by activities such as fishing and services. Two
thirds of the households earn about M$150 or less per month from
agricultural activities; the average annual total family income from all
sources is about M$ 1,500. The majority of the farm families are headed by
men 40 years of age or older.
Agriculture
2.08      Cultivation in the project area consists of about 170 ha of wet
season rice in the Paya Sepayang irrigation scheme and 50 ha of rainfed rice
at Paya Laka, both within the Pontian subproject area, and 150 ha of rainfed
rice along the Endau River in the Endau subproject area. Rubber, coconut,
and fruit trees occupy 1,920 ha, and cash crops (watermelon, tobacco, upland
rice, maize, vegetables) covering 540 ha are found on scattered plots of
upland soils interspersed among the various subproject areas. About 1,500
cattle and buffalo and about 1,000 sheep and goats are in the project area.
The 370 ha of rice is transplanted in October/November and harvested in
March/April of the following year. Yields obtained average about 1.4 ton/ha
with total annual production being only about 500 tons of padi, virtually
all of which is processed by small private mills for home consumption. Rice
land holdings range between 0.4 ha and 5.0 ha and average 1.2 ha.
2.09      The Paya Sepayang Irrigation Scheme was constructed by DID in 1968.
It is located between the Pontian River and its tributary, the Sepayang. It
was planned to be served by the existing diversion weir on the Sepayang but
because of inadequate flow in that river pumps were installed on the Pontian
to supplement the water supply. As the Pontian at this point is often
saline due to seawater intrusion, supplementary water provided by the
pumping plant is also not sufficient to support a dry season crop. Originally
the land was developed with an average holding of 1.2 ha (3 acres) per
family. Due to lack of local interest, fields have been neglected and have
been gradually taken over by migrants from Kedah, Perlis and Kelantan. At
present, they form the majority of the farmers cultivating the fields partly
on an annual lease basis and partly as owner-operators.
3. THE PROJECT
Project Description
3.01      The proposed project would develop one of the last major
undeveloped areas suitable for rice cultivation remaining in Peninsular
Malaysia. Irrigation would be developed on a net area of about 11,400 ha



- 11 -
presently under cover of tropical forest.  Settlement facilities would be
provided for 4,750 settler farm families.
3.02      The main features of the project are:
(a)  land clearing on about 13,800 ha of swampy tropical forest;
(b)  construction of an earthfill dam on the Anak Endau river, a
cutoff channel and ancillary works on the Rompin river, and three
weirs, one each on the Pontian, the Anak Endau and Kembar rivers;
(c) construction of about 110 km of main and secondary canals, 130 km
of drains, 95 km of dikes, and 12 pumping stations;
(d) construction of tertiary and quaternary canals and drains for a
net irrigable area of 11,400 ha;
(e) construction of about 45 km of access roads and about 150 km of
farm roads;
(f) construction of two subregional centers and six farm settlements
with physical and social infrastructure for 4,750 settler farm
families;
(g) construction of office buildings, staff quarters, workshops,
stores and agricultural service facilities;
(h) procurement of equipment, vehicles and supplies for project opera-
tion and maintenance and for agricultural support services; and
(i) consulting services for detailed design and construction
supervision of project works.
Project Works
3.03      The area which would benefit from the project is divided into four
subprojects corresponding to the four main rivers: the Rompin, the Pontian,
the Anak Endau and the Endau. The locations and main features of the
subprojects are shown on map IBRD 15104. The net irrigable areas are shown
in Table 3.1.



- 12 -
Table 3.1:  NET IRRIGABLE AREA
Subproject           Left bank            Right bank             Total
--------------------- ha ------------------
Rompin                2,770                 1,280                4,050
Pontian                  515                1,330/a              1,845
Anak Endau               970                3,225                4,195
Endau                  1,310/b                   -               1,310
Total                                                      11,400
/a  The existing Paya Sepayang Irrigation Scheme which covers 275 ha net
irrigable area and needs extensive rehabilitation, is included in
this subproject.
/b  Consists of four discrete areas - Kembar (600 ha), Mentelong
(200 ha), Upper Endau I (270 ha) and Upper Endau II (240 ha).
3.04      Rompin Subproject.  This subproject involves the construction of a
60 m wide cutoff channel of about 7 km in length, two closures of the
existing Rompin river channel, and a 12 km long flood protection dike. The
cutoff channel would bypass about 26 km of river meanders, which would be
used as a storage basin for irrigation water in the dry season and a flood
detention reservoir in the wet season. A concrete weir would be constructed
across the cutoff channel near its upstream end to provide additional
storage and also prevent salt water intrusion. A gated intake structure
would be built near the upstream closure to draw water into the storage
basin from the Rompin river whenever possible and necessary. The drains in
the irrigated area would discharge into the storage basin; outlet works
would be constructed near the downstream end of the basin to release the
excess water into the Rompin river.- As the weir cannot be constructed high
enough to command the subproject area, two pumping stations, one on each
bank, would be installed to lift water to the canals.
3.05      A subregional center covering about 285 ha would be constructed
southeast of the right bank irrigated area. It would serve a population
of about 7,500 and would have secondary and primary schools, community
service facilities, government offices and shops. On the left bank a farm
settlement would be constructed on about 128 ha to accommodate 520
additional settler families. It would have a primary school, some service
facilities and some shops. The secondary school and the facilities in the



- 13 -
subregional center would also serve the farm settlement and the surrounding
rural communities. A 14 km main access road would link the subproject to
the east coast highway.  This road would pass through the subregional center
and continue as the main collector road to the farm settlement, crossing the
river over the downstream closure.
3.06      Pontian Subproject.  A weir comprising an earth and rock fill
embankment (maximum height about 14 m), a concrete spillway and a gated
sluiceway would be built on the Pontian river. The reservoir behind the
weir would have a capacity of about 15 million cu m. A short channel from
the reservoir would supply a pumping station which, supplemented by a
booster, would irrigate the area on the left bank. The main drains would
discharge into the river through outlet sluices supplied with flap gates,
with manual controls for use in case of emergency. A 2.5 km concrete lined
feeder canal would be constructed from the reservoir on the Pontian to the
existing Sepayang weir, which is in good condition. The existing Paya
Sepayang area would receive improved supplies from this weir. New dikes
would be built around the area, roads would be improved and the canals and
drainage facilities would be reconstructed. Small plots in the existing
scheme would be consolidated to ensure all participants 2.4 ha plots. The
new area on the right bank of the Sepayang river would be supplied through
a pumping station which would be constructed about 1 km upstream of the
Sepayang weir. Irrigation and drainage works and flood protection dikes
would be constructed.
3.07      A farm settlement to be built on the Pontian left bank would have
about 270 houses. Another farm settlement on the right bank would
accommodate 550 families. The existing earth road would be improved to
provide access to the left bank and a new access road would be built from
the right bank farm settlement to the coastal highway. Maintenance and
inspection roads would be laid out along the canals to the tertiary blocks
and the pumping stations.
3.08      Anak Endau Subproject.  Normal flow of the Anak Endau river is not
adequate to serve all of the area, therefore, an 18 m high zoned earthfill
dam with a storage capacity of about 35 million cu m would be built on the
upper reaches of the river. A weir would be built about 10 km downstream of
the dam to prevent sea water intrusion, provide a forebay pool for the
pumping plants, and re-regulate flows from the dam. The peat soils and site
topography limit the weir elevation, requiring the use of low lift pumps to
raise water to the canals on both banks. For the area on the left bank, a
supply channel and a pumping station would be constructed to feed three
laterals for serving the tertiary blocks. On the right bank, a pumping
station upstream of the weir would supply a main canal and two laterals for
serving the tertiary network. A booster pumping station would be required



- 14 -
to supply water to about 800 ha in the southern part of the right bank area.
A system of dikes would protect the irrigated area and the settlements on
both banks of the river against floods. The drains would discharge into the
river through gated outlet sluices.
3.09      The Anak Endau subregional center would be located on a ridge
along the southern boundary of the right bank area. It would cover
about 290 ha and would accommodate 1,160 settler families. A farm settlement
covering about 90 ha on the eastern end of the right bank would serve
380 settler families. A second farm settlement, occupying about 130 ha on
the eastern boundary of the left bank, would serve 500 families. The main
access to the Anak Endau right bank area would be over the existing road on
the left bank of the Endau river, which continues southwards to the Kembar
subproject. The existing ferry crossing over the Anak Endau is in good
condition and is adequate for the present. A new main road would be built
and the existing road improved to connect the left bank area to the coastal
highway. Farm roads and motorcycle tracks would provide access to the
irrigated area and the pumping stations.
3.10      Endau Subproject.  The Endau Subproject consists of four discrete
areas: one each on the Kembar and the Mentelong, both tributaries to the
Endau, and two on the Endau (Upper Endau I and II). A small concrete gated
weir would be built on the Kembar which would provide sufficient storage for
the operation of a pumping station to irrigate the Kembar area. The weir
would prevent salt water intrusion and would also provide a crossing for the
road to the areas further inland. The Endau River is saline during high
tide to well upstream of Upper Endau II, 30 km from the estuary. However,
the Endau is a large river and the relatively small water requirements of
the three areas would be adequately supplied by pumping stations operated
during low tide when the water in the river is fresh (about one-half of each
24 hours). The pumping station for the Mentelong area would be located on
the Mentelong River about 3 km upstream from its confluence with the Endau.
The Upper Endau I pumping plant would be on a creek, about 2 km from the
Endau river, and the pumping plant for the Upper Endau II area would be on a
small bay about 1/2 km from the Endau. Flood protection dikes would be
constructed to protect the padi fields and settlement works as needed.
3.11      The Mentelong farm settlement would serve the Mentelong, Upper
Endau I and Upper Endau II farmers and also those from the western part of
the Kembar area who are too far from the Anak Endau subregional center to
reside there. This settlement would have 370 houses, a primary school, a
small mosque and a small health center. An 18 km access road would be built
from the Kembar weir to the Mentelong area and a 15 km motorcycle track
would continue to Upper Endau I and II. Wet season traffic and heavy goods
would be moved by boat over the river. A network of motorcycle tracks would
provide access to the tertiary blocks and pumping stations.



- 15 -
3.12      Equipment, Vehicles and Buildings.  Vehicles, equipment and
supplies for project operation and maintenance (O&M) and for the
agricultural support services would be purchased under the project. These
include equipment and vehicles for O&M of the irrigation works and the roads
under DID, agricultural equipment and vehicles for FOA and DOA and
livestock, fish, poultry and supplies for DOVS and DOF.  The equipment and
vehicles would be serviced and maintained in the workshops to be constructed
and equipped under the project. The lists of vehicles, equipment, supplies
and spare parts for project implementation are shown in Annex 2, Tables 5,
6, and 7. The project also would provide for the construction of offices,
stores, staff quarters, seed multiplication and variety research facilities,
and farmers development centers (FDC). These are summarized in Annex 2,
Table 8. The pumping stations are listed in Annex 2, Table 9.
Water Demand, Supply and Quality
3.13      Wlater Demand.  The estimated water demand for irrigation is based
on staggered planting in three parts of each tertiary irrigation block and
each block growing two crops of padi per year. Identical cropping schedules
would be followed in each tertiary block at staggered intervals of 15 days.
Sequential irrigation with staggered planting reduces peak demands for
water, labor and machinery. Water demand was calculated assuming that field
saturation and crop establishment would require 250 mm of water, of which
100 mm would be standing water and 150 mm would be required to saturate the
soil. Further, there would be field percolation loss of 2 mm per day.
Monthly crop demands and assumptions used in calculating demand are shown in
Annex 1. A maximum annual demand of 22,000 cu m/ha was derived assuming
that it would be exceeded in only 1 out of 10 years. In a year with average
rainfall the estimated demand is about 16,000 cu m/ha. The maximum
irrigation diversion demand would be about 2 1/sec/ha.
3.14      Water Supply.  The peak demand for the Rompin Subproject is about
8.1 cu m/sec corresponding to a peak 15-day requirement of about 10.5
million cu m. Augmented with storage provided in the bypass basin (4.2
million cu m) and upstream of the weir (5.6 million cu m), the water supply
in the Rompin river would be sufficient for a 1-in-25-year drought.
3.15      The maximum demand for the Pontian Subproject is about 3.7 cu m/
sec corresponding to a 15-day requirement of about 4.8 million cu m. Low
flow values in the Pontian river which would occur at the time of maximum
irrigation demands, were difficult to determine accurately because of sparse
data but are estimated to be considerably less than the maximum demand.
Simulation studies made by the consultant indicated that a reservoir with
15 million cu m capacity would be needed. The Pontian weir would provide
the needed storage and would meet the water demand of the l-in-20-year
drought for the left and right bank areas. It would also meet the 1-in
10-year drought for the existing Paya Sepayang area. Changes in runoff
characteristics due to oil palm developments in the Pontian watershed would
not adversely affect the water supply.



- 16 -
3.16      The maximum demand for the Anak Endau Subproject is about 8.4 cu
n/sec corresponding to a 15-day requirement of about 10.9 million cu m. Low
flow values in the Anak Endau river are considerably below 8.4 cu m/sec at
the location of the weir. The needed storage for the dry season crop would
be provided by the construction of a dam having a storage capacity of about
35 million cu m. Simulation studies indicate that the reservoir would meet
the water demand of a 1-in-15-year drought. The small storage capacity of
the weir was not considered in the analysis.
3.17      The relatively small (610 ha) Kembar area has a maximum demand
of 1.2 cu m/sec corresponding to a 15-day requirement of about 1.6 million
cu m. The catchment above the weir is in excess of 4,000 ha, much of which
is deep peat.  It is estimated that there would be sufficient water storage
in the peat, and run-off from the catchment, to irrigate the area. There
are no flow records available for the Endau River. It is estimated, how-
ever, that low tide fresh water flows in this large river would be adequate
to meet the pumping requirements of the relatively small Mentelong, Upper
Endau I and Upper Endau II areas.
3.18      Water Quality.  Monthly water samples taken by DID from the upper
reaches of the Rompin, Pontian and Anak Endau rivers indicate that the
waters are suitable for irrigation. The mean pH value is about 6.5, mean
total solids about 50 ppm, and mean chloride content about 6 ppm. Weirs
would be provided on all rivers, except the Endau, for storage as well as for
prevention of sea water intrusion. Future land development in the upper
catchments of the major rivers may lead to construction of palm oil mills.
However, the discharge of effluent from these mills into rivers is
controlled by law and pollution would not affect irrigated padi agriculture.
DARA is implementing a water quality monitoring program in southeastern
Pahang which also includes the project area.
Design Standards
3.19      Irrigation Works.  Canals would be designed for a demand of 2.0 l/
sec/ha. Quaternaries would be designed to meet a maximum water requirement
of 4.0 1/sec/ha to accommodate the off-season presaturation requirement
All tertiaries and quaternaries would be unlined. Main canals would be
lined with concrete only where they traverse pervious materials. All
turnouts to tertiary canals would include measuring devices. Checks would
be provided in main and secondary canals, as needed, to maintain command
levels. Each farm lot of 2.4 ha would be enclosed by a small bund and would
be served by an earthen quaternary canal and a drain. Secondary and
tertiary drains would be designed to dispose of excess water resulting from
the 1-in-5-year 3-day rainfall equivalent to a unit discharge of about 8
1/sec/ha. Major drainage outfalls and gated outfall tidal control
structures in the dikes along the rivers would be designed for a unit
discharge of about 12 1/sec/ha because high tides would reduce their
discharge capacity during one third of each 24-hour period.



- 17 -
3.20      A tertiary canal would serve an area of about 60 ha and would be
about 1.0 to 1.5 km long.  It would convey water to the quaternaries which
would have an average length of about 500 m (maximum about 800 m) each and
would be spaced at about 150 m to 200 m. Each block would be provided at
its lower end with a field drain to convey excess runoff to a collector
drain and from there to the main drainage system.  The proposed water
distribution system would allow rotational irrigation at the time of
presaturation and land preparation and continuous irrigation after
transplanting. A schematic layout of a typical tertiary block is shown in
the inset of Map IBRD 15104. Actual layouts would be determined by the
topography of each particular area.
3.21      Land Clearing and Flood Protection.  Main drains would be
excavated first to provide access to the project area. Land clearing
operations would follow the completion of logging to salvage residual
commercial timber which is proceeding in anticipation of the project. Tree
felling would be accomplished by appropriate mechanical means to minimize
disturbance of the top-soils. The logs would be chainsawed, raked, piled
into windrows and allowed to dry for burning, with the process repeated for
reburning as necessary. Care would be taken to maintain soil moisture
levels in the peat soils adequate to prevent peat fires. Stump holes and
other ground irregularities would be filled and levelled by bulldozing.
Materials excavated from drains and canals would be used for formation of
flood protection dikes, some of which would carry service and farm access
roads and tracks. Dikes would be designed for a 50-year frequency flood
with 0.5 m freeboard, would be 1-2.5 m high and have top widths of 2-4 m,
and side slopes of 2:1.
3.22      Settlements and Roads.  Main roads would provide access from the
coastal highway to each of the subprojects. Each tertiary block would be
accessible by a farm road to be provided along canals to serve as
maintenance roads. Within the settlements, the main roads would extend to
the centers of the settlements where the central facilities would be located.
Main collector roads would take off from the main roads and run in a loop
through the settlement and minor collector roads would serve the remaining
areas. Motorcycle tracks would provide access to the outer areas and link
the settlements to the farms. The widths of different types of roads and
tracks are given in (Table 3.2.)



- 18 -
Table 3.2: ROAD WIDTHS
Total
road
Road type        Pavement  Shoulders    Berms  Drains   reserve
-------------------- m -----------------------
Main access          5.0        2.3          6.7    6.0        20.0
Main collector       3.0        2.5          3.5    3.0        12.0
Minor collector      2.5        2.4          2.4    1.7         9.0
Motorcycle track    1.0         2.3            -       -
Farm                 3.0        2.0
The main access roads would meet PWD standards for Group 01, gravel surfaced
roads.  Within the settlements, the main roads would have an 18 cm crushed
stone base course and a 6.3 cm bituminized macadam surfacing. The base
course would extend over the full shoulder to enable future surfacing. The
collector roads would have a 10 cm crushed stone base course and surfacing
similar to the main access roads, and the motorcycle tracks would have a
surface dressing with 5 cm of stone chips. Farm roads along canals would
have a pavement of 15 cm crushed stone or laterite on a compacted base.
3.23      The average size of the residential plot would be about 0.17 ha.
Settler houses would be built of timber and elevated above the ground for
better air circulation in the Malay tradition. The design would permit
future expansion by the settler according to his needs and income. The
facilities to be provided in the subregional centers and the farm
settlements would follow practices established by DARA for similar projects
in the area. Turfed open areas would be developed to retain the natural
vegetation wherever possible. A water supply system for each settlement would
be designed and constructed by consultants under the auspices of DARA. For
the present, backhouse type sewerage facilities would be provided. DARA has
schemes in the area for the installation of central sewerage collection,
treatment and disposal systems. Electricity would be provided from portable
diesel generator sets until the NEB grid system reaches the project area.
Detailed features of the settlement facilities are shown in Annex 2, Table 4.
Status of Engineering
3.24      Feasibility designs were prepared for all the major works in the
project.  In addition, detailed layouts of the irrigation system on three
representative areas totalling about 2,000 ha were prepared based on
detailed topographic surveys, soils investigation and geological data.
Feasibility grade subsurface investigations in conjunction with detailed
topographic surveys were conducted for the dam and the weirs. Additional
subsurface data would be required for final design of some major works
including the Rompin cutoff channel. The Government has appointed



- 19 -
consultants (para. 4.27) to prepare the final designs, construction plans
and tender documents and to supervise construction of the project works.
The consultants have already started preparing final designs for some of the
major works. Preparation of detailed designs and tender documents is
sufficiently advanced for procurement to start shortly after loan approval
and for construction to start on schedule. Contracts totalling about
US$18 million would be awarded during the first year of the implementation
period. This would cover land clearing, river diversion works, main roads,
drains, dikes and appurtenant structures in the Pontian, Anak Endau and
Rompin subprojects.
Project Implementation
3.25      The project would be implemented over six years, from mid-1981 to
mid-1987. The proposed implementation schedule is shown in Figures 3.1 and
3.2. Land clearing would start in 1981 on the Pontian subproject, which is
the most accessible; this would be followed by the weir, the irrigation
works and the tertiary development. Farm settlements would be completed in
coordination with the irrigation infrastructure. The work on other
subprojects would be undertaken progressively as the design and tender
documents are prepared. The agricultural support staff and facilities would
be built up in phase with the completion of the irrigation and settlement
infrastructure and the selection and placement of settlers.
Cost Estimate
3.26      The total project cost in mid-1981 prices is estimated at US$141
million with a foreign exchange component of US$59 million or 42% of the
total cost. Because of the tax exempt status of the implementing agencies,
cost estimates exclude all known taxes and duties. Quantity estimates for
all major work items, based on feasibility designs, were prepared for the
project works. Unit prices for the work items were based on recent
contracts for similar works carried out for DID, PWD and DARA in this region
of Malaysia. The costs of land clearing, drainage, flood protection dikes,
tertiary irrigation development and settler housing construction were
updated to reflect recent increases in these areas of construction. The
costs of equipment and vehicles are based on recent bid prices.
3.27      Physical contingencies of 20% were applied for irrigation,
drainage and road works, 10% for settlement works and 5% for vehicles and
equipment. Expected price increases over the project implementation period
of six years amount to about 27% of the base cost plus physical contingen-
cies, assuming cost escalation (for both local and foreign elements) of 9.0%
in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% in 1983-85 and 6.0% in 1986-87. Details of the
project costs are given in Annex 2, Tables 1-8 and are summarized in
Table 3.3.



- 20 -
Table 3.3: COST SUMMARY
For-                   For-          Foreign
Local   eign  Total  Local   eign  Total  exchange
--- (M$ million) --  -- (US$ million) -          (%)
Civil Works
Land clearing, main
drains & roads           18 6   17.1   35.7    8.7    7.9   16.6          48
Irrigation works &
farm roads               11.0    7.8   18.8    5.1    3.6    8.7          45
Tertiary development       10.5    7.1   17.6    4.9    3.3    8.2          42
Subregional centers &
settlements              38.5   10.7   49.2   17.9    5.0   22.9          22
Rompin cutoff channel,
weir & dikes             13.5   11.2   24.7    6.3    5.2   11.5          45
Pontian weir & dikes         2.4    1.9    4.3    1.1    0.9    2.0         45
Anak Endau dam, weir        7.7    6.3   14.0    3.6    2.9    6.5          45
& dikes
Kembar weir & dikes          1.3    1.1    2.4    0.6    0.5    1.1         45
Subtotal          103.5   63.2  166.7   48.2   29.3   77.5          38
Service buildings &
staff quarters              5.8    1.7    7.5    2.7    0.8    3.5          22
Equipment, vehicles &
supplies                    2.1   12.3   14.4    1.0    5.7    6.7          85
Land acquisition               1.0    -       1.0    0.5    -         0.5      -
Consultant services            3.9    9.0   12.9    1.8    4.2    6.0         70
Administration &
engineering                  5.9    0.6    6.5    2.7    0.3    3.0         10
Base cost          122.2   86.8  209.0   56.9   40.3   97.2         42
Physical contingencies        16.8   12.7   29.5    7.8    5.9   13.7         42
Price contingencies           37.2   27.5   64.7   17.3   12.8   30.1         42
Total              176.2  127.0  303.2   82.0   59.0  141.0         42



- 21 -
Financing
3.28      The proposed Bank loan of US$40 million would finance 68% of the
foreign exchange requirements of the project cost. The Government's contri-
bution of US$101 (M$217) million would finance the balance of the costs
through annual budgetary allocations. The Government is currently exploring
possible cofinancing arrangements to secure the additional US$19 million
of foreign exchange required. Operation and maintenance costs of the
completed works and the cost of providing agricultural extension services
would be borne by the State of Pahang.
Procurement
3.29      Table 3.4 shows the construction contracts scheduled for
international competitive bidding (ICB) and local competitive bidding (LCB).
Land clearing would be combined with construction of main drains and access
roads, to allow early access to the project sites and to minimize contractor
interference, forming five contracts to be awarded following ICB procedures
in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement. ICB would also be
used for the Rompin cutoff channel and dikes, the Anak Endau dam and weir,
the Pontian weir and the two subregional centers. There would, therefore, be
eleven ICB contracts totalling about US$73 million including contingencies
ranging in value from about US$2.5 to US$15 million. The remaining works
would be spread over the project area and would be phased over six years.
These are not large enough for ICB and would therefore be carried out under
about 22 contracts to be awarded following local competitive bidding
procedures, in which foreign bidders would be eligible to participate. The
LCB contracts would range in value from about US$100,000 to US$2.5 million,
totalling about US$43 million.
Table 3.4: SCHEDULE OF CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
ICB                LCB
----(US$ million)----
Land clearing, main drains & roads         (5)/a  21.5         (2)/a   2.5
Diversion works                            (4)    27.5         (1)     0.5
Irrigation works                           (-)      -         (10)    23.0
Settlement works                           (2)    24.0         (6)    13.0
Project buildings                          (-)      -          (3)     4.0
(11)    73.0       (22)    43.0
/a Figures in parentheses are numbers of contracts.



- 22 -
3.30      Purchases of agricultural and O&M equipment, service vehicles and
supplies totalling US$4.7 million would be scheduled into convenient
packages for procurement under ICB procedures in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty if
lower, would be extended to local manufacturers of these items. Small
off-the-shelf items costing less than US$35,000 each and limited to a total
of US$2.0 million, would be procured through normal Government procedures.
Local competitive procedures are acceptable and foreign firms are allowed to
participate. Force account work would be limited to the fabrication and
supply of gates and hoists for water control structures. This is estimated
to cost about US$0.6 million which is less than 1% of the total project
costs. DID has been fabricating its own gates and hoists in its Federal
Workshop in Ipoh for more than 15 years.
Disbursements
3.31      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the
foreign exchange expenditure on directly imported equipment and vehicles,
100% of the ex-factory cost of such items manufactured locally, and 80% of
the cost of imported items procured locally. Disbursement for civil works
executed by contract would be 24% of total costs. For consulting services,
disbursements would be 100% of the expenditures incurred. No disbursement
would be made for force account expenditures. It is expected that
disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1988. Estimated expenditure
and disbursement schedules for the nroject and a proposed allocation of the
proceeds of the loan are presented in Annex 2, Tables 10-12.
Accounts and Audits
3.32      The agencies involved in the project are all subject to normal
Government controls and audit procedures. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that all agencies involved in project implementation would
maintain separate accounts which would be collated by the Project Manager.
The Government would furnish to the Bank such information concerning such
accounts as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Environmental Effects
3.33      Commercial grade timber has been extracted from the forests in the
project area and only residual timber remains to be salvaged prior to land
clearing operations. No loss of habitat critical to endangered species is
expected. The project area does not overlap the Endau Kluang Wildlife
Preserve. The declaration as "Environment Forest" of the peat swamp areas
between the Rompin and Endau rivers and extensive areas to the southwest, as
recommended in the Pahang Tenggara Master Plan, would provide additional
sanctuary to the displaced deer, monkeys, birds and snakes. The Fisheries
Department plans to increase significantly the production of fresh water
fish in Pahang State by promoting aquaculture in the irrigation canals and
reservoirs. The plan includes cage culture in the Anak Endau reservoir and
the storage basin of the Rompin and public stocking of irrigation channels.



- 23 -
Project development would not interfere with the migration of commercial
prawns between the estuarine and riverine sectors for the breeding and
maturation phases, however, the extent of the natural breeding habitat may
be reduced. The incidence of malaria is low in the project area. There
would be a possibility of introduction of malaria through the immigration of
settlers. The Malaria Eradication Program and Pahang State Hlealth Depart-
ment would institute monitoring procedures and undertake appropriate
remedial measures. The Ilalaria control program in the State is making good
progress. Preventive and remedial measures for the project area would be
integrated into the regional programs. Health centers would be provided in
the farm settlements and subregional centers in the project. During
negotiations an assurance was obtained that the Government would take all
measures necessary to ensure that the design, construction and operation of
the works under the Project are carried out in accordance with appropriate
ecological and environmental standards.
4. ORGANIZATION AND M1ANAGEMENT
Project Coordination
4.01      Overall project direction would be the responsibility of a Project
Manager appointed by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The Project Manager
would be guided on policy matters by a Government Steering Committee
composed of representatives from all government agencies having project
responsibilities, and co-chaired by the Secretary General of MOA and the
State Secretary of Pahang. The Project Manager would be the Secretary of
the Committee and would thereby have direct access to top officials of the
State Government and the Federal MOA.  He would also be a member of the
Pahang State Agricultural Planning Committee composed of senior state-level
officers from all the agriculture-related agencies. Involvement of the
State Secretary who has broad administrative and political authority would
ensure the participation of both State and district level agencies and
officers and should facilitate coordination of project activities at the
ground level. This management structure has worked well in the previous
Bank-financed integrated agricultural development projects (Loans 973-MA,
1294-SA, 1444-MA, 1522-MA, 1632-MA and 1717-MA) and is in line with the
federal and state responsibilities and jurisdictions under the Malaysian
constitution. To improve this structure, the Government has recently
decided that in the future all funds for implementing integrated
agricultural development projects will be allocated to 2IOA who will in turn
allocate them to the implementing agencies. The Project Manager would
reside in the project area and would have adequate staff to assist him in
the discharge of his functions. The appointment of a suitably qualified and
experienced Project Manager would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan.
4.02      The Project Manager would have direct responsibility for settler
placement and administration and for ensuring rational phasing of
implementation of the different project components. His responsibilities as



- 24 
coordinator would include: monitoring construction and equipment procurement;
coordinating extension programs and preparation of budget requests;
representing the project in official meetings; monitoring and evaluating
project effects and benefits; and reporting on progress to the Steering
Committee and the Bank. He would also ensure that adequate credit is
available through BPM to enable farmers to purchase recommended agricultural
inputs.
4.03      The proposed organization of the office of the Project Manager and
the line agencies working under him (described in paras. 4.06-4.25) is
presented in Figure 4.1. The Project 'lanager's office would have four
sections - Community Development, Administration, Finance and Budget, and
Monitoring and Evaluation. The Community Development Section would provide,
as needed, transportation, temporary housing and first-year subsistence
loans for immigrant settler families. The section would also oversee
health, education, water and electricity services, and maintenance of
streets and community buildings during project implementation. It would
conduct educational programs on home management, nutrition, health and
sanitation practices, child care, home gardens,food preservation, and
cottage handicrafts. The Administration Section would be responsible for
managing all staff under the project office and all matters relating to
service. The Finance and Budget Section would prepare and schedule loans
and subsidies; supervise loan repayments; collate budget requirements of the
implementing agencies; prepare overall budgets for the project; ensure the
smooth flow of funds to project entities; and prepare periodic financial
statements for the Bank. ''OA and other federal and state agencies.  The
functions of the Monitoring and Evaluation Section would include timely
collection and evaluation of information on project inputs, outputs and
complementary activities contributing to attainment of the project
objectives. It would assist in the preparation of planting and harvesting
schedules and would prepare project progress reports. Altogether, the
Project Office staff would total 46 including the Project Manager, the four
division heads, and five other senior officers.
Settler Selection and Administration
4.04      The Pahang State Government, in conjunction with MOA, would select
the settlers. Since there are not enough rice farmers to fulfill project
needs either in the Rompin Endau region or in the rest of the Pahang State,
it is expected that the State Government would select the bulk of the
settlers from among applicants from areas with surplus rice farmers in
Kedah, Perlis, Kelantan, or other states. The settlers would mostly be
traditional lowland rice farmers, either landless or owning ineconomic
holdings. The Orang Asli and other families now living in the project area
and cultivating rice would be given priority for settler status. All
settlers would be able-bodied, between 20-50 years of age and prepared to
sign an agreement with the Government setting out their obligations and
rights. A sizeable group of families sharing a common origin would be
settled on contiguous plots of land and housing units, which would contribute



- 25 -
to the long-term viability of the farming and settlement process. This
would also materially assist in the formation of farmer's groups to pool
labor for labor-intensive crop activities. During negotiations an assurance
was obtained that by June 30, 1981, detailed settler selection criteria and
the Government-settler agreement would be forwarded to the Bank for review
and comment.
4.05      The cost of the house built for the settler and the cost of land
clearing for his individual padi plot would be considered a loan advanced to
him. The settler would be obliged to repay this debt obligation (para.
6.08). The Project office would keep a loan account for each settler. The
loan account would be credited with deductions from the revenue generated by
sale of the settler's padi crop (which he would be obliged to market through
FOA/LPN) and debited with deductions for land taxes and debt servicing. At
the end of the debt repayment period the settler would be given clear title
to his house and land and would then have a legal position similar to other
owner-operator rice farmers in Malaysia.
Agencies and Agency Responsibilities
4.06      Of the agencies involved in the project, seven are under the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) - the Drainage and
Irrigation Department (DID), the Department of Agriculture (DOA), the
Farmers' Organization Authority (FOA), the Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM), the
Department of Fisheries (DOF), the Department of Veterinary Services (DOVS),
and the Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute (MARDI).
One, the Department of Orang Asli Affairs (DOAA), is in the Ministry of Home
Affairs. Other participating agencies include the Pahang Tengarra
Development Authority (DARA) and the National Padi and Rice Authority (LPN),
both of which are semi-autonomous organizations working under the control of
the Federal Government. For agencies under the MOA both federal and state
level staff would be involved in project implementation, with the state
staff having primary responsibility for operation of the project once it is
completed.
4.07      Drainage and Irrigation Department.  DID would be responsible for
all land clearing (including padi land and settlement area), provision of
all irrigation and drainage facilities, land levelling in the farm and
settlement area and provision of farm roads. Final design and construction
supervision would be done by consultants (para. 4.26) under overall
supervision and guidance provided by DID through two resident engineers with
back-up from DID headquarters staff in Kuala Lumpur. Consultants would also
prepare designs and contract documents for the main roads - the design
standards for these would be provided by the Public Works Department (PWD)
while packaging of contracts and overall supervision would be the
responsibility of DID. To ensure that design concepts are effectively
transmitted from the design staff to the District-level staff who will
operate and maintain the completed systems, upon completion of final design
DID would prepare a designer's operational manual covering major project
works. Pahang State DID would assume responsibility for operation and



- 26 -
maintenance of works upon completion and acceptance by Federal DID.
Operation and maintenance staff for State DID at full project development
would include 2 irrigation engineers, 4 irrigation inspectors, 20 overseers,
40 gatekeepers, 35 pump operators and about 100 other field workers.
4.08      Pahang Tenggara Development Authority.  DARA was established by a
1972 Act of the Federal Government to foster comprehensive economic and
social development in southeastern Pahang. DARA has wide powers to
implement and monitor development activities in the region and it can impose
charges for the provision of public services. DARA has a full complement of
skilled professionals seconded from the various government agencies such as
PWD, DID, DOA, T&CPD (Town and Country Planning Department) as well as its
own professionals to discharge its functions in respect to the various
projects which it implements either directly or through contracts to
agencies such as FELCRA or FELDA . Under the Project, DARA would assist in
the alienation of land for the project and would be responsible for
settlement development, including detailed planning and design, tendering
and awarding of contracts and construction supervision.
4.09      Department of Agriculture.  DOA would have primary responsibility
for organization and operation of the agricultural services component of the
project. Their task would include agricultural extension, crop production
(certified seed production, varietal selection and demonstration), crop
protection, soil surveys and monitoring, and mechanization.
4.10      As -gricult.zJ c::cension is a State responsibility, the Pahang
State Director of Agriculture would be responsible for assignment of
extension staff to the project and for general direction of the extension
effort. On-site responsibility would be assigned to a Senior Agricultural
Officer who would also administer the other programs of DOA in the project
area. Technical extension staff required at full project development would
include three Agricultural Assistants (AAs) with subarea supervisory
responsibilities and 14 Agricultural Technicians (ATs), 8 of whom would be
the field extension agents with responsibility for rice. Responsibilities
of the others would include community development, garden crops, nutrition
and consumer education. During negotiations an assurance was obtained that
DOA, in consultation with DID, FOA, and BPM, would prepare an agricultural
services operations manual as a guide for field staff by January 1, 1984.
4.11      The technique for the provision of extension services to padi
farmers would be the training and visit (T&V) extension system. Implementa-
tion of the system would require the formation of farmer groups of about 70
farmers with each extension agent (AT) serving about 600 farmers. Meetings
with the groups would be on a regular basis, once per two week period at a
preestablished place and time. Group leaders would be selected with the



- 27 -
participation of the farmers, as would subgroup leaders for wat:er
management, credit, and input supply. During his visit, the AT would review
demonstration plots and fields with the farmers, and would advise them on
agricultural operations required by their crops over the next t:wo weeks.
DID, FOA and BPM staff would accompany the AT as required to emphasize
points of immediate importance related to their responsibilities. The
Agricultural Assistants stationed at the subregional centers would supervise
the ATs assigned within their areas and would conduct regular biweekly
training sessions for them supported by subject matter specialists and
senior staff of the cooperating agencies. Field staff of FOA, BPM and DID
serving the same farmer groups would also attend these training sessions.
4.12      To enable extension operations staff to devote full t:ime to the
crucial tasks of extension and training, a separate regulatory unit would be
established to perform management and distribution of input subsidies, crop
monitoring and measurement, demonstrations, ad hoc pilot projects and other
regulatory work. Professional staff of this unit would include one
Agricultural Officer (AO), one AA and three ATs.
4.13      The Crop Production Unit under DOA would be responsible for the 60
ha certified seed production center to be established in the Anak Endau
subproject area. It is envisaged that for the 11,400 ha of padi in the
project area about 450 tons of seed per crop would be required. To maintain
seed quality, certified seed would be needed for every third crop. Thus,
the center would need to produce about 300 tons of improved high quality
padi seed per year, entailing a commitment of about 50 ha to this task. The
remainder of the center's land would be devoted to demonstration fields,
limited varietal and fertilizer trials and the activities of the DOA Farm
Mechanization Unit described in paragraph 4.14 below. Other activities of
the Crop Production Unit would include collaboration with MARDI in the
performance of varietal trials, demonstrations of drying, processing, and
storage methods, demonstration plots on farmers- fields to encourage use of
improved varieties and proper management techniques, and provision of
technical back-stopping to the Extension Unit. Professional staff for this
unit would include two AOs, one AA and six ATs.
4.14      The DOA Farm M4echanization Unit, to share land and facilities with
the crop production unit, would have as its main functions the observation,
development and demonstration of crop production mechanization. It would
also be responsible for maintenance of a machinery status inventory for the
project area. The unit would maintain a pool of machinery and vehicles
required by the various branches of the DOA. As available and necessary the
tractors in the pool might also be used to give services to farmers during
critical periods, supplementing the tractor services provided by FOA. An
agricultural engineer would be responsible for farm mechanization activities
at the center and throughout the project area and would be the mechanization



- 28 -
subject matter specialist for in-service training of extension workers.  He
would receive technical guidance from the senior agricultural engineer of
the Farm Mechanization Center at Kuantan.  An AA and three ATs would also be
assigned to this unit.
4.15      The Crop Protection Unit would be responsible for forecasting and
controlling major pest and disease outbreaks, for regulation of pesticide
use, and for providing general support to extension through pest and disease
identification and prescription of remedial measures. It would initiate
effective rat control in the project area. In conjunction with the Crop
Production Unit it would conduct observations and demonstration plots on
measures to reduce crop losses due to pests and diseases, and would extend
such information to the extension personnel. This unit would be headed by
an AO stationed at the Regional Extension Center, Kuala Rompin, and
responsible to the State Crop Protection Officer. The AO would be the
project subject matter specialist for crop protection and would provide
in-service training for extension workers. Other technical staff of the
unit would include one AA and three ATs.
4.16      The Soils and Analytical Services Unit would serve as a liaison
for the federal DOA Soils and Analytical Services Branch which would provide
soil surveys and soil analyses for the project area. It would be
responsible for the initial design of proper soil and water management
systems and, with the extension service, for advising farmers on soil and
water management practices, particularly with regard to correct fertilizer
uses and water requirements. It would also participate in joint
demonstration plots in farmers' fields using appropriate technological
packages and assist in simplifying them to a level understandable by the
farmers. The unit would include an AO assisted by one AA and three ATs.
4.17      Farmers' Organization Authority.  The FOA component in the project
area would have as its primary responsibilities: management and staffing
of the Farmers' Cooperative, provision of mechanized agricultural services
and of fertilizers and chemicals, and training for staff and members of the
Farmers  Cooperative.  The existing Farmers  Cooperative at Kuala Rompin would
increase staff and facilities. At full project development FOA would have a
professional staff of 23 in the project area, 4 assigned general adminis-
trative tasks, 7 responsible for mechanized agricultural services, and 12 in
the Farmers' Cooperative.  FOA operations would be housed in the new Farmers-
Development Center (FDC) in Kuala Rompin which is due for completion by
mid-1981.  TJnder the project the new facility would be expanded to be
the main agricultural complex for the area, providing space for offices
and storage for all MOA departments/agencies involved in the project.
FOA/Cooperative offices would also be located at the FDC facilities to be
built at the Rompin and Endau subregional centers. These centers would be
staffed and equipped to provide the full range of FOA services within their
areas.



- 29 -
4.18      Because the project is in a region largely undeveloped and remote
from other rice growing areas, private sector plowing and harvesting
services are not available now and are unlikely to be attracted in the
initial years of the project implementation. Therefore, until the local
rice economy matures, the FOA would provide most of the tractor, combine
harvester, transport and drying services needed. By the end of construction
FOA would have 127 four-wheel tractors, 24 combine harvesters, 13 six-ton
trucks and 3 batch dryers for contracting, at cost, to farmers in the
project area. Most of this equipment would come on line early in the
project period. At full development it would be adequate to cover about 50%
of land preparation and of harvesting, and a minor part of transport and
drying needs. It is anticipated that the private sector would react quickly
to the service opportunities created by the project and would make up the
deficit. FOA would also work with BPM to set up a loan scheme to enable
interested farmers to own their own power tillers and thus reduce dependence
on FOA and private sector tractor services.
4.19      Training activities of FOA would include regular sessions relevant
to the immediate work programs for all field staff. This continuous
on-the-job training would help to raise the competence and confidence of the
project field staff and give them regular back-stopping from senior
personnel. For more senior staff, specialized courses on project planning
and management would also be held. Farmer training would be at different
levels and for different groups, namely small agricultural unit chiefs,
cooperative members and directors. Those in leadership positiolns would be
given project orientation training - to explain project concepts, the
management system, and the responsibilities of the field staff serving them.
Special training sessions addressing topics such as cooperative principles
and management, supervision, and credit would also be conducted.
4.20      Bank Pertanian IMalaysia.  The primary role of BPM in the project
area would be to provide seasonal production credit to padi farmers either
directly or, in the case of cooperative members, through FOA. ]3PM would
also perform other normal rural bank functions such as providing livestock,
fishery, forestry, land purchase, and construction loans; savings schemes;
and general bank services. The Rompin Branch (rural unit) of B]?M, opened in
June 1979 to service the Rompin District, has responsibility for all credit
and banking activities within the project area. As the project develops
Local Credit Centers (LCCs), contractor agencies for BPM, will be
established in the project subregional centers. The LCCs will process
applications and repayments of loans. For each loan processed they will
receive a 1.5% commission, out of the 4.25% interest chargeable on the loan
per season. Most of the loans to farmers would be through a system whereby
farmers would be given coupons for presentation to previously appointed
input suppliers or machinery contractors. The suppliers and contractors
would bill BPM on the total inputs/services disbursed, to be accompanied
with the signed coupons. At the season-s end farmers would repay the LCCs
concerned, which in turn would channel all collections back to 3PM.



- 30 -
4.21       Department of Fisheries.  Objectives of the DOF in the project
area are to raise project participants incomes through aquaculture and to
increase the supply of low cost protein for families in the project area.
The Department-s operations to support achievement of these objectives would
include extension services, specific training of farmers in the various
aspects of fish culture, regular stocking of irrigation canals and financial
assistance for fish-cage culture.  Under the latter DOF activity - extension
of the national fish-cage subsidy program to the project area - 165 project
families would be given grants of M$2,500 each for construction and stocking
of fish cages, one 4-unit (20- x 20/unit) cage and 800 Chinese Carp fish
fry per family. Participants would be selected from among settler families
who apply and who are not participating in the livestock or poultry schemes
(para. 4.22). Priority would be given to Orang Asli. The cages would be
placed in the reservoirs created by the Anak Endau dam (75 cages) and by the
Rompin River cut-off (90 cages). Phasing of this project element would
follow development of the respective reservoirs and be concurrent with
arrival of settlers in the adjacent project areas. Project area staff of
DOF would consist of a fisheries sub-officer responsible to the State
Fisheries Director. and two fisheries assistants, one responsible for the
developmaent of project areas to the South, the other of areas to the north
of Kuala Rompin. These officers would all be stationed at Kuala Rompin.
4.22       Department of Veterinary Services.  The role of the DOVS in the
Rompin Endau Project is to provide technical extension, and livestock
development suppcrting services to project participants. DOVS would
introduce small sneep or goat and poultry enterprises as supplemental income
earning activities for settler families. The sheep/goat scheme proposed
would represent extensicn of the national small farm animal assistance
program, PAWIAR, to, initially, 1,000 families in the project area. Under
this program participants are given six sheep or goats and assistance for
pasture development and animal housing. Over the next six years they return
six yearlings to -he Government as repayment for the original stock.  As
this prograrr is largely self-sustaining it would be extended as feasible and
as demand warrants. Initial participants would be selected from settler
family applicants not receiving help under other project-financed supple-
mentary income programs. The poultry scheme, also currently nationwide,
would entai'  prcvidilng initial 50-bird flocks, feed and poultry housing
assistance to 750 settler families not in the fish-cage or sheep/goat
schemes. Both of th1ese programs would be phased with development of project
facilities and arrival of the settlers. DOVS staffing in the project area
would include a Ieterinary officer with overall responsibility, a research
officer, two assistant veterin2ry officers with responsibility for the
sheep/goat and poultry programs, and three veterinary assistants.
Veterinary staff would be posted at each of the FDCs.  The Pahang State DOVS
would be responsible for project livestock services, however they would
receive planning and implementation assistance from the Federal DOVS.
4.23       Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute.  No
direct contributions to MA1RDI facilities or operations are included in the
project.  However, under the Fourth Malaysia Plan expansion of MARDI-s staff



- 31 -
in the Rompin region from two to seven professionals with mosi: of the
expansion focused on rice production is expected. The research services
that will be provided by MARDI to this area will come from research
conducted by the Annual Crops Production Division at the main rice research
stations and location specific research conducted by the Project Development
Research Division in the project area. MARDI's central rice research
station at Bumbong Lima conducts breeding, agronomy, crop physiology and
crop protection research. Technologies developed from these research
activities will be evaluated, modified and improved to suit the requirements
of the Rompin-Endau project through location specific trials iin the project
area. Research would be concentrated on selecting relatively short season
varieties (120-140 days) promising good productivity on the various soil
types deemed suitable for rice cultivation. Special attention would be
given to selection for tolerance to acid sulphate soils, and to developing
specific recommendations for fertilizer use and other management practices.
Local staff would include a research oficer stationed at Kuala Rompin
supported by two assistant research officers and four research assistants to
be stationed at the FDCs in the Rompin and Endau subregional centers.
Laboratory facilities would be provided by the existing MARDI station at
Bukit Ridan.
4.24      National Padi and Rice Authority.  LPN was established in 1971 as
a Statutory body to ensure a fair and stable price of padi for farmers, a
fair and stable price of rice for consumers and sufficient supply of rice to
meet emergencies, and to recommend policies to promote development of the
padi and rice industry. The government purchase price of pad:i is reviewed
annually by the Government with advice from LPN. LPN buys padi in the rice
growing areas, provides drying, storage and processing services, and sells
rice to wholesalers. LPN compiles rice-related statistics and conducts
research on its grade and quality.
4.25      LPN would be responsible for the provision and maintenance of padi
drying, storage and rice milling facilities in the project and for the
provision of marketing services. All padi produced in the project would be
transported by FOA/Cooperative and sold only to LPN who would deduct a
determined proportion to be credited to the Project Office as repayment of
housing, land clearing and other loans (para. 6.08).
4.26      Department of Orang Asli Affairs.  DOAA has responsibility for the
administration and socio-economic development of the Orang AsLi throughout
the country.  Under the project DOAA would assist in resettling and
providing extension services to Orang Asli families. It would also
participate in other project activities as needed to protect l:he overall
interests of the Orang Asli in the project area and to ensure them full
opportunity to obtain settler status or other project benefits.
Consulting Services
4.27      DID has extensive experience in the design, execution, operation
and maintenance of irrigation and drainage works, and its staff is competent



- 32 -
to design the range of works included in the proposed project.  However, as
DID is currently designing and supervising construction of six Bank projects
in addition to numerous ADB and locally financed projects, the volume of work
exceeds the capacity of DID-s personnel.  Due to these manpower constraints
and the need to design large works, the Government has engaged a consultant,
Sepakat Setia Perunding Sdn. Bhd. in association with the Snowy Mountains
Engineering Corporation (Australia) to design, prepare tenders and supervise
construction of the irrigation, drainage, road, and land clearing components
of the project under DID supervision. This arrangement has been accepted by
the Bank. During negotiations an assurance was obtained that the consultant
would prepare, on completion of the final design of each subproject, a
designer-s operations manual and a technical record of design and
construction.
4.28      The cost of the consultants would be about US$6 million.  This
provides for about 850 man-months, over a period of six years, vehicles,
engineering survey costs and equipment, local transportation and other minor
costs. The average man-month cost (including salary, overhead, profits,
international travel and subsistence) is estimated to be about US$3,800; the
average local man-month cost is about US$2,000 (550 man-months) and the
average expatriate man-month cost is about US$7,000 (300 man-months).
Land Acquisition
4.29      The Pahang State Department of Lands and Mines is responsible for
land acquisition and property compensation. An estimated 1,260 ha of the
project area (about 9% of the total area), located in the Pontian and Anak
Endau subproject areas is presently alienated to private owners. Of this
about 125 ha would be required as right-of-way for project construction. Some
reallotment would also be required in the Paya Sepayang scheme to consolidate
uneconomically small holdings. An estimated M$l million has been allowed in
the project cost for land acquisition and property compensation. Land
acquisition needs of the project are relatively small as most of the land is
state-owned which does not require formal proceedings. Timely steps would be
taken to acquire the small privately-owned area needed for the project.
Operation and Maintenance
4.30      The State DID would operate and maintain irrigation and drainage
facilities and works to the tertiary level. Quaternary irrigation ditches and
drains would be maintained by the farmers. Diversion structures, dikes, farm
roads and tracks would also be maintained by the State DID. Main roads, built
to PWD standards under contracts administered by DID, would be maintained by
the State DID until project completion, when PWD would take over maintenance
responsibilities. State DID personnel would work as a team with agricultural
extension personnel in dealing with farmers on such matters as irrigation and
planting schedules, water control and management, and other matters relating
to operation and maintenance of the irrigation system. Vehicles and equipment
required for O&M are shown in Annex 2, Tables 5-7. Estimated O&M costs of the
project for all agencies are shown in Annex 2, Table 13.



- 33 -
Safety of Dams
4.31      The Anak Endau dam would be a zoned earthfill dam with a maximum
height of about 18 m and a storage capacity of about 35 million cu m. The
weir on the Pontian river would include a closure embankment, consisting of
a dumped rockfill shell and a silty or clayey sand core, with a maximum
height of about 14 m and a storage capacity of about 15 million cu m.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that:
(a) an independent expert or panel of experts, acceptable to the Bank,
would be employed by the Government to review the design of the dams and
associated structures before start of construction, and to examine during
construction whether any changes in the designs are needed; and (b)
following completion of construction of the dams and associated structures,
these would be periodically inspected in accordance with sound engineering
practice to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of
these dams and structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or
methods of operation of the same, which may endanger their safety.  To this
end the Government shall propose to the Bank appropriate arrangements for
the Bank's review not later than one year before the completion of the said
dam and weir.
5. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
Land Use and Production
5.01      The project area now comprises 650 ha of poorly developed rice
land, 40% of which is cropped annually, and about 12,000 ha cf undeveloped
swamp forest. Of the land now developed, 230 ha in the Paya Sepayang
irrigation scheme is within the Pontian subproject. However, because of
inadequate diversion and water delivery structures, only about 75% of this
area is in production and only a wet season rice crop is grown. Yields in
the Paya Sepayang scheme average 1.6 ton/ha; in the other, rainfed lowland,
areas they average from 1.0 to 1.2 ton/ha. Total production is about 500 tons
of padi annually (Table 5.1).
5.02      Without public investment, little change from current levels of
agricultural activity or production is likely. Settlers who have recently
moved to the Endau River left bank area and established illegal rice farms
are believed to have come in anticipation of the project development.
In the absence of the project further settlement and land clearing would
be quite limited.  Therefore, for practical purposes the present situation
can be taken to represent the "without project" situation.
5.03      With the project the Paya Sepayang scheme would be rehabilitated
and improved and about 11,000 ha of additional land, including the lowland
areas currently cropped under rainfed conditions, would be developed for
irrigation. All of the land rehabilitated or developed under the project



- 34 -
would be used for rice production, with an anticipated cropping intensity of
160% initially building up to 190% within five years after completion of
project works. As adequate water is available, an intensity of close to 200%
might be achieved in later years as operation of the various subproject
schemes and cooperative farming practices are perfected.
5.04      At full development, the net area irrigated in all project schemes
would be 11,400 ha, which with 90% double cropping would result in a net
area harvested annually of 21,700 ha (Table 5.1). Padi yields are projected
to increase from 2.7 tons/ha in the wet season and 3.0 tons/ha in the dry
season during the first crop year to 3.8 tons/ha and 4.2 tons/ha,
respectively, at full project development. Gross annual production at full
development is projected to be about 87,000 tons of padi.
Farm Size
5.05      Each settler family would be allocated 2.4 ha (6 acres) of irri-
gated rice land. The Government rejected the alternative of a 1.2 ha size
holding on the grounds that farmers on such holdings would not be fully
employed and would earn less than the projected rural target income. To
maintain adequate farm size for an acceptable level of income for the
owner-farmer, an assurance was obtained from the Government that all necessary
measures would be taken to ensure that no farm in the project area will be
fragmented or fall into the hands of absentee landlords.
Crop Management
5.06      Under the project farm activities would be done cooperatively by
small groups of farmers. These farmers and their families would. do all
labor-intensive farm work together, especially transplanting, harvesting, and
maintenance of the quaternary irrigation and drainage systems. Land
preparation, transplanting, pest control, and harvest would be done
considering the quaternary unit as one plot of land. Fertilizer
application, weed control and other minor farm activities would be done by
the individual farmer on his own plot. All farmers within one tertiary
irrigation block would be combined in a Farmers Association and would
coordinate activities among themselves. The main objectives of this
organization would be to optimize labor and water management within the
tertiary block. DOA and other agency personnel would be responsible for
guiding the farmers in cultural practices, implementation of cooperative
farming activities, input use, water management, and padi marketing.
Farmers would be obliged by their settler agreements to follow the
production schedules - particularly for transplanting, water applications
and harvest - established by the DOA and DID technicians.
5.07      The staggered rice cropping calendar for the project areas is
presented in Figure 5.1. The cropping calendar i-s designed to facilitate
labor sharing and to allow up to 45 days for hand transplanting.  With 100%
mechanization of land preparation and 75% mechanization of harvesting, no



- 35 -
Table 5.1: PRESENT AND PROJECTED HARVESTED AREA, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
Harvested area                               Production
(ha)            Yield (tons/ha)           (tons)
Future               Future                Future
with                 with                  with
Present  project    Present  project    Present  project
Rompin
Rainfed                0          0           -         -          0          0
Irrigated  W           0      4,050           -       3.8          0    15,400
D           0     3,650           -       4.2          0    15,350
Subtotal           0      7,700           -         -         0    30,750
Pontian
Rainfed               50          0         1.0         -         50          0
Irrigated  W         170      1,850         1.6       3.8        250     7,050
D          0      1,650           -       4.2          0     6,950
Subtotal         220      3,500           -         -       300    14,000
Anak Endau
Rainfed                0          0           -         -          0          0
Irrigated  W           0      4,200           -       3.8          0    15,950
D          0      3,800           -       4.2          0    15,950
Subtotal           0      8,000           -        -          0    31,900
Endau
Rainfed              150          0         1.2         -        200          0
Irrigated  W           0      1,300           -       3.8          -     4,950
D           0     1,200           -       4.2          -     5,050
Subtotal         150      2,500           -        -        200    10,000
Total Project Area
Rainfed              200          0         1.2         -        250          0
Irrigated  W         170    11,400          1.6       3.8        250    43,350
D           0    10,300           -       4.2          0    43,300
Total            370    21,700            -         -       500    86,650



- 36 -
hired labor would be required by most farmers. However, farmers with small
families might have to hire some labour, which could be readily supplied
by other, large, settler families. As indicated on the cropping calendar,
the crop operations would be scheduled so that harvest and land preparation
would be completed during the relatively dry months of each season, while
transplanting and crop maintenance activities would occur in the higher
rainfall months.
5.08      Nurseries would be planted at a rate of 40 kg/ha of transplanted
rice and would receive about 160 kg/ha of ammophos 11:48:0 incorporated into
the soil. For every third crop, fresh seed would be obtained from the seed
multiplication unit managed by DOA in the -rpject area. Varieties used
would be high yielding, tolerant to blast and to sheath blight, with a
maximum growth duration of 135i days and would withstand flooding to a depth
of 50 cm when the plant is fully grown. Suitable varieties appear to be
Mahsuri, Mat Candu, Sri Malaysia I, Sri Malaysia II, Padi Jaya and MR7 (not
yet officially released). New varieties are regularly produced and the
above-named varieties could be outdated at the time of development of the
project, however, they are the types of varieties to be considered.
5.09      Field fertilizer requirements would include 65 kg of TSP, 0:46:0,
incorporated into the soil at land preparation, and a 200 kg basal dressing
of 15:15:7.5 at transplanting, followed by 25 kg of muriate of potash,
0:0:60, two weeks after transplanting, and 150 kg of urea, 46:0:0, in one or
two top dressings - hall at 2 to 3 weeks after transplanting and half just
before heading. Although the soils are acid, no lime would be needed
because the prevailing anaerobic soil conditions under irrigated rice
cultivation would result in an increase in the pH.
5.10      Weed control would be realized tnrough application of a herbicide
at 1-2 weeks after transplanting and one subsequent manual weeding. Insect
pests and rats would be controlled throu6h application of appropriate
insecticides and rodenticides as needed.
5.11      Good water control and drainage would allow complete drainage and
two weeks of drying prior to harvest. Abou",75% of the area would be
harvested using self-propelled combine harvester-threshers provided by the
FOA/Cooperative and by private contractors. Residual crop areas, e.g., late
maturing areas or areas where machinery access or bogging down is a problem,
would be harvested by hand and threshed in small stationary threshers. The
threshed padi would be sacked at the field - to enable identification of
each farmer's production - and transported to the nearest drying and storage
center/sales point in trucks provided on a fee basis by the cooperative or
by private traders.
5.12      With application of the above outlined procedures, and appropriate
adjustments as conditions change, the projected yields and production for
the project area (para. 5.04) should be readily obtainable. The large
extension-supervision-technical assistance component designed into the
project should assure the high quality of management required.



- 37 -
Drying, Storage and Processing
5.13      Currently, padi produced in the project area is processed for home
consumption at small private mills. The Farmers'Cooperative mill at Kuala
Rompin, now inoperative, is scheduled for rehabilitation and expansion to 1
ton/hr capacity by 1984. Initially, this mill would handle production from
the Paya Sepayang area. It would later serve the Rompin Subprcject.
Additional milling capacity would be developed as needed, with the
responsibility being shared by LPN and FOA. Under the Fourth M!alaysia Plan
(1981-85) LPN is scheduled to construct integrated drying, storage and
milling complexes in the Pontian and Anak Endau subproject areas, each with
5 ton/hr of milling and 30 ton/hr of drying capacity. A similar LPN complex
to be built at Kuala Rompin would come on line in 1988 and, with the
rehabilitated cooperative mill, would serve the Rompin Subproject area.
FOA's processing facilities would include two integrated complexes in the
Endau Subproject area - each with 2 ton/hr of milling and 20 ton/hr of
drying capacity, the cooperative mill at Kuala Rompin, and two reception
centers with drying floors at the subregional center FDCs. Each of the LPN
and FOA complexes would have drying floors and storage areas adequate to
handle expected production levels within their respective service areas.
Phasing of construction would be linked with development of the various
subproject areas and with padi output increases. At full development, all
of the mills would operate double shifts for about 250 days per year.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Government would
allocate adequate funds to LPN and FOA to provide padi drying and storage
and rice milling and marketing facilities in the project area as needed.
6.  MARKETS, PRICES, FARM INCOMES, AND COST RECOVERY
Markets
6.01      Despite impressive efforts to increase rice producticn through
investments in irrigation and improvements in agricultural support services,
Malaysia continues to depend on imports to satisfy part of its rice
requirements. Between 1964 and 1974 domestic production increased by over
70% to 1.3 million tons of milled rice, chiefly due to the increases in
cropping intensity achieved by the Muda I and Kemubu Irrigation Projects.
During the same period, imports declined by 38% and the degree of
self-sufficiency increased to 83%. After 1974, production stagnated, in
part due to droughts in the northern rice areas in 1977 and 1978, causing
rice imports to rise to 409,000 tons in 1978. Production recovered to about
1.5 million tons in 1979 with consumption estimated at 1.7 million tons.
Taking into account the effects of all pipeline irrigation projects, the
Government expects domestic production to increase by 3.2% p.a., to 2.1
million tons in 1990. Demand projections based on population growth (2.7%
p.a.), with no increase in per capita consumption (120 kg p.a.) imply
imports of about 100,000 tons of milled rice in 1990, with all incremental



- 38 -
rice production continuing to be consumed domestically.  The project would
generate an incremental production of 56,000 tons of milled rice (87,000
tons of padi) by 1992, about 2.5% of domestic supply.
6.02       Market prospects at the local level are good.  Pahang and the
adjoining state of Johore are traditionally rice-deficit areas. In 1975,
about 29,000 tons of milled rice were produced in Pahang against about
76,000 tons consumed; similarly, less than 4,000 tons were produced in
Johore compared to about 180,000 tons consumed. Thus, project output is
expected to be distributed mainly within the two states.
Prices
6.03       Financial farmgate prices are based on the Government purchase
price from which deductions are made for moisture content in excess of
14% and for impurities. The purchase price is fixed by the National Padi
and Rice Authority (LPN) before the start of every planting season. The
mid-1980 LPN offer price is M$528/ton for long grain at millgate, M$495/ton
for medium grain, and M$462/ton for short grain. The farmer is responsible
for transport from farm to mill. If transport is provided by LPN, the cost
incurred will be deducted from the offer price. LPN has also appointed
purchasing agents - farmers organizations and cooperative societies; in
which case, the agent's commission and transport cost are deducted from the
offer price. Also active in the rice trade are private millers whose prices
generally fluctuate slightly around the 'CovernmeInt purchase price.
6.04       According to the Bank's commodity price forecasts, the world
market price of Thai 5% broken rice is expected to rise in 1981 prices from
US$511/ton f.o.b. Bangkok to US$600/ton in 1990. The quality of rice likely
to be produced in Malaysia, 15% broken, historically trades at a 10% dis-
count from the price of 5% broken rice. Its world market price is expected
to rise from US$460/ton in 1981 to US$540/ton in 1990. Using an average
mill return of 65% and assuming the primary market for project output would
be Kuantan, the equivalent economic farmgate price for padi would rise from
M$632/ton in 1981 to M$ 744/ton in 1990, in constant 1981 prices (Table
6.1). Financial padi prices would rise from M$531 in 1981 to M$625 in 1990.



- 39 -
Table 6.1: RICE PRICE STRUCTURE
(In constant 1981 values)
1981   1985   1990
In US$/ton
Export price, 5% broken, f.o.b. Bangkok                      511    581    600
Grade differential (less 10%)                                460    523    540
Ocean freight and insurance                                  +28    +28    +28
C.i.f. price, Kuantan                                        488    551    568
In M$/ton
C.i.f. price, Kuantan                                      1,049  1,185  1,221
Port handling and road transport, Kuantan /a                 +21    +21    +21
Wholesale price, Kuantan                                   1,070  1,206  1,242
Transport cost from mill to Kuantan /a                       -18    -18    -18
Ex-mill price                                              1,052  1,188  1,224
Padi equivalent (65% mill return)                            684    772    796
Milling costs not covered by value of byproducts /a          -44    -44    -44
Transport, cost, farm to mill /a                              -8      -8      -8
Farm-gate price:  Economic                                   632    720    744
Financial /b                              531    605    625
/a  Economic prices were determined by adjusting financial base estimates
using standard conversion factors from Annex 4, Table 1: 0.72 for port
handling costs; 0.66 for transport costs; and the general conversion
factor, 0.89, for milling costs.
/b  For estimating financial farm-gate prices it was assumed that the ratio
of financial to economic prices established by the Governmeant in 1980
through its retail, wholesale and farm level price control/support
activities would be maintained. Thus, the projected financial prices
were estimated by multiplying the economic farm-gate price estimates by
the ratio of the 1980 Government purchase price for medium grain padi
(adjusted by farm to mill transport cost), M$483, to the estimated 1980
economic price, U1$573; i.e., by 0.84.
6.05      Farmgate fertilizer prices based on the Bank's world market price
projections for urea, triple super phosphate and muriate of pol:ash are
presented in Annex 3, Table 1. Prices of other farm inputs (Annex 3, Table
2) are based on data provided by DOA personnel in the project area.
Economic prices were estimated by applying the conversion factor for agri-
cultural inputs, 0.86, (Annex 4, Table 1) to the financial price estimates.



- 40 -
Farm Incomes
6.06       The project would provide each settler family with 2.4 ha (6
acres) of irrigated riceland served with adequate water for full double
cropping. It would also give assistance for establishment of supplemental
livestock, poultry, or fishery enterprises to about 2,000 (40%) of the
settler families. The supplemental enterprise programs would later be
expanded if demand warrants. Separate farm budgets prepared for padi
and for each of the supplementary enterprises are summarized in Table 6.2.
Each of the budgets is independent as each family would be limited to one
supplemental enterprise and no competition for resources between padi and
the supplemental enterprises would occur. Labor required for the supplemental
enterprises would be provided from leisure time and/or by children not
otherwise employed. Present and future without-project cases were not
budgeted because in these cases the rice area is negligible, only about 300
ha single cropped, relative to the 11,400 ha of double cropped rice at full
project development. Projections of input use with the project are based on
practices recommended to achieve the projected output levels under project
conditions.
6.07       The prospective settlers are mostly tenant or owner-operator rice
farmers with uneconomic sized holdings from Pahang State or from traditional
rice growing areas in Kedah, Kelantan and Perlis. Based on a national
survey, in 1980 about 75% of all rice farmers had annual incomes below the
absolute poverty line of US$300 and substantially below the national per
capita income of US$1,150. Virtually all of the families chosen for
settlement would be from the poverty group. With the project, net returns
would be about US$1,400/ha or about US$3,360 per 2.4 ha farm. This
represents about a 250% increase over projected without-project returns for
similar sized farms in the project area. For settler families participating
in the livestock supplementary income schemes, additional yearly net
earnings per farm of between US$165 (poultry) and US$460 (goats or sheep)
would be available. Those participating in the fish cage scheme would earn
supplementary net income of abbut US$580 per year. Thus all of the settler
families (5 persons/family) could expect to earn per capita incomes of
US$670 or more, with the average being about US$ 700 per capita before
repayment of housing and land development costs (para. 6.08). This would be
about 30% of the projected 1992 per capita GNP, or 55% of projected national
average per capita consumption.
Cost Recovery
6.08       Water charges would be treated along the lines of the previous
four Bank-financed irrigation projects in Malaysia (North Kelantan,
Northwest Selangor, Krian-Sungei Manik, and Muda II). In Malaysia
operation and maintenance costs are funded from general state and federal
revenues. Nominal water and drainage rates are collected by state
governments and form part of the general revenue. Since virtually all the



- 41 -
Table 6.2:  SUMMARY BUDGETS FOR 2.4 HA PADI FARMS,
WITH ALTERNATIVE SUPPLEMENTARY ENTERPRISES /a
Farm enterprises
Padi       Padi        Padi
Padi    goats/sheep   poultry   fishery
----------------  M$  ----------------
Cash Inflows
Padi sales                     11,500      11,500        11,500    11,500
Supplemental enterprise             -       1,210         1,965      2,120
Total Cash Inflows        11,500      12,710        13,465    13,620
Cash Outflows
Net Production Cost
Padi                          3,170       3,170         3,170      3,170
Supplemental enterprise           -         220         1,610        870
Subtotal                   3,170       3,390         4,780     4,040
Taxes and fees                1,110       1,110         1,110      1,110
Total Cash Outflows        4,280       4,500         5,890      5,150
Net Farm Cash Flow              7,220       8,210         7,575      8,470
Per capita income               1,445       1,640         1,515      1,695
(US$670)   (US$760)       (US$705)  (US$790)
/a   At full production, after debt repayments are complete.



- 42 -
Rompin-Endau settlers would be Muslims, they would be subject to the
compulsory religious tithe, zakat, which in Pahang State is levied at a rate
of 10% of gross value of annual padi production less a one-ton subsistence
allowance. On project farms, zakat would average about US$500 /1 per farm per
annum at full development; about twice the irrigation system operation and
maintenance costs per farm. Thus zakat payments would make a substantial
contribution to capital cost recovery. Also, because the project entails
major social infrastructure and land clearing cost, settlers would be
required to repay the capital costs for their housing and for land clearing
following the FELDA model. Consistent with current government policy to
eliminate all interest charges for projects aimed at alleviating poverty, no
interest would be charged to settlers in this project for their housing and
land clearing loans. Repayment of housing costs over 15 years with a 2-year
grace period would require annual payments of about US$140 per family.
Repayment of rice land clearing costs over 20 years with a 10-year grace
period would entail annual payments of US$320 during the repayment period.
Altogether, settler families would have annual tax and debt retirement
obligations of about US$630 (17% of pre-tax net farm income) for the 3rd
through 10th years after receiving their land, US$975 (25%) during the 11th
through 15th years, and US$835 (22%) during the 16th through 20th years and
US$515 (13%) thereafter. Based on present values of project rent, costs,
fees and taxes discounted at 10% (excluding settlement costs and housing
cost recovery) the total project rent recovery index is 44%. The cost
recovery index is 24% (Annex 4, Table 4), which is comparable to those of
other Bank-financed irrigation projects in Malaysia. This level of cost
recovery seems appropriate because even after full development the US$700
per capita incomes of these settlers would still be below the projected 1992
critical consumption level in Malaysia of US$790 (one-third of average per
capita GNP). Due to its sound financial position the Government is well
able to absorb the loss of interest revenues in order to achieve its poverty
reduction goals.
7. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      By developing new land, providing flood and salinity control,
irrigation and drainage infrastructure and integrated agricultural support
services, the project would result in 190% cropping intensity on about
11,400 net ha currently under swamp forest. The project would also provide
housing and community services. About 4,700 families, mainly new settlers
or about 24,000 people would directly benefit from the project. The project
would create an annual demand for farm labor of about two million
labor-days, equivalent to some 9,500 full time jobs. The project would
contribute to the Government-s goals of self-sufficiency in rice and more
balanced regional development at a capital cost of about US$23,000 per farm
family or US$9,600 per ha in financial prices. The cost per farm family is
/1 All cost and benefit estimates are valued in 1981 prices unless
otherwise indicated.



- 43 -
much higher than in other recent Bank-financed irrigation projects in
Malaysia, which range between US$2,000 and US$4,400. The reason for this is
that previous projects involved only the improvement of existing physical
works in contrast to Rompin-Endau where all works are new and the project
includes settlements. Incremental annual padi production per hectare at
Rompin-Endau will be higher and as a result the capital cost per ton of
incremental paid production ($1,250) is close to that of recent projects
($1,590 at Muda and $870 at Krian-Sungei Manik). Compared to previous land
settlement projects, the cost per family (in 1981 prices) is lower than
Keratong ($48,400) and Johore ($34,600) and higher than Felda VI ($12,500).
This project would provide somewhat better income levels for the direct
beneficiary families than would the other projects. The settler families
would achieve per capita income levels of about US$700 per capita, well out
of absolute poverty (US$320 per capita) although still below the projected
1992 critical consumption level of US$790. In contrast the Krian-Sungei Manik
and Muda II projects will provide average per capita incomes of only about
US$350 and US$400 respectively, with about 15% of the beneficiaries remaining
in absolute poverty. The Keratong, Johore and Felda VI projects would allow
average incomes of from about US$400 to US$600 per capita. The incremental
annual production of 87,000 tons of padi would result in annual foreign
exchange savings of about US$32.2 million at the forecast world market price
for rice plus cost of insurance and freight. The net foreign exchange
savings would be about US$29.7 million after deducting the incremental cost
of imported fertilizers and chemicals.
7.02      Foreign Exchange.  The unit of account is uncommitted foreign
exchange in the hands of the Government, expressed in terms of local
currency. All tradeable components are valued directly in foreign exchange
converted to local currency at the official exchange rate and adjusted for
local transport and handling. Conversion factors for a number of broad
categories of goods and services produced or consumed by the project were
used to express all nontradeable inputs and outputs in terms of the unit of
account (Annex 4, Table 1).
7.03      Benefits.  Expected yields, cropping intensities and production
are discussed in Chapter 5. Input and output prices, production and labor
costs and gross and net returns are shown in Annex 3 and in supplementary
enterprise budgets in the project files. Expected annual benefits in the
project area at full development are M$40.4 million (Annex 4, Table 6).
7.04      Distribution of Benefits.  All of the direct benefits to be
derived from the project at full development, padi and suppleamentary
enterprise production, would accrue to the settler families, about 24,000
people. The settler families, all in the target group, have an average
present income of about US$125 per capita, about 60% below the estimated
1981 absolute poverty level income of US$320. Indirect benefits not included
in the economic analysis - e.g., increased employment in the public and
private services sectors, increased commercial activity and increased
high-quality local food supplies - would accrue in some measure to most of
the project area population, projected to be about 50,000 people at full
project development.



- 44 -
7.05      Employment Impact.  The annual demand for labor with the project
is estimated at 2 million labor-days. The average settler family has five
members, with an equivalent of two persons available to work full time as
needed. It was assumed that during peak labor demand months (April and
October) 2.5 worker equivalents per family would be available. Thus, the
total labor supply at full development in 1992 would amount to about 14,250
workers, one third of whom would be employed full time. Assuming 25 work
days per month, the total labor supply would be almost 3 million labor-days
in 1992 (Annex 3, Table 6). Most of the settlers will be drawn from areas
where the average size of rice holdings are such that some underemployment
exists. However, in view of the generally tight agricultural labor market
in Malaysia, the opportunity cost wage rate was assumed to be the current
average agricultural wage rate of M$7 per day, M$5.53 in border prices.
Total labor cost at full development would be M$11.2 million.
7.06       Investment Costs.  The project economic capital cost, excluding
settlement costs, is US$75.5 million. This capital cost estimate includes
allowances for physical contingencies but excludes price contingencies. The
foreign exchange components are valued at border prices while a construction
conversion factor of 0.77 was applied to local costs net of taxes and
duties. The annual economic costs of irrigation system operation and
maintenance average about US$100/ha for the project areas. Capital costs of
settler housing and other settlement facilities and services, US$25.2
million, were not included in the economic analysis because it was assumed
that benefits to this project element, though unquantifiable, would be at
least equal to its cost. With the Malaysian population growing annually by
about 360,000 persons, 60,000-70,000 households, new housing and associated
services equivalent to about 14 times the total provided by this project
would be required each year merely to accommodate the expanding population.
7.07      Development Period.  According to the project implementation
schedule, all works would be completed by 1987 (Figure 3.1). Full
agricultural development would be reached in the project areas by 1992. On
some of the subprojects, benefits would be realized earlier, and for
purposes of the economic analysis, it is assumed that benefits from the
irrigation systems would begin in 1984 and continue increasing until the
projected maximum is achieved-in 1992. Supplemental livestock, poultry and
fishery enterprises supported by the project would be developed concurrently
with the padi-land development.
7.08      Economic Rate of Return.  On the basis of the foregoing assump-
tions and discounting the costs and benefits over a 30-year evaluation
period, the economic rate of return is 17% (Annex 4, Table 5). The criteria
for settler selection will ensure that all of the beneficiaries would be
from landless or small farm families with incomes below the critical
consumption level; therefore, the social rate of return would be above 17%.
Rates of return for the subprojects are 15% for Rompin, 17% for Pontian, 17%
for Anak Endau, and 19% for Endau. Respectively, these subprojects account
for 39%, 14%, 37% and 10% of total project cost. At a discount rate of 10%,
the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Malaysia, the economic net
present value of the project in 1981 is M$77.4 million.



- 45 -
7.09      Sensitivity Analysis.  Sensitivity of the estimated rate of return
and net present value for the entire project was tested to cost overruns,
reduction of benefits and implementation delays. The effecl's of these
changes were as follows:
Economic rate       Net present
of return         value @ 10%
Case                                      t%)           (M$, millions)
1.   Base case                                     17.0               76.9
2.   Capital costs up 20%                          15.0               52.2
3.   Capital costs up 50%                          11.6               15.1
4.   Farm value of padi down 20%                   11.0                6.4
5.   Net agricultural benefits down 20%            14.0               33.0
6.   Net agricultural benefits down 20%
and capital costs up 20%                    11.1                8.2
7.   Agricultural benefits and costs
delayed 2 years                             14.1               38.8
8.   Agricultural benefits and costs
delayed 4 years                             10.9                8.3
7.10      Sensitivity analysis was also used to determine which variables
would be most crucial to the project. In carrying out the sensitivity
analysis, two measures were developed for each variable tested - the
crossover value and the elasticity. The crossover value is the value of the
variable tested for which NPV discounted at 10% is zero, and is a measure of
how the variable can differ frum its most likely value before the project
becomes economically unacceptable. The crossover value may also be
interpreted as the value of the variable tested, beyond which the economic
rate of return would be below 10%. The elasticity is defined as the
percentage change in NPV discounted at 10% with respect to a 1% change in
the variable tested. It is a measure of the rate of change of NPV relative
to the specified variable, at the most likely value of that variable. The
elasticity generally changes for movements along the NPV-variable curve.
7.11      The results, presented in Annex 4, Table 7, show that at the most
likely values for these variables the economic rate of return is most
sensitive to cropping intensity. The likelihood of some critical variations
is discussed below.
(a)  Yields.  The project is not sensitive with respect to yields.  The
incremental padi yield at full development would have to be about
26% less than the expected value before the project's economic
rate of return falls to 10%. Moreover, although the projected



- 46 -
yield levels would require very good management by the farmers,
they are well below physical potentials of existing rice varieties
on the project area soil types and are less than the levels
obtained at present on well managed farms elsewhere in Ma3aysia.
(b)  Cropping Intensity.  The crossover value represents a cropping
intensity of l517 which is substantially helow the proiected
cropping intensity of 190%. It is also below the intensities
routinely achieved in the better drained and irrigated areas of
other irrigation schemes in Peninsular Malaysia, e.g., the
average cropping intensity in the Muda project area was 175%
even before rehabilitation under the Muda II project began. As
water supply would be adequate in the project, failure to achieve
the projected cropping intensity is unlikely.
(c)  Prices.  A long-term world rice price 22% below the Bank's 1990
projection would have to occur before the project NPV would fall
to zero at 10%. It is unlikely that this will happen given the
tight world production/consumption balance for food grains.
Short-term fluctuations as have occurred in recent years would
not materially reduce the proiect's net benefits or ERR.
(d)  Construction Costs.  The results are not sensitive to increases in
real costs, which would have to rise by 63% before the NPV at 10%
falls to zero. Experience with other projects in Malaysia has
shown that cost overruns of this magnitude seldom occur.
(e)  Economic Wage Rate.  The economic rate of return is not sensitive
to this variable as the economic wage would have to increase by
123% for the NPV to be zero.
(f)  Development Period.  Benefits would have to be delayed more than 4
years before the rate of return falls below 10%. Although other
projects in Malaysia are facing delays of up to two years, it is
unlikely that project execution and realization of henefits would
be delayed by 4 years under the proposed project.
7.12      Risks.  There are no unusual risks associated with the project.
The risks normally associated with area development projects based on irri-
gated agriculture have been accounted for in estimating yields, cropping
intensities, rates of development, and investment costs.
8. AGREEMENTS RFACHED ANT) RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained on the following
major points:



- 47 -
(a)  the implementing agencies would maintain separate accounts for the
project; these would be collated by the Project Manager.  The
Government would furnish to the Bank such information concerning
such accounts as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request (para. 3.32);
(b)  the Government would take all measures necessary to ensure that
the design, construction and operation of the works under the
Project are carried out in accordance with appropriate ecological
and environmental standards (para. 3.33);
(c)  the Government would forward to the Bank, for its review and com-
ment by June 30, 1981, settler selection criteria and. the
Government-settler agreement (para. 4.04);
(d)  DOA would prepare an agricultural services operations manual as a
guide for field staff by January 1, 1984 (para. 4.10), and the
consultant would prepare, on the completion of the final design of
each subproject, a designer's operations manual (para. 4.27);
(e)  an independent expert or panel of experts, acceptable to the
Bank, would be employed by the Government to review the design of
the Anak Endau dam and the Pontian weir and associated structures
before start of construction, and to examine during construction
whether any changes in the designs are needed (para. 4.31);
(f)  the Government would establish a suitable maintenance and inspec-
tion program for the Anak Endau dam and the Pontian weir and would
propose to the Bank appropriate implementation arrangements for
the Bank's review no later than one year before the expeced com-
pletion of the dam and the weir (para. 4.31);
(g)  the Government would take all necessary measures to ensure that
no farms in the Project area will be fragmented or fall into the
hands of absentee landlords (para. 5.05); and
(h)  the Government would ensure that adequate funds are a:Llocated to LPN
and FOA to provide padi drying and storage and rice milling and
marketing facilities in the project area as needed (para. 5.13).
8.02      The appointment of a suitably qualified and experienced Project
Manager would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(para. 4.01).
8.03      With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$40.0 million, with a 17-year maturity and a grace
period of 4 years. The borrower would be Malaysia.



MA.LAYIA
ROMPlN-eM"AU AREA DEVELOPMENT P10JFCT
Crop Water R! quir-eent.
January         February            March             April              May              J.ne              July            August           Septenber          October           Navember         December
Average evapaoutlon                    55.5   55.5       56.5   56.5      65.0   65.0       63.5   63.5       59.5   59.5       56.0   56.0       56.0   56.0       57.0   57.0      58.5   58.5       55.5   55.5       48.5   48.5       45.5   45.5
Availahle rainfall /b                 26.4   26.4       10.2   10.2       29.0   28.0       25.4   25.4       40.2   40.2       67.7   67.7       55.9   55.9       53.3   53.3      52.6   52.6       71.6   71.6       84.2   84.2    152.4  152.4
Cropping Schedule Nn. I
Crap enefficient                     1.25   -          -       -        -        1.2       1.2    1.2        1.25   1.25       1.3    1.3        1.25   -         -       -         -       1.2       1.2     1.2       1.25   1.25       1.3    1.3
I.and preparation requirementtc    -         -         -       -       382.7    -          -       -         -       -         -      -         -       -         -       -       382.7    -          -       -         -                 -       -
Canuemptice use                     69.4    -          _       -         -      79.0      76.2   76.2       74.4   74.4       72.8   72.9      7n.0    -          -       -          -     70.2      66.6   66.6       60.6   60.6       59.1   59.1
Perc-latinn                         31.0    -          -       -         -      31.0      30.0   30.n       31.0   31.0       30.0   30.0       31.0    -         -       -         -      30.0      31.0   31.0       30.0   30.0       31.0   31.0
Ner cuter require=ent               74.0    -          -       -       354.7   01.n       80.8   80.9       65.2   6S.2       35.1   35.1       45.1    -         -       -       330.1   47.6       26.0   26.0        6.4    6.4        0       0
Diversion requirement /d           123.1    -          _       -       591.2  135.0    134.7  134.7    108.6  108.5           58.5   SR,S       75.2    -         -       -       550.2   79.3       43.3   43.3       60.7   10.7        0       0
Cropping ScheduIle Nn. 2
Crap c-efficient                     1.3    1.25       -       -         -       -         1.2    1.7        1.2    1.25       1.25   1.3        1.3    1.25      -       -         -       -         1.2    1.2        1.2    1.25       1.25   1.3         t
Land preparati.n require=ent         -       -         -       -         -    3R2.7        -       -.        -                        -          -      -         -                 -    382.7        -       -                 -         -       -
Canaaaptive  cue                    77.2   69.4        -       -         -       -        76.2   76.2       71.4   74.4       70.n   72.8       72.9   70.0       -       -         -       -        66.6   66.6       58.2   60.6       56.9   59.1
Percoiatine                          31.0   31.0       -       -         -       -        30.0   30.0       31.0   31.0       30.0   30.0       31.0   31.n       -       -         -       -        31.0   31.0       30.0   30.0       31.0   31.0
Met eater req.ire.ent               76.R   74.0        -       -         -    354.7       S0.0   80.8       62.2   65.2       32.3   35.1       47.9   45.1       -       -         -    330.1       26.0   26.0        4.0    6.4        0       0
Dlverni-n requirement              120.0  123.3        -       -         -    591.2    114.7  134.7    103.7  108.6           53.8   58.5       79.0   75.2       -       -         -    550.2       43.3   43.3        6.7   10.7        0       0
Crappi.g Schedule No. 3
Crap -aefflicint                     1.3    1.3        1.2S   -                            -       1.2       1.2    1.2        1.25   1.25       1.3    1.3        1.25   -         -       -         -       1.2       1.2    1.2        1.25   1.25
Land preparutiam  requirement        -       -         -       -         -       -       382.7    -          -       -         -       -         -       -         -      _         _       _       382.7    -          -       -         -       -
Cenca-ptie  aee                     72.7   72.2       70.6    -          -       -         -      76.2      71.4   71.4       70.0   70.0       72.R   72.8      71.2    -          -       -         -      66.6      58.2   58.2       56.9   56.9
Pereclation                         31.0   31.0       28.n    -          -       -         -      30.0      31.0   31.0       30.0   30.0       31.0   31.0       31.0    -         _       _         -      31.0      30.0   30.0       31.0   31.0
Net vater requirement               76.8   76.0       98.6    -          -       -       357.3   80.8       62.2   62.2       32.3   32.3       47.9   47.9       48.9    -         -       -       311.1   26.0         4.0    4.0       0       0
Diversion require=ent              128.0  128.n    147.6    -            -       -       595.5  134.7    103.7  103.7         53.9   53.8       79.8   79.8      81.6    -          -       -       518.5   43.3        6.7    6.7        0       0
/a  Competed .uing Hargr-uoea method (1974), Dln Water Renuarces Publica-tin No. 5
/b Valuec will be noce-ded in 9 act at 10 years.
77  DID Infor=atlon Paper N.. 2.
77 Ascu=e cnaveyance lo.e.s af 40%.
Note:  Peak aatnr requirement could nccur in the 15-day period fron Apr1l 1, tu April 15.  Tor.1 di-ersion dea.nd daring thin perlud is one-third of the ace of 134.7 + 134.7 + 595.5; equal to 280  me.  Thiu is equivalent to
s flne af about 7.2 1/n/bc.  This in rounded aff to 2.0 1/c/ha for the design af the canal syste=.



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Local    Foreign    Total         Local    Foreign    Total        Foreign
--- M dollar millions ---         -  US dollar mil:Lions ---   exchange (%)
Civil Works
Rompin Subproject
Land clearing, main drains & roads    6.3           6.0       12.3         2.9       2.8         5.7       48
Cut-off channel and dikes               13.5       11.2       24.7         6.3       5.2        11.5       45
Irrigation works and farm roads          2.6        1.7        4.3         1.2       0.8         2.0       42
Tertiary development                     3.7        2.3        6.0         1.7       1.1         2.8       40
Farm settlement and subregional
center                                13.3        3.7       17.0         6.2       1.7         7.9       22
Subtotal                             39.4       24.9       64.3        18.3      11.6        29.9       39
Pontian Subproject
Land clearing, main drains & roads    2.9           2.6        5.5         1.4       1.2         2.6       48
Pontian weir and dikes                   2.4        1.9,       4.3         1.1       0.9         2.0       45
Irrigation works and farm roads          2.2        1.7        3.9         1.0       0.8         1.8       42
Tertiary development                     1.4        1.0        2.4         0.7       0.4         1.1       40
Farm settlements                         6.6        1.6        8.2         3.0       0.8         3.8       20
Subtotal                             15.5        8.8       24.3         7.2       4.1        11.3       36
Anak Endau Subproject
Land clearing, main drains & roads    7.3           6.7       14.0         3.4       3.1         6.5       48
Anak Endau dam, weir & dikes             7.7        6.3       14.0         3.6       2.9         6.5       45
Irrigation works and farm roads          4.6        3.3        7.9         2.2       1.5         3.7       42
Tertiary development                     4.3        3.0        7.3         2.0       1.4         3.4       40
Farm settlements and subregional
center                                16.4        4.7       21.1         7.6       2.2         9.8       22
Subtotal                             40.3       24.0       64.3        18.8      11.1        29.9       37
Endau Subproject /a
Land clearing, main drains & roads    2.0           1.9        3.9         1.0       0.8         1.8       48
Kembar weir and dikes                    1.3        1.1        2.4         0.6       0.5         1.1       45
Irrigation works and farm roads          1.5        1.1        2.6         0.7       0.5         1.2       42
Tertiary development                     1.1        0.8        1.9         0.5       0.4         0.9       40
Farm settlement (Mentelong)              2.4        0.6        3.0         1.1       0.3         1.4       20
Subtotal                              8.3        5.5       13.8         3.9       2.5         6.4       39
Service buildings & staff quarters         5.8        1.7        7.5         2.7       0.8         3.5       22
Equipment, vehicles & supplies             2.1       12.3       14.4         1.0       5.7         6.7       85
Land acquisition                           1.0          -        1.0         0.5         -         0.5        -
Consultant services                        3.9        9.0       12.9         1.8       4.2         6.0       70
Administration and engineering             5.9        0.6        6.5         2.7       0.3         3.0       10
Base Cost                                122.2       86.8      209.0        56.9      40.3        97.2       42
Physical contingencies /b               16.8       12.7       29.5         7.8       5.9        13.7       42
Expected price increases                37.2       27.5       64.7        17.3      12.8        30.1       42
Total Project Cost                   176.2      127.0      303.2        82.0      59.0       141.0       42
/a  Includes Kembar, Mentelong, Upper Endau I & II.
/b 20% on irrigation, drainage and road works, 10% on settlement works and 5% on project buildings, equipment
& vehicle costs.



-50 -                               ANNEX 2
Table 2
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimate
Subprojects
Anak
Rompin   Pontian      Endau     Endau
-------------   (M$'000)  ------------
Irrigation Works
Land clearing                             11,163      4,588    11,850      3,675
Main drains                                  564        312       497        296
Main roads                                   602        615     1,600          -
Flood protection dikes                       599        429     1,521      1,545
Diversion works                           24,114/a   3,863/b  13,551/c       774/d
Main canals                                  280      1,178     2,030         98
Laterals                                   1,037        111     1,629        266
Canal structures                             650        270       799        179
Drainage structures                          364        506       888        608
Pump stations                              1,167        460       965        442
Farm roads                                   687      1,262     1,689        759
Motorcycle tracks                            137         33        80        236
Tertiary development                       5,924     2,427      7,236      1,899
Subtotal                             47,288    16.054    43,335    10,777
Settlement Wlorks
Settler houses                             6,685     2,807      7,805      1,295
Community facilities                       2,553        312     2,672        133
Educational and health institutions        3,384      1,305     4,275        614
Roads and paths                            2,363      2,464     3,707        507
Electricity and water supply                 945        449     1,103        183
Landelearing & preparation                 1,121        868     1,426        237
Subtotal                             17,051     8.205    20.988      2,969
Total Subproject Base Cost           64,339    24,259    64,323    13,746
/a  Rompin cut-off channel.
/b  Pontian weir.
/c Anak Endau dam (M$8,147) and weir (M$4,404)
/d  Kembar weir.



MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Cost Estimate - Diversion Works
Rompin cut-off       Anak    Anak
thannel.        Endau    Endau   Pontian   Kembar
w/concrete weir      dam      weir      weir       weir     Total
---------------------------(M$ '000)--------------------------
1.  Excavation and stripping             16,336            926    1,166       500        40    18,968
2.  Earth embankment                        360          3,230       138       164        2      3,894
3.  Rock embankment                         825            130       559       387        -      1,901
4.  Filter material                           -            675         -         -        -        675                 >
5.  Flood protection dikes                1,260              -         -         -        -      1,260
6.  Riprap                                  408            600         -       360      163      1,531
7.  Terin cloth                               -            135       108       67        24        334
8.  Concrete construction                 2,085            870    1,323    1,323        312      5,913
9.  Steel reinforcement                     420            300       375       375       75      1,545
10.  Gates, fixtures & piling                 31            175       335      335       .37        913
11.  Pipes and conduits                       97            266         -        -         -        363
12.  Minor items                          2,292             840       400      351       122      4,005            | |
Total Base Cost                24,114          8,147    4,404    3,862         775    41,302            1 1



?fALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DFVELO0lE?T PROJECT
Subregional Centers and Farm Settlements
Cost Estimate
Subregional centers                             Farm settlements
Anak                           Anak                  Endau
Rompin    Endau   Subtotal   Rompin   Endau   Pontian  (lfentelong)   Subtotal    Total
_______________________________(11$  000)-------------------------------------------
1.  Land clearing                      470       478        948       215       363       421          149        1,148       2,096
2.  Roads & paths                    1,506    2,194       3,702        855    1,513    2,464           507        5,339       9,041
3.  Houses                           4,725    4,725       9,450    1,960    3,080    2,807          1,295         9,142      18,592
4.  Primary schools                  1,044    1,080       2,124          -         -         -           -            -       2,124
5.  Secondary schools                  642       642      1,284          -         -         -           -            -       1,284
6.  Kindergarten                         82       82         164      326       581       585          254        1,746       1,91g
7.  Government centers               1,200    1,200       2,400          -         -        -            -            -       2,4no
8.  flosques/Suraus                     224      224         448        92      146       132           61          431         874
9.  Health centers/clinics             930       930      1,860       360       960       720          360        2,400       4,260
10.  Shops                              929       929      1,858        108       173       180          72          533       2,391
11.  Electricity & water supply         668       668      1,336        277      435       449          183        1,344       2,680
12.  Earthworks & landscaping            305      296         601       131       289      447           88          955       1,556
Total Base Cost           12,727   13,448    26175    4,324    7,540    8,205              2,969       23,038      49,213
(D X



- 53 -                             ANNEX 2
Table 5
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Equipment
Drainage and Irrigation Department /a
No. of          Unit        Total
units           cost          cost
Item                             DID  PWD /a Total  M$'000         M$'000
Hydraulic excavator, 5/8 cu yd,
50 ft boom                                 3   -        3      150.0        450.0
Tractor, 60 HP, with front-end loader    1   1            2       50.0        100.0
Tractor, 60 HP, wheel type, with blade   3   -            3       45.0        135.0
Trailer for wheeled tractor                  3   -        3        5.0         15.0
Front-end wheel loader                       2   -        2       80.0        160.0
Tipper truck 6t                              3   2        5       45.0        225.0
Vibrating roller 5t                          1   1        2       30.0         60.0
Motor grader, 125 HP                         2   2        4      125.0        500.0
Lorry, 6t, with 1.5t crane                   1   -        1       60.0         60.0
Rotary grass cutter                          4   2        6        4.0         24.0
Backhoe, 3/8 cu yd.                          2   1        3       40.0        120.0
Station wagon, 4-wheel drive, LWB,
Diesel                                     4   2        6       30.0        180.0
Motorcycle, 100 cc                          10   -       10        2.5          25.0
Speedboat with 40 HP outboard motor          1   1        2       10.0         20.0
Concrete mixer                               1   1        2        8.0         16.0
Mobile pump - 3"                             2   -        2       10.0         20.0
Mobile pump - 4"                             2   -        2       15.0         30.0
Mobile pump - 6"                             2   -        2       20.0         40.0
Fuel tanker                                  1   -        1       60.0         60.0
Mobile service unit                          1   -        1       60.0         60.0
Workshop equipment and tools                 1   -        1        LS         200.0
Office and survey equipment                  1   -        1        LS         100.0
Spare parts (about 10%)                      1   -        1        LS         240.0
Total                                                             2,850.0
/a Including equipment for maintenance of PWD main roads.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Table 6
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Equipment
Department of Agriculture
No. of       Unit cost   Total cost
Items                                         units        ---       M$ 000-------
Combine  harvester, 30-35 HP                         3            65.0          195.0
Back Hoe 3/8 cu yd                                   1            40.0           40.0
Tractor, 4-wheeler, 45 HP                           10            23.0          230.0
Station wagon, 2-wheel drive                         2            15.0            30.0
Pick-up truck, 4-wheel drive                        18/a          20.0          360.0
Lorry, 6 ton                                         6/b          40.0          240.0
Mobile service unit                                  1            60.0            60.0
Trailer, for tractor                                 3             5.0            15.0
Three-disc plough                                    4             3.0            12.0
Rotavator                                           10             6.0            60.0
Grass cutter, (150 mm)                               2             4.0             8.0
Power sprayer (medium)                              12             3.0            36.0
Seed drill                                          10             3.0           30.0
Padi transplanter                                    2            15.0            30.0
Water pump                                           4             4.0            16.0
Cages for fish culture (DOF)                         -              LS          330.0
Livestock (DOVS)                                     -              LS        2,100.0
Spare parts (about 10%)                              -              LS          128.0
Total                                                                    3,920.0
/a Includes 3 units for DOVS, one unit for DOF, and 3 units for DARA.
/b Includes 2 units for DARA.



ANNEX 2
Table 7
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Equipment
Farmers' Organization Authority
No. of       Unit cost   Total cost
Items                                        units        -M$-000-------
Combine harvester, 30-35 HP                       24             65.0        1,560.0
Station wagon, 4-wheel drive LWB, Diesel            7            30.0          210.0
Lorry, 6 ton                                       13            40.0          520.0
Tractors, 4-wheeler, 45 HP                       127             23.0       2,921.0
Rotavator                                         127             6.0          762.0
Three disc plough                                127              3.0          381.0
Tipping trailer                                   127             5.0          635.0
Ancillary equipment                                 -              LS          125.0
Fuel truck                                          1            60.0           60.0
Mobile service unit                                 2            40.0           80.0
Workshop equipment                                  -              LS           75.0
Office furniture & equipment                        3              L^           15.0
Spare parts (about 5%)                                                         306.0
Total                                                                  7,650.0



-56 -                               ANNEX 2
Table 8
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Buildings
Cost Estimate
(M$000)
Regional extension centers and subcenters: DOA, DOVS, DOF,
and farmer development centers:  FOA                                       2,100
Agricultural station:  DOA                                                   1,000
Workshops:  DID and FOA                                                        400
Staff Quarters:  DOA, DID, DOVS, FOA & DOF                                   4,000
Total                                                                7,500



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Table 9
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PUMPING STATIONS
Area served and location                                 Q (1/sec)       Lift (m)
Rompin right bank                                          2,685            7.5
Rompin left bank                                           5,820            7.0
Pontian left bank                                          1,077            3.5
Pontian left bank /a                                         560            1.2
Pontian right bank                                         2,220            4.5
Anak EDdau right bank                                      6,770            3.0
Anak Endau right bank /a                                   1,690            1.2
Anak Endau left baDk                                       2,040            3.5
Kembar                                                     1,280            3.7
MenteloDg                                                    415            6.0
Upper Endau I                                                560            6.0
Upper Endau II                                               500            7.0
/a Booster pumping stations.
Note: Number of units in each plant is variable, depeDdent on final desigD
considerations.



ANNEX 2
- 58 -                                       Table 10
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
(US$ million)
/a                                            /a
Total   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Rompin Subproject
Land clearing, drains, roads          5.7      0.4    3.0    2.3    -         -      -       -
Cut-off channel, weir & dikes    11.5         -       2.2    2.3    3.0    2.5    1.5    -
Irrigation works                     4.8      -       -       -       0.5    2.0    1.5    0.8
Settlement facilities                7.9      -       -       -       1.5    2.8    2.8    0.8
Subtotal                      29.9      0.4    5.2    4.6    5.0    7.3    5.8    1.6
Pontian Subproject
Land clearing, drains, roads          2.6     0.8    1.8    -         -       -      -       -
Weir & dikes                          2.0      0.5    0.8    0.7    -         -      -       -
Irrigation works                     2.9      -       -       0.8    1.2    0.9    -         -
Settlement facilities                3.8      -       -       0.6    1.8    1.4    -         -
Subtotal                      11.3      1.3    2.6    2.1    3.0    2.3    -          -
Anak Endau Subproject
Land clearing, drains, roads          6.5      1.6    3.5    1.4    -         -      -       -
Dam, weir & dikes                     6.5     -       -       2.0    2.4    2.1    -         -
Irrigation works                     7.1      -       -       0.5    2.0    2.5    1.7    0.4
Settlement facilities                9.8      -       -       -       2.5    3.5    2.5    1.3
Subtotal                      29.9      1.6    3.5    3.9    6.9    8.1    4.2    1.7
Endau Subproject
Land clearing, drains, roads          1.8     -       0.5    1.0    0.3    -         -       -
Kembar weir & dikes                   1.1     -       -       0.8    0.3    -        -
Irrigation works                     2.1      -       -       -       0.6    0.8    0.7    -
Settlement facilities                1.4      -       -       -       0.6    0.8    -        -
Subtotal                       6.4      -      0.5    1.8    1.8    1.6    0.7    -
Service buildings & quarters            3.5      -      0.2    0.7    1.0    1.0    0.6    -
Equipment, vehicles & supplies          6.7      -      0.5    1.0    1.5    1.5    1.5    0.7
Consultant services                     6.0      0.8    1.3    1.3    1.2    0.6    0.4    0.4
Administration & engineering            3.0      0.1    0.3    0.7    0.7    0.5    0.4    0.3
Land acquisition                        0.5      0.2    0.3    -        -       -       -      -
Base Cost                     97.2      4.4   14.4   16.1   21.1   22.9   13.6    4.7
Physical contingencies                 13.7      0.7    2.4    2.5    2.8    3.1    1.7    0.5
Expected price increases               30.1      0.2    1.5    3.2    6.3    9.2    6.9    2.8
Total Project Cost           141.0      5.3   18.3   21.8   30.2   35.2   22.2    8.0
/a Project implementation is over six years, from mid-1981 to mid-1987.



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Table 11
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Accumulated
IBRD fiscal                        disbursement
year and                          US$ million
semester                           equivalent
FY82
lst                               1.0
2nd                               3.0
FY83
1st                               6.0
2nd                              10.0
FY84
1st                              14.5
2nd                              18.0
FY85
lst                              22.5
2nd                              26.0
FY86
1st                              30.0
2nd                              33.5
FY87
1st                              35.0
2nd                              37.0
FY 88
1st                              38.5
2nd                              40.0



ANNEX 2
- 60 -                               Table 12
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Cost           Proposed
Category                           Total   Foreign   allocation   Disbursement
------- US$ million --------   ---- %
Civil Works
Land clearing, main drains
& roads                         16.6      7.9
Diversion works and dikes         21.1      9.5
Irrigation development            16.9      6.9
Settlement works                  22.9      5.0
Buildings and facilities           3.5      0.8
81.0    30.1
Price Contingencies                  23.5     9.6
Subtotal                      104.5    39.7          25.0           24
Equipment and Vehicles
DID                                1.3      1.2   {100% of foreign expendi- }
DOA                                1.8      1.5   {tures, 100% of local        }
FOA                                3.6      3.0   {expenditures (ex-factory)}
{or 80% of imported items }
6.7     5.7   {procured locally.           }
Price Contingencies                   2.0     1.7   {                            }
{                           }
Subtotal                        8.7      7.4          8.0
Consultants Services                  6.0     4.2          6.0          100
Unallocated
Administration & engineering       3.0      0.3
Land acquisition                   0.5      0.0
Physical contingencies            13.7      5.9
Remaining price contingencies    4.6        1.5
Subtotal                       21.8      7.7          1.0
TOTAL                         141.0    59.0          40.0           (28)



- 61 -
ANWFX 2
Table 13
MALAYS IA
PROMPIN-ENDAU AREA 'EVLOPRhENT PROJECT
Phasing of Incremental Operating & tMaintenance Costs
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987   1988/a
-------------------------- (M$0)                   ---------------
Project Office       56       56        84    112       168      168     168      112
FOA /b                0        0         6     20        74      145     187      208
DID                   0        0        42    118       376   1,171   1,900   2,440
DOA                   0        0        11     34       154      482      791   1,006
DOF                   0        0         9     17        41       41      41       41
DOVS                  0        0        16     19        19      185     185      185
Totals          56       56      168    320        832   2,192   3,292   3,(92
/a Full development assurmed in 1988.
/b FOA's costs associated with revenue earning are excluded since they are
self-liquidating.



A?1EX 3
-62-                                Table 1
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-E2NDAU AREA DEVELOPMEMT PROJECT
Fertilizer Price Structure
(In constant 1981 values)
1981            1985            1990
Finan- Econ- Finan- Econ- Finan- Econ-
cial   omic    cial   omic    cial   omic
Urea
In US$/ton
Export price, f.o.b. Europe              218              279             294
Ocean freight and insurance               42               42              42
C.i.f. price, Ruantan                    260              321             336
In M$/ton
C.i.f. price, Kuantan                559      559    690      690    722       722
Port handling and transport to
wholesaler /a                       30       22     30       22      30      22
Dealer's margin /b                    29       19      36      24      38       25
Transport to farm from whole-
saler /c                            27       18     27       18      27      18
Farm-gate price                      645      618    783      754    817       787
Triple Super Phosphate
In US$/ton
Export price, f.o.b. TTS Gulf
ports                                  205             237              241
Ocean freight and insurance               42               42              42
C.i.f. price, Kuantan                    247              279             283
In M$/ton
C.i.f. price, Kuantan                531      531    599      599    608      599
Port handling and transport to
wholesaler /a                       30       22     30       22      30      22
Dealer's margin /b                    28       19     31       21      32       21
Transport to farm from whole-
saler /c                            27      18      27       18     27       18
Farm-gate price                      616      590    687      660    697      660
Mfuriate of Potash
In US$/ton
Export price, f.o.b. Vancouver           104              105             119
Ocean freight and insurance               42               42              42
C.i.f. price, Kuantan                    146              147             161
In 2f$/ton
C.i.f. price, Tuantan                314      314    316      316    346      346
Port handling and transport to
wholesaler /a                       30      22      30       22      30      22
Dealer's margin /b                    17       11      17      11      19       13
Transport to farm from whole-
saler /c                            27      18      27       18     27       18
Farm-gate price                      388      365    390      367    422       399
/a  Wlholesaler - Kuantan; conversion factor of 0.72 has been applied.
/b Assumed 10% of c.i.f. price plus port handling and transport; a conversion
factor of 0.67 is applied.
/c  Kuantan to project area:  134 km at M$0.20/ton-km; conversion factor of
0.66 has been applied.



- 63 -
AN"IFY 3
Table 2
MAIAYS IA
ROMPIN-E YDAU AREA T)EVELOPMEU  PROJECT
Padi Production - Physical Inputs and Financial Prices
Future            IJnit prices
with project          (W$/unit) /a
Land Preparation
2-wheel rotovator (%)                                      25
Tractor cultivation (v)                                    75
Harvesting
Hand harvesting (%)                                        25
Machine harvesting (%)                                     75
Agricultural Inputs (per ha)
Seed (kg)                                                  40                0.80
Basal fertilizer mix, 15:15:7.5 (kg)                      200                0.70 /b
Urea, 46:0:0 (kg)                                         150                0.80 lb
TSP, 0:46:0 (kg)                                           65                0.70 lb
MP, 0:0:60 (kg)                                            25                0.40 lb
Herbicide (1)                                               2                8.45
Insecticide (kg)                                           25                3.80
Rodenticide (kg)                                            1                8.50
Bait (kg)                                                  30                0.25
Sacks (#)                                                  55                1.10
Labor Inputs (labor-days/ha)                                                   7.00
Nursery                                                   3.5
Land preparation                                          8.5
Transplanting                                            20.0
Weed ing                                                 15.0
Application of fertilizers                                4.0
Application of chenicals                                  5.0
Irrigation & field system maintenance                    25.0
Harvest, threshing & transport                           12.0
Total Labor Inputs                                   93.0
Contract Operations (ha)
Land preparation                                                             165
Transplanting                                                                232
Harvest - machine                                                            198
- hand                                                         20% of crop
Threshing (cost/ton)                                                          23
/a 1990 projected prices in 1981 constant dollars.
/b Farm level fertilizer prices without subtracting subsidies.



ANNEX 3
-64 -                                 Table 3
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-EWDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Padi Production Costs - Future With Project
(M$)
2.4 ha farm -
Costs per hectare    190% cropping intensity
Financial  Economic    Financial   Economic
Agricultural Inputs
Seed                                     30          30          135         135
Compound fertilizer                     140         135          640         615
Urea                                    120         120          545         545
Triple Super Phosphate                   45          45          205         205
Muriate of Potash                        10          10           45          45
Herbicide                                15          15           70          70
Insecticide                              95         80          435         365
Rodenticide and bait                     15          15           70          70
Sacks                                    60          50         275         230
Subtotal                            530         500        2,420       2,280
Contract Inputs
Land preparation                        165         120          750         545
Machine harvesting                      150         105          685         480
Subtotal                            315         225        1,435       1,025
Labor Inputs
Family labor                              0         515            0      2,350
Total Costs of Production           845       1,240        3,855       5,655



ANNEX 3
- 65 -                               Table 4
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Farm Budget - Future With Project (2.4 ha padi)
Wet season           Dry season
Cropping intensity (0) 100                                                          90
Yield  (tons/ha)                                              3.8                  4.2
Farm production (tons)                                                 18.4
M$
Cash Inflows
Padi sales (@ M$625/ton)                                          11,500
Cash Outflows
Crop production costs (Annex 3, Table 2)                           3,855
Less fertilizer subsidy (M$60/acre/crop)                              685
Net Crop Production Costs                                       3,170
Taxes and Water Charges
Irrigation rate & quitrent                                          25
Zakat (10% of gross sales minus
1 ton consumption allowance)                                   1,085
Subtotal                                                        1,110
Total Cash Outflow                                              4,280
Net Farm Cash Flow                                                    7,220



MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cash Flow of 2.4 Ha Rice Farm
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6 Year 7-10  Year 11-15  Year 16-20   Year 21
Cropping intensity (%)            160       170       180       185       190       190      190         190          190          190
Yield (tons/ha)  Wet              2.7       3.0       3.3       3.5       3.8      3.8       3.8         3.8          3.8         3.8
Dry             3.0       3.3       3.6      3.9       4.2       4.2       4.2         4.2          4.2         4.2
Production (tons/2.4 ha)         10.8      12.7      14.8      16.6      18.4     18.4      18.4        18.4          18.4        18.4
Padi price (M$/ton)               601       605       609       613       617       621      625         625          625          625
------------------------------ Cash Flow (M$) -----------------------------------------
Receipts                                                                                                                                        '
padi sales                    6,490    7,685    9,015   10,175   11,350   11,425   11,500           11,500       11,500      11,500
Costs
Net production costs          1,710    2,075    2,465    2,810    3,170    3,170    3,170            3,170        3,170       3,170
Taxes & fees                    615       735       865       980    1,095    1,100    1,110         1,110        1,110       1,110
Total Costs               2,325    2,810    3,330    3,790    4,265    4,270    4,280            4,280        4,280       4,280
Net Farm Income
(Before debt servicing)       4,165    4,875    5,685    6,385    7,085    7,155    7,220            7,220        7,220       7,220
Debt Repayment
Housing cost /a                   0         0       296       296       296      296       296         296             0           0
Land clearing/7b                   0         0        0         0         0         0         0         690          690           0
Total Debt Service            0         0       296       296      296       296       296         986          690           0
Net Farm Income                 4,165    4,875    5,389    6,089    6,709    6,859    6,924            6,234         6,530       7,220
_, tnw
/a Repayment over 15 years, with no interest, 2 years grace.
/b Repayment over 20 years, with no interest, 10 years grace.



MALAYS IA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monthly Labor Requirements and Supply
Jan   Feb   Mar    Apr    May   Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep    Oct    Nov   Dec  Total
Unit Labor Requirement
Labor-days/ha
Wet season                      10    13      2       0       0      0      0      2    17       23      15    10       93
Dry season                       0      1    15      22      14      9      9    12       2       0       0      0      84
Total                          10    14    17       22      14      9      9    14    19        23      15    10    177
Labor-days/farm
Wet season (2.4 ha)             25    31      5       0       0      0      0      5    42       56      37    23    224
Dry season (2.16 ha)             0      3    36      52      35    21    22    28         5       0       0      0    202
Total      (4.56 ha)          25    34    41        52      35    21    22       33    47       56      37    23    426
Labor Supply/Farm /a          50    50    50        62      50    50    50    50    50          62      50    50    650
Surplus (Deficit)             25    16       9      10      15    29    28       17      3       6      13    27    224
------------------------------- ('000 labor-days) -------------------------------
Subproject Labor Requirements
Pontian      (1,845 ha)           19    27    31       40      26     16    17    25    36         43      28    18    326
Anak Endau  (4,195 ha)            44    61    71        91      60    36    39    58    81         98      65    40    744
Kembar          (610 ha)           6      9    10      13        9      5     6      8    12       14       9      6    107
Endau           (700 ha)           7    10    12       15      10      6      6    10    14        16      11      7    124
Rompin       (4,050 ha)           42    59    69       88      58    35    38    56    78          95      62    38    718
Total   (11,400 ha)          118   166   193    247        163    98   106   157   221    266          175   109  2,019
Total Labor Supply           238   238   238    297    238   238   238   238   238    297    238   238  2,974
(4,750 farm units)
Surplus                      120    72    45        50      75   140   132    81    17          31      63   129    955
a Z
/a  Labor supply is assumed to be 2 persons per family available to work 25 days per month, except for
peak labor demand months (April and October) when 2.5 workers per family is assumed.                                                a W



-68 -                                ANEX 4
Table 1
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-E NDAU AREA DEVELORfENT PROJECT
Conversion Factors and National Parameters
General conversion factor                                                    0.89
Conversion factor for
-  consumption                                                             0.79
-  agricultural inputs                                                     0.86
-  contract inputs                                                         0.72
-  port handling                                                           0.72
-  transport                                                               0.66
-  trade                                                                   0.67
-  Government and other social services                                    0.80
-  construction                                                            0.77
-  other industrial inputs                                                 0.90
Opportunity cost of capital                                                  0.10
Absolute poverty income (1981) /a                                          US$320
Critical consumption level (estimated 1992) /b                             US$790
Average private per capita consumption (estimated 1992)                  US$1,260
GNP per capita (estimated 1992)                                          US$2,370
/a US$300 in 1980.
/b  One third of GNP per capita.



MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Padi Production Area Buildup by Subproject and by Season
Rompin         Pontian      Anak Endau          Endau                 Total
Wet     Dry     Wet      Dry    Wet     Dry     Wet      Dry     Wet       Dry      Total
1981-83         0       0       0        0      0       0        0       0       0         0         0
1984          0       0     535      320      0       0        0       0     535       320       855
1985          0       0   1,320      845      0       0        0       0   1,320       845     2,160
1986      1,335     200   1,845   1,295  2,585   1,550       500     300   6,265    3,945    10,210
1987      3,125   2,010   1,845   1,450  3,390   2,295   1,310       835   9,670    6,590    16,260
1988      4,050   2,880   1,845   1,570  4,195   3,115   1,310       965  11,400    8,565    19,970
1989      4,050   3,215   1,845   1,635  4,195   3,405   1,310   1,075  11,400    9,330    20,730
1990      4,050   3,465   1,845   1,660  4,195   3,755   1,310   1,140  11,400    9,920    21,320
1991      4,050   3,600   1,845   1,660  4,195   3,735   1,310   1,180  11,400   10,175    21,575
1992-2010   4,050   3,645   1,845   1,660  4,195   3,775   1,310   1,180  11,400   10,260    21,665
X P



ANNEX 4
Table 3
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Derivation of Incremental Project Benefits from Padi /a
/b    Gross value        Production    Net value         Imputed /d   Project
Production    of production/c   costs /d   of production  Labor costs              benefits
(tons)       --------------------------- MS million ---------------------------
Rompin Subproject
1981-1985            0             0                0               0              0             0
1986       6,000             4.4              1.1             3.3             0.8          2.5
1987      15,140            11.0              2.7             8.3             2.0          6.3
1988      21,890            16.1              3.9            12.2             2.8          9.4
1989      25,160            18.6              4.5            14.1             3.2         10.9
1990      28,280            21.0              5.0            16.0             3.6         12.4
1991      30,300            22.5              5.4            17.1             3.9         13.2
1991-2010       30,990           23.1               5.5           17.6             4.0          13.6
Pontian Project
1981-1983            0                              0              0               0             0
1984       2,530             1.8              0.4             1.4             0.3          1.1
1985       6,490             4.7              1.1             3.6             0.8          2.8
1986       9,820             7.1              1.8             5.3             1.3          4.0
1987      11,320             8.3              2.0             6.3             1.4          4.9
1988      12,750             9.4              2.3             7.1             1.6          5.5
1989      13,720            10.2              2.4             7.8             1.8          6.0
1990-2010      14,120            10.5               2.5            8.0             1.8           6.2
Anak Endau Subproject
1981-1985            0                             0               0               0             0
1986      11,630             8.4              2.1             6.3             1.5          4.8
1987      17,320            12.6              3.1             9.5             2.2          7.3
1988      23,840            17.5              4.4            13.1             3.1         10.0
1989      27,080            20.0              4.8            15.2             3.5         11.7
1990      30,300            22.5              5.4            17.1             3.9         13.2
1991      31,500            23.5              5.6            17.9             4.0         13.9
1992-2010      32,100            23.9               5.7           18.2             4.1          14.1
Endau Subproject
1981-1985            0                             0                               0             0
1986       2,260             1.6              0.4             1.2            0.3           0.9
1987       6,290             4.6              1.1             3.5             0.8          2.7
1988       7,370             5.4              1.3             4.1             1.0          3.1
1989       8,440             6.2              1.5             4.7             1.1          3.6
1990       9,410             7.0              1.7             5.3             1.2          4.1
1991-2010      10,010              7.4              1.8            5.6             1.3           4.4
Total Project
1981-1983            0                             0                               0             0
1984       2,530.            1.8              0.4             1.4            0.3           1.1
1985       6,490             4.7              1.1             3.6             0.8          2.8
1986      29,710            21.5              5.3            16.2             3.8         12.4
1987      50,070            36.6              8.9            27.7             6.4         21.3
1988      65,860            48.4             11.7            36.7            8.4          28.3
1989      74,410            55.1             13.2           41.9              9.5         32.4
1990      82,110            61.1             14.6           46.5             10.5         36.0
1991      85,930            63.9             15.3            48.6           1  .0         37.6
1992-2010      87,220            64.9             15.5            49.4            1'.2          38.2
/a Production without the project would be less than 1% of production with the project;
therefore, it was not included in these estimates. All MS values are in terms of
economic prices.
/b Derived from Table 5.1 and Annex 4, Table 2.
7T Padi prices used in estimating gross value of production were derived from the 1985 and
1990 economic price estimates of Table 6.1
/d Derived from Annex 3, Table 3 and Annex 4, Table 1.



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
Ta,ble 4
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery Analysis /a
Farm model         Total
2.4 ha          project
(M$)          (M$ mln)
At Full Project Development
Incremental gross value of productio. /b                  11,500
Less:  Incremental cash production costs /b                3,170
Equals:  Incremental cash income                           8,330
Less: Incremental
imputed return on own capital /c                     65
imputed value of family labor Id                  2,970
imputed value of farm management /e               1,150
Allowance for risk and uncertainty /f             1,150
Subtotal                                    5,335
Equals:  Project rent                                      2,995
Incremental water, quitrent and zakat taxes                1,110
Loan repayment:  Land clearing                               690
: House construction                          296
Subtotal                                    2,096
Incremental taxes plus loan repayment as a % of
incremental cash income                                     25
During Project-s Life /g
Project rent                                              16,030              76.1
Incremental taxes plus loan repayment /h                   7,074             33.6
Rent recovery index (%)                                                      44.0
Project costs                                                   -           142.3
Cost recovery index (%)                                        -             24.0
/a  All calculations are in mid-1981 financial prices and represent incremental
conditions. Supplementary enterprises are not included.
/b From Annex 3, Table 4.
/c Assumes 20% of production costs are met from farmer s own resources, an
allowance of 10% return on capital is made.
/d Family labor valued at M$7/man-day.
7e Ten percent of incremental gross value of production.
/f Ten percent of incremental gross value of production.
/g  Present values in 1981 discounted at 10% p.a. over project life; project
costs net of housing and other settlement costs.
/h Excludes repayment of housing loans to be consistent with exclusion of
housing and other settlement costs from the project cost estimates.



ANNEX 4
Table 5
- 72-                                 Page 1
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits: Overall Project
(M$ million)
Project costs                            Incremental
Incremen-                                project
Year           Capital             tal O&M              Total               benefits
1981              9.7               /a                   9.7                  0
1982             31.8                /a                 31.8                  0
1983             34.1               0.1                 34.2                  /a
1984             32.3               0.2                 32.5                  1.2
1985             32.0               0.6                 32.6                  3.2
1986             15.7               1.7                 17.4                13.3
1987              5.0               2.6                  7.6                22.4
1988              0                 3.1                  3.1                30.0
1989              0                 3.1                  3.1                34.4
1990              0                 3.1                  3.1                38.2
1991              0                 3.1                  3.1                39.8
1992-2009          0                 3.1                  3.1                40.4
2010 /b       (-)40.2               3.1              (-)37.1                40.4
Economic Rate of Return = 17%
NPV (1981) discounted at 10% = M$77.4 million
/a Less than M$55,000.
/b A salvage value in year 30 equal to 25% of original capital costs is
assumed.



MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Subproject Economic Costs and Benefits
(M$ million)
Rompin                                Pontian                            Anak Endau                               Endau
Capi-  Oper.&             Net        Capi-  Oper.&              Net        Capi-  Oper.&              Net        Capi-  Oper.&              Net
tal    maint.   Total   bene-        tal    maint.   Total   bene-         tal    maint.   Total   bene-         tal    maint.   Total   bene-
Year       rost    cost       cost   fits        cost    cost       cost   fits        cost    cost       cost   fits        cost    cost       cost   fits
1981       1.7      /a        1.7    0          3.3      /a        3.3    0           4.5      /a        4.5    0           0.2      0         0.2    0            1
1982     13.8      7a       13.8    0           6.6      Ta        6.6    0           9.6      7a        9.6    0           1.8      0         1.8    0
1983     13.8       /a      13.8    0           4.5      Ia        4.5    0.0        11.1      /a       11.1    0           4.7      /a        4.7    /s
1984     11.3       r 1     11.4    0           4.2      7a        4.2    1.1        13.2      rTF1     13.3    /a          3.6      7a        3.6    TF1
1985     12.8      0.2      13.0    /a          3.3      0.1       3.4    2.9        13.1      0.2      13.3    Ia          2.7      0.1       2.8    0.2
1986       6.7     0.6       7.3    2.8         0.6      0.3       0.9    4.3         6.0      0.6       6.6    5.2         2.3      0.2       2.5    1.0
1987       2.5     0.9       3.4    6.8         0.2      0.4       0.6    5.0         2.1      1.0       3.1    7.8         0.2      0.3       0.5    2.8
1988       0        1.1       1.1   10.0        0        0.5       0.5    5.7         0        1.2       1.2   10.9         0        0.3       0.3    3.3
1989       0        1.1       1.1   11.7        0        0.5       0.5    6.3         0        1.2       1.2   12.6         0        0.3       0.3    3.9
1990       0        1.1       1.1   13.2        0        0.5       0.5    6.4         0        1.2       1.2   14.1         0        0.3       0.3    4.4
1991      0         1.1       1.1   14.1        0        0.5       0.5    6.5         0        1.2       1.2   14.7         0        0.3       0.3    4.6
1992-2009 0         1.1       1.1   14.4        0        0.5       0.5    6.5         0        1.2       1.2   14.9         0        0.3       0.3    4.6
2010/b(-)15.6       1.1       1.1   14.4   (-) 5.7       0.5  (-) 5.2    6.5   (-)14.8         1.2  (-)13.6   14.9   (-) 3.9         0.3  (-)13.5    4.6
ERR     = 15%                        ERR          = 17%                    ERR      = 17%                        ERR      = 19%
NPV /c  = M$ 18.6 million            NPV /c       = M$ 19.4 million        NPV /c  = M$ 28.0 million             NPV /c  = M$ 11.3 million
/a Less than M$55,000.
/b  A salvage value in year 30 equal to 25% of original capital costs is assumed.                                                                                 X   
7c  Net present values in 1981 discounted at 10% over project life.
LJ1 



MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Benefits at Full Development
(In economic prices)
Farm-gate   Gross value   Production  Net value of    Imputed   Project
Area    Yield   Production    price    of production    costs            production   labor cost  benefits
(ha)  (tons/ha)   (tons)       (M$/ton)  ----------------- (M$ million) -------------------------
Padi
Wet season   11,400    3.8         43,610        744           32.4           8.2          24.2           5.9        18.3
Dry season   10,260    4.2         43,610        744           32.4           7.4          25.0           5.3        19.7
Subtotal  21,660    8.0        87,220         744           64.8         15.6           49.2          11.2        38.0
Supplementary
Enterprises
Goats/sheep        -       -            -          -            2.1           0.2           1.9           0.2          1.7
Poultry            -       -            -          -             1.5          1.1           0.4             /a         0.4
Fish cage          -       -            -          -            0.4           0.2           0.2            ja          0.2
Subtotal        -       -            -          -            4.0          1.4            2.6           0.2         2.4
Total           -       -            -          -           68.8          17.0          51.8          11.4        40.4
/a Less than M$55,000.
Sources: Tables 5.1 and 6.1; Annex 4, Tables 3 and 5; supplementary enterprise tables in the Project File.
>4



ANNEX 4
Table 7
- 75 -
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Appraisal   Crossover   Change   Elasticity
value     value /a        (%)         /b
Yields at full development (tons/ha)
Main season                              3.8          2.8         -26        +4.7
Off season                               4.2          3.1         -26
Dry season cropping at full              10,260        5,790        -44        +5.0
development (ha)                        (90%)        (51%)
World market price (5% broken,              600          467        -22        +4.4
f.o.b. Bangkok, US$/ton, 1990)
Construction costs (M$ million,          160.6        261.6         +63        -1.6
economic)
Development period (years)                11.0         15.3         +39        -2.5
Economic wage rate (M$/day)                5.53        12.32       +123        -0.7
/a Value of variable for which NPV is zero at a discount rate of 10%.
/b Percent change in NPV (discounted at 10%) due to a 1% change in a variable.



- 76 -                              ANNEX 5
MALAYSIA
ROtMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Critical Events
Target
Activity                                               Responsibility         date
1. General
a. Appoint Project Manager                          GOM                    03/81
b. Determine settler selection criteria             Pahang State           06/81
c. Prepare draft agricultural services
operations manual                              DOA                   01/84
d. First settlers moved into project                Project Manager        02/84
2. Civil works
a. Engage consultant to design tender and
supervise construction of land clearing,
irrigation and drainage systems, roads,
including flood protection and drainage
of farm settlements and subregional
centers                                        DID                   10/80
b. Complete clearing of land, construction
of main roads and drainage for:
- Pontian subproject                           DID                   12/82
- Anak Endau subproject                        DID                   10/83
- Rompin subproject                            DID                    12/83
- Endau subproject                             DID                   09/84
c. Begin detailed geologic investiga'ion
and earth materials study for tle
Rompin cut-off channel; Pontian,
Anak Endau and Kembar weirs; and
Anak Endau dam                                 DID                   02/81
d. Begin construction of Pontian weir and
rehabilitation of Paya Sepayang area           DID                   06/81
e. Begin construction of:
- Rompin cut-off, weir, closures &
structures                                DID                    04/82
- Anak Endau dam                               DID                   01/83
- Anak Endau weir                              DID                   04/83
f. Begin construction of irrigation, drainage
and farm road systems on cleared areas         DID                   06/82
g. Begin construction of settlement facilities   DARA                      06/82
h. Complete preparation of draft designers'
operating criteria for irrigation works        DID                    12/84
j. Complete preparation of technical record
of design and construction                     DID                    12/87
Note:  Activity 2 (a) and 2 (b) could be handled by the same consultant.



- 77 -
ANNEX 6
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Agricultural Sector
A.1  S. Selvadurai, "Agriculture and Peninsular Malaysia", Ministry of
Agriculture, April 1977.
A.2 IBRD, "Malaysia - Agriculture and Rural Development", Draft Country
Sector Memorandum, June 1980.
A.3 IBRD, "Malaysia - Selected Issues in Rural Poverty", Report No.
2685-MA, January 1980.
B. General Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1  Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, "Rompin-Endau Irrigation
Development Study - Final Report", November 1979, 3 vols.
B.2  Ministry of Agriculture, "Rompin-Endau Integrated Agricultural
Development Project", May 1980.
B.3 Farmers Organization Authority, "Rompin-Endau Irrigationi Project -
Farmers Organization Authority Project Component", ApriL 1980.
B.4  Department of Agriculture, "Endau/Rompin Integrated Agricultural
Development Project - Proposal for the Department of Agriculture
Component", April 1980.
B.5  Department of Veterinary Services, "Proposal for Livestcck Program
for the Endau/Rompin Irrigation Projects", April 1980.
B.6 Department of Fisheries, "Fisheries Programme for Endau/Rompin Irri-
gation Development Project", April 1980.
B.7  Bank Pertanian Malaysia, "The Role of the Bank Pertanian Malaysia in
the Endau/Rompin Irrigation Development Scheme", April 1980.
C. Material Related to the Project
C.1 Project Notes by G. Thorsky (Consultant).
C.2 Infrastructure cost working tables.
C.3 Supplementary enterprise budgets and cost/benefit estimates.
C.4 Details of project cost and benefit estimates.



- 78 -
Figure 3.1
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ITEM                             1980         1981        1982        1983        1984         1985        1986          9
A) PONTIAN IRRIGATION AREAS:
1. Land Clearing, Roads, Main Drains:
Left Bank                                                                                            _                      ,
Right Bank                                          m   m    11_
2. Pontian Diversion Weir, Feeder                              a a
Canal and Rehabilitation of
Paya Sepayang                                _ _ _ _        _-                    _    m   -
3. Pontian Left Bank System:
D & I Works, Farm Roads                                                          _                 m   -
4. Pontian Right Bank System:                             1        9 t
D & I Works, Farm Roads                                                                 L           m           m*
5. Farm Settlement on Pontian                                                           t
Left Bank
6. Farm Settlement on Pontian
Right Bank                                                                                        _  _  _
B)  ROMPIN IRRIGATION AREAS:
1. Main Roads, Collector Drain                            *n           m          ,
and Rompin Sluice Gate                                       '     _  _                                  i         _
2. Rompin Cut-off Channel, Weir,
Closures, and Inlet Structure
3. Land Clearning, Main Drains, Roads: Right Bank                      P M_
Left Bank                  _                 -    _      -
4. Rompin Right Bank System:
D & I Works, Farm Roads                        _       _                                                          m _   _   _
5. Rompin Left Bank System:                                                                    _         uui
D & I Works, Farm Roads                                                                                   _         *  _  _    9 _
6. Subregional Center on Rompin                               _l
Right Bank                                                         _                        L                                  m _.
7. Farm Settlement on Rompin
Left Bank                                                                                              I
Legend:
_ ~                Survey and Investigation
*m.mgmu.gn.u Planning& Design
Land Acquisition
- >_as Tender                                                                                       World Bank -21700
m  _  _  m  * Construction



- 79 -
Figure 3.2
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ITEM                             1980       1981        1982        1983       1984        1985        1986       1987
C)  ANAK ENDAU IRRIGATION AREAS:
1  Main Road on Right Bank up                             Il
to Sg. Kembar                                                                                                               __      __
2. Anak Endau Dam                                              liii tt s-                                I-
3. Land Clearing, Main Drain, Roads: Left Bank
Right Bank
_~                ~~ _____ _-                            ____
4. Anak Endau Diversion Weir, Left Bank
System D & I Works, Farm Roads                               _                                 - _            m
5. Anak Endau Right Bank System D & I
Works, Farm Roads                            _                   _        _
6. Farm Settlement on Anak
Endau Left Bank
7. Subregional Center and Farm
Settlements on Anak Endau
Right Bank                                                                                                m
D) UPPER ENDAU RIVER, MENTELONG &
KEMBAR IRRIGATION AREAS
1. Access Road from Sg. Kembar
to Upper Endau II and Kembar Weir            __ _                                          _
2. Land Clearing and Drains: Mentelong &
Kembar 
Land Clearing and Drains: Upper Endau I & II                                  6 _ _      i    m _
3. Kembar System: D & I Works, Farm
Roads                                       _"_                                             l i--
~~~~._____ ___ _.._                                                   _--      __..__. 
4. Mentelong System: D & I Works
Farm Roads, and Farm Settlement
5. Upper Endau I System: D & I
Works, Farm Roads                                             *                                              -          -
6. Upper Endau II System: D & I                                                                    .15,
Works, Farm Roads                                       _          _                                                   -
E}  SERVICE BUILDINGS AND STAFF QUARTERS
F) PROCUREMENT OF O & M EQUIPMENT,                                         _        _,                        _i                      -
VEHICLES, AND SUPPLIES                            _      __  ____
Legend:
r Survey and Investigation                                                                        World Bank-21701
lIsllfliEIllImPlanning & Design
X              I Land Acquisition
_T            dTender
_  _1         a Construction
'____          Procurement



-  80 -                                                FLgure  4. 1
MALAYSIA
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization
|STEERING COMMITTEE l
F    PROJECT MANAGER                           PROJECT OFFICE
- Community Development/
Administration
- Monitoring and Evaluation
- Administration
- Budget/Finance
|  DOF    l                 l      DOVS
- Fishery Programs                    Livestock Program                 - Irrigation Management             - Credit
- Poultry Program                      and Operation
FOA                                 DOA                                mARDI
- Mechanization Services            - Extension                         - Crops Research
- Cooperative Management            - Regulation
- Marketing/Transport               - Seed Production
- Crop Protection
- Soils Management
- Mechanization Trials/Training
VVorld Bank - 22010



- 81 -
MALAYSIA                                            Figure 5.1
ROMPIN-ENDAU AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED PADI CROPPING CALENDER
JAN     FEB   MARCH   APRIL   MAY    JUN    JULY    AUG    SEF'T    OCT    NOV            DEC
P                                                P
N                                               N
SCHEDULE 1
ROMPIN-ENDAU           D                       T                        D
H                                             H
mm ~ ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       m
N                                                N
SCHEDULE 2
ROMPIN-ENDAU                  D                  T                           D                    T
H                                                H
P                                                P
N                                                  N
SCHEDULE 3
ROMPIN ENDAU                   0T                                               D                     T
H                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~H
NOTATION:             850
P = PRESATURATION   800
N = NURSERY (21 DAYS)
T = TRANSPLANTING   600
O = DRAINAGE
H = HARVESTING
Note: P, T, D and H   400
are assumed to take
5 days each.    200
AVERAGE RAINFALL (MM)
JAN     FEB   MARCH  APRIL    MAY    JUN    JIJLY    AUG    SEPT          OCT     NOV    DEC
World Bank - 22009






IBRD 15104
103'20'                                   103-25'                           -'                     -       -'m'EA t
MALAY51)k
\"MP- N-E ' , AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
- -opma:n Cropo3eDa6
_-'  <  1  ) \ ' ' ' . S~~~~~~~~~-I--   Eistig W'&  ""'  
EE Prwaose4, Pwumpig Stotioars
cAii ewit Ouc6t 54suke.
Ftodk 1rotp~fmn &~41ds_
/-'   , / '                    "< DX.                   -.X                                                  EIIZ  P      ...........wpa4edgrnr 
POmiosed F"rm  e  eo Are
® $brogiortot f4ra#t
Fef4a Oif %1n. Sch~,
\ ' - ---------xistins Uagrng Tracks
2'45 '                                                                                                   K?..          .... .......... P wposed Mdin Ro. s
2~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 9                               \                                      ( --    Soon Ea d  o.  .
S  p   P  A  h  A  NhG '                         g                                                                                                  0
This ms hls b-n r pwr d b, the                           ,                                                          )&        n?_> rtc               )    8         9
thmpo ew hi satdhd B.-  -f--, 1, (
WM:onld    ----k -d i-   -=il                                            2-M                                                               I                                -5
F  aNIO  GbT 1DIN S CA9                                                 Kg. Mok 
Q-   -     -eo dr Cgn  10-30 -                                                                                                   HENEOG
480m   E   *    Dr:rn/geCom 91                   <    -oScly    -            gyX                UPPERE^4DAUUPPER EN3A'
9fho  °  -ServiceRo/d           t    /   ) 8    -   \   4                                     IRRIGATtONSCHEM(a) KEMBg
S U M A T R A ~<, EnUPPER3E35Aa



