Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19942
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(LOAN 38950; 3895A; 3895S; 28893)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 9.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
FOR THE INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
February 2, 2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate EffectiveFebruary 2, 2000)
Currency Unit = Quetzal
Q 7.8 =US$ 1.00
US$ 0.13 = Q I
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL          Adaptable Program Loan
CG           Comptroller General's Office
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IFM          Integrated Financial Management
IT           Information Technology
MOF          Ministry of Finance
PSM          Public Sector Management
SIAF-SAG    Sistema Integrado de Administraci6n Financiera y Control (local title for the
Integrated Financial Management Project)
SIGADE       Debt Management and Analysis System
UDAF         Financial management units in Ministries
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Director:   Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:   Geoffrey Shepherd
Task Manager:   Ronald E. Myers



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                2
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  5
6. Sustainability                                                                      6
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       6
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     7
9. Partner Comments                                                                    8
10. Additional Information                                                             9
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  1S
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 27
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                   28
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                 29
This docwment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P007213                                       Project Name: INTEG FINAN MGT
Team Leader: Ronald E. Myers                              TL Unit: LCSPS
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR           Report Date: February 1, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: INTEG FINAN MGT                                   L/CNumber: 38950; 3895A; 3895S;
28893
Country/Department: GUATEMALA                                            Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: BF - Public Financial Management
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/21/94                                Effective:                    04/22/96
Appraisal:  03/31/95                                  MTR:
Approval:  05/30/95                                Closing: 06/30/99            06/30/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA/MIN. FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Donna Dowsett-Coirolo                     Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:      Geoffrey Shepherd                          Geoffey Shepherd
Team Leader at ICR:   Ronald E. Myers                          Ronald E. Myers
ICR Primary Author:   Herman Nissenbaum
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability. L
Institutional Development SU
Impact.
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall goal of the project was to strengthen the financial management capability of the Government of
Guatemala and to help restore public confidence in public sector integrity and competence. Within this
framework, one specific objective was to improve the efficiency, accountability and transparency of the
financial management functions of the public sector through implementation of an integrated financial
management system centered in the Ministry of Finance and a modernized government auditing system in
the Comptroller Generals Office. A second objective was to improve the delivery of public services by
supporting the devolution to line ministries of primary responsibility for management of their financial
resources.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
Paras. 4.1 - 4.2 describe the components of the project and their ratings.
3.4 Revised Components:
N/A
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory (ref. paras. 7.1 and 7.4)
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The Project achieved all of its major objectives and somewhat exceeded several of its initial
targets. It strengthened public sector financial management as the adoption of coherent fiscal norms and
procedures supported by modem information technology (IT) led to the integration of budgeting,
accounting and cash management. This together with other outputs helped raise the standards for and
handling of public finances. With better tools for accurately, rapidly recording and reporting financial
transactions, the authorities gained reliable and timely data for decision-making, procurement and payment
transactions, accountability and oversight. The fiscal accounts were consolidated and several efficiency
gains were realized (ref. Annex 1). The authorities also increased public spending in line with the "Peace
Accord'" social and economic targets. They raised the capital/current expenditure ratio above 50 percent
over pre-peace levels as well.
The Project furthermore advanced rationalizing the functions-of the Finance Ministry, enabling it to assume
a greater regulatory and guiding role, with lesser comparable changes in the Comptroller General's Office
(CG). By helping devolve financial operational authority and responsibilities to line (initially key social)
agencies, the Project contributed to upgrading their competencies to carry out development projects and
provide services. These outcomes were speedily accomplished.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Establishing a financial management system: Satisfactory.
(i) Upgrading public financial administration and its institutional structure: Highly satisfactorv. The
Project served to define and install new policies, rules and procedures, creating an integrated core of basic,
expandable financial management functions. Units to administer these were set up in pilot ministries and
complementary entities in the Finance Ministry and CG were bolstered. Subsequently, 26 more agencies
became involved. In the process, the Project contributed to the strengthening and expansion of Government
-2 -



financial management capacity and professionals.
(ii) Upgrading budget formulation and execution: Highly satisfactory. The budget system is now a more
effective tool for planning and programming Government expenditures. New budget classifications were
implemented and an execution manual adopted, first put into use for the 1998 budget. Criteria were
introduced for "results-oriented" budget programming using physical and financial indicators. During the
process, the number of budget line items and transfers during execution were reduced and budget flexibility
increased. Line managers grew more knowledgeable about their budget situations. This contributed to the
Central Government' budget execution level rising from 83 percent of approved funds in 1995 to 94
percent in 1998 (Annex 1). Spending agencies more fully used their authorized budgets. The Education
Ministry (a critical organization for the fulfillment of the Peace Accord targets) achieved 99 percent in the
project period (compared with 50 percent or less in the early 1990s). More students thereby benefited from
school feeding, textbook distribution and school transport.
(iii) Upgrading accounting: Highly satisfactory. New plans of accounts were installed based on the revised
budget classifications and an improved information registry system. This provided a common accounting
framework across all ministries and public institutions, centralized on cash and accrual bases, beginning
with the 1998 budget. With the accounting software link to a relational database, financial transactions are
entered into the system where they originate. They are then reported instantaneously to the Finance
Ministry for confirmation against authorized budget lines, consolidation and registry in national accounts.
This process has made real time information available on all recorded transactions. The accounting module
developed, complemented by new manuals, software and training, has provided an effective internal control
tool and the foundation for better budget planning and execution. It also created a database, accessible at
computer sites and via the Internet to the legislature and public at large.
(iv) Creating modern cash management: Highly satisfactory. Considerable changes were made with the
termination of large scale paper transactions and installation of business-type cash flow forecasting and
planning methods. A quarterly cash programming and monthly allocation system linked to budget execution
projections was installed, helping Treasury better control receipts and spending. This has facilitated more
timely payments to suppliers (terminating a costly "floating debt" practice) and ended the past daily
issuance of spending authorizations to ration cash. Shorter, more transparent procedures were introduced
for payments to suppliers, now made on average within 72 hours after authorization, compared to the
previous 15-120 days range. Arrears to suppliers are reported to have lieen largely eliminated. The
multiplicity of Government cash accounts (reportedly about 1,300) was reduced with the implementation of
the "single account" concept. Financing operations also became more manageable after the authorities
employed local banks for routine commercial functions (and tax collections). Government issuance of
checks for civil servant salaries and supplier payments was replaced by electronic transfers of funds to the
banks (which rose from nearly zero in 1996 to an estimated half of public sector payments in 1998). These
and simpler payment approvals were estimated to generate cost savings of some $171,000 in 1998 and
almost twice that in 1999.
(v) Upgrading debt management: Unsatisfactory. During project execution, the new systems did not cover
management and monitoring of public debt. A late start and delays in decisions on software selection
deferred the installation of UNCTAD's SIGADE system (which would be compatible with the Project
system). Parallel activities were initiated though to organize, gather and register data on Government
borrowing. Efforts are underway to put SIGADE methods in place and train Finance Ministry staff.
(vi) Upgrading audit systems: Unsatisfactory. After delays, efforts were initiated to prepare new rules and
procedures for independent audits, resulting in dissemination of new professional standards and manuals.
- 3 -



An estimated 616 auditors were trained in 1998. Meanwhile, there was some progress in creating internal
audit units in the pilot agencies and contracting out some auditing to private firms. But there was only
limited progress in developing a more modem, comprehensive independent auditing system. Its governing
principles still require further elaboration and the Project did little to help overcome the CG's weak
institutional structure. Both of these were hampered by Congress' failure to pass new organic legislation for
the CG (which is needed among other things to clarify the CG's role) and, to a lesser extent, by the limited
project support it received in computerization and training.
(vii) Upgrading procurement system: Satisfactory. The Finance Ministry changed some business practices,
undertook a greater regulatory and advisory role, and initiated some restructuring of its units. Public
procurement is now conducted on the basis of bids rather than price quotes from a list of authorized
suppliers. New computerized data has made more transparent the prices paid for goods and services,
enabling ready comparison. Procurement processing has improved and there have been some reductions in
purchase prices (Annex 1). Health Ministry officials estimated that, with the changes, their 1997-98
purchases were almost $96 million cheaper than they would have been under previous methods. Further
changes could help ensure that goods and services are uniformly procured in more transparent, timely and
decentralized ways, and are linked with the financial management system. Targeted improvements in
institutionalizing methods for strengthening price competition and quality control plus cutting
administrative expenses were only partially realized. Stronger procurement legislation and greater changes
in "open contracts" rules to limit exceptions and better implement the new procedures remain necessary.
(viii) Modernizing and linking IT systems: Highly satisfactory. In parallel with the accounting changes,
fiber optic-supported methods introduced a commonly shared reliable database, generally applied standards
and procedures for recording and reporting financial data, and an open mini/microcomputer-based
information technology system capable of communicating data across sub-systems. As previous IT systems
had little capacity for data sharing, this dramatically improved financial management. Early in the Project,
the new technology successfully delivered centralized information on Central Government revenues,
commitments, obligations and expenditures. The IT measures were first introduced with a provisional
accounting framework, after which a system refinement with "CASE" programming software began
providing more comprehensive support.
(ix) Staff training: Highly satisfactory. An estimated 9,500 civil servants were trained in the new systems,
twice the number estimated in the Project, in response to strong demand from within the public
administration. Several universities are now teaching their accounting and other students the new system.
(x) In addition, the Project contributed to the approval of a new budget law, as well as analyses and
drafting of several legal amendments covering important aspects of financial management (including the
CG's functions) and public procurement.
b. Decentralization of financial management: Satisfactory. The Project helped reduce and rationalize the
Finance Ministry's excessively centralized role (under which it singly managed and largely conducted
virtually all financial administration). The pilot line ministries (initially the Ministries of Health, Education,
Agriculture and Communications, Public Works and Transport) gained the ability to plan and execute their
budgets, handle their accounts and bear appropriate responsibilities for their programs. However, as
discussed in para. 6. 1, these new competencies need further development to be frilly integrated by the
ministries. It is also notable that this decentralization was achieved without the central authorities losing
essential elements of control (and they in fact acquired greater cash management direction).
Across the board, the Project's Output by Components is rated Satisfactory rather than Highly
- 4 -



Satisfactory because of the limited accomplishments in auditing and, to a lesser extent, debt management.
However, the results confirm that the Project's design was appropriate for achieving its objectives.
The Project' benefits have yet to be fully realized but are already apparent. Time and transaction costs in
public sector financial operations have been reduced along with arrears. Government "retail banking
operations" diminished simultaneously with enhancement of Treasury's control of the public sector's liquid
assets. The CG's ability to audit government actions was strengthened by the upgrading of financial
management units in line ministries. The aforementioned reductions in the prices Government paid for
goods and services effectively increased real budget outlays.
Moreover, the Project improved the Government's ability to make effective use of its human and financial
resources. Its modernization, training, and improved infrastructure provided a solid base for improving the
quality of data available to decision-makers and its uses. Elimination of some unnecessary rules and
practices has freed public sector operations of costly burdens while the creation of audit trails and curbing
of procedures with high corruption potential increased transparency.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Satisfactory (ref. paras. 4.1 - 4.2)
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Bank's positive role was the major external factor influencing the Project's implementation and
outcome. It contributed substantially to several aspects of the achievements. It deployed effective technical
assistance during project design, complementing Government reformers' efforts to capitalize on a timely
opportunity for needed changes. This help was continued throughout. Another useful Bank contribution
was the decision to not seek immediate approval of important new laws as project conditions, given the
inherent difficulties which could have delayed implementation of the system.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government's main contributions were strong, sustained political commitment, first class leadership
and ample financial support, combined with close collaboration with the Bank. It also supported and made
possible a swift implementation pace. This facilitated the execution of the Project well ahead of schedule
(completion in 34 as opposed to the planned 48 months). Further, it prudently vested heavy operating
responsibility in a team of experienced foreign consultants for triggering and carrying out project
implementation. Unsurprisingly, this kindled some local resentment. But it was more than compensated for
by the consultants' success in rapidly installing the envisaged reforms and the demonstration effect of their
benefits, which a mixed (or entirely local) team is considered unlikely to have matched.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Ref para. 5.2
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project was executed at lower cost than forecast (ref. Annex 2)
- 5 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. The financial management improvements made under the Project are likely to be sustained. With
their initial success and strong Government commitment, the new systems and infrastructure would be
difficult to undo (let alone reverse). Non-participating central and local govemment agencies want to join
the system. With Bank support, the government is extending and consolidating the system. IFM II (Loan
4269) is under execution to: (a) deepen reforms in sub-systems and extend the entire network to all central
government agencies; (b) intensify efforts to strengthen the CG's rector institution functions; and (c)
integrate the management of public debt and public investment with the new financial management system.
IFM II also includes arrangements to facilitate the Project' future operations, e.g., salary improvements,
increased training, plans for stimulating greater adoption of the reforms and software support, along with
more comprehensive monitoring and evaluation. An IFM III is now being prepared. Further, the
Government is moving toward linking the Project to development of a new public investment system, tax
administration, management of international projects and civil service reform.
Consolidation of the system over the longer tern, however, is subject to moderate risks. One is the effect of
the departure of the international consultants on whom the Project has greatly depended. Pay reforms for
their national counterparts are essential, since present salary levels have not even ensured their retention in
key project positions in the Finance Ministry. Further reforms to the legal framework still need to be
implemented, especially as regards procurement and auditing. Sizeable elements of the bureaucracy
apparently have yet to fully accept and adapt to the new system, perhaps for lack of adequate incentives. In
addition, some complex issues still remain to be resolved, such as the handling of spending advances, and
the extent of line agencies' flexibility under the cash programming rules.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the preparation-appraisal phase was of a high order. It correctly
identified the need to reform the public sector's financial management system as a critical step to the
fulfillment of Peace Accord targets and the Government's social and poverty reduction objectives. Its help
to the Borrower in project preparation more than adequately covered the major facets of the Government's
technical and managerial challenges in undertaking the activity. This and two timely economic reports were
particularly valuable in affecting the Government's decision to proceed with these changes (ref. Report No.
16392-GU: Guatemala: Investing for Peace: A Public Investment Review, July 15, 1997; Report No.
15352-GU: Guatemala: Building Peace with Rapid and Equitable Growth, August 22, 1996). The
appraisal correctly estimated the strength of the Government's commitment under uncertain conditions, the
prospects for sustaining the activity and the adequacy of the implementation plan. It was not satisfactory,
however, in relegating assistance for auditing to a comparatively secondary role.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Bank supervision requirements were fully met. Implementation difficulties were quickly
identified and resolved collaboratively, with the help of intensive Bank staff inputs. The Resident Mission
played a key supporting role throughout, including advising the authorities on linking IFM 1 to other
activities of government modernization. The Government expressed satisfaction with the quality of Bank
- 6 -



advice and its followup. A distinctive feature was the Bank's adroit use of loan amendments and the early
phasing in of IFM 11 to maintain project continuity. The Project thereby provided a case study for the
development of adaptable program lending (especially APLs). The absence of this flexibility would have
been costly for the Guatemalan reform effort. In addition, the Resident Mission's report on "Expenditure
Reform in a Post-Conflict Country" (No. 19617-GU, December 13, 1999) provided important data and
judgments, on which this ICR is partly based.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. The Bank made a valuable contribution to the quality of project performance and its
accomplishmnents, with the exception noted above on auditing functions.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Highly Satisfactory. The Finance Ministry ably contributed to the design, especially its decision to apply
the principle of "regulatory centralization and operational decentralization" in a manner facilitating the
transfer to line ministries of financial responsibility and accountability. It made sound judgments in
drawing on other LAC countries' financial management experiences and sorting out strategic options on the
approach to be used. It helpfully resolved several difficult issues as well.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Government commitment was of a high order, as exemplified in its resistance to potentially
disruptive forces, its success in securing improved organic legislation, and in its stronger than usual
manpower and counterpart funding support. These were exemplary in view of the several changes over the
project's life which led to the involvement of four Ministers of Finance, three administrations and two CGs.
It is unfortunate though that efforts to resolve intemal differences that arose over the CG component were
not successful.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory Ref. para. 7.5
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Highly Satisfactory. The overall level of Government performance was highly satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
a. For public sector reform:
(i) Improving public sector financial management can make a substantial contribution to reform and
modernization of the public sector, especially in countries with a very inefficient and cumbersome state
apparatus. In these cases, reforming financial management systems can have a high pay-off in terms of
improved service delivery, cost effectiveness, budget management and transparency. As benefits
materialize, these system improvements can lay a solid base from which to pursue and sequence more
wide-ranging and structural public sector reforms.
(ii) A more effective, integrated and transparent financial management system can substantially improve
governance and reduce the scope for corruption in public sector finances.
b. For integrated financial management efforts:
(i) Prior agreement and commitment to a coherent governing concept is key to support the reform effort. In
-7 -



this instance, implementation of the new financial management system was enhanced by the adoption of
rule-based system, accompanied by consistent procedures and regulations applicable across sub-systems,
sustained by rector organizations, and supported by modem information technology.
(ii) Financial management processes need to be reformed before designing and adopting new information
technology and computer systems.
(iii) Planned information systems need to be designed along functional rather than organizational lines,
sharing a common data base.
(iv) All major sub-systems should be addressed simultaneously to ensure consistency and capture
synergies. This may also help to reduce resistance.
(v) It is critical to align changes in the Ministry of Finance and the comptroller functions. Each is essential
to strengthen the checks and balances needed for effective and transparent public financial management.
(vi) Devolving effective financial management responsibility to line agencies as soon as practicable helps to
demonstrate the benefits of the new system and gamer support for the reform effort.
c. For reform-oriented efforts in general:
(i) Delivering tangible results as early as possible, and demonstrating and disseminating them to key
stakeholders and political actors, help to foster a wider understanding and support for the reform process.
(ii) Establishing a clear link between the system improvements and broader economic and social goals helps
to build support for the reforms and improve prospects for their sustainability. In the case of Guatemala,
the Government and Bank have emphasized the contribution that an improved financial management system
is making to the implementation of key Peace Accord commitments.
(iii) Continuous training of managers and technical staff should be a priority from the start. This helps to
maintain a shared vision of the reform effort, reduce resistance to change, and build the trained manpower
pool that will be required to run and sustain the new systems.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The major accomplishments of IFM I can be summarized as: devolution of responsibility for financial
management, converting the ministries into true managers, the registration of all government income and
expenditures in real time, the transparency of budgeting activities, the reduced time needed for resource
allocations, the cleansing of public finances, the rationalization of procurement and contracting activities,
the improved quality of public expenditures, and increased effectiveness by the Ministry of Finance in the
conduct of macroeconomic policy.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
-8 -



10. Additional Information
Partner's Extended Statement
INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL SYSTEM (SIAF-SAG)
SIAF I
ASSESSMENT REPORT
INTRODUCTION
In 1996, the Government of Guatemala began a State reform process, its fundamentals being the
modernization of public finance management by means of the development, organization, and
implementation of an Integrated Financial Management System, with the assistance of the World Bank.
The objectives of the Integrated Financial Management and Control System (SIAF-SAG) Project are
strengthening the efficiency, responsibility, and transparency of financial management operations, as well
as improving the delivery of public services by means of the descentralization of the basic and management
responsibilities of the ministries' financial resources, therefore restoring confidence in the integrity and
competence of the public sector.
SIAF I began with the development of the integrated financial management system by means of the budget,
accounting, and treasury modules, and with the elaboration of the designs for the Public Credit System,
Goods and Services Management and National Public Investment System. Regarding acquisitions, the
Ministry of Finance rationalized the open contract system, externalized operations, and normalized
payment to suppliers.
For its execution, SIAF supports itself on the use of the latest data processing and communications
technology, the reengineering of administrative processes, and an intense multi-level training program
focused on public servants at all organizational levels.
PROJECT EXECUTION
SIAF I was a four-year Project that was carried out in three years because it coincided with the new
Government, therefore receiving a series of priorities set by the new authorities which forced the Technical
Directorate to accelerate its execution by fulfilling various stages simultaneously. To this effect, the data
processing conceptual and functional designs were prepared, professionals highly qualified in the
implementation of integrated financial management systems in the region were hired, and the development
of basic data processing for the introduction process was started.
According to the principle of regulatory centralization and operational descentralization, a strengthening
process of the governing entities was started simultaneously at the Ministry of Finance (budget, accounting,
and treasury) at the same time as the financial management of the Government was descentralized, thus
creating financial management units (UDAF) in the key ministries (Education, Health, Communications
and Transportation, Agriculture, Finance, and the Comptroller Generals Office).
The Project aided the Government during the drafting of the main bills and related regulations, as a
regulatory basis required to operate the management and control systems.
-9-



Although the Project' activities began in the first semester of 1996, during which the conceptual designs
were prepared and the training process began, it was not until the second semester with the arrival of
intemational experts in the main areas, that the Project reached its best rate of performance; therefore the
1997 Budget contains the budget classifiers for the integrated system and the 1998 Budget is prepared
according to the results-based budget methodology. As of January 1998, with the new Organic Budget
Law (propitiated by the Project) becoming effective, wherein all the modemization elements for financial
management are included, operations of the Integrated Governmental Accounting System (SICOIN) began,
using new software where the budget's execution of 34 central Government financial units is registered.
This information is then transmitted electronically to the Ministry of Finance, where it is received as input
information and then automatically registered at the State Accounting Office and payment is processed by
the Treasury Office.
The development and introduction of SIAF I have become one of the main contributions to the
govemability process in Guatemala, in support of the development of the Peace Programs that were
undersigned in the country in 1996. Deconcentration of financial management has turned the Ministers into
true public managers, as well as guaranteed that the totality of income and expenditures is recorded in real
time, that budget operations are transparent, that resource allocations take less time, that public finances
are streamlined, that acquisition and contracting processes are rationalized, that the quality of public
expenditure is improved, and that the Ministry of Finance participates more in the macroeconomic policy.
MAIN ACHIEVEMENTS
1.     Strenathening of public management
As of 1998, each Minister has become responsible of the administration of his budget. The State's
results-based General Income and Expenditures Budget is prepared defining physical and financial goals,
whereby personnel, material, and financial resources are allocated in relation to products (goods and
services) delivered to the community.
A graphically and numerically organized managerial module allows the availability in real time of
information about the budget execution, its programs and projects to be known down to the minimum level
of the organization.
2.     The bud2et as a decision-making tool
The budget is reprogrammed quarterly and monthly yield (incorporation of goods and services) and
monthly payment quotas to the ministries are set. At the ministries, budget programming is integrated to
the Treasury cash flows, guaranteeing in this manner the existence of resources for payment to suppliers.
Reprogramming allows for a better use of the State's resources, avoiding idle balances and using them for
services that are most needed by the population. Payment decisions are made by each ministry.
3.     Deconcentration of financial administration
The system's philosophy is based on regulatory centralization and operational deconcentration, thus
avoiding concentration of power and bringing the administration closer to the community. This allows the
community to exercise a certain level of social pressure on public servants.
Financial management has been deconcentrated at the 34 ministries and secretariats that execute the State'
General Income and Expense Budget. Financial Management Units (UDAF) have been created as a replica
- 1 0 -



of the governing entities of the Ministry of Finance regarding budget, accounting, treasury, and
acquisitions. During the execution of the second phase of the Project (SIAF II) the operational chores will
be moved to a secondary level of deconcentration, i.e., Hospitals in the case of Public Health and Social
Assistance as well as the departmental education branches of the Ministry of Education, among others.
4.     Government transactions record in real time
In SIAF, income and expenditures transactions are recorded only once in a deconcentrated manner at a
Ministerial UDAF or at an execution unit, where control of budget execution is generated. This
information is then transmitted through digital channels or internet to the Ministry of Finance where the
State's accounting is automatically prepared, and the National Treasury proceeds to make the payment.
On the other hand, the record of payments and of public debt operations is carried out in the central system.
As of SIAF II, the SIGADE, a public debt follow-up and control system, will allow for automatic recording
of the operations of loans and bonds.
Up to 1998, Internal Revenue Services and Customs at the Ministry of Finance kept record of tax revenue
in the system. As of 1999, with SIAF II and the creation of the Tax Administration Superintendence
(SAT), agreements were undersigned with banks of the system, and accounts have been opened for the
National Treasury, with data being sent directly through the banking communications network to SAT and
SIAF for automatic recording.
5.    Efficient management of funds
The National Treasury Office, as of 1996, has progressively ceased to operate simply as a paymaster'
office and is being transformed into a Treasury Bank. The Treasury makes daily conciliation with bank
balances, and this allows for real time management of the flows of funds, the payment to suppliers and
public servants through monthly payments programs accepted by the ministries and secretariats, as well as
the initiation of a cash in account program for suppliers and payment to officers through the banks. As of
the year 2000, during the execution of SIAF II, payment with checks will be eliminated, this making up for
yearly cost savings in the amount of US $2.5 million.
Additionally, the Treasury' sole account is being organized, which will close all idle accounts, reducing
them during SIAF I from 1,300 to 600. The resources of these accounts represented idle balances. The
Government was paying high interests for the placement of bonds in order to obtain resources to pay
monthly payrolls and suppliers.
6.    Transparent budaet oVerations
All of the central administration§ income and expenditures will be recorded in the system. Until 1996,
each ministry' own resources made up separate budgets, and not all loans and donations were recorded.
The quarterly reprogramming of the budget and the quota payment programs is carried out in a
participatory manner with the ministries and secretariats.
The execution of the budget is on public display, and computers exist for this purpose which can be found
at the Finance Commission of Congress for consultation of the data base by Congress members and others,
and at the Social Communications Office of the Ministry of Finance for use by universities, research
institutions, the media, or the organized community.
- 11 -



The system keeps track in detail of those who record or authorize as well as about the date and time that it
is done. A critical path for the Single Proof of Registration (CUR) has been developed to verify the time
spent as of the issuance of the CUR by a Ministry, received and validated in the State Accounting Office
with payment made by the National Treasury with delivery of either the check or bank transfer, up to the
actual payment. In this manner it has been possible to eliminate the bottlenecks of administrative red tape
and to eliminate corruption due to misuse of authority. Payments are made in a processing order defined by
the system, without the intervention of any officer.
The tools for internal control have been incorporated by means of the organization of the software, the
manuals, and administrative procedures. It is expected that the effort towards transparency in public
management be complemented by the restructuring of the Comptroller General's Office.
7.     Assessment of public mana2ement
The system has allowed for separate recording of the 1998 Emergency expenditures produced by the
damages caused by Hurricane Mitch, which was a demonstration of transparency in the use of resources to
the national and intemational communities, as well as a measurement of the impact of public expenditure.
During the execution of SIAF II in 1999, the reconstruction expenditures associated with this emergency,
are being recorded separately.
On the other hand, with the execution of the 2000 Budget, the compliance with the Peace Accords will be
verified, relating to the expense commitment, as well as to other programs the Government is interested in.
At the same time, during SIAF II, an assessment of a public management model is being developed, fed
with abundant information generated by the system and with the gradual application of SIAF to the
remainder of the public sector.
8.     Reduction of time for resource allocation
The introduction of SIAF has implied reengineering the administrative processes and procedures. Until
1996, the expense documents and their respective backup documents, arrived at the Ministry of Finance to
be reviewed, recorded, and paid, all of which took 130 steps. Currently, this process takes only 12 steps
and the backup documents remain in the ministries.
On the other hand, the sole record of the transaction carried out at the ministries and their automatic
processing at MINFIN, has simplified the process and reduced the time it takes. Paper is being gradually
eliminated, the users'own manuals are incorporated in the software.
With the above system, payment took between 20 days and 6 months, and now a check is issued or a bank
transfer is ordered within 72 hours of receipt of documents at MINFIN.
Until 1996, the National Treasury issued 240,000 checks per month. As of 1998, payment of payrolls of
ministries and secretariats has been transferred to the banking system.
9.     Streamlining of public finance
Until 1996 there existed a floating debt with suppliers of about Ql,200 million(in national currency), which
meant that the first three months of each year were destined to the cancellation of the debts of the previous
- 12 -



period. Between 1996 and 1997 this debt was reduced to Q600 million, and as of 1997-98, the debt was
reduced to zero, and the same has happened in the following years.
10.   Rationalization of the purchase and contractin2 processes
The purchasing process of the State has been restructured through the utilization of companies specialized
in sectoral purchases, eliminating intermediaries and carrying out payment to suppliers in a minimum time.
In this manner the cost of the purchase of goods for massive use in the health, education, and penitentiary
sectors was been reduced between 10 and 70% between 1996 and 1998
11.   Improvement of the qualitv of public expenditure
The introduction of SIAF and streamlining of public finances has resulted in considerable savings in the
State's expenditures, a very high cost-benefit relation in the application of the resources of the World Bank
loan (SIAF 1), as well as on the possibility of rendering the services at a lesser cost, which reflects as a
substantial increase in the quality of public expenditure. On the other hand, efforts will be continued in
order to eliminating the misuse of public resources.
The reduction of the time of payment to suppliers through the application of SIAF has allowed for the cost
of State purchases to be reduced. Also, because of the important role of these actions in the economy, it
has allowed for the reduction of the time of the productive cycle of the economic agents (contracting
byproducts - production - sale - collection - contracting) allowing it to be carried out more often each year,
and as a consequence, providing more dynamics to the economy.
12.   More and better participation in macroeconomic policy
The introduction of the system has optimized the Ministry of Finance' participation in the management of
macro variables in the economy, in view of the fact that the formulation and control systems of the budget's
execution allow for the projection in aggregate of the totals of national accounting and of public finance
statistics. On the other hand, it is noteworthy that within management itself, a weekly review of the fiscal
deficit is carried out. There exists comprehensive coordination with the monetary entity to measure the
effects of the execution of public expenditure. Additionally, it has allowed for the predetermination and
control of the intemal debt and the timely payment of the foreign debt. Regarding these actions, permanent
follow-up of the execution of grants and loans is being implemented.
SIAF I PROJECT IMPACT
SIAF I generated a second stage (SIAF II), to extend the reforms to the remainder of the central
administration and decentralized and autonomous entities, in order to strengthen the Comptroller General's
Office and to develop the public credit and public investment systems.
Additionally, because of its dynamics, the project is working on systems that will allow the strengthening of
public administration through the integrated management systems (State acquisitions, warehouses, and
goods), an integrated intemational project management system (SIGEPRO) and a documentary data system
(SIAFDOC).
The impact of modernization has motivated an interest at a municipal level and has created the need to
modemize the human resource management system of the public sector.
- 13 -



All of the above proves that SIAF has become a tool that promotes and generates the modernization of the
State of Guatemala.
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM            None of the indicators shown in the left hand A basic core of coherent, , expandable
Reform of public sector financial      column were amended.                  financial management functions is now in
administration to improve government                                          place
effectiveness and ability to better plan,                                     Budgeting, accounting and cash
administer and contrDl public resources                                       management have been integrated
MOF, CG and more than originally
scheduled pilot line agencies in which IFM
systems are functioning are now better
equipped and more capable of discharging
financial responsibilities and serving the
public
The fiscal accounts have been consolidated
and there are initial indications of efficiency
gains
Congressional consideration of proposed                                       The new IFMS law provides a framework
improvements in financial management                                          agreement for consolidating ongoing financial
legislation                                                                   management reforms
Initiation of IFM operations in central                                       MOFs role has been transformed into more
government institutions                                                       of a rector institution, regulating and guiding
other Government institutions (accompanied
by internal MOF improvements upgrading its
effectiveness and efficiency).
Pilot institutions, armed with new policies,
rules, procedures and tools, now have
greater ability to plan and execute their
budgets and handle their accounts.
- 15 -



BUDGETING                                                                     IFM concepts and systems have provided a
A more comprehensive budget process that                                      more realistic framework for budget planning,
promotes increased efficiency and                                             better linked to macroeconomic and revenue
effectiveness in uses of Government                                           projections
financial resources
The budget system is now a more effective
tool for targeting and programming
Government spending
Budget flexibility has increased significantly
with a sharp reduction in the number of
budget line items and transfers dunng
budget execution.
Budget execution rose from 83 percent of
approved funds in 1995 to 94 percent in
1998. Education Ministry (which spent 50
percent or less in the early 1 990s) achieved
99 percent in the Project period. This
enabled more students to participate in
school feeding, textbook distribution and
school transport.
Public spending in the "Peace Accord" target
areas has risen. Social and basic
infrastructure spending now accounts for
about 70 percent of the budget Social sector
spending amounted to almost half of the
1999 budget.
The capital/current expenditure ratio
increased above 50 percent over pre-peace
levels
Physical and financial indicators were
introduced as criteria for "results-oriented"
budget programming.
Shortages of counterpart funds for external
projects have been substantially reduced
ACCOUNTING                                                                    Accounting and budgeting classifications
Availability of more useful, timely and reliable                              across all ministries and public institutions
data for resource allocation, budgeting and                                   have a common language and are integrated
other financial management decisions                                          into a single system with multi-year
information
Operating unitsfinancial actions are now
uniformly registered and communicated via a
single database. This is accessible to all IFM
systems and provides an audit trail
Public sector financial statements now follow
more recognized accounting standards
Current year budget execution is better
controlled
Up to date, reliable information on
Government financial transactions is now
readily available to the public at computer
sites and to the Congress via Internet
-16 -



CASH MANAGEMENT                                                              Eliminabon of arrears on the "floating debt (a
Replacement of tight, daily control over cash                                major budgetary distortion), whose average
spending by a regular cash flow                                             lag was reduced from 90 days to 3
programming system, linked with budget
execution projections.                                                       Reduced scope for fraud and corruption with
the considerable limitation of administrative
Substitution of streamlined, abbreviated                                     discretion in payments; substantially reduced
payment procedures for suppliersbills and                                   reliance on checks and paperwork in
civil servants wages                                                         processing payments; easier comparisons
now feasible for rapid comparison of prices
Reduction of multiplicity of Govemment cash                                  paid for goods and services
accounts
National Treasury operations restructured
with tax collection and public sector payment
functions now more reliant on banking
system
Electronic fund transfers to commercial
banks increased from near zero in 1996 to
almost half of public sector payments in
1998, reducing time and transaction costs
Arrears to suppliers reportedly have been
eliminated
Establishment of single Govemment cash
account eliminated numerous separate
accounts (e.g., 100 revolving fund accounts
in 1998), tightening control of liquid assets
DEBT MANAGEMENT                                                              Progress towards installation of UNCTAD's
A coordinated system for public debt                                         Debt Management and Analysis software
planning and management functions                                            system for monitoring and handling extemal
debt, compatible with IFM information
system.
Progress towards systematic registration of
presently disparate data on other
Govemment borrowing.
A new ad hoc commission halved the
average lag between Board and
Congressional approval of external loans.
Domestic debt management measures
halved the domestic debt-to-GDP ratio
between 1993 and 1998
AUDITING                                                                     Introduction of higher level standards, norms
Modemized Government comptroller actMty,                                     and other guidance for govemment auditing
de-emphasizing prior control of financial                                    consistent with IFM changes
transactions in favor of improved audit
systems providing better internal controls                                   Linkage of Comptroller General (CG)
and support for Executive Branch decisions                                   information with IFM systems, and 616
and Congressional oversight                                                  auditors were trained in them and other more
modern concepts and practices in 1998
Limited progress towards restructunng of
CG Office, establishing internal control
structures in line ministries, and contracting
out some auditing to private firms
Proposals for clarification and redefinition of
CG's role in formulation of draft new Organic
Law
-17 -



PROCUREMENT                                                                  A better Government procurement system
New policies, standards, ruies and                                           and faster payment procedures have cut
procedures governing public sector                                           processing times and steps (eliminating
procurement for tighter controls,                                            premiums built into prices to counter
encouragement of prce competition and                                       inflation).
quality upgrading, spaedier operations
Substantial price reductions (estimated
10-70 percent) for supplies resulted
Govemment procurement is becoming more
transparent and progressing towards greater
competitiveness (e.g., bidding practices are
replacing selection of price quotations)
Progress towards improving MOF direction
Amended practices in procurement for and
management of Government real property
and other fixed assets
I,'wFORMATION TECHNOLOGY                                                     On-line, real-time information on all financial
A modern information technology network                                      transactions within the central government is
supporting integrated financial management                                   widely available
systems
The IFM systems have given Govemment an
unprecedented database and data-sharing
capacity with the help of open mini/micro
computer-based IT. Early in the Project, the
new technology provided centralized
information on revenues, commitments,
obligations and expenditures in a far superior
manner than previous methods
540 budget specialists, 486 accountants and
the aforementioned 616 auditors were among
some 9,500 civil servants trained in IFM and
related areas, who now comprise a critical
mass for advancing and sustaining the
improved systems
Electronic connection between the Treasury
and commercial bankshetworks have
facilitated transfer of data and electronic
payments
- 18-



Output Indicators:
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM           Review of diagnostic/technical design and   Designed financial management reforms in
Proposal of new financial policies,  definition of system                   budgeting, accounting, cash management
regulations and procedures                                                  and other systems, and implemented
investments and other measures for making
these changes
Draft satisfactory financial management  Submitted this legislation to the Congress
legislation and submission to the Congress
Creation of finandal management units  Establish and develop UDAFs in Finance    Developed UDAFS and comparable units in
(UDAFs) in central govemment institutions   Ministry (MOF) and pilot central government MOF, Comptroller General (CG), Ministries
institutions                          of Health, Education, Agriculture and
Communications, Public Works and
Transport
BUDGETING                             Design and approve performance indicator  Designed and approved performance
Upgrading of budget formulation and   catalogue and budget classification charts  indicator catalogue and budget classification
execution capacity with emphasis on                                         charts
development of system of results-orented    Design and approve budget formulation and
multiyear budgets                    execution manuals                      Designed and approved budget formulation
and execution manuals
Design and approve budget evaluation
manuals                               Designed and approved budget evaluation
manuals
Design and approve specialized formulation,
monitoring and execution of investment  Designed and approved specialized
programs                              formulation, monitorng and execution of
investment programs
ACCOUNTING                            Design and have MOF approve general   Designed charts of accounts based on new
Upgrade accounting system to classify,  accounting principles for formulation and    budget classification and improved
record and analyze all govemment financial  reporting of financial information  information registry system
transactions in timely, reliable and standard
ways                                  Prepare changed charts of accounts and put Installed common accounting framework
them into effect throughout the non-financial across all ministries and other public
public sector                        institutions
Design and put into effect specific charts of
accounts in pilot institutions
CASH MANAGEMENT                       Design and implement procedures at MOF   Designed and implemented procedures at
Create modem system managing          and pilot ministries to monitor cash and  MOF and pilot ministres for cash
Govemment cash assets through         training investments, and create a single    programming and monthly spending in line
structuring and monitoring of cash flows,    bank account concentration mechanism  with budget planning.
receipts and control of revenues
Designed and implemented single bank
account concept to replace multiple
Govemment accounts
- 19-



DEBT MANAGEMENT                       Establish the High Level Commission and    Selected and installed appropriate extemal
Establish High Level Commission and new   new procedural manual              debt monitoring and management software
procedural manual to modemize MOF                                            package consistent with the IFM information
management of the acquisition, servicing and                                 system
retirement of public debt
Submission to Congress of proposals to                                       Reviewed procedures for gathering and
facilitate the Executive Branchl contracting                                 registering information on other forms of
external public debt                                                         public debt, and assessed how they too
could be made compatible with IFM
information system
Established an ad hoc government
commission to help speed Congressional
approval of external loans
AUDITING                              Draft and implement new standards and  Drafted and implemented new standards and
Upgrading the auditing system to make it    manuals for audits, intemal controls, audit   manuals for audits, internal controls, audit
more modern, comprehensive and        plan execution and follow-up           plan execution and follow-up
independent
Create new internal audit units in pilot  Created new intemal audit units in pilot
institutions                          institutions
Draft and submit to Congress legislation  Drafted and submited to Congress legislation
governing all aspects of public sector  governing all aspects of public sector
auditing                              auditing
Draft and enact norms and technical   Drafted and enacted norms and technical
guidelines for use of private firms to perform  guidelines for use of private firms to performm
extemalfintemal govemment audits and  externalAinternal govemment audits and
special audits                        special audits
PROCUREMENT                                                                  Redesigned catalogue of goods and services
Upgrade procurement system for greater
transparency, decentralization, timeliness                                   Reformed system of open contracts
and appropriate regard to price competition,                                 (including replacement of bidding for price
quality control and administrative expense                                   quotes from authorized suppliers) and
created new suppliers registry unit
Strengthened MOF's Procurement
Directorate and developed guidelines, rules
and procedures for all contracting units'uses
Established a central information system to
monitor public sector franchises
Submitted to Congress a bill goveming all
aspects of public sector procurement
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY                Design and implement institutional plans in  Selected and contracted suppliers of
Assist in the design, installation and  MOF Information Technology Directorate    hardware/software
operation of an integrated computerized
financial management system within the  Assess existing computer technology in pilot Implemented IT measures consistent with
MOF, CG and other participating central    institutions and plan and execute conversion accounting system changes for conversion to
government institutions               to open p.c.-based integrated systems  integrated system
TRAINING                                                                     Trained a significant cohort of senior and
Design, develop and implement training                                       middle managers and technicians in IFM
programs for the pilot institutions to support                               concepts and procedures
utilization of the new systems
End of project
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost b Com onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Appraisal    ActuallLatest  Percentage
Estimate       Estimate    of Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              Ul$$ milion     US$ million
Goods                                                   4.30            3.40           79
Consultants                                             3.70            5.50          149
Training                                                0.80            0.60           75
Project Management                                      0.80            0.80          100
Contingencies                                           0.90
Total Baseline Cost                                     10.50          10.30
Total Project Costs               10.50           10.30
Total Financing Required                10.50           10.30
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB                                     N.B.F.     Total Cost
Category             ~~~~~NCB     Other    _____
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
I________________________    (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         4.70          0.00          4.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (4.40)        (0.00)        (4.40)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         4.10          0.00          4.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (4.10)        (0.00)        (4.10)
4. Training                  0.00          0.00          0.90         0.00          0.90
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.40)        (0.00)        (0.40)
5. Project Management        0.00          0.00          0.80         0.00          0.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.50)        (0.00)        (0.50)
Total                      0.00          0.00         10.50        0.00          10.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (9.40)        (0.00)        (9.40)
- 21 -



Proect Costs b  Procurement Arran ements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                         0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                         2.50            0.00           0.90           0.00            3.40
(2.50)         (0.00)         (0.80)         (0.00)          (3.30)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           5.50           0.00            5.50
(0.00)         (0.00)         (4.80)         (0.00)          (4.80)
4. Training                      0.00            0.00           0.55           0.00            0.55
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.49)         (0.00)          (0.49)
5. Project Management            0.00            0.00           0.80           0.00            0.80
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.60)         (0.00)          (0.60)
Total                         2.50            0.00           7.75           0.00           10.25
(2.50)         (0.00)         (6.69)         (0.00)          (9. I9)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equiv lent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Ap raisal Estimate           ActuallLatest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank      Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Goods                     3.60       0.10      0.00      3.30       0.10      0.00     91.7   100.0   0.0
Consultants               4.70       0.60      0.00      4.80       0.70      0.00     102.1  116.7   0.0
Training                  0.60       0.08      0.00       0.49      0.06       0.00     81.7   75.0    0.0
Management                0.10       0.00      0.00       0.10      0.00      0.00     100.0   0.0    0.0
Operating                 0.40       0.30      0.00       0.50      0.20      0.00     125.0   66.7    0.0
-22 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
Count(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Pre
paration                 6   Mission Leader, Health Finance,
November 1993                 Public Health,
Country Officer, Public Sector
Expenditure Management,
Pharmaceuticals Management
February 1994            6   Mission Leader, Economist,
2 Public Sector Management,
Public Sector Expenditure
Management, Health Financing
September 1994           3   Mission Leader, PSM,
consultant
November 1994            6   Task Manager, Legal, PSM,
Financial Administrative
Reform, 2 consultants
February 1995            6   PSM, Legal, 4 consultants
Appraisal/Negotiation
April 1995               4   PSM, Legal, 2 consultants
July 1996                5   PSM, Legal, 3 consultants
December 1996            2   PSM, Legal
Supervision
June 1997                4  Task Manager, Economist,               S                 S
Legal, consultant
May 1998                 5  Task Manager, PSM,                     S                  S
Procurement, Human Resource,
Information Technology
June 1998                4  2 PSM,2 consultants                    S                 S
February 1999            4  4 PSM                                  S                 S
ICR
August 1999              1   PSM                                   S                 S
December 1999            1   PSM (Stakeholder workshop)            S                 S
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    ActuallLatest Estimate
. _______________________ _    \    NO. Staff weeks               U.S$  (,000)
Identification/Preparation               189.7                       570.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                     44.7                       108.5
Supervision                               89.0                       199.8
ICR                                        1.5                        12.0
Total                                    324.9                       891.1
(Includes Bank and Trust Fund budgets)
-24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
E Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
M Sector Policies                         * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
N Physical                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
? Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Institutional Development               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
X Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
N Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
El Other (Please specify)
X Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
X Public sector management                * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
C Other (Please specify)
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS OS  O  U  O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS  OU  O HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
List of participants in stakeholder workshop and Aide Memoire of last supervision mission.
- 27 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A
-28 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
The Bank convened a seminar on IFM I on December 7, 1999 in Guatemala City to obtain the views of the
institutions affected by the Project and other interested parties.
Some 21 persons (listed in the Project file) participated. They represented the first Central Government
agencies whose financial management systems were revised by the Project, i.e., the ministries responsible
for education, health and public works, transport and communications. In addition, present were the current
and immediate past incumbents of the position of Comptroller General (CG) whose functions also were
altered in the process of the activity. Representatives of Central Government agencies in which IFM I
systems are also being implemented under the subsequent Project or may be added in the future, i.e., the
ministries responsible for agriculture, defense and labor, as well as the Judicial Branch also attended. Other
participants included a private firm involved in Government information systems, the directors of several
Ministry of Finance units affected by IFM I (budgeting, accounting and treasury), the Attorney General,
and the UNDP Representative and his staff officer involved in the Project.
The speakers agreed without exception that the Project had succeeded in installing commendable
improvements in Government financial management concepts and practices. Most said that these
constituted very desirable reforms and changes from past methods, especially in budgeting, accounting and
cash management. Several added that the reforms had positive, far reaching implications for assisting
public administration upgrading efforts. These involved movements towards devolution of operations,
modernization of administrative systems and raising the level of government technology. A commonly
expressed view was the belief that the innovations held considerable promise for upgrading the efficiency of
government resource use, which several indicated was badly needed. On this, a health ministry speaker said
that IFM I had already helped them to examine the cost effectiveness of their spending. The sole private
enterprise representative commended improvements in contracting methods.
Several speakers said that the IFM I initiatives needed to be extended much further and to proceed more
rapidly, accompanied by greater support for their implementation. In this discussion, the Bank
representatives indicated IFM-II was helping to meet these requirements, which a possible third activity
would also address.
Others said they saw several needs for refining the IFM I reforms in the executing agencies and
cleaning up procedural problems. These related mainly to the new methods for funds transfers,
arrangements for better linking programming and budgeting procedures, expanding the access of the new
ministry budget units to system data, and the application of the IFM changes to lower organizational levels.
One said that budget fund commitment quotas were too rigid. Others complained that there was inadequate
assurance of the precise amounts of funds the ministries could spend, and that this information was not
available on a timely basis (questioning the extent of "transparency" which the change sponsors asserted).
There were implications in several of these remarks that, while the spending ministries' capabilities had
been strengthened in the process, some felt that some new Finance Ministry controls reduced their degrees
of freedom. On this, the participants expressed somewhat differing views.
However, the main point of disparate opinions concerned the Government's auditing mechanisms.
The current CG complained of inadequate support under IFM I for his offices functions- but noted that
this was being remedied under the followup activity. Several of the executing agencies expressed concerns
that their auditing was still weak and somewhat unproductive, even after the establishment of new audit
units with Project support. One said that these units were inadequately trained for the new systems. On the
other hand, the CG stated that his office had not had suitable access to the ministries (which was disputed)
- 29 -



and emphasized that 200 staff (union) members had left his organization. Overall, there was consensus that
the CG function required strengthening, for which the previous Comptroller underscored the need for
passage of new legislation.
The seminar participants underscored a number of areas in which there were grounds for further
improvements. One was expanding the innovations in budgeting and accounting for greater
"results-oriented" purposes, for which better performance indicators were needed. Other points were to
work toward more "program budgeting" and to examine the role of the social funds. There was a suggestion
of the Government's need for obtaining substantial technical assistance to assist line ministry staffs in fully
implementing IFM reforms, along with an indication that further "cultural changes" were needed as well.
The Judicial Branch representative called for IFM's expansion in his area (which takes a significant portion
of the budget).
- 30 -



