Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6598-GU
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$9.4 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
.FOR AN
INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MAY 5, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 =5.7 Quetzal (April 28, 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPAR          Country Procurement Assessment Review
EML           Economic Modernization Loan
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDB           Interamerican Development Bank
IFML          Integrated Financial Management Loan
IMF           International Monetary Fund
LIB           Limited International Bidding
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
SIAF          Sistema Integrado de Administraci6n Financiera
(Integrated Financial Management System)
SAG           Sistema de Auditoria Gubernamental
(Government Audit System)
SEGEPLAN    Secretaria General de Planificaci6n Econ6mica
(National Planning Secretariat)
UDAF          Unidad de Administraci6n Financiera
(Financial Management Units)
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
USAID         United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUATEMALA
INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                               Republic of Guatemala
Implementing Agency:                    Ministry of Finance and Office of the Comptroller General
Beneficiaries:                           Ministry of Finance, Office of the Comptroller, and participating
central governrnent agencies
Poverty Category:                       Not applicable
Amount:                                  US$9.4 million equivalent
Terms:                                   Standard Bank terms with an amortization of
20 years, including 5 years of grace.
Commitment Fee:                         0.75% on undisbursed loan balance, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:                          See Schedule A
Net Present Value:                      Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:                 There is no Staff Appraisal Report
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO GUATEMALA
FOR AN INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed development loan to the Republic of Guatemala for $9.4 million equivalent on
standard Bank terms, with a maturity of 20 years, to help finance an Integrated Financial
Management project.
Background
2.    Guatemalan social indicators are among the lowest in the Latin American region
and show only slow improvement, reflecting, among other things, persistent under-
investment in social services and basic rural infrastructure. Attempts by the Government
to promote poverty alleviation and increase social spending targeted on the poor have
been frustrated by serious institutional weaknesses within the public sector. Inadequate
human resources and personnel management policies, weak tax administration, and
antiquated financial management and auditing practices have resulted in an inability to
efficiently manage financial resources or effectively deliver basic services and implement
investment programs. Consequently, tax compliance is undermined, external donor
funding is foregone, and ad hoc organizations and mechanisms must often attempt to
substitute for the public sector in service delivery.
3.    Reflecting a desire to strengthen the financial base of the public sector and to
increase social sector spending, among other things, the Government undertook a
structural adjustment program supported by the Economic Modernization Loan (EML)
approved by the Board of Executive Directors in November 1992. The program included
targets for increasing spending on preventive and primary health care and primary
education. By late 1993 it became apparent that the targets in health would not be met
despite the availability of local resources and the commitment of senior government
officials. A joint review by the Bank and officials of the Ministries of Health and Finance,
as well as intensive studies of the hospital sector utilizing a Bank executed PHRD grant,
revealed that serious administrative deficiencies relating to nearly all aspects in the
formulation and execution of the budget were impeding the attainment of the targets.
Although spending on preventive and primary health care was targeted under the EML to
increase by 15 percent in real terms in 1993 over their budgeted 1992 amounts, actual
expenditures were only 39 percent of target.



2
4.    Recognizing the need for a comprehensive assessment of the financial management
system, the Government financed with World Bank support a diagnostic study' by
international experts of the budget, accounting, cash management, debt management,
auditing, and procurement functions in the central government and related human
resources management and information technology. The report, totaling over 400 pages
plus annexes, identified pervasive shortcomings in public sector financial management and
auditing:
*  financial administration is highly centralized within the Ministry of Finance, and line
ministries have little ability to plan or manage their budget, reducing their capacity to
implement government programs or be accountable for their operations;
*  given revenue uncertainties and the nearly non-existent financial capacity of line
ministries, the overwhelming focus of financial management is tight daily control by
the Finance Ministry over cash spending, contributing to disruptions in recurrent and
investment programs;
*  the financial administration structure is supported by a legal framework which is
outdated in many instances and inconsistently applied;
*  procedures governing programming, management, and control of public funds are
inefficient, mired in unnecessary red tape, and costly to administer;
*  financial decision-making is based on unreliable, fragmented, incomplete or obsolete
data;
*  information technology has been purchased in an ad hoc and uncoordinated fashion,
leading to a multitude of systems within the government which cannot communicate;
*  financial administration is conducted by a small number of personnel, many of whom
lack the education or experience to adequately perform their jobs; and
*  auditing of government accounts is woefully inadequate, undermining the sense of
accountability.
5.    As a result of the above there is a serious lack of integration and coherence in the
government's financial management. Senior authorities often lack access to accurate,
timely, and relevant financial information for decision making; line ministries do not have
control over, and responsibility for, their financial operations; there are high costs in terms
of efficiency, equity, and transparency; public expenditures can differ significantly from the
budget approved by Congress; and public confidence in the public sector has fallen to a
Guatemala: Conceptual Design and Plan for the Development of a Governmental Financial
Administration and Control System; E. Perez, E. Estrella, C. Fernandez, R. Jimenez, C. Lara, M.
Pastor, D. Turman, J. Villalobos; two volumes, June, 1994; with assistance from E. Kurtulus



3
low level, directly affecting government revenues. Recognizing that significant
improvement in financial management is a necessary precondition to broader public sector
reform and efforts to improve service delivery, the Government has used the
recommendations of the diagnostic study to design and initiate a reform effort to be
supported by the requested Bank financing.
Project Objectives
6.    The overall goal of the project is to strengthen the financial management capability
of the Government of Guatemala and to help restore public confidence in public sector
integrity and competence. The project would have two specific objectives. The first
would be to improve the efficiency, accountability, and transparency of the financial
management functions of the public sector through implementation of an Integrated
Financial Management System (SIAF) centered in the Ministry of Finance and a
modernized Government Auditing System (SAG) in the Comptroller General's Office.
The second objective would be to improve the delivery of public services by supporting
the decentralization to line ministries of primary responsibility for management of their
financial resources.
7.    Project Concept: The project will produce a modern government financial
management system through a coordinated reform in the six key areas of budgeting,
accounting, cash management, debt management, auditing, and procurement. The
principal integrating factors for the system would be a commonly shared reliable data base,
generally applied standards and procedures for recording and reporting financial data
primarily in the accounting sub-system, and establishment of an open mini/microcomputer
based information technology system capable of communicating the data across the sub-
systems. Full implementation would permit a timely and single entry of data into the
system, based on government-wide standards, which become instantly available to all
users. Presentation to the Congress of a broad financial management law conforming all
existing legislation with the new system, can and would be delayed until the reforms in
various sub-systems have been designed, implemented, and refined.
8.    In addition to establishing and implementing new standards and procedures for
financial management, the proposed project would support an important public sector
reorganization. Utilizing the principle of regulatory centralization and operational
decentralization, it would facilitate the transfer of financial responsibility and
accountability to line ministries. The Ministry of Finance and Comptroller General's
Office would function as rector institutions to regulate and guide the overall financial
operations of the government and assure the integrity of decentralized operations. Line
ministers would assume greater operational control over their budgets, supported by
internal Financial Management Units (UDAFs). These units, once properly established
with trained and qualified staff and linked by modern information technology to the core
agencies, would have responsibility for initial budget formulation, budget implementation,
accounting, procurement, and cash management. Separate internal audit units reporting to
Ministers would also be established. The UDAFs will be piloted in four institutions: the



4
Ministries of Finance, Health, and Education and the Office of the Comptroller General.
The Ministry of Health was selected as it is undertaking several initiatives to strengthen its
financial operations and to decentralize primary health care, in the context of a broad
health reform effort being supported by USAID and an IDB Health Sector Adjustment
Loan under preparation. The Ministry of Education was selected given the important need
to improve its service delivery, and the synergy possible from current and planned Bank
operations with that ministry. Successful piloting in the two core institutions and two line
ministries should act to increase demand from other ministries for the financial
management and decentralization program, while limiting initial burdens on project
execution. Taking into account the lessons learned, the reforms would then be expanded
to 16 more central government ministries and institutions.
Project Description
9.    The proposed project would have three substantive components: (i) financial
management reform; (ii) information technology; and (iii) training. The attached Technical
Annex provides a detailed project description as well as information on project
administration and implementation arrangements. The Matrix of Key Project Activities
and Implementation Targets, which summarize objectives, activities, and timetables for
project supported outputs, is presented in Technical Annex Schedule 1. The projected
Training Plan is presented in Schedule 2. Terms of reference for all major consultancies,
as well as the diagnostic study are available in the Project File. Experience suggests that
project implementation emphasize both adherence to well defined and agreed long term
goals as well as operational flexibility to react to opportunities and challenges.
Consequently, project goals for each sub-system, and implementation targets especially for
the first two years, have been carefully developed.
10.   The Financial Management Reform component ($3.7 million, 35 percent of
project costs) would finance long term technical assistance (TA). It would be provided by
a well coordinated team of internationally experienced experts in the core sub-systems
(budgeting, accounting, cash management, debt management, auditing, and team leader),
national consultants focused on legal issues, procurement, human resources, and
information technology support, and a limited amount of short term international and
national consultants (especially in procurement and information technology as required).
As indicated in Schedule 1 of the Technical Annex, the consultants would work closely
with government officials to develop the norms, procedures, manuals, and draft legal
framework for a modern financial management system. The Information Systems
component ($4.3 million, 41 percent of project costs), primarily involving the installation
in 20 institutions of computer hardware and software systems would commence after the
sub-system specialists have begun their work, seeking to conform the information
technology to the policies and manuals being elaborated in the various sub-systems. The
entire computer network should be installed in the Ministries of Finance, Health, and
Education and Comptroller General's Office within 24 months, and fully expanded to the
remaining ministries over the following years. Training ($0.8 million, 8 percent of project
costs) would be provided by the consultants in the various sub-systems through a



5
continuous series of short courses delivered to senior and middle managers and technicians
throughout the government aimed at supporting the implementation of the new procedures
and standards as well as strengthening the Government's capacity in financial management
training. Project Management ($0.8 million, 8 percent of project costs) and
Contingencies ($0.9 million, 8 percent of project costs) comprise the remainder of
project.
Project Cost and Financing
11.   Total project costs have been estimated at $10.5 million over the four-year project
life. Bank financing of $9.4 million equivalent would cover approximately 90 percent of
project costs while the Government would finance the remainder. The loan would cover:
(i) long and short term international consultants ($2.9 million); (ii) national consultants
($0.8 million); (iii) the design and installation of computer hardware and software ($4.0
million); (iv) training ($0.4 million); (v) project management including office equipment
and a contracting agency fee ($0.5 million); and (vi) contingencies ($0.8 million). The
information technology component would aim at a modem and open system with a modest
but sufficient capacity to support an integrated financial management system in line
ministries and to provide the basis for expansion later to decentralized agencies and local
governments. The Government would provide counterpart financing in the form of
salaries, training contributions, and logistical support equivalent to $1.1 million. Cost
estimates and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Procurement and disbursement
tables are provided in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events and the
status of Bank Group operations in Guatemala are provided in Schedules C and D.
Retroactive financing up to $900,000 (about 10 percent of the loan) would be available for
eligible expenditures, primarily consultant services, incurred after January 30, 1995.
Implementation Arrangements
12.   An Executive Committee, comprised of the Minister of Finance and the
Comptroller General and established by Presidential Decree and a separate decree of the
Office of the Comptroller General, would provide policy oversight to the project and be
responsible for its implementation. The Committee would be supported by a small staff,
headed by a National Director, which would act as the Project Management Unit. The
unit would include consultants with relevant international experience in integrated financial
management and technically qualified national consultants. An International Technical
Director would be charged with overseeing and coordinating the substantive work of all
consultants. The Executive Committee would seek advice when it deems necessary from
a Technical Committee composed of senior officials in the Ministry of Finance and
Comptroller General's Office. It is anticipated that the UNDP office in Guatemala would
assist the Government in project administration including the hiring and payment of
consultants and procurement of goods and services. This would reduce the administrative
burden on the project management unit and better ensure the continuity and quality of
services provided. The Government will remain responsible for identifying, selecting, and
supervising the consultants.



6
Project Sustainability
13.   By strengthening the ability of the Ministry of Finance and the Office of the
Controller General to conduct their core operations, and facilitating the decentralization of
financial responsibilities to the line ministries, the project would help: (i) improve the
delivery of basic public services; (ii) increase accountability and transparency; (iii)
strengthen confidence in the public sector; and (iv) facilitate increased external
investments and financial assistance. Successful implementation of the project should
secure support within the public sector and broader society to maintain and indeed to
deepen the reforms.
Lessons Learned and Project Design
14.   The preparation of this project has benefited from previous LAC regional TA
experiences in which the following constraints were identified: (i) lack of well-designed
and monitorable action plans for TA implementation; (ii) soft budget guidelines and weak
management that allowed the use of resources for purposes beyond the objectives of the
project; (iii) widespread proliferation of individual consultancies that became difficult to
coordinate and control and costly to administer; and (iv) weak counterpart participation
and support of the beneficiary institutions. The design of the proposed project has
addressed these constraints as follows: (i) specific but flexible actions plans have been
prepared for each component focusing on outputs and defining evaluation criteria and
performance indicators to judge project progress; (ii) criteria to ensure careful
administration and Bank supervision of the project, especially with respect to procurement
and supervision of consultants, have been established and agreed with the Government;
(iii) reliance on a small team of long term consultants with anticipated direct contact with
senior Government officials; and (iv) presentation of the project to a wide audience of
senior Executive Branch and Congressional leaders, middle management, and technical
staff to encourage "buy-in" and commitment.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
15.   The proposed project is fully consistent with the proposed Country Assistance
Strategy. The weak institutional capacity, lack of transparency, and misallocation of
resources within the public sector have become major national issues in Guatemala. The
Government of President de Leon Carpio has targeted corruption and inadequate attention
to poverty alleviation, particularly in anticipation of the conclusion of peace talks with the
guerrilla movement. The Government strongly supports the proposed reform of financial
management, seeing it as a keystone in public sector reform. Although national elections
are scheduled for late 1995, the project is expected to appeal to a wide spectrum of the
national leadership interested in improving the capacity of the public sector to better utilize
existing revenues. Therefore the preparation, approval, and initial implementation of the
integrated financial management project under the current Government would permit the
subsequent Government to pursue the needed reforms with a minimum of delay.



7
Agreed Actions
16.   During negotiations agreements were confirmed on: (a) the matrix of key activities
and implementation targets for each component, including a clear understanding with the
government on component objectives, activities, outputs, performance indicators,
technical assistance, and institutional and review arrangements; (b) the support staff
requirements of the Executive Committee; and (c) the counterpart contribution of the
government. Conditions for loan effectiveness include: (a) initial staffing of the unit
supporting the Executive Committee as agreed with the Bank; (b) publication of the
Presidential Decree establishing the project and its management structure; and (c)
completion of an agreement with a contracting agent to assist the Government in the
hiring and paying of consultants and the procurement of equipment in accordance with
Bank guidelines.
Environmental Aspects
17.   The proposed project has an environmental category of"C".
Program Objective Categories
18.   By helping improve the Government's financial management capacity and assist in
the decentralization of responsibilities to line ministries, the project would support
Guatemala in economic management.
Participatory Approach
19.   The project was prepared incorporating the views of ultimate potential
beneficiaries in line ministries, especially the Ministry of Health, as well as those of
implementing agencies. Plans for the project were discussed with senior and middle
management officials within the Ministry of Finance, the Comptroller General's Office,
with selected representatives of the Congress, opinion leaders, and donor agencies.
Project Benefits
20.   By improving the efficiency, effectiveness, and transparency of its financial
management, the project would permit the Government to better utilize its limited
financial resources, improve implementation of its investment and social programs, and
enhance the delivery of basic services, especially in the rural areas. It could promote
voluntary tax compliance by increasing the transparency and credibility of the public
sector. The ability and willingness of external donors (including the Bank) to provide
development assistance to Guatemala would be increased as the Government
demonstrates its capacity to better use resources in a timely and transparent manner.



8
Project Risks
21.   The risks to this operation are high. Success will require: (a) a high level of
government and agency commitment to overcome the resistance of special interests; (b)
borrower ownership in the design and implementation of the project; (c) a simple and
flexible project design; and (d) careful attention to human resources capacity and training.
Mitigating these risks, the Government is demonstrating serious commitment and project
ownership through the consistent support for the project of the Minister of Finance and
the Comptroller General. In this regard both of their institutions have begun designing
and implementing several reforms in the various sub-systems along the lines of the
proposed project. The Presidential Decree to be published as a condition of loan
effectiveness establishing the reform project and its management structure underlines the
high priority attached to the program by the Executive Branch. The Comptroller General
has only recently been elected by the Congress for a four year term, and he is expected to
provide significant support for the project during its entire implementation period. Project
design has been kept simple, relying on a well coordinated core team of one international
consultant per sub-system working closely with the relevant Government staff. The
director of the international team will report to the Minister of Finance and Comptroller
General. Training will also be strongly emphasized from the beginning of project
implementation, both directly and through strengthening of the public sector's training
capacity. Legislation will only be sought after the reform program has been designed and
refined through initial implementation, with a view to presenting to the Congress well
justified draft legislation.
Recommendation
22.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Bank's Articles of
Agreement and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Richard H. Frank
President ad interim
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 5, 1995



Schedule A
Page 1 of 1
GUATEMALA
INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
(US$ Millions equivalent)
|hInternational                              2.9                               2.9
National                                                     0.8              0.8
Sub-Total Consultancies                                           3.7
Computer Hardware/Software                  4.0              0.3             4.3     1
0.2              0.6             0.8
0.4              0.4              0.8
BASE COST ESTIMATE                7.5              2.1              9.6
Contingencies                              0.8               0.1              0.9    |
TOTAL COST              8.3              2.2              10.5__ _
Government                   0.0                  1.1                    1.1
Bank                         8.3                  1.1                    9.4
[Total                        8.3                  2.2         j          10.5



Schedule B
Page 1 of 1
GUATEMALA
INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT LOAN
Procurement Methods and Disbursement
(US $ Millions equivalent)
1. Consultant Services                                            41)                    4.1
2. Goods/Equipment                                                4.7 b/                 4.7
(4.4)                  (4.4)
3. Training/Travel                                                0.9                    0.9
(0.4)                  (0.4)
4. Project Management                                             0.8                    0.8
(0.5) c/               (0.5)
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iMM
Note: Bank financing is in parentheses.
a/ Non-Bank Financed.
b/ Includes LIB for computer hardware/software and shopping ($0.1 million)
for project management unit office equipment.
c/ Includes project management unit staff salaries and contracting agent fee.
DISBURSEMENTS
-.0~.
1. Consultant Services                3.7                                                100 %
2. Goods/Equipment                    4.0                      100 % of foreign expenditures andl
________ ________ ________ _   ______ ________85%    of other local expenditures
3. Training/Travel                    0.4                      100 % of foreign expenditures andl
_______________          ~85% of other local expendituresl
4. Project Management                 0.5                                                100%
5. Unallocated                        0.8      I______________________
Total                                9.4
1_1
Annual                          1.0*           1.e3.0                     2.03          1.9
Cumulative                           1.0           2.5            5.5          7.5          9.4
*   includes retroactive financing of up to $0.9 million for eligible expenditures
incurred since January 30, 1995.



Schedule C
Page 1 of 1
GUATEMALA
INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT LOAN
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
a)        Time Taken to Prepare:       Sixteen months
b)        Prepared by:                 The Government with Bank Assistance
c)        First Bank Mission:          January 1994
d)        Appraisal Mission Departure:   April 1995
e)        Negotiations:                April 1995
f)        Planned Date of Effectiveness:  July 1995
g)        List of Relevant Documents:   None



SCHEDULE D
Page 1 of2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUATEMALA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
lAs of March 31,1995)
0...........
19 loans fully disbursed                                                                 378.43
Ln. 2972-GUA     1988       Guatemala           Municipal Development I                     9.90                       4.85
Ln. 3002-GUA     1989       Guatemala           Secondary & Rag. Road Rehab.               25.58                      24.10
Ln. 3003-GUA     1989       Guatemala           Basic Education                            18.79                      15.77
Ln. 3533-GUA*   1993        Guatemala           Economic Modernization (EMLI              120.00                     48.00
Ln. 3534-GUA     1993       Guatemala           Social Investment Fund                     20.00                      19.38
Sub-total                               194.27                    112.10
Total                                   572.70
Of which has been repaid                317.97
Total now held by Bank                  254.73
Amount sold:             5.76
Of which has been repaid: 5.78
Totd Undisbursed                        112.10                    11 2.10
SAL, SECAL, or Program Loan.
MdaS: LA2C0
File: N:\MdeSilva\disburse\gustemsl\GT-03-95.ads
April 11, 1995



WATJNr Of  ZYC ZXVVESTMNTS                                       Schedule D
AA of March 31. 1995
(In Millions US Dollars)                                      Page 2 of 2
- Original Gross Comitments -  gold    sold    Undisb
Fiscal Years                                                                          ZPc      irc                        by       by       incl
Com=ttsd                  Obligor                       Type of Business              Loan     Bquity  Partic  Totals  rIC         Partic  Partic
1959                   a/ lndustz:a Harinera Guatem Food and agribusiness                .20        -               .20        -        -        -
1974                   a/ EZploraciones y ZLplotaci Iron and steel                     15.00        -        -   15.00
1977                   a/ Camentos Progreso, SA.   Cemnt and construction m    3 .00                -        -    3.00         -        -        -
1993                      Puerto Quetzal Power Corp Industrial services                20 .00       -   51.00   71.00   16.S4   41.44            -
1993                      Vidriera Guatemaltecs. S. General manufacturing              11.00        -        -   11.00   11.00          -    1.00
1994                      Basic Petroleum Z3terzati llergy                             10 .00    4.00     6.00   20.00   14.00    6.00    2.50
1995                      Fabrigas S.A.                 Industrial services             7 .00       -        -    7.00      7.00        -    3.00
Total gross commitents b/                                   66.20    4.00   57.00  127.20
Less cancellations. trzinziations.  repayment & sales   21.26            -    9.56   30.82
Total co=znit-ets now hold cl                               44.94    4.00   47.44   96.38   48.94   47.44    6.5C
Pending co=mitnents
2LMACCNZS PAIZ                                              15.00    3.00          -   18.00
Total pending commitments                                   15 00    3.00          -   18.00
Total co±te-nts hald and pending commi,-ts                  59.94    7.00   47.44  114.38
Total undisbursed co.i4nts                                   5.56         -      .94    6.50
a/ Invest=nts whicb have been fully cancelled, terminated, written-off, sold. redeemed, or repaid.
b/ Gross comitments consist of approved and signed projects.
c/ Held co00it3 nts consist of disbursed and undisbursed investnants.
2












