Docment of
The World Bank
Report No. T 6598-GU
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TO THE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
GUATEMALA
INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MAY 5, 1995






GUATEMALA
INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
A. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Background
1.    Guatemala has the largest economy in Central America, with a 1994 GDP
estimated at $12.9 billion and reported per capita income of $1,242. The economy is
predominantly agricultural, with more than half of the country's labor force engaged in
farming, forestry, and fishing. Since 1990 annual growth has averaged 3.9 percent, led by
the private sector, and inflation was 11.6 percent in 1994.
2.    Guatemalan social indicators are among the lowest in the Latin American region
and show only slow improvement, reflecting, among other things, persistent under-
investment in social services and basic rural infrastructure. Attempts by the Government
to promote poverty alleviation and increase social spending targeted on the poor have
been frustrated by serious institutional weaknesses within the public sector. Inadequate
human resources and personnel management policies, weak tax administration, and
antiquated financial management and auditing practices have resulted in an inability to
efficiently manage financial resources or effectively deliver basic services and implement
investment programs. Consequently, tax compliance is undermined, external donor
funding is foregone, and ad hoc organizations and mechanisms must often attempt to
substitute for the public sector in service delivery.
3 .    Reflecting a desire to strengthen the financial base of the public sector and to
increase social sector spending, among other things, the Government undertook a
structural adjustment program supported by the Economic Modernization Loan (EML)
approved by the Board of Executive Directors in November 1992. The program included
targets for increasing spending on preventive and primary health care and primary
education. By late 1993 it became apparent that the targets in health would not be met
despite the availability of local resources and the commitment of senior government
officials. A joint review by the Bank and officials of the Ministries of Health and Finance
revealed that serious administrative deficiencies relating to nearly all aspects in the
formulation and execution of the budget were impeding the attainment of the targets.
Although spending on preventive and primary health care was targeted under the EML to
increase by 15 percent in real terms in 1993 over their budgeted 1992 amounts, actual
expenditures on preventive care were 39 percent of the target (see table below). Overall
health and education spending performance reportedly improved during 1994, although,
spending on preventive health was still below its budgeted target and increased by less
than $1 million equivalent.



2
Ministry of Health Budget and Expenditures
PROGRAM               Budget               Spent                  %
1993                1993        of       Spent/
Q.                  Q.       Actual   Budgeted
Millions            Millions  Spending
Hospitals            295.8       34       252.6       53        85
Preventive Programs       182.0       21       71.5        15        39
Intensive care centers     150.4      17        71.1       15         47
Investment            243.2       28       82.2        17        34
Total              876.5       100      477.4       100        54
4.    Recognizing the need for a comprehensive assessment of the financial management
system, the Government financed with World Bank support a diagnostic study' by
international experts of the budgeting, accounting, cash management, debt management,
auditing, and procurement functions in the central government and related human resource
management and information technology. The report, totaling over 400 pages plus
annexes, identified pervasive shortcomings in public sector financial management and
auditing leading to a serious lack of integration and coherence in the government's
financial management. Senior authorities do not have access to accurate, timely, and
relevant financial information for decision making; line ministries lack control and
responsibility over their financial operations; there are high costs in terms of efficiency,
equity, and transparency; public expenditures can differ significantly from the budget
approved by Congress; and public confidence in the public sector has fallen to a low level,
directly affecting government revenues. Recognizing that significant improvement in
financial management is a necessary precondition to broader public sector reform and
improved service delivery, the Government has used the recommendations of the
diagnostic study to design and initiate a reform effort to be supported by the requested
Bank financing.
5.    Project Objectives: The overall goal of the project is to strengthen the financial
management capability of the Government of Guatemala and to help restore public
confidence in public sector integrity and competence. The project would have two
specific objectives. The first would be to improve the efficiency, accountability, and
transparency of the financial management functions of the public sector through
implementation of an Integrated Financial Management System (SIAF) centered in the
Ministry of Finance and a modernized Government Auditing System (SAG) in the
Comptroller General's Office. The second objective would be to improve the delivery of
public services by supporting the decentralization to line ministries of primary
responsibility for management of their financial resources.
Guatemala: Conceptual Design and Plan for the Development of a Governmental Financial
Administration and Control System; E. Perez, E. Estrella, C. Fernandez, R. Jimenez, C. Lara, M.
Pastor, D. Turman, J. Villalobos; two volumes; June, 1994; with assistance from E. Kurtulus.



3
6.    Project Concept: The project will produce a modern government financial
management system through a coordinated reform in the six key areas of budgeting,
accounting, cash management, debt management, auditing, and procurement. The
principal integrating factors for the system would be a commonly shared reliable data base,
generally applied standards and procedures for recording and reporting financial data
primarily in the accounting sub-system, and establishment of an open mini/microcomputer
based information technology system capable of communicating the data across the sub-
systems. Full implementation would permit a timely and single entry of data into the
system, based on government-wide standards, which become instantly available to all
users. Legislative action on a broad financial management law conforming all legislation
to the new system, can and would be delayed until the reforms in the various sub-systems
have been designed, implemented, and refined.
7.    In addition to establishing and implementing new standards and procedures for
financial management as a whole, the proposed project would support an important public
sector reorganization. Utilizing the principle of regulatory centralization and operational
decentralization, it would act to transfer financial responsibility and accountability to line
ministries. Line ministries would assume greater operational control over their budgets,
supported by internal Financial Management Units (UDAFs). These units, once properly
established with trained and qualified staff and linked by modern information technology
to the core agencies, would have responsibility for initial budget formulation and budget
implementation, accounting, procurement, and cash management. Separate internal audit
units reporting to Ministers would also be established. The Ministry of Finance and
Comptroller General's Office would function as rector institutions to regulate and guide
the overall financial operations of the government and assure the integrity of decentralized
operations. The UDAFs will be piloted in four institutions, including the Ministry of
Finance, the Comptroller General's Office, and the line ministries of Health and Education.
Successful piloting, in addition to refining the program and limiting initial burdens on
project execution, should act to increase demand from other ministries for financial
management decentralization. Taking into account the lessons learned, the reforms would
then be expanded to 16 more central government ministries and institutions.
Project Components
8.    The proposed project would have three substantive components. Reform of
financial management policies and procedures would be supported by long term
technical assistance provided by a well coordinated team of internationally experienced
experts in the core sub-systems (budgeting, accounting, cash management, debt
management, auditing, and team leader), national consultants focused on human resources
and information technology support, and a limited amount of short term international and
national consultants (especially in procurement and legal issues as required). Investments
in information systems, would involve the purchase and installation of computer
hardware and software systems in 20 institutions commencing shortly after the sub-system
specialists have begun their work, seeking to conform the information technology to the



4
policies and manuals being elaborated. The entire computer network should be installed in
the Ministries of Finance, Health, and Education and Comptroller General's Office within
24 months, and expanded to the remaining institutions over the following years. Training
would be provided initially by the consultants in the various sub-systems through a
continuous series of short courses delivered to managers and technicians throughout the
Government. Experience suggests that project implementation emphasize both adherence
to well defined and agreed long term goals and operational flexibility to react to
opportunities and challenges. Consequently, problem diagnosis and project goals for each
sub-system as described below, and targets for the first two years, have been carefully
developed.
Technical Assistance for Financial Management Reform: ($3.7 million, including
$3.7 million in Bank financing)
Budgeting
9.    Problem: The budget has not been used as an instrument of financial management
in Guatemala. Although in theory it presents in financial terms the operational plan of the
government, in fact it has been at best a general guideline for government expenditures.
The document is prepared by a small core of technical staff in the Ministry of Finance
based primarily on incremental adjustments in past budgets. The National Planning
Secretariat (SEGEPLAN) is not actively involved in the programming or budgeting of
investment projects, although it prepares separately Annual Operating Plans with
individual ministries, which are not necessarily reflected in the budget. Although program
budgeting is the stated basis for budget formulation, the budget consists of an excessive
number of line items relating to an excessive number of budgetary implementing units
(11,121 in the 1994 budget). This amount of detailed activity is clearly beyond the
capacity of the budget directorate to formulate, justify, and monitor. During budget
implementation, requests for transfers, reprogramming and modifications made by the
ministries have been routinely received and processed, reflecting the excessive detail in the
budget, its divergence from actual ministerial priorities, and, in addition, poor control over
spending decisions. In 1993 some 70 percent of the budget was subject to transfers,
beginning in the first month of the fiscal year. As a result actual expenditures differed
significantly from the original structure of the budget approved by the Congress.
10.   Proposed Project Goals and Activities: The project would seek to implant a
modern budget sub-system which produces an effective financial plan, representing the
considered priorities of the government and which facilitates control over the expenditure
of government funds. Key activities would include: (i) preparation and implementation of
budget formulation, execution, and evaluation manuals; (ii) preparation by the Ministry of
Finance with executing agencies of a performance indicator catalogue with emphasis on
investment and service delivery programs; (iii) design and implementation of a new multi-
year budget document format including spending justifications; (iv) design and
implementation of measures to conform ministerial Annual Operating Plans and the public
investment plan with the national budget; (v) design and implementation of a significantly



5
reduced number of budget/accounting classifications and budget execution units in all
ministries; (vi) establishment of clear operating linkages between the Directorate of the
Budget with the Financial Management Units (UDAFs) in the line ministries; and (vii)
active participation of the UDAFs in the formulation of the budgets of their respective
organizations.
Accounting
11.   Problem: Accounting in the public sector system is seriously deficient. Ministries
do not have institutional accounting systems to provide relevant information to their senior
officials. The State Accounting Directorate within the Ministry of Finance is responsible
for all accounting functions within the central government, which is limited to simple
recording of budgeted operations and primary expenditures. The system suffers from
substantial conceptual deficiencies that cause distortions in the preparation of financial
reports. There are no accounting manuals and existing standards do not reflect generally
accepted accounting principles. The Chart of Accounts has 14 types or groups of
accounts for identifying each of the items or headings, making it necessary to have some
5,150 divisionary accounts, which is excessive and impractical. The diagnosis revealed
improper management of the Chart of Accounts which resulted in an inaccurate estimate
of Government payment arrears because spending commitments were registered as debt
even before the ordered goods were received. The General Balance Sheet is not based on
the accounting ledgers, but rather on substitute data, such as inventories of the fixed assets
and facilities of each implementing unit. The inventories and facilities are not verified on
the basis of physical inventories, and unofficial documents sent by some of the
implementing units are taken as reliable.
12.   Proposed Project Goals and Activities: The project would seek to implant a
modern accounting sub-system which classifies, records and analyzes in a timely, reliable,
and standard manner all government financial transactions, with annual financial
statements prepared by line ministries. The sub-system would provide all basic financial
transaction data and reports to all other sub-systems. Key activities would include: (i)
preparation and implementation of a Manual of Accounts, including new technical
standards based on generally accepted accounting principles, and new regulations for
government-wide accounting; (ii) design and implementation of a new Chart of Accounts
which is simple, clear, and flexible; (iii) implementation of an action plan to close accounts
on government financial performance in a timely manner following the end of the fiscal
year; and (vi) ensuring proper and uniform accounting treatment of public sector arrears.
Cash Management
13.   Problem: Modern cash management should involve the reporting on and control
of all revenues and payments through a single bank account, and the projection of income
and expenditure in order to plan financial decisions relating to liquidity investment and
credit operations. Guatemala's National Treasury, located in the Ministry of Finance,
functions merely as "paymaster" for daily/weekly decisions taken by an ad hoc group of



6
officials that make up a Cash Management Committee, which functions without legal or
regulatory basis. There is no cash flow plan, as the Treasury is unaware of the flow of
income and lacks accounting and/or bank movement data for the "Common Fund". The
Treasury has nine other bank accounts that it uses for various specific purposes. As a
result of the above, the operating procedure is slow, complicated, subjective, and
frequently non-transparent for effecting payments.
14.   Proposed Project Goals and Activities: The project would seek to implant a
modern cash management sub-system which manages the cash assets of the government
through projection and monitoring of cash flows, receipt and control of revenues, and the
processing of disbursements. Key activities would include: (i) preparation and
implementation of more transparent and simple rules for the processing of payment orders;
(ii) establishment within the Ministry of Finance of a Cash Management Committee with
transparent membership, rules, and procedures; (iii) development of a Cash Flow
Forecasting system to facilitate budget execution; (iv) implementation of a single bank
account such that the Treasury can exercise better control over revenues and expenditures;
and (v) establishment of a UDAF-based system of purchase and payment orders to replace
their processing within the Ministry of Finance.
Debt Management
15.   Problem: The internal debt management function is limited in Guatemala. The
determination of the need and amount of required new domestic public debt is assigned
informally to a small ad hoc committee. One advisor in the Ministry of Finance handles
procedural matters and the negotiation of the debt. Control processes for the use and
recording of debt are rather informal. The issuance of securities and their administration is
the responsibility of the Central Bank. Although external debt is contracted following
formal coordination amongst the Ministry of Finance, National Planning Secretariat, and
Central Bank, there is only limited assessment of its implications for financial flows or the
country's creditworthiness.
16.   Proposed Project Goals and Activities: The project would seek to implant a
modern debt management sub-system which manages the acquisition, servicing, and
retirement of public debt. Key activities would tentatively include: (i) establishment of a
National Commission on Public Credit comprised of the Ministry of Finance (chair), the
Central Bank, and National Planning Secretariat; (ii) establishment of an appropriate
structure within the Ministry of Finance for implementing the policies of the National
Commission; (iii) establishment of a rolling multi-year debt plan; (iv) establishment of a
debt management information system; and (v) presentation to the Congress of draft
legislation enabling the Executive Branch to contract debt or guarantees with multilateral
financial institutions under a mechanism which shall not require specific approval of every
operation to the extent it does not exceed annual limits pre-established by the Congress
within its powers under the Constitution.



7
Auditing
17.   Problem: Modern auditing involves three processes: (i) internal control through
mechanisms in government agencies for authorization of purchases, cash management,
asset custody, and personnel functioning in the executive branch; (ii) internal auditing
through the a posteriori examination of accounts and supporting documentation, review
of financial operations, and financial and operational audits performed by an entity within
the organization; and (iii) external audit, which has similar functions as internal auditing,
except that it is performed by an external entity. In Guatemala, the audit function is
governed by a law that went into effect more than 70 years ago and modified slightly in
the mid-1950s, and as such does not reflect modern internal control and audit processes.
As the law requires a review of "all" supporting documentation for income and
expenditure of funds, there is a backlog of several years in the reviews which means that
they have virtually no effect on the determination of accountability. The Office of the
Comptroller General is an agency of the Congress, but must rely on the often unreliable
data provided by the Executive Branch. The Comptroller General's Office itself has
relatively few professional auditors, focuses most of its resources on routine administrative
reviews, conducted only 14 audits in 1993, prepares no audit plans nor systematizes audit
methodology, has no procedures to evaluate audits, and does not continuously train its
staff. Internal audit units in ministries have frequently distorted the practice of auditing
into pre-control of operations and/or inspection and verification of tasks that are irrelevant
and that are the responsibility of the management of each entity. These units do not
provide advisory assistance to senior management. Given this situation, auditing of
externally financed projects is generally performed by private firms.
18.   Proposed Project Goals and Activities: The project would seek to implant a
modern, comprehensive, and independent audit system which ensures fair, objective, and
reliable external reviews of government performance based upon sound internal control
structures in each agency and professionally staffed internal audit units. Key activities
would include: (i) a restructuring of the functioning and administrative rules of the
Comptroller General's Office; (ii) design and implementation of technical standards for
audits for use by the Comptroller General's Office and the ministerial Internal Audit Units,
including standards for responding to audit report recommendations and qualifications;
(iii) preparation and implementation of a Manual of Government Audit; (iv) preparation
and implementation of a plan for professionalizing the audit career in government; (v)
establishing annual plans for public sector audits; (vi) design, and implementation of
regulations to utilize private firms to audit accounts of government entities; (vii)
preparation and presentation to the Congress a modern Organic Law of Auditing in
conformity with the broader financial management reforms; and (viii) strengthening of the
Auditing School within the Comptroller General's Office.



8
Procurement
19.   Problem: To maximize expected gains in transparency and efficiency, the
modernization of the financial management system would benefit from complementary
reforms in the public sector's procurement practices. The current procurement system has
suffered from severe deficiencies due to distortions in the application of the law and its
regulations. Procurement has been decentralized without providing for oversight by any
governing entity to issue standards and procedures, evaluate the proper functioning of the
system, or give transparency to the public contracting process and maximize its efficiency.
Each of 540 administrative offices and 37 decentralized entities throughout the
government is able to order goods and frequently does so at prices that are significantly
higher that those prevailing on the local market. Most purchases are through "open
contracts" through which purchases can be made for any quantity of products, provided
that they do not exceed a unit value of $5,000 equivalent. Entities can buy under "open
contracts" without reference to price after receiving proposals from a least three approved
suppliers. Nearly one-third of the suppliers on the Suppliers Registry are phantom firms
or have anomalous operations. It is estimated that the Ministry of Health purchased
during 1993 twenty basic pharmaceuticals at prices between 164 percent and 371 percent
higher that the average international price. Excessive quantities are frequently bought and
the goods are generally of low quality as technical specifications are vague and incomplete
and product quality is often not taken into account. All purchase and payment orders are
physically processed semi-manually in the Ministry of Finance, even though more than 60
percent of purchases are for less than $2,000 equivalent, generating significant paper
work. Payment orders are physically returned to the point of origin when any of many
detailed requirements are not met.
20.    Proposed Project Goals and Activities: The project would seek to implant a
modern procurement sub-system which would procure goods and services in a
transparent, decentralized, and timely manner with appropriate regard to price
competition, quality control, and administrative expense. Key activities would include: (i)
strengthening the recently created Directorate of Procurement within the Ministry of
Finance to serve as the rector institution to develop procurement guidelines and monitor
their implementation (including the preparation of a registry for frequently procured goods
and services to assist in the monitoring of prices, qualities, and technology); (ii)
establishment of transparent procurement regulations and procedures for use in all
contracting units; (iii) creation of ministerial level procurement functions within U.DAFs
responsible for overseeing procurement within the ministry and the development of annual
procurement plans for inclusion in the budget formulation process; (iv) establishment of a
central information system to report on government purchases; (v) creation of a new
Suppliers Registry that is transparent and open to competition; (vi) reform of the system
of "open contracts" to promote price competition and quality control; and (vii)
preparation and presentation of draft procurement legislation.



9
Information Systems: ($4.3 million including $4.0 million in Bank financing)
21.   Problem: While not a substantive sub-system per se in a financial management
system, the character of information technology utilized by a government (or other
organization) can significantly affect the accuracy, transparency, and timeliness, and
consequently the design of the broader system. The information technology utilized by the
Guatemala Government to manage its financial operations is inadequate, hampering its
ability to modernize. Until 1991 the Finance Ministry information system was based on a
central mainframe computer purchased in 1984 which handled the main financial
operations (revenue, salary payments, purchases). A subsequent downsizing process was
begun without adequate planning. The Computer Services Directorate does not have a
leadership role in the Finance Ministry, due in part to its low pay and lack of qualified
staff, and is frequently at variance with other Finance Ministry units which have created
their own isolated information technology units. Consequently no standards or criteria
have been established for hardware and software procurement; the development of
computerization has been uneven and uncoordinated, resulting in systems within the
Ministry which cannot communicate together; and the new systems which have been
established are comprised of hardware of various makes and quality and are not subjected
to preventive maintenance. The mainframe continues to perform some functions although
the government is anxious to transfer its operations before it ceases functioning.
22.   Proposed Project Goals and Activities: The project would seek to implant a
modern, mini/microcomputer based, open information technology network supporting an
integrated financial management system in all ministries, which, among other things,
would provide data to a principal government-wide financial data base. Key activities
would include: (i) transforming the Computer Services Directorate within the Ministry of
Finance into the rector institution for the public sector with regard to policies and
protocols for information technology; (ii) assessment of the existing computer technology
in ministries and design of a plan to convert to an open, mini/microcomputer based
integrated system; and (iii) procurement of hardware and software, and installation of an
integrated information technology system for financial management in the Ministries of
Finance, Health, and Education, and the Comptroller General's Office, and subsequently in
all participating institutions.
23.   Recognizing the need for carefully designed and sequenced information technology
investments to support its financial management reforms, the Government has proposed a
four year program for differentiated investments at the center and at line institution levels.
The SIAF central system at the Finance Ministry is projected to require a mini-computer
with capacity to handle 64 work stations to support the accounting, budget, cash
management, debt management, and procurement sub-systems. Different configurations
would be required for four large ministries, three medium sized ministries, eleven smaller
ministries and institutions, and the Comptroller General's Office. The estimated cost of
hardware and communication linkages is summarized in Table 1. The investment would
take account of existing information technology in the public sector, and is considered the



10
minimum necessary to appropriately support the policy and procedural reforms
contemplated. The systems would be brought on-line in a staged manner starting the
project's second year. In conjunction with other countries in the region implementing
integrated financial management programs, the Government will investigate the feasibility
of purchasing and customizing already developed public sector software packages in lieu
of developing its own software.
Table 1: Estimated Information System Hardware Costs
(US$ thousands)
Institutions                             Cost
Ministry of Finance                          357
4 large ministries                         1,076
3 medium ministries                          535
1 1 smaller institutions                      637
Comptroller General's Office                      87
Other Equipment                             379
TOTAL                                  3,073
Support for Training: ($0.8 million, including $0.4 million in Bank financing)
24.   Training would be a key component of the project, primarily conducted by the
international experts in each sub-system, whose qualifications would include pedagogic
experience. Training would be primarily in the form of short but intense and formal
courses with certificates of advancement. Courses would be aimed at all technical, middle
management, and senior level officers involved in financial management. Intensive training
would also be provided in information technology, and for the proposed UDAFs so that
they could adequately perform the responsibilities to be devolved to the line ministries.
The courses would be conducted in the Training Center of the Ministry of Finance, which
is well equipped and located to support in an effective and cost efficient manner their
presentation. Special attention would be given to the development of national training
capacity, both within the government, and with professional organizations and universities
in Guatemala. Financing is also proposed for a limited number of observational visits to
investigate financial management systems in operation in the Latin American region. A
detailed training plan is attached as Schedule 2.
Financing Plan
25.   Total project costs, as shown in Table 2, have been estimated at $10.5 million over
the four-year project life. Bank financing of $9.4 million equivalent would cover
approximately 90 percent of project costs while the Government would finance the
remainder. The loan would cover: (i) long and short term international consultants ($2.9
million); (ii) national consultants ($0.8 million); (iii) the purchase and installation of



11
computer hardware and software ($4.0 million); (iv) training ($0.4 million); (v) project
management including office equipment ($0.5 million); and (vi) contingencies ($0.8
million). The information technology component would aim at a modern and open system
with a modest but sufficient capacity to support an integrated financial management
system in line ministries and to provide the basis for expansion later to decentralized
agencies and local governments. The Government would provide counterpart financing in
the form of salaries, training contributions, and logistical support equivalent to $1.1
million.
Table 2: Estimated Project Cost by Activity and Source
(US$ Millions)
Project Activity            Bank          Government           Total
International Consultants          2.9               0.0              2.9
National Consultants               0.8               0.0              0.8
Goods/Equipment                    4.0               0.3              4.3
Training                           0.4               0.4              0.8
Project Management                 0.5               0.3              0.8
Contingencies                      0.8               0.1              0.9
TOTAL                              9.4               1.1              10.5
26.   The estimated division between local and foreign exchange costs of Bank financing
is presented in Table 3 by expenditure category.
Table 3: Estimated Bank Local Currency and Foreign Exchange Financing
(US$ Millions)
Project Activity           Local            Foreign           Total
Consultant Services
International Consultants                         2.9               2.9
National Consultants             0.8                                0.8
Goods and Equipment                                  4.0              4.0
Training                           0.2               0.2              0.4
Project Management                 0.1               0.4              0.5
Contingencies                                        0.8              0.8
TOTAL Bank Financing               1.1               8.3              9.4



12
B. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Implementation
27.   An Executive Committee comprised of the Minister of Finance and the
Comptroller General, to be established by Presidential Decree and the separate Circular A-
10-95 already issued by the Office of the Comptroller General, will provide policy
oversight to the project and be responsible for its implementation. The Committee would
be supported by a small staff, headed by a National Director, which would act as the
Project Management Unit. The unit, located in the Ministry of Finance, would include
consultants with relevant international experience in integrated financial management (in
the areas of budgeting, accounting, cash management, debt management, and auditing)
and national consultants especially in the areas of procurement, human resources,
infonnation technology, and law. It would include a specialist to ensure appropriate
coordination between the project and the ongoing health sector reform effort. This
consultant would also act to oversee the development of the UDAFs in line ministries. A
lead international consultant would serve as the International Technical Director of the
project, and be charged with overseeing and coordinating the substantive work of the
consultants. The Executive Committee would seek the advice when it deems necessary of
a Technical Committee composed of senior officials in the Ministry of Finance and
Comptroller General's Office. It is anticipated that the UNDP office in Guatemala would
assist the Government in project administration including the hiring and payment of
consultants and procurement of goods and services. This would reduce the administrative
burden on the project management unit and better ensure the continuity and quality of
services provided.
28.   A major task for the Executive Committee would be to ensure an adequate human
resource base for the integrated financial management project. Activities for the
government would entail the evaluation of existing staff capabilities, reassignment of
redundant staff, and recruitment of qualified personnel for the relevant financial units in
the Ministry of Finance and Comptroller General's Office and line ministries, and the
design and implementation of remuneration practices sufficient to attract and maintain
qualified staff in key units. Some flexibility in the hiring and remuneration of contracted
staff exists in the public sector and the Government has requested an IDF grant to finance
a diagnostic review of civil service policies and to strengthen human resource management
institutions.
29.   The sequencing of project activities is outlined in the attached matrix of project
indicators. Key project priorities and approximate timing, with appropriate variations for
each sub-system, include the following: (i) review of diagnosis and adjustment of project
details as necessary and agreed with the Bank within 6 months following recruitment of
key consultants; (ii) preparation of detailed sub-system procedures and manuals (budget
formulation, Manual of Accounts, Chart of Accounts, etc.) within 12 to 24 months; (iii)
initiation of sub-system reform implementation during the second year, as well as the



13
initiation of intensive staff training, (iv) creation of UDAFs in four pilot institutions by the
end of the second year and refinement of processes during third year; (v) installation of
information technology within core financial agencies and four pilot institution UDAFs
within 24 months; (vi) preparation of draft financial management legislation after the third
year; and (vii) expansion of reforms including UDAFs, training, and information
technology to remaining central government institutions between the third and fourth
years. This time frame has been extensively reviewed with senior and middle level officials
within the Government.
Procurement
30.   Contracts for goods (primarily computer equipment and software) shall be
packaged in lots valued at $100,000 equivalent or more and would be procured through
Limited International Bidding (LIB). LIB procedures are justified given the small number
of providers with after-delivery service in Guatemala. Goods estimated to cost less than
$100,000 and more than $25,000 would be procured through international shopping and
contracts below $25,000 equivalent for other goods and equipment would be procured
through local shopping, up to an estimated aggregate amount of $100,000 for all shopping
procedures. Standard Bank Bidding Documents would be used for LIB procedures.
Consultants, whose qualifications are satisfactory to the Bank, would be selected for
technical assistance and training services under the project in accordance with Bank
Guidelines and under terms of reference and employment conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. All Bank-financed consulting contracts estimated to cost more than $25,000 and all
LIB procurement documentation will be subject to prior review by the Bank, as well as
consulting contracts for critical assignments. These review arrangements would provide
for Bank review of approximately 90 percent of the value of all contracts financed by the
Bank. The Government would enter into a cost sharing arrangement with UNDP whereby
the UNDP field office will assist the Government in the hiring and paying of consultants
and the procurement of equipment in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Disbursements and Financing
31.   The project is expected to be implemented over a four year period. Disbursements
would be made as specified in Schedule B and would be administered by the Executive
Committee. All withdrawal applications would be fully documented, except for
expenditures under contracts for goods valued below $100,000 equivalent and consultant
contracts (both firms and individuals) valued at or below $25,000 equivalent. The
minimum amount of any withdrawal request should be $50,000 equivalent. Retroactive
financing up to $900,000, approximately 10 percent of the loan amount, would be
available for eligible expenditures, primarily consultant services, incurred after January 30,
1995. Annual audit reports would be produced, starting in December 1995, at the end of
each calendar year and submitted to the Bank within six months after year end. The
expected project completion date is June 30, 1999 and the Closing Date would be
December 31, 1999. An implementation completion report would be prepared by the
Government and submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the Closing Date.



14
Monitoring and Evaluation
32.   The Bank will supervise the implementation of the loan through frequent and
regular supervision missions, and at other times as needed or requested by the
Government, with a total annual IFML-related supervision input of approximately 15 staff
weeks. The Government has given assurances that: (i) it would provide the Bank with
semi-annual progress reports; (ii) annual reviews of project implementation would be
conducted jointly by the Government and the Bank no later than March 30 of each year
starting in 1996 including project performance against the matrix of key project activities
and implementation targets; (iii) a comprehensive mid-term review would take place no
later than June 30, 1997, replacing the annual review, in which the following, inter alia,
would be discussed additionally: (a) the new Administration's assessment and continued
commitment to the reform program; (b) overall progress of the reform program,
particularly the integration of separate component activities into a cohesive and
complementary set of actions; (c) institutional capacity to carry on project activities; and
(d) project redesign or corrective actions, as needed; and (iv) the government will
substantially achieve the implementation targets in Schedule 1. Terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank would be prepared by the government for the mid-term review.



Schedule 1
Guatemala
INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT LOAN
MATRIX OF KEY PROJECTS ACTIVITIES
Main Government Project Component Activities   Expected Output              Institutional Arrangements Timing/Targets
Objectives                                                                  Responsibilities
Reform of Public   Integrated Financial Manage-   New financial policies, regula- Ministry of Finance, Office of By End of 180 days:
Sector Financial    ment. Establishment of an inte-  tions and procedures pro-  the Comptroller General, and Review of diagnostic/technical
Management Sys-  grated financial management sys- posed.                    all participating institutions.  design and definition of system
tem               tem to improve govemment ef-                                                         complete.
fectiveness and ability to better
plan, administer, and control                                                       By End of 1260 days:
public resources.                                                                   Complete draft, secure Executive
Branch approval of proposed
financial management legislation
satisfactory to the Bank, and
submit to the Congress.
Create functioning Financial  UDAFs with qualified staff in   Ministry of Finance, Office of By End of 720 days:
Management Units in central    central government ministries  the Comptroller General, and Establish and develop UDAFs in
government institutions.      responsible for budget,     subsequently all participating  MOF and the three other pilot
accounting, cash manage-    institutions.             institutions.
ment, auditing and procure-
ment functions.
5/4/95                                                        Page 1



Schedule 1
Main Government Project Component Activities   Expected Output            Institutional Arrangements Timing/Targets
Objectives                                                                Responsibilities
Upgrade Budget formulation and Approved results-oriented  Ministry of Finance and  By End of 360 days:
execution capacity with empha-  budget process with reduced   subsequently all participating Develop and put into effect by
sis on development of a system   number of budget line items,  institutions.      MOF a complete designed and
of results-oriented multiyear  and multiyear presentation,in-                     approved performance indicator
budgets within macro spending   cluding public investment plan.                   catalogue and budget classifica-
targets.                                                                          tion chart.
By End of 540 days:
Complete design and approval
of Budget Formulation and
Execution manuals.
By End of 720 days:
Complete design and approval
of Budget Liquidation and Evalua-
tion specialized manuals.
By End of 1,080 days:
Complete design and approval
of specialized manuals for formu-
lation, execution, monitoring, and
evaluation of investment pro-
Igrams.
5/4/95                                                      Page 2



Schedule 1
Main Government Project Component Activities   Expected Output           Institutional Arrangements Timing/Targets
Objectives                                                               Responsibilities
Create modern Cash Manage-   Cash management system     Ministry of Finance and sub- By End of 360 days:
ment                         which manages cash assets   sequently all participating    Draft and put into effect by MOF
of the government through    institutions.          general accounting principles
structuring and monitoring of                       for preparation and reporting of
cash flows, receipt, and con-                       financial information.
trol of revenues, and the proc-
essing of disbursements.                            By End of 540 days:
Design and implement new Cash
Management Committee.
By End of 540 days:
Complete design and implement
at MOF and three pilot institu-
tions new procedures (i) to
monitor cash and treasury invest-
ments and (ii) for a single bank
account cash concentration
Imechanism.
5/4/95                                                      Page 3



Schedule 1
Main Government Project Component Activities   Expected Output               Institutional Arrangements  Timing/Targets
Objectives                                                                   Responsibilities
Upgrade Accounting System     Accounting system which     Ministry of Finance, Office    By End of 360 days:
classifies, records, and analy-  of the Comptroller General,  Design and approval of general
zes in a timely reliable, and    and subsequently all partici-  accounting principles by MOF.
standard manners all govern-  pating institutions.
ment financial transactions.
By End of 360 days:
Prepare chart of the accounts
and put into effect throughout
the non-financial public sector.
By End of 540 days:
Complete design and put into
effect specific charts of accounts
in pilot institutions.
By End of 720 days:
Prepare and put into effect a
government accounting manual
by MOF and other pilot institu-
tions.
514/95                                                         Page 4



Schedule I
Main Government Project Component Activities   Expected Output            Institutional Arrangements Timing/Targets
Objectives                                                                Responsibilities
Upgrade the Debt Management  Modem debt management    Ministry of Finance         By End of 180 days:
system                       system which manages the                             Establish the High-Level
acquisition, servicing, and re-                      commission.
tirement of public debt.
By End of 540 days:
Establish the Debt Commission
and new procedural manual on
public debt.
5/4/95                                                      Page 5



Schedule I
Main Government Project Component Activities   Expected Output              Institutional Arrangements Timing/Targets
Objectives                                                                  Responsibilities
Upgrade the Audit system      Modern, comprehensive, inde- Office of the Comptroller  By End of 720 days:
pendent audit system which    General, Ministry of Finance, Draft and approve new standards,
ensures fair, objective, reliable and subsequently all partici-  procedures and manuals for
reviews of govemment per-   pating institutions.      audits and internal control, for
formance. Internal Audit Units                        audit plan preparation, execution
functioning in all central gov-                       and follow-up. Including external
emment institutions.                                  audit by CG and intemal audit
unit.
By End of 900 days:
Create new intemal audit units
in four pilot institutions.
By End of 1080 days:
Draft and submit to Congress a
bill goveming all aspects of
auditing in the public sector.
By End of 1440 days:
Draft and enact norms and tech-
nical guidelines for use of
private firms to perform external
and internal government audits
and special types of audits.
5/4/95                                                        Page 6



Schedule I
Main Government Project Component Activities   Expected Output               Institutional Arrangements  Timing/Targets
Objectives                                                                   Responsibilities
Upgrade the Procurement sys-   Modern procurement system    Ministry of Finance and all   By End of 180 days:
tem                           which would procure goods    participating institutions.  Redesign current catalogue of
and services a transparent                             goods and services.
decentralized,and timely man-
ner with appropriate regard to                         By End of 180 days:
price competition, quality con-                        Reform the system of open
trol, and administrative ex-                           contract and create a new Sup-
pense.                                                 pliers Registry Unit, which is
transparent and open to compe-
tition.
By End of 360 days:
Strength the Directorate of Pro-
curement within MOF and de-
velop guidelines, regulations and
procedures for use by all con-
tracting units.
By End of 540 days:
Establish a central information
system to monitor public sector
purchases.
By End of 1080 days:
Submit to Congress a bill gover-
ning all aspects of procurement
by public entities.
5/4/95                                                        Page 7



Schedule 1
Main Government Project Component Activities   Expected Output             Institutional Arrangements Timing/Targets
Objectives                                                                 Responsibilities
Modernize Information Tech-   A modem,mini/microcomputer Ministry of Finance, Office of By End of 360 days:
nology system: Assist Govern-  based open technology     the Comptroller General, and Design and implementation of
ment design, install, and operate  network supporting an integra- all participating institutions.  institutional organizationalUstaff
within the MOF, Office of the    ted financial management sys-                     restructuring plans in MOF's In-
Comptroller General and all    tem.                                                formation Technology Directorate
participating central govemment                                                    to serve as rector institution with
institutions an integrated com-                                                    regard to technology policies.
puter financial management sys-
tem.                                                                               By End of 360:
Complete assessment of exist-
ing computer technology in all
institutions; complete design of
conversion plan to open mini/
microcomputer based integrated
system.
By End of 540 days:
Complete bidding documents for
purchase of hardware and soft-
ware and selection of lowest
evaluated bidders.
By End of 180 days counted from
the day of signing contract with
lower evaluated bidder(s):
Acquisition and utilization of
hardware, acquisition or devel-
opment, or both, of adequate
software and installation of an
integrated information technology
system in MOF and the other
three pilot institutions.
5/4/95                                                       Page 8



Schedule I
Main Government Project Component Activities   Expected Output              Institutional Arrangements Timing/Targets
Objectives                                                                  Responsibilities
Training up to 4,000 people in   For the Ministry of Finance,    Ministry of Finance, Office   By End of 180 days for basic
financial management.         Office of the Comptroller Gen- of the Comptroller General,  training modules and 360 days
eral, a significant cohort of    and participating institutions. for advanced training modules.
senior and middle managers                            Ongoing thereafter. Design and
and technicians adequately                            develop basic and advanced
trained in IFM concepts and                           training modules in budget,
procedures. Trained staff in                          accounting, cash management,
newly constituted UDAFs in                            auditing, debt management and
each participating institution.                       procurement.
By End of 270 days for basic
training modules and in 450 days
for advanced training modules.
Ongoing thereafter. Design and
implement of initial training pro-
gram focused on a core of se-
lected financial management
public sector staff, with potential
to become trainers.
By End of 270 days for basic
training modules and in 450 days
for advanced training modules:
Design and initiation of training
programs in the pilot institutions.
5/4/95                                                        Page 9



Schedule 1 (b)
GUATEMALA: INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM
COMPONENT AND COMPLETION DATE
Part A: Financial Management Reform
L     Review of diagnostic and design details of each sub-system, including definition of
new rules, standards and procedures, institutional/staffing requirements at the MOF and
other three pilot institutions, organization requirements for administration at the UDAF
level, and applicable information technology specifications (hardware/software/
communications) to enable performance of the functions of each subsystem, and its
integration with the others. 180 days.
IL    UDAFs will be immediately established and developed and they would be
gradually equipped and staffed so as to be ready to full operation within 720 days, in MOF
and the three other pilot institutions.
Im.   Preparation and submission to Congress the bill referred to in the introductory
paragraph to Part A of the Project. 1260 days.
(1)   Budgeting
(a)   Development and putting into effect by the MOF, for uniform application
throughout the public sector, a significantly reduced and simplified budget classification
chart and the performance indicator catalogue referred to in Part A (1) (b) of the Project.
The chart and catalogue will incorporate standards and measuring units. The exercise will
put emphasis on budgetary allocation for purpose of public investment. 360 days.
(b)   Preparation and distribution under Part A (1) (a) of the Project of: (i) a budget
formulation manual which will incorporate the new indicators and measuring units and the
new budget classification chart, referred in (a) above, respectively, budget principles,
norms and procedures, and standard budget document forms, and which will serve, as
needed, as the uniform model for the development of institutional budget manuals
throughout the non-financial public sector, and (ii) a budget execution manual which will
serve, as needed, as the uniform model for the development of institutional budget
execution manuals throughout the non-financial public sector, incorporating the execution
guidelines, and setting relevant standards and monitoring procedures. 540 days.
(c)   Preparation and distribution under Part A (1) (a) of a budget liquidation and
evaluation manual, which will incorporate, for application throughout the public sector,



2
principles, standards and norms for budget liquidation at the end of each fiscal year, and
for the results-oriented evaluation of budget execution performance. 720 days.
(d)   Preparing and putting into effect specialized manuals for the formulation,
execution, monitoring and evaluation of investment programs, incorporating relevant
budget standards and procedures with the purpose of reinforcing the formulation of the
central and institutional budgets throughout the non-financial public sector. 1080 days.
(2)   Accounting
(a)    Drafting and putting into effect by MOF, under Part A (2) (a) of the Project, of
general accounting principles for the preparation and reporting of financial information,
applicable to all non-financial public sector entities. 360 days.
(b)   Preparation of the chart of accounts referred to in Part A (2) (b) of the Project and
putting it into effect throughout the non-financial public sector. 360 days.
(c)    Preparing and putting into effect by MOF (as the rector entity) and three other
pilot institutions, of their respective specific catalogue of accounts, based on the new chart
of accounts referred to in (b) above. 540 days.
(d)   Preparing and putting into effect by MOF and three other pilot institutions a
government accounting manual, which will serve as the model for the development of
institutional accounting manuals throughout the non-financial public sector. 720 days
(3)   Cash Management
(a)    Design and putting into effect cash management operating rules, standards and
methods referred to in Part A (3) (a) of the Project. 180 days.
(b)   Establishment of the cash management committee, referred to in Part A (3) (b) of
the Project. The Committee will be chaired by the Ministry of Finance at the Vice-
Minister level, and will incorporate no less than, the National Treasurer (who will be in
charge of the technical secretariat of the committee) and two senior officials from the
revenues and expenditures areas of the Ministry of Finance. 540 days.
(c)    Design and putting into effect at MOF and other three pilot institutions of: (i) the
cash flow analysis and forecast referred to in Part A (3) (c) of the Project, including
standards, methods, procedures, manuals, and organization/staffing structure to monitor
existing cash and treasury investments, to forecast short, medium and long term revenues
and expenditures, and to develop cash flow simulations, strategies and recommendations,
in support of the Cash Management Committee's policies and decisions, and (ii) standards,
methods, procedures, manuals, and organization/staffing structures for a "single bank
account" cash concentration mechanism (see Part A (3) (d) of the Project), which
effectively controls throughout the non-financial public sector the opening, management,



3
and reconciliation of bank accounts, cash balances, cash receipts and cash expenditures,
and that fully supports the implementation of UDAF-based decentralization of financial
management in the public sector. 540 days.
(4)    Debt Management
(a)    Establishment of a high-level commission referred to in Part A (4) (a) of the
Project and formulation of new policies for contracting public debt. 180 days.
(b)   (i) Establishment of: the structure referred to in Part A (4) (b) of the Project
which will be, inter alia, responsible for follow-up of debt or grant-funded investment
projects, debt or grant negotiations, management of trusts, if any, and reinforcement of
the debt management and debt analysis capabilities of the current MOF's Directorate of
External Finance; and (ii) putting into effect general methods and procedures which will
followed by each public sector borrower and grant trust fund recipient (including cases
where the funds are borrowed or otherwise recieved through the government ) (a) prior
entering into contracts for borrowing or otherwise recieving resources, (b) during
execution of the projects or programs for which resources are being provided; and (c) to
manage their respective public debt liabilities. 540 days.
(5)    Auditing
(a)    Drafting and putting into effect under Part A (5) (b) (c) and (e) of the Project
norms, standards, and procedures and manuals for audits and internal controls by public
sector institutions, for annual audit plan preparation and execution, and for audit follow-
up, separately covering external audit by Comptroller General's office and internal audit
units. 720 days.
(b)    Completion of: Part A (5) (a) of the Project in a fashion that will accommodate the
new audit system's requirements, by means of putting into effect the pertinent manuals
which will incorporate the new external and internal, as the case may be, audit principles
and standards set forth pursuant to (a) above, and which will include procedures and audit
documents forms for the preparation of annual external and intemal, as applicable, audit
plans, and for the performance and follow up of audits. The internal audit manual will
serve, as needed, as the uniform model for the development of institutional internal audit
manuals throughout the public sector. 720 days in parallel with (a) above.
(c)    Creation of institutional internal audit units in the four pilot institutions. 900 days.
(d)   Draft and submit to Congress the bill referred to in Part A (5) (g) of the Project.
1080 days.
(e)    Drafting and enactment of norms and technical guidelines for the use of private
audit firms for the performance of external and internal government audits, and for the
performance of special types of audits, such as financial statements audits, operating



4
performance audits, investment projects audits, service delivery audits, information
technology audits, natural resource management audits, etc., as may be needed and
prioritized over time. 720 days, counted from the completion of (a) above.
(6)   Procurement
(a)   Redesign of the current catalogue of frequently procured goods and services. 180
days.
(b)   Completion of Parts A (6) (e) and (f) of the Project. 180 days.
(c)   Completion of Part A (6) (a), (b) and (g) of the Project, including the organization
manual of the directorate to be established under Part A (6) (a) of the Project, and, a
model procurement manual for government agencies. 360 days.
(d)   Completion of Part A (6) (d) of the Project. 540 days.
(e)    Submission to Congress of the bill referred to in Part A (6) (h) of the Project.
1080 days.
Part B:  Information Technology System
(a)   Completion of Part B (1) of the Project, including design and implementation of
institutional organization/staff restructuring plans in information technology to achieve
long term sustainability for the SIAF/SAG information technology components. 360 days.
(b)   Completion of Part B (2) of the Project, including the design of the plan referred
to therein that will include the definition of global software features, internal logic, design
diagrams, internal parameters, development tools, user interfaces, retrieval tools,
integration of applications, bidding documentation, hardware requirements,
communication links and all other basic system features. General application design must
cover the core accounting, budget and cash management and audit subsystems, and
supporting debt management and procurement subsystems. 360 days.
(c)   Issuance of invitations to bid and selection of lowest evaluated bid(s) under Part B
(3) of the Project for the acquisition/installation of the information technology equipment
for the project (hardware/software/communications). 540 days.
(d)   Completion of Part B (3) of the Project, including detailed design and development
of the SIAF/SAG, installation, documentation, testing and operating start-up, of integrated
applications. 180 days counted from day of signing of contract with lowest evaluated
bidder(s).



5
Part C: Training in support of adequate utilization of the sub-systems under Part
A, and the sub-systems under Part B.
(a)   Design and development of basic and advanced training modules in connection
with all sub-systems. 180 days for basic training modules and 360 days for advanced
project-specific training modules. Ongoing development thereafter, for updates, upgrades
of modules and new specialized modules.
(b)   Design and implementation of an intensive initial training program for the delivery
of training modules, which program will be focused on a core of selected financial
management public sector staff, with potential to become trainers. To be completed in
270 days for basic training modules and in 450 days for advanced training modules.
Ongoing basis thereafter.
(c)   Design and initiation of the basic and advanced training programs at the four pilot
institutions. To be completed in 270 days for the basic training modules and 450 days for
advance training modules, in parallel with (b) above.
Future Project Expansion
The Project activities would be expanded to public sector entities other than the
pilot ones, if so agreed from time to time between the Borrower and the Bank, in light of
availability of remaining resources, goals and objectives achieved, lessons learned and
degree of success in implementation by pilot institutions, and achievement of the
respective priorities. The corresponding agreement for each expansion shall be
instrumented by accordingly amending this implementation Program.



Schedule 2
Training Plan and Budget
Guatemala Integrated Financial Management Loan
1.    Training would constitute an important part of the Government's Financial
Management Reform program as the availability of senior and middle managers and
technicians knowledgeable about and supportive of the policies, standards, and procedures
being developed under the program is critical to its success and sustainability.
2.    Training under the SIAF/SAG project will be directly tied to the project's specific
objectives and products (standards, manuals, organizational changes, etc.). Training
schedules will be coordinated with the timing of the project products such as the
completion and adoption of a manual, budget formulation and accounting deadlines,
implementation of a new organization scheme, etc.
3.    The candidates for training would be the senior and middle managers, and
technicians from the core financial agencies (for example the entire staff of the
Directorates of the Budget, Accounting, Treasury, etc. in the Ministry of Finance and the
auditors in the Comptroller General's Office) as well as the staff of the Financial
Management Units (UDAFs) and Internal Audit Units to be established in the line
institutions. It is anticipated that during the project period up to 4,000 individuals could
be trained.
4.    Since training activities should not be overly disruptive of the government units'
work schedules, it is anticipated that training modules would be kept relatively short, with
a maximum duration of 20 to 40 hours for broader issues, and 8 to 20 hours for more
specific issues. Half-day instruction units will give flexibility to module-delivery and will
help minimize disruptions. Training modules will have an evaluation component, thus
instructors must develop the necessary test material. Certificates or diplomas will be
extended only to those passing courses. Participation and approval information will be
communicated to supervisors and registered in personnel records. Statistics will be
maintained on the training program in order to explain progress achieved. Qualitative and
quantitative performance indicators for the training will also be developed at the beginning
of the program.
5.    Training would be provided by the sub-system consultants working in the project.
For example the internationally experienced consultant hired under a long term contract to
provide technical assistance in the reform of the budget sub-system would give the courses
related to the proposed budget system, the drafted and approved Budget Formulation
Manual, and the drafted and approved Budget Execution manual. Pedagogic experience
would be a criterion for selection of the long term consultants. Between the 12th and 24th
month of the project each international consultant may have to dedicate as much as 25



percent of their time to training activities, as standards, manuals, and systems are officially
adopted.
6.    At the beginning of the project, the intemational technical director jointly with the
national director will identify individuals within the public sector with the qualifications
and ability to become trainers under the project. Trainers currently working at
government training centers will be preferentially considered in order to reduce selection
time and scope. Arrangements will be made to have selected individuals assigned as
national counterpart staff for the duration of the project. They will initially assist the
international consultants in the planning of training activities and in the design and delivery
of first-stage project seminars, becoming full trainers thereafter. Instructor manuals will
be prepared to facilitate the training of trainers on a continuous basis in the public sector.
The project directors will also make arrangements with local universities to provide
project training to faculty members, pursuing multiplier effects, promoting project
research, and assisting in thesis work to identify potential candidates for trainer positions
as the project spreads to participating institutions. This type of approach to the training of
local trainers has been successfully pursued in similar projects. In time once local staff can
assume more responsibility for training, the international consultants would concentrate
more on specialized on-the-job and problem-solving training.
7.    Courses to be presented, based on the experience of other countries implementing
similar projects, could include the following:
Accounting
- Principles and standards for the preparation and submission of financial information
- Conceptual principles of the government accounting system
- Analysis of the Chart of Accounts
- Government Accounting
- Accounting consolidation and integration
Budget
* Introduction to the national budget system
* Budget formulation and programming
* Budget execution
Cash Management
* Introduction to the national treasury system
* Cash management and cash flow techniques
Debt Management
* Introduction to the external and internal public debt system



* Public debt instruments and techniques
Audit
*  General concepts and evaluation of internal controls
*  Audit Standards - (series of modules on annual internal audit plan, the audit report,
internal audit work papers, evaluation of internal controls
*  Financial, performance, and fraud audits
*  Supervision of the audit function
* Government external audit
8.    Training in information technology will be delivered in part by the suppliers of the
hardware. In addition, large-scale government-wide training of analysts and programmers
will also be required, as will training for end-users on the use of the new tools and
systems.
9.    Most training would be provided in the training facilities of the Ministry of
Finance, which appear adequate to the task in terms of convenience, space, equipment,
and organization capacity. Although some $400,000 is included in the Bank loan to help
meet the costs of training (reproduction of documents such as manuals, and limited
observational travel), the Government will meet the bulk of training costs (printing and
photocopying, equipment and premises) out of its counterpart funds. In addition, the
training center in the Ministry of Finance would seek to support the training delivery of
the individual consultants, help identify national staff capable of continuing the training
efforts, and help in the design and production of training material. Training modules will
be supported as necessary by multi-media didactic material, including printed manuals,
exercises and tests, slide and overhead projections, computer aids, etc. The instructors
themselves will be in charge of the development of such didactic material. Auditing
courses may be presented at the Office of the Comptroller General.
10.   Finally, it is anticipated that the project must insert itself into the community and
work closely with professional and trade associations related to SIAF/SAG areas and with
Guatemala's economic/financial press. General presentation on the project's progress
should be prepared and maintained updated for this purpose. Also, specific training
modules could be occasionally imparted to these organizations. The project should also
work with the country's major universities, working closely with administration and
faculty to influence the upgrading and updating of study plans as project benchmarks
occur and products are delivered and adopted. Training modules imparted to faculty
members have and important multiplier effect on the student population and thus are
particularly cost-effective.












