Page  1
                                                               CONFORMED COPY
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3895-GU
                               Loan Agreement
                  (Integrated Financial Management Project)
                                   between
                            REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated January 22, 1996
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3895-GU
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated January 22, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF
GUATEMALA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
       WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
       WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
       (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
       (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
             "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
             agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
             of expenditures in the territories of any country
             which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
             produced in, or services supplied from, such
             territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
             to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
             if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
             Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
             Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
             the Charter of the United Nations."
       (c)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
             "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
             under which any further withdrawals under the Loan
             would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article
             III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
       (a)   "Acuerdo Gubernativo" means the instrument to be
issued by the Borrower's President pursuant to Section 6.01(a)
of this Agreement establishing the terms of reference for SIAF
(as the term is defined below) and stipulating the functions,
powers and responsibilities of MOF (as the term is defined
below) with respect to SIAF;
       (b)   "Administrative Agreement" means the contractual
arrangements dated April 6, 1995 entered into between MOF and
the Office (as both terms are defined below) which stipulates
the terms under which MOF and the Office have agreed to a close
cooperation for purposes of the carrying out of SAG, SIAF (as
both terms are defined below), and the Project, including the
terms and conditions for participation by the Office in the
Executive Committee and in the Technical Committee (as both
terms are defined below);
       (c)   "Executive Committee"  means the executive committee
to be provided for under Acuerdo Gubernativo;
       (d)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Finance;
       (e)   "Office" means the Office of the Borrower's
Comptroller General established pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter III of Title V of the Borrower's constitution, whose
cooperation with MOF under the Project has been provided for
under the Administrative Agreement and pursuant to the
stipulations of the Office Acuerdo (as the term is defined
below);
       (f)   "Office Acuerdo" means the Acuerdo No. A-10/95 issued
by the Office on April 6, 1995 establishing the terms of
reference for SAG (as the term is defined below);
       (g)   "SAG" means the Borrower's Sistema de Auditoria
Gubernamental (Government Auditing System), as provided for
under the Office Acuerdo;
       (h)   "SIAF" means the Borrower's Sistema Integrado de
Administracion Financiera (Integrated System of Financial
Management), as provided for under the Acuerdo Gubernativo;
       (i)   "Technical Committee" means the technical committee
provided for in Acuerdo Gubernativo; and
Page  3
       (j)   "UDAF" means each financial management unit to be
established in each of MOF, the Office, the Borrower's
Ministries of Health and Education and such other Borrower's
public sectors institutions as agreed from time to time between
the Borrower and the Bank.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
       Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of nine million four hundred
thousand dollars ($9,400,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
       Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
       Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
       Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
       (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
       (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
             (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                   in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                   to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                   loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                   1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.
Page  4
           (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
       (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
             "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
       amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
       time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
       Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
       preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
       1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
       this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
       the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
       Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during
       such Interest Period."
             "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
       Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
       Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
       Quarter."
             "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
       commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
       a calendar year."
       Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
       Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
other than Part A.5 thereof through MOF and Part A.5 of the
Project through the Office, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
       (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the implementation program set forth in the
supplemental letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date
herewith.
       (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree.  The Borrower shall not, until a date
six months after the Closing Date, change the Administrative
Agreement, or waive or fail to enforce any provision thereof.
       Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
       Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
       (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Page  5
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
future operation of the SIAF and the SAG;
       (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
       (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
       Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, for purposes of the
carrying out the Project, acting jointly through MOF and the
Office: (a) enter, with a legal entity acceptable to the Bank,
into an agreement under which the entity in question will
assist the Borrower in procuring goods and services under the
Project and in managing the services so procured, all on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) exercise all
its rights under such agreement and refrain from terminating
such agreement or from changing or failing to enforce or
waiving any provision thereof.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
       (b)   The Borrower shall:
                 (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                       paragraph (a) of this Section for each
                       fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                       appropriate auditing principles consistently
                       applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                       to the Bank;
                (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
                       but in any case not later than six months
                       after the end of each such year, the report
                       of such audit by said auditors, of such
                       scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                       have reasonably requested; and
               (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                       concerning said records and accounts and the
                       audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                       time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
                 (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                       accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                       Section, records and accounts reflecting
                       such expenditures;
                (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                       Bank has received the audit report for the
                       fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                       from the Loan Account was made, all records
                       (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                       receipts and other documents) evidencing
                       such expenditures;
Page  6
               (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                       such records; and
                (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                       included in the annual audit referred to in
                       paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                       report of such audit contains a separate
                       opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                       statements of expenditure submitted during
                       such fiscal year, together with the
                       procedures and internal controls involved in
                       their preparation, can be relied upon to
                       support the related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified,
namely, that the Acuerdo Gubernativo  or the Office Acuerdo
shall have been abrogated, repealed or terminated, or changed
in a manner which, in the opinion of the Bank, would have an
adverse and material effect on the carrying out of the Project.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified,
namely that any of the events specified in Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   the Acuerdo Gubernativo has been issued in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank;
    (b)   the agreement stipulated under Section 3.04 of this
Agreement, has been executed and delivered in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
    (c)   the staffing requirements for the Executive Committee
have been fulfilled in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
    Section 6.02. The date of April 23, 1996 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Borrower's Minister of Finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Finanzas Publicas
          8a. Avenida y 21 Calle
Page  7
          Centro Civico
          Zona, 1, Guatemala
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                MINFIP                   9207 MINFIP GU
                Guatemala, Guatemala
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                197688 (TRT),
                Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA),
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                          82987 (FTCC)]
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
                       By /s/ Alfonso Quinonez Lemus
                                         Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Edilberto L. Segura
                                      Acting Regional Vice President
                                     Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated                  % of
                              (Expressed in               Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)           to be Financed
(1)  Consultant Services         3,700,000              100%
(2)  Goods                       4,000,000              100% of foreign
                                                        expenditures and
                                                        85% of local
Page  8
                                                        expenditures
(3)  Training                      400,000              100% of foreign
                                                        expenditures and
                                                        85% of local
                                                        expenditures
(4)  Project Management            500,000              100%
(5)  Unallocated                   800,000
        TOTAL                    9,400,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
    (c)   (i) the term "Training" means training facilities under
the Project, including audiovisual equipment, training of staff
of UDAFs and of trainers, and travel abroad by selected
trainees; and (ii) the term  "Project Management" means support
staff for the Executive Committee and fees payable to the
entity referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement pursuant
to the provisions of the agreement to be entered into in
accordance with the stipulations of such Section.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $ 900,000, may be made in respect of any Category
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after January 31, 1995.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent,
and for services under contracts not exceeding $25,000
equivalent to the extent such contracts are not subject to
prior review pursuant to the provisions of the second paragraph
of point 2 of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, all
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are: (1) to improve the
efficiency, accountability and transparency of the financial
management functions of the Borrower's public sector through
implementation of the SIAF and SAG; and (2) to improve the
delivery of public services by supporting the decentralization
to each respective Borrower's Ministry of primary
responsibility for management of their corresponding financial
resources, both with the overall goal of strengthening the
financial management capability of the Borrower's government
and to help restore public confidence in the public sector
integrity and competence.
    The project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  9
Part A:      Financial Management Reform
       Production of government financial management subsystems
in six key areas as mentioned below, all to be done with the
help of technical assistance services to be hired for that
purpose.  An attempt shall be made to consolidate the normative
basis for each of the subsystems and their integration (other
than in the cases of Parts A, 4 (e), 5 (h) and 6 (g) of the
Project) by submitting a bill for that purpose to the
Borrower's legislative branch, upon or shortly before
completion of the Project.
1.     Budgeting: (a) preparation and implementation of budget
formulation, execution, liquidation and evaluation manuals; (b)
preparation of a performance indicator catalogue with emphasis
on investment and service delivery programs; (c) design and
implementation of a new multi-year budget document format which
shall include justifications for spending; (d) design and
implementation of measures adequate to conform to the
corresponding national budget the annual operating and/or
investment plans prepared by the Borrower's ministries jointly
with the Borrower's National Planning Secretariat (Secretaria
General del Consejo Nacional de Planificacion Economica); (e)
design and implementation of new budget/accounting
classifications and budget execution units in a number
significantly reduced from the current ones; (f) establishment
of clear operating linkages between MOF's Directorate of Budget
and each UDAF; and (g) design and implementation of measures
adequate to result in an active participation by the UDAFs in
the formulation of the budget of the corresponding Borrower's
ministry and of the Office.
2.     Accounting: (a) preparation and implementation of new
regulations for government-wide accounting, including a uniform
manual for said implementation which, inter-alia, will set
forth new technical standards based on generally accepted
accounting principles; (b) design and implementation of a new
chart of accounts which is simple, clear and flexible; (c)
implementation of a plan of actions which will result in
closing the accounts on government's financial performance in
a timely manner upon the end of the corresponding fiscal year;
and (d) preparation and implementation of measures adequate to
ensure proper and uniform accounting treatment of arrears in
payments due by public sector entities.
3.     Cash Management:  (a) preparation and implementation of
more transparent and simple rules for the processing of payment
orders within the Borrower's public sector; (b) establishment
within MOF of a cash management committee under terms of
reference which shall ensure transparent and predictable
membership,  rules and procedures; (c) development of a  cash
flow forecasting system which could facilitate budget
execution; (d) implementation of a single bank account
mechanism so as to enable MOF's treasury to strengthen its
control over revenues and expenditures; and (e) establishment
of a UDAF-based system of payment authorizations for entities
within the Borrower's public sector required to execute
payments, which system shall substitute for the current system
of purchase and payment orders processed by MOF.
4.     Debt management: (a) establishment of a national
commission on public credit comprised of high level
representatives of MOF (chairperson) and the Borrower's Banco
de Guatemala and National Planning Secretariat; (b)
establishment of an appropriate structure within MOF with
responsibility for, inter alia, implementing the policies
formulated by the aforesaid Commission, and which shall operate
under terms of reference and adequately staffed; (c)
establishment of a rolling multi-year debt plan; (d)
establishment of a debt management information system; and (e)
submission to the Borrower's legislative branch of a bill
Page  10
enabling the Borrower's executive branch to contract or
guarantee external public debt, including debt with
multilateral financial institutions of which Guatemala is a
member under a mechanism which shall not require specific
approval of every operation to the extent the executive branch
shall have not exceeded reasonable limits pre-established by
the legislative branch within its powers under the Borrower's
constitution.
5.     Auditing: (a) Restructuring of the functioning and
administrative rules of the Office; (b) design and
implementation of technical standards for audits for use by the
Office and the internal audit units of the public sector
institutions, including standards for responding to audit
report recommendations and qualifications; (c) preparation and
implementation of a manual for use in audits of records and
accounts of all non-banking public institutions which are not
subject to auditing rules governing legal entities operating
under commercial or civil laws; (d) preparation and
implementation of a plan for subjecting to appropriate
professional standards the governmental auditorsþactivities;
(e) putting into effect an annual plan comprising of all audits
expected to be performed in the year in question; (f) design
and implementation of regulations to utilize private auditing
firms to audit accounts and records pertaining to the aforesaid
non-banking public institutions; (g) preparation and submission
to the Borrower's legislative branch of a bill governing all
aspects of auditing in the public sector; and (h) strengthening
of the existing Office auditing school.
6.     Procurement: (a) strengthening of the directorate of
procurement within MOF to serve as the rector institution to
develop procurement guidelines and monitor their
implementation; (b) establishment of transparent procurement
regulations and procedures for use in all procurement by public
sector entities; (c) establishment in each of the Borrowerþs
public sector institutions of a unit responsible for overseeing
procurement within the institution in question and for the
development of annual procurement plans for such ministry which
plans will be used in the formulation process of the
corresponding annual national budget; (d) establishment of a
central information mechanism to report on government
purchases; (e) establishment of a new suppliers registry with
fair and transparent rules for registration therein which shall
ensure open competition; (f) reform within the powers of the
Borrowerþs executive branch of the current mechanisms for open
contracts (contratos abiertos) to enhance price competition and
quality control; and (g) preparation and submission to the
Borrower's legislative branch of a bill governing all aspects
of procurement by public sector entities, which bill will
follow the principles of economy and efficiency in procurement
of goods, works and services and which will be consistent with
the procurement guidelines and policies of the international
financial institutions which provide funds for the Borrowers
development, including those of which the Borrower is a member.
Part B:   Information Systems Development
       Putting in place a modern, mini/microcomputer based, open
information technology network supporting the integrated
financial management subsystems to be carried out under Part A
of the Project.  Such network shall, among other things,
provide data to a principal government-wide financial data base
and will be made gradually available to all public sector
institutions.  This part of the Project shall include:
1.     Transformation of MOF's Information Technology (Direccion
Tecnica de Informatica) into the rector institution for the
Borrower's public sector with regard  to policies and protocols
for information technology.
2.     Assessment of the computer technology currently available
Page  11
in the Borrower's public sector institutions and, on the basis
of such assessment, design of a plan to convert the existing
technology into the aforesaid technology network.
3.     Pursuant to the plan under (2) above, acquisition and
utilization of hardware, acquisition or development, or both,
of adequate software, and installation of an integrated
information technology system for financial management in MOF,
the Office and the Borrower's Ministry of Health and Education
and, subsequently, in other participating public sector
institutions as determined from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank.
Part C:   Training in support of the adequate utilization of the
          subsystems under Part A and the systems under Part B.
1.     Execution of a program of short but intense and formal
courses with certificates of advancement, aimed at all
technical, middle management and senior level officers involved
in financial management aspects in MOF, the Office, and the
Borrower's Ministries of Health and Education and other forms
of intensive training specially targeted to staff of the UDAFs.
The courses will be conducted in the training center of MOF
and, if so agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, could be
expanded to other participating public sector institutions as
determined from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Bank.
2.     Development of national training capacity, both within MOF
and with professional organizations and universities in
Guatemala.
3.     A program of very limited visits to observe and analyze
financial management systems in operation in other Latin
American countries.
                                    * * *
       The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                                  SCHEDULE 3
                            Amortization Schedule
                                               Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)
February 15, 2001                                     180,000
August 15, 2001                                       185,000
February 15, 2002                                     195,000
August 15, 2002                                       200,000
February 15, 2003                                     210,000
August 15, 2003                                       215,000
February 15, 2004                                     225,000
August 15, 2004                                       230,000
February 15, 2005                                     240,000
August 15, 2005                                       245,000
February 15, 2006                                     255,000
August 15, 2006                                       265,000
February 15, 2007                                     275,000
August 15, 2007                                       285,000
February 15, 2008                                     295,000
August 15, 2008                                       305,000
February 15, 2009                                     315,000
August 15, 2009                                       325,000
February 15, 2010                                     340,000
August 15, 2010                                       350,000
February 15, 2011                                     365,000
August 15, 2011                                       375,000
February 15, 2012                                     390,000
August 15, 2012                                       405,000
February 15, 2013                                     415,000
Page  12
August 15, 2013                                       430,000
February 15, 2014                                     445,000
August 15, 2014                                       465,000
February 15, 2015                                     480,000
August 15, 2015                                       495,000
___________________
*      The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
       determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
       General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                           Premiums on Prepayment
       Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for
the applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                                Premium
                                            The interest rate (expressed
                                            as a percentage per annum)
                                            applicable to the Loan on the
                                            day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                                  0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                                  0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                                    0.55
    not more than eleven years
    before maturity
More than eleven years but not                             0.80
    more than sixteen years
    before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                            0.90
    more than eighteen years
    before maturity
More than eighteen years before                            1.00
    maturity
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods
Part A:     General
    Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the
Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:         Procurement  Procedures
1.  Limited International Bidding
    Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more per
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.  For
this purpose, the Borrower shall, to the extent possible,
package goods in lots estimated to cost $100,000 or more.
2.   International or National Shopping
Page  13
    Goods estimated to cost, per contract: (a) less than
$100,000  equivalent but more than $25,000 equivalent; and (b)
$25,000  equivalent or less, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of international and national shopping
procedures, respectively, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  Contracts awarded
under these procedures shall not exceed the equivalent of
$100,000 in the aggregate.
Part C:     Review of the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Procurement Planning
    Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.  Prior Review
    With respect to each contract to be awarded under Part B.1
of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
3 of the Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.  Post Review
    With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  Consultant services shall be procured in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms or for the employment of
individuals, estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of
a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; or (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants or consulting firms raising the contract value to
$25,000 equivalent or above.
