Page  1
March 18, 1998
His Excellency 
José Alejandro Arévalo Alburez 
Minister of Finance 
8a Avenida y 21 Calle 
Zona 1 
Guatemala, Guatemala
Re: GUATEMALA (Integrated Financial Management Project)
Loan No. 3895 GU
Amendment to the Loan Agreement and Supplemental Letter
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated January 22, 1996 entered into between 
the Republic of Guatemala (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank), as amended and the Supplemental Letter also dated January 
22, 1996 from the Borrower to the Bank.
In response to the Borrower’s request to reduce the scope of the Project 
objectives, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement and the Supplemental 
Letter as follows:
I. Loan 
Agreement:
1.
Section 1.02 is hereby amended by : (a) replacing the term 
“Administrative Agreement” defined in Section 1.02 (b) and mentioned in paragraphs (e) 
and (c) of Sections 1.02 and 3.01 for the term “Administrative Arrangement”; (b) 
replacing the terms “Office” and “Office Acuerdo” defined in Sections 1.02 (e) and (f) 
and mentioned in paragraph (j) of such Section and in Sections 3.04 and 5.01 and Parts 
A.1 (g), A.5 (a) and (g), B.2 and C.1 of the Project, as the case may be, for the 
terms “Comptroller’s Office” and “Comptroller’s Office Acuerdo”; (c) deleting the word 
“and” and the “period” at the end of paragraphs (i) and (j), respectively and 
replacing such “period” with a “semicolon”;  and (d) adding the terms “Borrower’s 
Ministries”, “NFI” and “Supplemental Letter” which shall read as follows:
“(k) ‘Borrower’s Ministries’ means the ministries  listed in an 
annex to the Supplemental Letter; 
(l) ‘NFI’ means the Borrower’s institutions listed in an annex to 
the Supplemental Letter; and
(m) ‘Supplemental Letter’ means the letter from the Borrower to 
the Bank of even date herewith setting forth: (i) the 
implementation program referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(ii) the Borrower’s Ministries referred to in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement; 
and (iii) the list of NFIs, as such letter 
may be amended from time to time 
with the agreement of the Bank.”.  
2.
Section 2.03 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,1999 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish.”.
3.
Section 3.01 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 3.01 (a). The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, 
and to this end, shall carry out the Project through 
the Executive Committee, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial 
practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall 
otherwise 
Page  2
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the 
implementation program set forth in the 
Supplemental Letter.
(c) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall 
otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, 
terminate, waive or 
fail to enforce the Administrative Arrangement 
or any provision 
thereof.”.
4.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as set 
forth in Attachment A to this Amendment Letter.
5.
Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as set forth in Attachment B to this 
Amendment Letter.
6.
Part B.2 of Section I of Schedule 4 is hereby amended to read as follows:
 “2.
Goods estimated to cost, per contract: (a) less than 
$100,000 equivalent but more than $25,000 equivalent; and 
(b) 
$25,000  equivalent or less, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on 
the basis of international and 
national shopping procedures, 
respectively, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.  Contracts awarded under these 
procedures shall 
not exceed the equivalent of $500,000 in the 
aggregate.”.
II. Supplemental Letter:
1.
The “Re:” of the Supplemental Letter is hereby amended to read as 
follows:
“Re: Loan No. 3895-GU Integrated Financial Management Project 
Loan Agreement - Sections 1.02 (k) and (l) and 3.01(b) and 
Schedule 2”.
2.
The second paragraph of the Supplemental Letter is hereby amended to read 
as follows:
“With reference to Sections 1.02(k) and (l) and 3.01(b) of, and 
Schedule 2 to, the Loan Agreement, the Borrower confirms its 
understanding 
with the Bank that (i) the target dates for the 
Project implementation 
program; (ii) the list of the Borrower’s 
Ministries; and (iii) the list of 
NFIs, are those set forth in 
annexes 1,2 and 3 to this letter, 
respectively. Please note that, 
unless otherwise specified, the reference to a 
number of days in 
the annex 1 to this letter in respect to each task 
corresponds to 
the number of days counted from the Effective Date within 
which  
the task in question shall be completed.”.
3.
The implementation program set forth in Annex 1 to the Supplemental 
Letter is modified to read as set forth in Attachment C to this Amendment Letter.
4.
Two annexes (to be designated as annexes 2 and 3) are added to the 
Supplemental Letter and will read as set forth in Attachments D and E to this 
Amendment Letter. 
This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall 
be an original.  Upon receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this 
Amendment Letter, these amendments will be effective as of the date first above 
written.  Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and 
dating the two counterparts of this Amendment Letter.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
  AND DEVELOPMENT 
/s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo 
    Director 
Page  3
    Central America Department 
    Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
/s/ José Alejandro Arévalo Alburez 
    Authorized Representative
Date:
March 20, 1998
Attachment A
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
“Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
4,800,000
100%
services
(2)
Goods
3,300,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and
85% of local 
expenditures
(3)
Training
  600,000
100%
(4)
Project Management
  500,000
100%
(5)
Operating Costs
  100,000
100%
(6)
Unallocated
  100,000
     TOTAL
       9,400,000”
Attachment B
“SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (1) to improve the efficiency, accountability 
and transparency of the financial management functions of the Borrower’s public sector 
through implementation of the SIAF and SAG; and (2) to improve the delivery of public 
services by supporting the deconcentration to the Borrower’s Ministries of primary 
responsibility for management of their corresponding financial resources, both with 
the overall goal of strengthening the financial management capability of the 
Borrower’s government and to help restore public confidence in the public sector 
integrity and competence.
The project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A: 
Financial Management Reform
Production of government financial management subsystems in six key areas as 
mentioned below, all to be done with the help of technical assistance services to be 
hired for that purpose.  An attempt shall be made to consolidate the normative basis 
for each of the subsystems and their integration (other than in the cases of Parts A. 
4 (b), 5 (f) and 6  of the Project) by submitting a bill for that purpose to the 
Page  4
Borrower's legislative branch, upon or shortly before completion of the Project.
1.
Budgeting: (a) preparation and implementation of budget formulation, execution, 
liquidation and evaluation manuals for the NFIs; (b) preparation of a performance 
indicator catalogue with emphasis on investment and service delivery programs for the 
Borrower’s Ministries;  (c) design and implementation of a new multi-year budget 
document format which shall include justifications for spending for the NFIs; (d) 
design and implementation of measures adequate to conform to the corresponding 
national budget the annual operating and/or investment plans (prepared by all the 
Borrower’s ministries jointly with the Borrower’s National Planning Secretariat 
(Secretaría General del Consejo Nacional de Planificación Económica)) for the NFIs; 
(e) design and implementation of new budget/accounting classifications and budget 
execution units in a number significantly reduced from the current ones for the public 
sector; (f) establishment of clear operating linkages between MOF's Directorate of 
Budget and each UDAF; and (g) design and implementation of measures adequate to result 
in an active participation by the UDAFs in the formulation of the budget of the 
corresponding Borrower’s ministry and of the Comptroller’s Office.
2.
Accounting: (a) preparation and implementation of new regulations for 
government-wide accounting, including a uniform manual for said implementation which, 
inter-alia, will set forth new technical standards based on generally accepted 
accounting principles; (b) design and implementation of a new chart of accounts which 
is simple, clear and flexible; (c) implementation of a plan of actions which will 
result in closing the accounts on government's financial performance in a timely 
manner upon the end of the corresponding fiscal year; and (d) preparation and 
implementation of measures adequate to ensure proper and uniform accounting treatment 
of arrears in payments due by public sector entities,  all for the benefit of the 
NFIs.
3.
Cash Management:  (a) preparation and implementation of more transparent and 
simple rules for the processing of payment orders within the Borrower’s Ministries; 
(b) development of a  cash flow forecasting system which could facilitate budget 
execution in the Borrower’s Ministries; (c) design and commence the implementation of 
a single bank account mechanism so as to enable the Borrower’s treasury to strengthen 
its control over revenues and expenditures within the Borrower’s Ministries; and (d) 
establishment of a UDAF-based system of payment authorizations for the Borrower’s 
Ministries required to execute payments, which system shall substitute for the current 
system of purchase and payment orders processed by MOF.
4.
Debt management: (a) design of a public debt management system; and (b) 
submission to the Borrower’s legislative branch of a bill enabling the Borrower's 
executive branch to contract or guarantee external public debt, including debt with 
multilateral financial institutions of which Guatemala is a member under a mechanism 
which shall not require specific approval of every operation to the extent the 
executive branch shall have not exceeded reasonable limits pre-established by the 
legislative branch within its powers under the Borrower’s constitution.
5.
Auditing: (a) design and implementation of technical standards for audits for 
use by the Comptroller’s Office and the internal audit units of the Borrower’s 
Ministries, including standards for responding to audit report recommendations and 
qualifications; (b) preparation and implementation of a manual for use in audits of 
records and accounts of  the NFIs; (c) preparation and implementation of a plan for 
subjecting to appropriate professional standards the governmental auditors’ 
activities; (d) putting into effect an annual plan comprising of all audits expected 
to be performed in the year in question; (e) design and implementation of regulations 
to utilize private auditing firms to audit accounts and records pertaining to the 
NFIs; (f) preparation and submission to the Borrower’s legislative branch of a bill 
governing all aspects of auditing in the public sector; and (g) strengthening of the 
existing Comptroller’s Office auditing school.
6.
Procurement:  preparation and submission to the Borrower’s legislative branch of 
a bill governing all aspects of procurement by public sector entities, which bill will 
follow the principles of economy and efficiency in procurement of goods, works and 
services and which will be consistent with the procurement guidelines and policies of 
the international financial institutions which provide funds for the Borrowers 
development, including those of which the Borrower is a member.
Page  5
Part B:
Information Systems Development
Putting in place a modern, mini/microcomputer based, open information technology 
network supporting the integrated financial management subsystems to be carried out 
under Part A of the Project.  Such network shall, among other things, provide data to 
a principal government-wide financial data base and will be made gradually available 
to the NFIs.  This part of the Project shall include:
1.
Assessment of the computer technology currently available in the NFIs and, on 
the basis of such assessment, design of a functional information technology system.
2.
Acquisition and utilization of hardware, acquisition or development, or both, of 
adequate software, and installation of: (a) an integrated information technology 
system for financial management in MOF, the Comptroller’s Office and the Borrower's 
Ministries; and (b) a prototype software for accounting and budgeting management in 
the NFIs.
Part C:
Training in support of the adequate utilization of the subsystems 
under Part  A and the systems under Part B.
1.
Execution of a program of aimed at all technical, management and senior level 
officers involved in financial management aspects in the Comptroller’s Office and the 
Borrower’s  Ministries and other forms of  training specially targeted to staff of the 
UDAFs. The courses will be conducted in the training center of MOF and, if so agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank, could be expanded to other participating NFIs as 
determined from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
2.
Development of national training capacity, both within MOF and with professional 
organizations and universities in Guatemala.
3.
A program of visits to observe and analyze financial management systems in 
operation in other Latin American countries.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.”.
Attachment C
“ANNEX 1
GUATEMALA: INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT 
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM
COMPONENT AND COMPLETION DATE
Part A:  Financial Management Reform
I.
Review of diagnostic and design details of each sub-system, including definition 
of  new rules, standards and procedures, institutional/staffing requirements at the 
MOF and other three pilot institutions, organization requirements for administration 
at the UDAF level, and applicable information technology specifications 
(hardware/software/ communications) to enable performance of the functions of each 
subsystem, and its integration with the others.  180 days.
II.
UDAFs will be immediately established and developed and they would be gradually 
equipped and staffed so as to be ready to full operation within 720 days, in MOF and  
three Borrower’s Ministries.
III. 
Preparation and submission to Congress of the bill referred to in the 
introductory paragraph to Part A of the Project.  660 days.
(1)
Budgeting
(a) 
Development and putting into effect by the MOF a significantly reduced and 
simplified budget classification chart and the performance indicator catalogue 
Page  6
referred to in Part A.1 (b) of the Project.  The chart and catalogue will incorporate 
standards and measuring units.  The exercise will put emphasis on budgetary allocation 
for purposes of public investment.  660 days.
(b)
Preparation and distribution under Part A.1 (a) of the Project of : (i) a budget 
formulation manual which will incorporate the new indicators and measuring units and 
the new budget classification chart, referred in (a) above, respectively, budget 
principles, norms and procedures, and standard budget document forms, and which will 
serve, as needed, as the uniform model for the development of institutional budget 
manuals, and (ii) a budget execution manual which will serve, as needed, as the 
uniform model for the development of institutional budget execution manuals, 
incorporating the execution guidelines, and setting relevant standards and monitoring 
procedures.  660 days.
(c)
Preparation and distribution under Part A.1 (a) of a budget liquidation and 
evaluation manual, which will incorporate, for application throughout the NFIs, 
principles, standards and norms for budget liquidation at the end of each fiscal year, 
and for the results-oriented evaluation of budget execution performance.  880 days.
(2)
Accounting  
(a)
Drafting and putting into effect in MOF, under Part A.2 (a) of the Project, of 
general accounting principles for the preparation and reporting of financial 
information. 660 days.
(b)
Preparation of the chart of accounts referred to in Part A.2 (b) of the Project 
and putting it into effect. 300 days.
(c)
Preparing and putting into effect in MOF and three Borrower’s Ministries (to be 
selected in a manner acceptable to the Bank) a government accounting manual, which 
will serve as the model for the development of institutional accounting manuals.  720 
days
(3)
Cash Management 
(a)
Design and putting into effect cash management operating rules, standards and 
methods referred to in Part A.3 (a) of the Project.  660 days.
(b)
Design and putting into effect in the Borrower’s Ministries of the cash flow 
analysis and forecast referred to in Part A.3 (b) of the Project, including standards, 
methods, procedures, manuals, and organization/staffing structure to monitor existing 
cash and treasury investments, to forecast short, medium and long term revenues and 
expenditures. 1020 days.
(c)
Design standards, methods, procedures, manuals, and organization structures for 
a “single bank account” cash concentration mechanism and commence the implementation 
of such mechanism (see Part A.3 (c) of the Project). 1020 days.
(4)
Debt Management
Completion of the design of the system referred to in Part A.4(a) of the 
Project. 1020 days. 
(5)
Auditing
(a)
Drafting and putting into effect under Part A.5 (a),(b) and (d) of the Project 
norms, standards, and procedures and manuals for audits and internal controls for 
annual audit plan preparation and execution, and for audit follow-up, separately 
covering external audit  by Comptroller’s Office and internal audit units.  720 days.
(b)
Completion of: Part A.5 (a), (b) and (d) of the Project in a fashion that will 
accommodate the new audit system’s requirements, by means of putting into effect the 
pertinent manuals which will incorporate the new external and internal, as the case 
may be, audit principles and standards set forth pursuant to (a) above, and which will 
include procedures and audit documents forms for the preparation of annual external 
and internal, as applicable, audit plans, and for the performance and follow up of 
audits. The internal audit manual will serve, as needed, as the uniform model for the 
Page  7
development of institutional internal audit manuals. 720 days in parallel with (a) 
above. 720.
(c)
Creation of institutional internal audit units in the Borrower’s Ministries.  
900 days.
(d)
Draft and submit to Congress the bill referred to in Part A.5 (f) of the 
Project. 720  days.
(e)
Drafting and enactment of regulations for the use of private audit firms for the 
performance of external and internal government audits, and for the performance of 
special types of audits, such as financial statements audits, operating performance 
audits, investment projects audits, service delivery audits, information technology 
audits, natural resource management audits, as may be needed and prioritized over 
time.  1020 days.
(6)
Procurement
Submission to Congress of the bill referred to in Part A.6 of the Project. 1020 
days. 
Part B:
Information Systems Development
(a)
Completion of the design referred to in Part B.1 of the Project. 300 days.
(b)
Completion of the acquisition of the goods referred to in Part B.2 of the 
Project. 660 days.
(c)
Implementation of the system referred to in Part B.2(a) of the Project. 1020 
days.
(d)
Implementation of the system referred to in Part B.2(b) of the Project. 1020 
days.
Part C:
Training in support of adequate utilization of the sub-systems 
under  Part A, and the sub-systems under Part B.
(a)
Design and development of  basic and advanced training modules in connection 
with all sub-systems.  360 days for basic training modules and 720 days for advanced 
project-specific training modules.  Ongoing development thereafter, for updates, 
upgrades of modules and new specialized modules.
(b)
Design and implementation of an initial training program for the delivery of 
training modules, which program will be focused on a core of selected NFIs, with 
potential to become trainers.  To be completed in 360 days for basic training modules 
and in 720 days for advanced training modules.  Ongoing basis thereafter.
(c)
Design and initiation of the basic and advanced training programs in at least 
three NFIs. To be completed in 360 days for the basic training  modules and 720 days 
for advance training modules, in parallel with (b) above.
Future Project Expansion
The Project activities may be expanded to other public sector institutions other 
than the Borrower’s Ministries and the NFIs, if so agreed from time to time between 
the Borrower and the Bank, in light of availability of remaining resources, goals and 
objectives achieved, lessons learned  and degree of success in implementation by such 
institutions, and achievement of the respective priorities.  The corresponding 
agreement for each expansion shall be instrumented by accordingly amending this 
Implementation Program.”.
Attachment D 
“ANNEX 2
List of Borrower’s Ministries
Page  8
Ministerio de Educación 
Ministerio de Salud y Asistencia Social 
Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Transportes, Obras Públicas y Vivienda 
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas 
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores”.
Attachment E
“ANNEX 3”
List of NFIs
Congreso de la República 
Organismo Judicial 
Presidencia de la República 
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores 
Ministerio de Gobernación 
Ministerio de la Defensa Nacional 
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas  
Ministerio de Educación 
Ministerio de Salud Publica y Asistencia Social 
Ministerio de Trabajo Previsión Social  
Ministerio de Economía 
Ministerio de Agricultura, Ganadería y Alimentación 
Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Transportes, Obras Públicas y Vivienda 
Ministerio de Energía y Minas 
Ministerio de Cultura y Deportes 
Secretaria General de la Presidencia 
Secretaria Privada de la Presidencia 
Secretaria Ejecutiva de la Presidencia 
Secretaria de Relaciones Publicas de la Presidencia 
Secretaria de Bienestar Social de la Presidencia 
Secretaria para la Paz 
Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos 
Oficina Nacional de Servicio Civil 
Consejo Nacional de Areas Protegidas - CONAP 
Consejo Nacional de Medio Ambiente - CONAMA 
Contraloría General de Cuentas 
Procuraduría General de la Nación 
Ministerio Público 
Tribunal Supremo Electoral
Corte de Constitucionalidad 
Procuraduría de los Derechos Humanos 
Registros de la Propiedad Inmueble”.
