'Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17936-VN
PROJECT AIPPRAISAL DOCUMENT
. ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR31.8 MILLION (US$42.74 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
FOR AN
URjAN TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
June 17, 1998
Transport Sector Unit
Vietnam Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 1998)
Currency Unit = Dong (VND)
VND 1 = 0.0000769
US$ I = 13,000
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          -      Asia Development Bank
AusAID       -      Atistralian Agency for International Development
ATC          -      Area Traffic Control
CAO         -       Chief Architects Office
CAS         -       Country Assessment Strategy
GDP         -       Gross Domestic Product
GOV         -       Government of Vietnam
HCMC        -       Ho Chi Minh City
ICB         -       Intemational Competitive Bidding
fDA          -      International Development Agency
ERR         -       Economic Rate of Retum
JICA        -       Japan International Cooperation Agency
MOF         -       Ministry of Finance
MOT         -       Ministry of Transportation and Communications
MPI          -      Ministry of Planning and Investment
NCB          -      National Competitive Bidding
ODA         -       Overseas Development Administration (UK)
O&M         -       Operations and Maintenance
PC          -       Peoples Committee
PMU         -       Project Management Unit
SIDA        -       Swedish International Development Agency
TMD          -      Traffic Management Division
TPD          -      Traffic Police Departments
TUPWS        -      Transport and Urban Public Works Services Department
VOC         -       Vehicle Operating Costs
Vice President:                                        Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:                                     Andrew Steer
Sector Manager:                                       Jeffrey S. Gutman
Task Team Leader:                                     Jitendra N. Bajpai



Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Urban Transport Improvement Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
A. Project Development Objective ....................................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators  .............                                ................ 2
B. Strategic Context  .................................................................... 2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ...........................                      ........................ 2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ............................................................ 2
3. Sector issues to be addressecl by the project and strategic choices ............................ 3
C. Project Description  Summary  .....................                              ............................................... 4
1. Project components ....................................................................4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ................................. 4
3. Benefits and target population ....................................................................4
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ......................................................... 5
D. Project Rationale .................6
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .......................................... 6
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ....  7
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                                           .7
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................ 8
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ............................................................. 8
E. Summary Project Analysis ....................................................................9
1. Economic ..............................................................9
2. Financial ..............................................................9
3. Technical .............................................................                                                 10
4. Institutional .............................................................                                              10
5. Social .............................................................   11
6. Environmental assessment .............................................................                                   11
7. Participatory approach .............................................................                                     11
F. Sustainability and Risks .................                                                                                           11
1. Sustainability .............                                                                                             11
2. Critical risks .............                                                                                             12
3. Possible controversial aspects ......................                                                                   12



- ii -
G. Main Credit Conditions ................................................                                                             12
1. Disbursement conditions ..........................................                                                       12
2. Other ..........................................                                                                         13
H. Readiness for Implementation ................................................                                                        13
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ................................................                                                      14
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary .15
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description .19
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .24
Annex 4. Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary .25
Annex 5. Financial Summary .27
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .28
Table A.  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ........................................ ........  30
Table B.  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ........................................ 31
Table C.  Allocation of Credit Proceeds ................................................                                           31
Annex 7.          Project Processing Budget and Schedule ................................................                              32
Annex 8.          Documents in Project File ................................................                                           33
Annex 9.          Statement of Loans and Credits ................................................  34
Annex 10.  Country at a Glance ................................................                                                        36
Map(s)
IBRD-29540 Vietnam Urban Transport Improvement Project - Hanoi City
IBRD-29541 Vietnam Urban Transport Improvement Project - Ho Chi Minh City



Vietnam
Urban Transport Improvement Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Vietnam Country Management Unit
Date: June 17,1998                                  Task Team Leader: Jitendra N. Bajpai
Country Director: Andrew Steer          Sector Manager: Jeffrey S. Gutman
Project ID: VN-PE-4833  Sector: Transportation      Program Objective Category: EN
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan        Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data               [] Loan      [X] Credit       [  Guarantee        [] Other
[Specily]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): SDR 31.8 m (US$42.74 m equivalent)
Proposed terms:                       [X] Multicurrency      []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10 [I   Standard Variable  [ X   Fixed                   []   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local                Foreign           Total
Government                            4.5                 0.0               4.5
IDA                                  17.3                25.4              42.7
Total          21.8                25.4              47.2
Borrower: Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Guarantor: Not Applicable
Responsible agencies: Peoples Committees (PCs) of Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh (HCMC) City and the their respective
Project Management Units (PMU) under the Transport and Urban Public Works Services Department (TUPWS)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1999      2000       2001       2002
Annual    3.6        10.2       18.1       15.3
Cumulative    3.6       13.8        31.9       47.2
Project implementation period: 1998-2002 Expected effectiveness date: October 1998  Expected closing date: Dec. 31,
2002
* Excludes taxes and duties.



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project's overall objective is to increase operational efficiency and safety on selected corridors and in
the central areas of Hanoi and HCMC. To improve traffic flows, it will introduce a package of traffic
engineering and management measures that will redesign junctions, provide new traffic signals and
controls, segregate two-and four-wheeled traffic, and improve facilities for pedestrians. In addition,
Transport and Urban Public Works Services (TUPWS) and Traffic Police Departments (TPD) in both
cities will be strengthened in areas of traffic management and enforcement with training and necessary
equipment.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related County Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: Report 15053-VN   Date of latest CAS discussion: Dec. 23, 1996
and IDA/R96-186/1
IDA's CAS for Vietnam promotes investment in key infrastructure to support broad-based, sustainable
development and poverty reduction.  The country's dilapidated infrastructure has been a critical
constraint to sustained economic development. IDA's strategy in the transport sector is to help
rehabilitate the basic network, promote regulatory reform, and strengthen the public sector institutions
responsible for providing and managing infrastructure. Recognizing that economic development is
closely related to urbanization, the CAS also stresses the importance of urban efficiency in supporting
this process. The proposed project is consistent with this strategy and will positively affect traffic
operations and safety in two key urban growth centers. It will also serve as the building block for
strengthening institutions and formulating a coherent long-term transport policy framework for both
cities.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Transport efficiency. Although road capacity will soon need to be increased in Hanoi and HCMC
through road widening and new construction, additional capacity should first be sought through low-cost
improvements for efficiency and enforcement. Significant gains can be made by introducing traffic
management and engineering schemes along the major corridors, key junctions and in the inner city
areas; these would focus on measures that favor two-wheel vehicles, since they represent most of the
traffic, and that reduce motorized traffic levels (mainly 4-wheel) in the core historic areas. Investing in
traffic management and enforcement at this stage of development should help improve the use of existing
road capacity and delay or minimize new road investments.
Building capacity. Traffic management techniques are new to Vietnam and experience is limited. Thus,
considerable effort must be made to build skills and awareness within the TUPWS and TPD so these
agencies can manage the rapid growth in motorized urban traffic and minimize its ill effects. More staff,
equipment and training will be needed and each city's Traffic Management Division (TMD) under
TUPWS will have to be strengthened. Data collection needs to be institutionalized to help monitor traffic
flows and safety conditions. New enforcement methods are also needed.
Traffic safety. Vietnam has a serious road safety problem which is worsening rapidly. In 1994, road
accidents caused 4,500 fatalities and 14,000 injuries, with 95% caused by driver error, 4% by vehicle
conditions and about 0.5% by road conditions. Currently, bicycle and below 50-cc motorcycle users,
which represent most of the two-wheel riders, receive no formal education on traffic rules. Thus, if



Page 3
safety measures were introduced, such as "self enforcing" road design features (channelization, barriers,
separation of traffic flows, and better road geometrics), along with informative signs and operational
measures (traffic signals and restricted movements), and regulations were enforced (through alcohol
testing, speed checks and adherence to traeffic rules), fatal accidents could be significantly reduced.
Although traffic rules and regulations are being updated, their effectiveness will depend on the capacity
of traffic police to enforce them. Moreover, new and current drivers need to be educated about traffic
rules and behavior. Finally, accidents musil be properly reported and an accident database needs to be
maintained to serve a problem-specific, well-targeted road safety program.
Motorization. As the economies of the cities expand, the ownership and use of motorized vehicles will
also expand. Forecasts for 2002 indicate that traffic volumes are likely to increase in Hanoi and HCMC
by 1.68 and 1.93 times, respectively. The proportion of motorized two-wheel transport (as a share of
total transport) is expected to rise from 59% to 83% in Hanoi and from 76% to 92% in HCMC. While the
numbers of cars, buses and trucks will also increase, the proportions are expected to remain
approximately the same; concurrently, the number and proportion of bicycles are expected to decrease.
With the increase in motorized transport, pressure will mount to create additional road capacity. Thus, a
city-wide program of traffic management: measures, particularly within the built-up areas where
environmental constraints are severe, will be needed to handle the increased traffic flows and safeguard
pedestrians. Indeed, the concept of segregating two-wheel non-motorized traffic should be carefully
examined in light of the proliferation of motorcycles. In the longer term, a strategic approach to demand
management that would include parking controls and sustainable public transport, will be crucial to
preserve the urban environment and increase the capacity of roads (in terms of number of person trips
and not vehicle trips) to meet mobility needs.
Government strategy. In the area of traffic safety, the Government has exhibited a strong resolve
(Government Decree No. 36/CP) to remecly the problem by applying engineering, enforcement and
educational techniques; however, resources are stretched. With respect to other key sectoral issues
(public transport, demand management ancl new capacity), while long-term transport plans are being
created for the two cities under bilateral graints (e.g., JICA recently completed a transport plan for Hanoi
and an ODA-sponsored study for HCMC is being prepared), no clear strategy or framework exists for
priorities or policies. Given its institutional amd fiscal constraints, GOV faces a daunting challenge.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
This project will begin to address the above sectoral issues. It will focus on traffic operations and safety
in two important urban centers by introducing the practices of basic traffic management, engineering and
enforcement. It will also strengthen the institutional capacity supporting the new practices through
technical assistance, training and provision of equipment. During project implementation, the Bank,
consulting with other active donors, will continue its dialogue with each city on the emerging transport
policy concerns including urban development, road capacity, public transport, mobile source pollution
and demand management strategies (e.g., parking and pricing). Successful implementation will prepare
the sector institutions in both cities to address the long-term impact of accelerated motorization.



Page 4
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown)
Component              Category        Cost Incl.    % of      Bank-financing  % of Bank-
Contingencies Total     (US$M)         financing
________________________________                    (U S$M )
A. HANOI CITY
A.1. Traffic system improvements*
A.1.1 Corridors and intersections   Physical       10.1        21.4         8.5           19.9
A.1.2 Central area            Physical             9.5         20.1         9.3           21.8
Subtotal                              19.6        41.5        17.8           41.7
A.2 Institutional strengthening
A.2.1 Assistance to TUPWS      Institution          2.6         5.5          2.0            4.7
building/project
management
A.2.2 Assistance to traffic police    Institution   2.1         4.5          2.1            4.9
building/eqpt.
Subtotal                              4.7         10.0         4.1            9.6
Component Subtotal                                     24.3         51.5        21.9           51.3
B. HCMC
B.1 Traffic system improvement*
B.1.1 Corridors and intersection  Physical          8.6         18.2         7.5           17.6
B.1.2 Central areas            Physical             3.0         6.4          2.6            6.1
B.1.3 Area traffic control     Physical             6.2         13.1         6.2           14.5
Subtotal                                           17.8         37.7        16.3           38.2
B.2 Institutional strengthening
B.2.1 Assistance to TUPWS      Institution          2.1         4.4          1.6            3.7
building/project
management
B.2.2 Assistance to traffic police    Institution   2.9          6.4          2.9           6.8
building/eqpt.
Subtotal                               5.1         10.8         4.5           10.5
Component Subtotal                            22.9         48.5        20.8           48.7
TOTAL                                    47.2        100.0        42.7          100.0
* Excludes detail engineering and supervision costs.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will be the vehicle to implement sectoral priorities that aim to maximize the use of existing
transport infrastructure, improve traffic safety and build capacity in the sector institutions. Active
dialogue with the GOV during project preparation has already achieved: (a) a commitment to decentralize
project design and execution responsibilities to the appropriate levels of government (Hanoi and HCMC);
and (b) an awareness about transport management practices and traffic safety within various levels of
government.
3. Benefits and target population:
The quantified benefits include (estimated) savings in journey time and time-related costs of
transporting goods. Other benefits that cannot be quantified due to limited information and local
conditions include a reduced number of accidents and vehicle operating costs. While the benefits



Page 5
will accrue to the population at-large in both cities, over 50% of the low-income population in Hanoi
and over 40% in HCMC live in the project areas. In addition, a high proportion of cyclists, often
from the low-income group, use the project corridors. Thus, the poor will benefit from the project.
Further, the proposed institutional measures will build local capacity for monitoring traffic
conditions, analyzing accidents and collecting data, implementing traffic management and
engineering schemes, enforcing traffic regulations, and further strengthening coordination between
the sector institutions (for details, see Annex-4).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements.-
Implementation period. Four years
Executing agencies. Each Peoples Committee (PC) will be solely responsible for executing its city-
specific project components. To manage, coordinate and supervise the project, the PCs have
established Project Management Units (PM[U) under their TUPWS Departments. The PMUs will be
maintained at all times during the implementation period with adequate budget and qualified full-
time staff.
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.). At the national level, the Ministry of Planning and
Investment (MPI) provides overall sectoral guidance on investmnent policy and approves and
monitors the progress of all large foreign-assisted projects. For sector-specific issues, MPI consults
with the sector ministry, in this case the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOT), the
national agency responsible for developing and managing the transport sector. MOT plays an
advisory and coordinating role for developing the urban transport sector in both cities. MOT's
Deputy Minister chaired the project steering committee that was responsible for project preparation.
At the city level, the PC, in consultation with TUPWS, will guide, approve and monitor project-
specific policy and investment decisions.
Accounting, financial reporting and audliting arrangements. To ensure financial accountability,
various steps will be taken: (a) The PMUs will maintain separate project accounts, including the
special accounts; (b) the special accounts and project accounts, including documentation for SOEs,
will be audited annually by independent external auditors acceptable to IDA and the Government,
with the audit including a separate opinion on the SOEs used as a basis for disbursements; and (c)
detailed audit reports will be submitted by the PMUs to IDA annually, within six months after the
end of the city government's fiscal year. Due to lack of resources, no assessment of the financial
management capacity of the two PMUs was done. It is recommended that as soon as the
arrangements for providing this assessment are finalized, this project should be reviewed, and if
necessary, an action plan be developed to ensure adequate accounting, internal controls, and
financial reporting.



Page 6
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. The project will be supervised jointly by local and
headquarters' Bank staff and the GOV three times a year during the first two years and then twice a
year. Field staff in the resident mission will monitor overall project progress and help review and
approve the NCB bids. Annual implementation reviews (by June 30 of each year, beginning in
1999) and a mid-term review (by June 30, 2000) will be carried out to assess project progress. Both
PMUs will prepare and furnish IDA with consolidated quarterly reports on the project's physical and
financial progress, including procurement information, in a format acceptable to IDA. The reports
will be submitted no later than the 30th day of the month following the respective quarterly period,
beginning July 31, 1999.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project's focus and components were selected based on the following considerations:
Road capacity and efficiency. While authorities in Hanoi and HCMC are planning major new road
schemes, many of these involve uncertain projected traffic levels and land development assumptions.
Further, they are capital intensive, often require substantial land acquisition, and are not conceived
within an integrated city-wide transport policy framework. In the meantime, traffic volumes are
rising in both cities with an increasing share of motorized vehicles, while existing road capacity is
inadequately managed to accommodate the growth. Thus, the cities must first address the immediate
concerns about how to optimize existing capacity and minimize accidents caused by hazardous road
user behavior, inadequate traffic operations and the lack of basic safety measures in the design of
roads and junctions. In both cities, resources and implementation capacity for handling large
transport investments are limited. Based on these conditions, the project did not consider new road
construction. Instead it aims to introduce low-cost, integrated traffic engineering, management and
enforcement measures and build institutional capacity to sustain them. Road expansion should be
designed on the basis of the findings from the on-going and new studies on future transport demand
and supply, development strategies and environmental constraints.
Public transport. The rapid growth of motorized two-wheel transport has negatively affected urban
public transport. In both cities, public bus use has steadily declined and presently represents under 3% of
person trips. Bus services have been reduced to a skeletal network, and this means long waiting times
and limited coverage. None of the existing bus routes cover their full operating costs. Low fuel prices
(US$0.3 5/1) and more than one vehicle occupancy have made the out-of-pocket costs of a motorcycle trip
(excluding purchase and parking costs, if any) cheaper than a bus ride. At present fare levels (US$0.1 to
0.2 in HCMC for about a 10 km ride), riders with monthly incomes of D500,000 would spend a high
share of their income, almost 15%, on bus fares for two trips. Although authorities recognize the need for
a vibrant public transport system, experience to date suggests buses will have a hard time competing with
high-mobility, low cost, individual motorized transport modes (including bicycles for short distance)
unless severe demand management measures to increase the cost of either the vehicle use or the
ownership are introduced while bus services are substantially expanded on a sustainable basis. During
project preparation, both cities indicated they were planning to introduce private bus services; however,
only a few private minibuses have been introduced in HCMC and Hanoi, and ridership remains low.
Under current conditions, the scope for private or public bus services was considered limited; thus,
options for bus priority or new bus services were not considered.



Page 7
Two-wheel vehicles. The mix of two-wheel vehicles is rapidly changing to motorized modes in both
cities, which affects the design concepts for segregating two- and four-wheel vehicles. Since experience
is limited, the selection and application of measures such as bicycle lanes, one-way systems and access or
turning restrictions on certain vehicles, need to be carefully examined under various conditions.
Similarly, treatment for two-wheel vehicles at junctions poses operational difficulties since no proven
technology exists that distinguishes 2-wheel from 4-wheel motorized vehicles so as to adjust signal
timings. Alternatives for segregating 2-wheel vehicles were considered where bicycle traffic was heavy
and the roads were sufficiently wide.
Evaluation of specific components. Traffic engineering and management improvements were selected
by evaluating various ways to enhance traffic operations at selected junctions and corridors. The criteria
covered four broad categories: conventional economic benefits (such as time savings), non-monetary
impacts (such as consistency with urban planning objectives, environmental impacts and effects on the
poor), institutional development impacts, and implementation and sustainability issues (for details, see the
Project Files, working paper on the evaluation framework).
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned
Sector issue                   Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
__________________   _________  (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
1. Improve strategic national road  First Highway-               S               S
infrastructure and traffic safety   Rehabilitation Project
(2 549-VN);
2. Institutional capacity of MOT
agencies to carry out periodic      Second Highway               S               S
maintenance and environmental       Rehabilitation Project
assessments                         (161 08-VN)
Other development agencies
French assistance                   Traffic Signal Project in
Hanoi; and the Proposed
HCMC Traffic Signal
Project
JICA                                The Master Plan for
LUrban Transport of
Hanoi
ODA                                FHo-Chi-Minh City
T'ransport Study
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons from previous IDA projects. II)A experience with projects in Vietnam is still limited, but a
recent Country Implementation Review identified three areas of incipient problems: (a) procurement



Page 8
procedures; (b) counterpart funds and staff; and (c) resettlement policies. Recent experience with the
implementation of the Highway Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2549-VN) shows that a multi-layered
bureaucracy and over-centralized decision-making slowed implementation.
Lessons from Bank experience. Bank experience with implementing traffic management schemes in
East Asian cities at early stages of motorization (Bangkok, Manila, Seoul, Taegu, etc.) demonstrated they
generate high returns but do not address the long-term implications of personal motorized travel---except
where measures were introduced to sustain a public transport and demand management strategy (as in
Singapore). Moreover, the success of such schemes depends heavily on road users' compliance with
traffic regulations and controls. Thus, physical improvements need to be linked with measures to bolster
coordination and the capacity of institutions responsible for managing traffic.
This project builds on the above lessons but limits its scope to introducing traffic management practices
and associated institutional measures. Its design reflects the experience of various Asian cities and the
Vietnamese situation, and should be seen as the first building block of a much needed comprehensive
urban transport strategy for each city.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The project was approved by the Prime Minister (No. 98/QD-Ttg, Feb. 13, 1998). Project
preparation was carried out under a Project Steering Committee headed by the Deputy Minister of
Transport, which included members of key national and provincial agencies (MPI, DOF, CAO, TPD,
etc.) and TUPWS directors from both cities. For project execution, the Government decided to transfer
implementation responsibility to each city; although this caused some delay, it was a necessary move.
Moreover, the shift confirmed the Government's support for the project and its commitment to
decentralize responsibility to the appropriate level. The detailed designs for the first year investments
have been prepared by the TUPWS-appointed local consultants in each city. The Bank had offered
technical assistance to nurture new skills and ensure the quality of outputs produced by the local study
teams. In addition, the up-front resource commitment by both PCs for the first year design activities is
evidence of their 'ownership.' Both cities have created PMUs whose managers were appointed to
supervise the on-going engineering activities.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has been instrumental in raising awareness about urban traffic management, its
relevance to safety, and better use of existing road space. Despite an initial inclination to expand road
capacity, the Government now appreciates the importance of traffic management schemes. To a large
degree, this shift can be attributed to the rapid deterioration in road safety conditions and the Bank's
involvement in project preparation that included continuous dialogue with authorities, EDI workshops in
Hanoi and HCMC on the subject, and regular consultation with the active bilateral donors in each city.
The GOV recognizes that the Bank is well equipped to nurture new practices on a sustainable basis,
drawing on its global experience. This is the first project in the sector and a prototype for comprehensive
traffic management concepts.



Page 9
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4)
[]Cost-Benefit Analysis : NPV=US$ 55.5 million; ERR= 44% []Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[] Other (Specify)
The benefits of traffic engineering and management improvements, which constitute about 85% of total
project costs, are difficult to quantify because they will be small, low cost and spread over selected
corridors or specific areas of the cities (e.g., improved channelization, traffic signals, road geometry,
traffic circulation, drainage, road surface, pedestrian facility etc.). No stable relationship among the key
factors influencing the traffic flow speed can be established because the traffic flow is essentially
uncontrolled and rapidly evolving in its mix and behavior in both cities. With the result, benefit estimates
(mainly changes in traffic speeds and associated travel time and vehicle operating costs) become less
reliable. Bank experience with similar projects in other countries demonstrates that traffic management
measures consistently produce high economic returns (above 30% of IRR) because of the significant
benefits such improvements generate with relatively small investments. However, to assess other options
at key junctions and selected corridors, a conventional economic evaluation was undertaken; the
quantified benefits principally included the estimated journey time savings. Due to the predominance of
two-wheel vehicles (mostly motorcycles) in traffic streams and the difficulty in measuring minor changes
in vehicle operating costs (VOC) caused by improvements, savings in VOC were considered less
significant and thus, not quantified. Although road safety will improve--because potential conflicts
between vehicles as well as between vehicles and pedestrians will be reduced, enforcement and street
lights will be improved, and safety features will be introduced as part of traffic management designs--the
reduction in accidents could not be calculated due to the lack of information on the nature, magnitude and
cause of accidents; also, traffic factors affecting the accident rate are constantly changing.
For each major scheme, travel time benefits were estimated by comparing the "with" and "without"
improvement options using established trafFic speed and flow relationships for corridors, volume-delay
relationships for junctions, estimated future traffic levels, and general assumptions about the increase in
capacity that could result from the proposed improvements. A series of tests were performed (see Annex
4) to assess the sensitivity of the results to changes in key parameters (e.g., growth of traffic, value of
time).
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
Project cost. Annexes 2 and 3 show the details of project costs.
Financing plan. The cover sheet shows the details of the financing plan. The proposed credit of
US$42.7 million would finance 90% of the total cost (US$47.2 excluding taxes and duties), while the
Government would finance the remaining US$4.5 million.
Fiscal impact. The GOV proposes to transfer the IDA credit to each PC on a grant basis. Hence, the
project will not directly burden Hanoi and H:ICMC. Counterpart funds, about 10% of project costs, will be
allocated annually by each PC for its respective components during the city budget allocation.
Additional O&M expenditures as a result of project investments will remain a small share of the future
sector budget for each city.



Page 10
3. Technical:
The project consists of various traffic management schemes based on sound technical principals,
such as establishing a road hierarchy, channeling the traffic flow, restricting access, and segregating
and improving travel conditions for two-wheel vehicles and pedestrians. Under each scheme, a
package of simple, low-cost measures are proposed including channelization, road resurfacing and
drainage, traffic signals and street lighting, signing/marking, prohibiting certain traffic movements
or vehicles, and creating pedestrian facilities. In recent years, both Hanoi and HCMC have tried to
implement (in a piece-meal manner) some of these measures and, have observed their positive
impact on traffic flow and safety. However, the proposed ATC system in HCMC will be the most
complex sub-component. The system will be installed in an incremental manner to allow sufficient
time for testing, training and building operational capacity within TPD and TUPWS. TUPWS staff
have worked closely with the preparation consultants and Bank missions throughout project
preparation. Due to on-going Bank assistance to both Hanoi and HCMC for preparing detailed
designs for the first year investments, local staff and consultants have become familiar with the
project's technical aspects.  To further ensure technical quality and timely execution, technical
assistance is included to support TUPWS activities in the area of detail engineering, project
management and supervision. Since traffic is rapidly increasing, the detailed design for investments
in later years will be developed during implementation and adapted to changing conditions.
4. Institutional:
Executing agencies. Both cities' PCs are executing projects funded by the multilateral Banks and
bilateral agencies. Under the proposed arrangements, they will delegate routine project execution
and administrative responsibility to their respective PMIJs, which have already been created under
the TUPWS. The two TUPWS agencies have gained some experience with the multilateral bank
procedures, particularly under a recently approved water supply project in Hanoi (IDA) and a similar
project in HCMC (ADB). In the past, TUPWS staff have benefited from Bank-sponsored local
training on procurement. Currently, Hanoi's TPD is executing a French-sponsored traffic signal
project.
Project management. As indicated in Block 1, Section 4, responsibility for daily project
management and supervision will rest with each city's PMU. However, because PMU staff are not
familiar with Bank procedures and lack of experience with the traffic engineering and control system
technical designs, consultants will be engaged to help them and train the existing TMD of TUPWS,
which would work closely with the PMU. During negotiations, agreement was reached that both
Hanoi and HCMC PMUs will have adequate and qualifiedfull-time staff to undertake all technical
and performance monitoring aspects of the project including the detail engineering, traffic data
collection, procurement and coordination with TPD for the design of traffic schemes and
enforcement requirements. After the project is completed, the PMUs may be dissolved, but their
staff will be integrated with the existing TMD and other relevant units. The Bank's resident staff in
Vietnam will offer special training (such as for procurement and disbursement) and guidance during
the early stage of project implementation.



Page 1 1
5. Social:
Project benefits (safe travel and journey time savings) will accrue to the general population in both
cities. An estimated 50,000 low-income residents in Hanoi (over 50% of the city's low income
population) and 200,000 in HCMC (over 40% of city's low income population) live within the
project influence areas. Similarly, a high proportion of cyclists, many from the low-income group,
uses the project corridors.
6. Environmental assessment:    Environmental Category [ ] A [X ] B    [ C
With the focus on smoothing the traffic flow, reducing four-wheel through-traffic in the central and
historic districts, providing facilities for pedestrians and two-wheel vehicles (for bicycles along
selected corridors), and strengthening instfitutions, the project will have an overall positive impact on
the urban environment. As the planned civil works are either minor or within the existing right-of-
ways, involuntary resettlement will not occur.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable].
Primary beneficiaries. Primary beneficiaries will be road users of Hanoi and HCMC in general,
whose needs were studied in several transport surveys. Moreover, local press often published
articles on the project preparation activities.   No  formal consultation with road user
groups/associations was possible since such groups do not exist in Vietnam.
Other stakeholders. During project preparation, key government agencies at the local and national
levels, active donors (SIDA, French, JICA and OECF), and academic institutions were consulted at
various stages of project design. Consultation with local stakeholders will remain an integral
element of the project implementation and monitoring.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project's sustainability will depend on a number of critical factors, including the degree to
which traffic rules are enforced, ATC sysl:ems operate efficiently and the TUPWS and TPD of each
city coordinate their work. The project would: (a) enhance the TPD traffic enforcement and ATC
operations (in HCMC only) capacity by providing technical assistance, training and equipment; (b)
build capacity of the two TUPWS (PMU and TMD) units to implement and operate traffic
management systems; and (c) improve coordination among the institutions responsible for urban
transport such as TUPWS, TPD, CAO and MOT. Further, in Hanoi, since the local public lighting
company under a joint venture arrangement with the French ATC supplier offers regular O&M
support for the traffic signal system, the city may consider to maintain the project signals. In
HCMC, the supplier selected for the ATC and traffic signals will offer local support for O&M during
the early years. It is anticipated that local capacity to operate and monitor traffic control systems
will steadily develop under this and other donor supported projects.



Page 12
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk           Risk                Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Weak traffic regulation  H    Provide technical assistance, training and equipment to
enforcement by the TPDs        strengthen their enforcement capacity; encourage the TPDs
to strengthen the public awareness campaign on television
and the streets.
Limited coordination     M    Build on the coordination already achieved during project
between TPDs and               preparation; the TPDs will assign two-three staff as part of
PMUs                           the project implementation team in each PMU; progress will
be monitored during supervision.
Inefficient operation of  M    Implement the HCMC system incrementally so as to allow
the ATC system                 enough time to test, train and build operational capacity
within TUPWS and TPD; structure procurement so the
supplier will provide adequate initial training and will
assure O&M support; in Hanoi, build on the experience of
the newly established ATC system under French assistance.
Delays in procuring      M    Consultants will provide technical assistance and training to
equipment and                  the PMUs. Workshops will be held on Bank procurement
consultants                    procedures.
Inadequate inspection    N    Consultants, along with Bank headquarters and resident
and lack of control            mission staff, will help the PMUs supervise the project.
resulting in poor quality
of construction and high
costs
Timely provision of      N    An agreement will be reached with the GOV that each PC
counterpart funds              will allocate adequate and timely counterpart funds for the
components in its annual budget.
Overall risk rating      M    Most of these risks are related and affected by each PMU's
implementation capacity. Hence, the proposed appointment
of consultants to strengthen and monitor implementation
activities will minimize the overall risk.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Condition for disbursement.
MOUs between the TPDs and PMUs will specify the nature of coordination required between the
two entities, to ensure successful implementation.



Page 13
2. Other
Project management. Each PMU will have adequate, qualified, full-time staff to prepare,
implement and monitor the technical designs and enforcement requirements.
Counterpart funding. The Government will take necessary actions to ensure that PMU-Hanoi and
PMU-HCMC receive counterpart funds in a timely manner from their PCs for project
implementation.
Procurement. The Government will agree on all procurement arrangements including the use of the
Bank's standard bidding documents for works and goods procured under ICB and for consultant
services. The Borrower's local procurement procedures (Decree 43/CP dated July 16, 1996) will be
used for national competitive bidding (NCB), with the required revisions and clarifications for
purposes of consistency with Bank guidelines for NCB.
Monitoring and review.
(a) Both PMUs will maintain separate project accounts, as well as monitor and report project
progress, using project performance indicators;
(b) The special account and project accounts for each PMU, including documentation for
SOEs, will be reviewed annually by independent external auditors acceptable to IDA and the
Government, with the audit including a separate opinion on the SOEs, which would then be used as a
basis for disbursements;
(c) The detailed audit reports will be submitted to IDA within six months after the end of
each fiscal year; and both PMUs will prepare and furnish IDA with consolidated quarterly reports on
the project's physical and financial progress, including procurement information, in a format
acceptable to IDA;
(d) The Government will hold annual implementation reviews (by June 30 of each year,
beginning in 1999) and a mid-term review (by June 30, 2000).
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation. [ ] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



Page 14
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team L:eader: Jitendra N. Bajpai
Sectr ta ger: Jeffrey S. Gutman



Page 15                                         ANNEX I
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions and
Supervision                  Risks
CAS Objective                                                                    (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
Invest in key infrastructure to  Basic infrastructure installed    Bank to provide policy  Macroeconomic stability and
support broad-based,       to maintain high effliciency of   advice, technical assistance   fiscal discipline
sustainable development and   public investment        and project funding
reduce poverty.
Regulatory reforms introduced
and public service pricing
policy improved
Policy framework developed
to encourage private sector
participation in infrastructure
Project Development                                                              (Development Objectives to
Objectives                                                                       CAS Objective)
The specific goals are to: (a)  Average travel time reduced   PMU/TMD to conduct  Regulatory reforms are
increase the capacity and  after a corridor im,provement  traffic counts and journey    carried out to improve road
improve operating                                     time surveys during peak   safety and transport services
conditions of major road   Delays reduced at major     and off-peak hours within
corridors, central areas and   junctions along the project   three months before and  Public sector institutions
strategic intersections by  corridors                  after works along corridors  responsible for providing
introducing traffic                                                              and managing infrastructure
management and             Number of fatalities per    PMU/TMD to measure        are strengthened
engineering and enhancing    motorized vehicles reduced    average delay per vehicle
enforcement;               along the project corridors    during peak hours using the
TRRL method within three
(b) strengthen the         Increased awareness about    months before and after
institutional capacity in  traffic management practices  improvements
traffic management and     among the staff of
traffic enforcement        PMU/TMD and T]PD            Traffic police to compile
statistics on fatalities and
traffic counts on a regular
basis in coordination with
the PMU/TMD during and
after the project



Page 16                                           ANNEX I
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and          Critical Assumptions and
Supervision                   Risks
Project Outputs                                                                      (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
Improve traffic operating   Km of roads and number of    PMU to monitor project      Consistent traffic regulation
conditions in both cities'  junctions improved and the   progress and submit quarterly  enforcement
central areas               ATC center operating in      progress reports summarizing
HCMC                         the status of project       Good coordination between
implementation              TPD and TUPWS
Quality of the central area  Bank supervision mission to   Efficient operation of traffic
schemes assessed by          interview selected businesses   management system
businesses, other users      and employees after central
area schemes are introduced
Improve priority corridors  Km of corridors improved
and critical junctions
Number ofjunctions improved
Strengthen institutional    Number of PMU, TMD and
capacity in traffic         TPD staff trained in project
management and              management traffic
enforcement                 engineering and traffic
enforcement
Project Components [See                                                              (Components to Outputs)
Annex 2 for a detailed
description]
Inputs: (Costs in US$ million)
Hanoi
Corridors and intersections:    US$15.7 million          PMU to monitor and report in  Sufficient counterpart funds
Improve 23 km of corridors                              the quarterly progress reports  and qualified staff
and 121 junctions, using 51
signals
Central area:               US$5.6 million               Planned vs. actual progress    Timely procurement of
Imrovements within the                                   for each component in terms   works, equipment and
French Architectural and                                 of budget and physical works  consultants
Ancient Quarters including                               Actual vs. estimated costs by   Public awareness campaigns
20 km road, access control,                              component                   will be conducted regularly
enhanced road safety and                                                             during project
pedestrian conditions and                                                            implementation
segregation of two-wheel
vehicles
Assistance to TUPWS: TA     US$1.2 million
for building capacity in
project and traffic
management and
performance monitoring in
each PMU/TMD



Page 17                                          ANNEX 1
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions and
Supervision                  Risks
Assistance to TPD:           US$1.8 million
Strengthen traffic enforcement
by providing vehicles and
equipment--speed check,
alcohol testing, accident
investigation, etc.--accident
recording systems and training.
HCMC
Corridors and intersections:  US$9.6 million
Improve 36 km of priority
roads and 135 junctions--61
new signals and 14 isolated
junctions
Central area improvement:    USS$3.4 million
Improve traffic circulation
including restricting 4-wheel
vehicles and trucks, creating
pedestrian plazas, traffic
management, priority for 2-
wheel vehicles, etc.
Area traffic control:        US$6.0 million
A system covering about 150
junctions
Assistance to TUPWS: TA for  US$1.2 million
capacity building in project
management, traffic manage-
ment and performance
monitoring.
Assistance to TPD: Strengthen   US$2.7 million
traffic enforcement capacity by
providing training, vehicles
and equipment for enforce-
ment, such as for speed and
breath testing, communications
and portable vehicle weighting.
ATC management, and
accident recording.
Total: US$47.2 milllion



Page 18                                                                        ANNEX 1
Performance Indicators Summary
Target                                                       Target
Hanoi                 Total                           HCMC                         Total
Project            Performance Indicators                          1999     2000    2001    2002                        1999           2000       2001    2002
Outputs/Impacts
Improve traffic    Km of roads improved                               -       13       7        -        20               -               -         -        -
operating conditions
in the central areas
of Hanoi and
HCMC               No. ofjunctions improved                           -       49       51       -        100              -               -         -        -        44
Improvepriority    Km ofpriority corridors                           7.5      5.3     10.6      -       23.4             15.4            11.3      9.5       -       36.2
corridors and      improved;
critical junctions
No. ofjunctions improved                         47       22       43        -       112              49              4S        38        -       135
Before           After                                                        Before            After
Corridors               Pk    Off Pk    Pk      Off Pk                   Corridors         Pk       Off Pk   Pk        Off Pk
Improve operating    Reduction in average   Tay Son                                                             3 Trang/Dien Bien Phu
conditions of major  travel time (in minutes)  Le Duan                                                          Tan Doc Thang/
corridors          during peak and off-peak    Tran Quang Khai                                                  NguyenTat Thanh
hours within 3 months    Bach Mai                                                           Nguyen Van Troi
before and after                                                                            Cach Mang Thang/
improvements along a                                                                        Haun Nhai
corridor.
(Target 10% reduction)                                              (Target 10% reduction)
Corridors             2000     2001    2002                              Corridors        2000      2001     2002
Improve traffic    No. of fatal accidents per    Tay Son                                                        3 Trang/Dien Bien Phu
safety along priority  motorized vehicle along  Le Duan                                                         Tan Doc Thang/
corridors          project corridors        Tran Quang Khai                                                     NguyenTat Thanh
Bach Mai                                                           Nguyen Van Troi
Cach Mang Thang/
Haun Nhai
2000     2001    2002                                               2000      2001     2002
Strengthen         No. of TUPWS staff
institutional      trained in traffic and
capacity of TUPWS   project management
and TPD
No. of TPD staff trained in
traffic enforcement and
traffic management



Page 19                                 ANNEX 2
Annex 2
Project Description
A. Hanoi City
Component A.1: Traffic System Improvemrnents - US$21.3 million (including detail engineering)
The traffic improvement proposals involve traffic engineering and management measures on four
main radial corridors and in two inner city areas, the French Architectural and Ancient Quarters. The
corridors include two main radial routes from the central area out to the proposed Third Ring Road in the
south and southwest sectors (7.5km and 5.3km in length), a shorter (4.5km) corridor south from the
center, including a pair of parallel one-way streets, and a section of the route (6.1km) parallel to the Red
River and northeast of the central area. The latter corridor is an important truck-route that avoids the
inner core but provides access to the center and the Chuong Duong Bridge (see the map). The proposals
for the Ancient Quarter concentrate on improving key peripheral routes and reducing traffic levels in the
core of the historic business area.
Component Al.l: Hanoi Corridors and Intersections - US$15.7 million
The measures proposed include the physical segregation of two- and four-wheel traffic, facilities
for pedestrians, limited amounts of road reconstruction or resurfacing, local drainage improvements, road
signs and markings and street lighting. Specific junction improvements are proposed which include
additional channeling to separate turning movements, reduce conflicts between traffic flows, and provide
pedestrian refuge; improved signals are also proposed, including separate phases for turning traffic and
two-wheel vehicles. Particular attention has been paid to certain key junctions, including those where the
corridors cross the proposed second and third ring roads, and at approaches to the Long Bien and Chuong
Duong bridges. Options for grade-separaition were considered at these locations, but were not found
feasible nor within the scope of the present project.
The major items of expenditure on the Tay Son and Le Duan corridors relate to improving
junctions and channelization, including the key junction at Nga Tu So on Tay Son, and providing railway
barriers at the junctions on Le Duan. On Tran Quang Khai, significant expenditure will be incurred in
reconstructing much of the carriageway and providing truck parking facilities. The Bach Mai corridor
costs will include substantial drainage and resurfacing works.
The key parameters of the corridors are:
Corridor          Length   Total Cost  No of Junctions    No of Signals    Base Cost of
(km)    $ million*     (signals)                      Civil Works**
_______              French   IDA
Tay Son             5.3       2.71         22 (10)         5        5         1.86
Le Duan             7.5       4.46         47 (10)         4        7         3.09
Tran Quang Khai     6.1       5.82         15 (14)         1       13         3.93
Bach Mai            4.5       2.66         28 (17)        12        5         1.82
Total              23.4       15.65        112 (51)       22       30         10.89
* 1998 prices, including physical & price contingencies
** excluding physical and price contingencies



Page 20                                ANNEX 2
Component A 1.2: Hanoi Central Area - US$5.6 million
Comprehensive area-wide traffic improvements will be carried out in the French Architectural
and Ancient Quarters. The measures will be designed to improve the traffic flow and circulation, but
specifically to enhance road safety and pedestrian conditions, while reducing the adverse environmental
impact of traffic in the inner areas. In the French Architecture Quarter, revisions and rationalization of the
circulation system are proposed, in conjunction with improved (and linked) signals. The area comprises
13.2km of wide city streets laid out on a rectangular grid; a number of streets are currently one-way with
signals at key locations. Improvements include separating two- and four-wheel traffic and increasing
safety by providing pedestrian facilities. Of the 41 sets of signals proposed, 22 have already been
installed under Phase I of the French Project and a further seven are proposed under Phase II. The
remaining 12 junctions will obtain signals under the project.
In the Ancient Quarter, two peripheral routes will be improved, for a total length of 6.9km, to
reduce traffic flows on old narrow streets in the commercial core. The improvements to the peripheral
routes will include installing signals and new curbs, and limited resurfacing and drainage works, and will
be coupled with road closures and adjustments to the circulation pattern to deter through-traffic on other
routes. Access will be restricted and specific vehicle types segregated to reinforce the proposed road
hierarchy and reduce vehicle use in the area. In total, 29 sets of traffic signals are proposed, of which
four will be supplied under the French project. The proposed scheme considers the measures proposed
under bilateral technical assistance (SIDA) for the Ancient Quarter.
The key parameters of the two central area schemes are:
Area             Length  Total Cost   No of Junctions    No of Signals     Base Cost of
(km)   $ million*      (signals)                       Civil Works**
French    W
French Arch. Qtr.   13.2    2.67          49 (41)        29        12         1.69
Ancient Quarter    6.9      2.97          51 (29)         4        25         1.60
Total             20.1      5.64         100 (70)        33        37         3.28
* 1998 prices, including physical & price contingencies
** excluding physical and price contingencies
Component A.2: Institutional Strengthening - US$3.0 million
Component A.2.1: Assistance to TUPWS -US$1.2 million
TA, training and equipment will be provided to the PMU-Hanoi for project implementation and
management and the Traffic Management Departnent (TMD) of TUPWS, the core technical unit
consisting of traffic engineers, road engineers and traffic data technicians, to improve their project/traffic
management and monitoring ability:
Project management consultants. PMU-Hanoi will engage consultants to help the unit carry
out procurement (including tender document preparation, contractor pre-qualification, bid
evaluation and contract award), and disbursement, and supervise all works, goods and services
under the project. Funding will also be provided for daily operations;



Page 21                                ANNEX 2
Advisors to the PMU/TMD. The consultants will provide an advisor to work in the PMU/TMD
for three years to offer classroom and on-the-job training to staff; supervise detailed engineering
of the second and third year implementation programs; and advise the PMU/TMD staff on all
matters dealing with traffic management, engineering and monitoring;
Training. Senior PMU/TMD staff will spend short periods (up to four weeks) with counterpart
organizations in Asia;
Equipment. The following will be provided to the PMU/TMD: automatic traffic counters, tape
recorders, video cameras, computers, software and vehicles ($590,000).
Component A.2.2: Assistance to TPDs - US$1.8 million
Assistance, training and equipment will also be provided to Hanoi's Traffic Police Department
(TPD) to improve its traffic enforcement capacity:
Advisor to the TPD. A traffic enforcement advisor will work in the Hanoi-TPD for a period of
10 man-months to provide classroom and on-the-job training to TPD staff;
Training. Senior staff of the TPD will make field visits with counterpart organizations in Asia;
Equipment. The following will be provided: vehicles (patrol cars, motorcycles, light trucks,
minibus, etc. - $956,000), equipment for investigating and recording accidents ($80,000),
enforcement technology (speed and breath testing - $160,000), communications technology
($200,000) and computers, software and peripherals.
B. Ho Chi Minh City
Component B.1: HCMC Traffic System Improvement - US$19.0 million (including detail
engineering)
Component B.1.1: Corridors and Intersections - US$9.6 million
The proposals for Ho Chi Minh City include traffic engineering improvements on four major
corridors, at 14 isolated junctions and within the central area. The four corridors involve approximately
36.2km and include both radial and cross.-town routes. Sections of three of the corridors form a "ring"
around the central area -- providing an alternate route for through-traffic not having business in the
center. The three corridors are also strategic truck routes, including a cross-town connection and access
to the port. The fourth corridor provides a link to the airport from the town center. The proposals are
designed to improve traffic capacity and safety on key routes by treating junctions consistently and
separating (by means of road markings) two and four-wheel traffic. New traffic signals are proposed at
61 junctions; the 14 isolated junctions are at key locations in the outer areas (not on the selected
corridors), and new signals are proposed for nine of them.
Major expenditures -- in approximately equal amounts -- are proposed for the corridors for
adding signals, channeling and resurfacing/reconstructing carriageways. The improvements are linked to
the central area proposals, with particular attention paid to critical junction complexes on the major routes
approaching the center; the objective is 1:o discourage traffic from entering the center and provide an
attractive alternate route. On the approaches to the central area, specific consideration will be given to
segregating two- and four-wheel traffic and providing facilities for buses and other public modes.



Page 22                                ANNEX 2
The key parameters of the corridors and junctions are:
Corridor                           Length  Total Cost   No of   No of    Base Cost of
(km)   $ million*  Junction  Signals  Civil Works**
3 Thang 2/Dien Bien Phu             15.4      3.2        49       30          1.6
Ton Duc Thang/Nguyen Tat Thanh      6.6        1.9       28       12          1.1
Nguyen Van Troi                     4.7        1.5       20        7           1.0
Cach Mang Thang Tam/Ham Nghi        9.5       2.3        24       12          1.4
Isolated junctions                   -        0.7        14        9          0.2
Total                               36.2      9.6        135      70          5.3
* 1998 prices, including physical & price contingencies
** excluding physical and price contingencies
Component B.1.2: HCMC Central Area Improvements - US$3.4 million
The objectives of the central area traffic scheme are to reduce the through volumes of vehicular
traffic, (especially four-wheel vehicles and trucks), to improve conditions for pedestrians, to provide
routes for two-wheeled vehicles, and to improve access to commercial and business activities.
Specifically, traffic management measures will restrict the through-movement of four-wheel vehicles by
means of selective road closures and priorities for two-wheel traffic. Alternate routes will be established
on the corridors surrounding the central area. In particular, truck traffic will be restricted to these
peripheral routes. Facilities and priorities will allow penetration by buses to key central areas.
Traffic signals are proposed at 44 of the 132 junctions in the central area which will be linked to
the proposed ATC scheme. Channeling will be improved at all central area junctions to guide traffic and
ease pedestrian movement. Pedestrian plazas will be established around the Opera House, People's
Committee Building, Notre Dame Cathedral, Central Post Office, and Ben Thanh Market.
Component B.1.3: HCMC Area Traffic Control - US$6.0 million
A fully responsive ATC system covering about 150 intersections will be implemented in central
HCMC. The proposed system will coordinate signals on the corridors and central area traffic schemes;
initially, it will connect about 105 redesigned junctions under this project, but could be subsequently
expanded to control signals throughout the inner districts. A first phase of signal control (approximately
30 intersections) will be installed along the Dien Bien PhuNVo Thi Sau corridor. The ATC center will be
housed at the traffic police headquarters (which will replace part of the existing TPD buildings) on Tran
Hung Dao. A new building is proposed on this site as part of the French-aided signal project being
implemented in Districts 5 & 11, which would be shared by both French and Bank projects. An
estimated US$500,000 is being allowed to construct/extend the new building to house the ATC center.
The new building would also house the Accident Investigation Unit. In addition to the above, the total
cost includes technical assistance (US$200,000), training (US$100,000), spare parts (US$350,000) and
maintenance tools and services (US$150,000).
Component B.2: Institutional Strengthening - US$3.9 million
This component aims to increase the management capabilities of the PMU-HCMC and related
TMD, and the enforcement capacity of the TPD.



Page 23                               ANNEX 2
Component B2.1: Assistance to TlUPWS - US$1.2 million
TA, training and equipment will be provided to the PMU-HCMC and TMD of TUPWS, the core
technical unit consisting of traffic engineers, road engineers and traffic data technicians to improve their
project/traffic management and monitoring ability:
Project management consultants. PMU-HCMC will engage consultants to help the unit carry
out procurement (including tender document preparation, contractor pre-qualification, bid
evaluation and contract award), and disbursement and supervise all works, goods and services to
be procured under the project. The consultants will also supervise the contract to install the ATC
equipment. Funding will be provided to PMU for its daily operations;
Advisors to PMU/TMD. The consultants will provide an advisor to work with PMU/TMD for
three years to offer classroom and on-the-job training to PMU/TMD staff; supervise detail
engineering of the second and third year implementation programs; and provide advice to
PMU/TMD staff on all matters dealing with traffic management, engineering and monitoring;
Training. Senior staff of PMU/TMD will spend short periods (up to four weeks) with
counterpart organizations in Asia;
Equipment. The following will be provided to PMU/TMD: automatic traffic counters, tape
recorders, video cameras, computers, software and vehicles ($590,000).
Component B2.2: Assistance to TPD - US$2.7 million
Assistance, training and equipment will also be provided to the Traffic Police Department
(TMD) of HCMC to improve its traffic enforcement capacity:
Advisor to the TPD. A traffic enforcement advisor will work in HCMC-TPD for 10 man-
months to provide classroom and on-the-job training to TPD staff.
Training. Senior TPD staff will also make field visits with counterpart organizations in Asia;
Equipment. Procurement for the IPD will include vehicles (patrol cars, motorcycles, recovery
cranes, etc. - $1,511,000), equipmnent for investigating and recording accidents ($80,000),
enforcement technology (speed artd breath testing - $180,000), communications technology
(US$400,000), portable vehicle weighing equipment ($40,000) and computers, software and
peripherals.



Page 24
ANNE-X 3
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs*
Project Component                                       Local            Foreign            Total
(US$ million)     (US$ million)     (US$ million)
A. HANOI CITY
A.1. Traffic System Management
A.1.1 Corridors and intersections                          7.60              4.60            12.20
A.1.2 Central area                                         2.40              2.10             4.50
Subtotal                                                  10.00              6.70            16.70
A.2 Institutional Strengthening
A.2.1 Assistance to TUPWS                                  0.40              0.70             1.10
A.2.2 Assistance to traffic police                         0.20              1.50             1.70
Subtotal                                                   0.60              2.20            2.80
Component Subtotal                                            10.60              8.90            19.50
B. HO-CHI-MINH CITY
B.1 Traffic System Improvement
B.1.1 Corridors and intersections                          3.87              4.01             7.88
B.1.2 Central areas                                        1.20              1.60             2.80
B.1.3 Area traffic control                                 0.92              4.57             5.49
Subtotal                                                   5.99             10.18            16.17
B.2 Institutional Strengthening
B.2.1 Assistance to TUPWS                                  0.40              0.73             1.13
B.2.2 Assistance to TPDs                                   0.35              2.20             2.55
Subtotal                                                   0.75              2.93             3.68
Component Subtotal                                             6.74             13.11            19.85
Physical Contingencies                                        0.70               1.46            2.16
Price Contingencies                                           3.76               1.93            5.69
Total Project Cost                                            21.80             25.40            47.20
* Excluding taxes and duties
For details on costs please see the Project Implementation File



Page 25                                    ANNEX 4
Annex 4
Cost Benefit Summary
(Currency: US$, Unit: million, Base Year: 1995)
Summary of Benefits, Costs and Assumptions:
The quantified benefits included travel time savings only. Although road safety is expected to
improve, safety benefits could not be quantified since basic information on the magnitude, nature and
cause of accidents did not exist. Savings in vehicle operating costs were considered low because of the
dominance of two-wheel vehicles in traffic streans. The estimated ERRs are conservative.
The costs of each corridor and key junction improvements included those associated with
physical works, detail design (6%) and implementation, and physical contingencies (10%). An additional
5% of investment costs was included for O&M.
All physical works for a corridor wvere assumed to be implemented over two years. The benefits
were estimated for five years, representing the time lapse between the implementation and the next major
maintenance caused by the anticipated traffic growth. The costs and benefits are discounted to the base
year at 12% per year.
Present traffic flows, link speeds and junction delays were established through surveys in Hanoi
and HCMC. The information was used. to develop a series of volume-delay curves for cars and
motorcycles along links and at junctions. Based on the experience with similar improvements in other
countries, it was assumed that the proposed improvements would increase capacity by 10% along links
and 20% at major junctions.
Based on the survey data, it was assumed that for non-truck vehicles, 30% of trips are for
business purposes and 70% are for non-business purposes; for trucks, all trips are related to business. For
business trips, the value of time was assurmed to be 100% of the average wage; for non-business trips, it
was assumed to be 30% of the average wage.
The cost - benefit analysis results were summarized in the following tables:
Table 1: Cost - Benefit Analyses
(Individual Corridors and CDmbined Corridors, Junctions and Central Areas)
Traffic (1999)   Costs          NPV            IRR
(vehlday)    (US$ million)   (US$ million)   (%/6)
HCMC
3Thang 2 - Dien Bien Thu    297,824          2.71          28.80         135%
Nguyen Tat Thanh             274,290         1.67           1.80          37%
Nguyen Van Troi              192,129         1.37           0.92          29%
Cach Mang Thang Tam          173,634         2.07           7.19          73%
Combined /a                                 15.80          31.60          52%
Hanoi                  =       _
Tay Son                      122,560         2.52           8.34          70%
Le Duan                      134,540         4.16           9.76          54%
Bach Mai                    200,503          2.47           5.77          57%
Tran Quang Khai              155,982         5.41           1.93          21%
Combined /a             I _       _         19.90          23.90          38%
/a: Combined corridors, junctions and central areas.



Page 26                                       ANNEX 4
Table 2: Forecast of Traffic Growth
Vehicle Types                          Growth Factor 1995-2005 (1995=1.00)
HCMC                          Hanoi
Bicycle                                0.21                          0.48
Motorcycle                             2.71                          2.64
Car                                    2.26                           1.75
Truck                                  2.37                           1.86
Bus                                    1.50                           1.28
Other                                  1.00                           1.00
Table 3: Vehicle Occupancy and Value of Time
HCMC                Hanoi
Hourly wage (1999) (US$/h)      1.237               0.885
Vehicle Types            Occupancy           VOT as               VOT                 VOT
(person/v)         % of wage          (US$/v/h)           (US$/v/h)
Bicycle                     1.15               51%                0.73                0.52
Motorcycle                  1.39               51%                0.88                0.63
Car                         2.46               51%                1.55                 1.11
Truck                       1.82              100%                2.25                 1.61
Bus                         8.72               51%                5.50                3.94
Other                       1.70               51%                1.07                0.77
Sensitivity Analysis:
Five different scenarios were tested for sensitivity analysis (see Table 4). A few more
scenarios regarding time savings were further tested to verify that only small time savings would
be required to generate an acceptable rate of return. The sensitivity analysis showed that the
subprojects are robust to traffic and cost variations.
Table 4: Sensitivity Analysis
IRRs
Scenarios                Si            S2            S3            S4            S5
HCMC
3 Thang 2 - Dien Bien Thu         88%          108%           67%           115%          54%
Nguyen Tat Thanh                  12%           25%           2%            27%           -4%
Nguyen Van Troi                   6%            17%           -4%           20%           -10%
Cach Mang Thang Tam               40%           55%           26%           59%           17%
Combined /a                       25%           37%           14%           41%           7%
Hanoi_                     _
Tay Son                           38%           53%           24%           57%           15%
Le Duan                           27%           40%           16%           44%           10%
Bach Mai                          28%           42%           15%           46%            7%
Tran Quang Khai                   3%            12%           -3%           14%           -7%
Combined /a                       14%           26%           5%            29%           -1%
/a: Combined corridors, junctions and central areas.
Note: S 1: Traffic growth reduced by half compared to the base case; S2: Time savings=70% of the base case;
S3: Sland S2 combined; S4: Investment costs 30% higher than the base case; and S5: S3 and S4 combined.



Page 27                                 ANNEX 5
Annex 5
Firtancial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(Indicate currency, units and base year)
Implementation Period           Operational Period
1999  2000  2001  2002**
Project Costs
Investment Costs*
Hanoi          4.93   6.39  10.44   2.60
HCMC            4.23   6.70   9.75    2.20        N.A
Recurrent Costs      0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
Total             9.16  13.09  20.19   4.80
Financing Sources (% of
total project costs)
IDA                  8.25  11.88  18.30   4.31         N.A
Government
Hanoi PC         0.49   0.64   1.01    0.26
HCMC PC          0.42   0.57   0.88    0.23
Total             9.16  13.09  20.19   4.80
* Excluding taxes and duties
** No new contract(s) will be executed but project implementation will continue.



Page 28                                 ANNEX 6
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
All works and goods to be financed under the IDA credit will be procured in accordance with the
World Bank Guidelines - Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January 1995, revised
January and August 1996, and September 1997. All contracts for works and goods will use the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents or bidding documents written in Vietnamese, which are acceptable to the
Bank. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Borrower's local procurement procedures (Decree
43/CP--July 1996, as amended by Decree 93/CP--August 1997), and the Guidelines issued by Circular
02/TTLB (February 1997) and bidding documents will be used for national competitive bidding (NCB),
with the required revisions and clarifications for purposes of consistency with the Bank's Guidelines for
NCB set forth in a Supplemental Letter (reference date May 27, 1998) to the Development Credit
Agreement. The Bank's Standard Bid Evaluation Form (April 1996) will be used for evaluating bids for
works and goods. These arrangements will encourage the participation of eligible qualified local
contractors (enterprises which are financially and managerially autonomous and have the capacity to
undertake the proposed work). Similarly, consultants' services will be procured under the Guidelines -
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, issued in January 1997 and revised
September 1997. The Borrower will be required to use the Bank's Standard Request for Proposal -
Selection of Consultants (July 1997), based on the of assignment.
Civil works. All civil works will be awarded under NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank in 13
individual packages of under US$2.5 million (eight in Hanoi and five in HCMC). Foreign companies
will not be excluded from bidding for NCB contracts. NCB contracts will include all improvements
proposed for the corridors, junctions and central areas in both cities, as well as the ATC center in
HCMC. Sufficient local contractors exist to ensure satisfactory competition for NCB. The works are
simple, labor intensive and ideal for building a reliable and healthy local road construction and
maintenance industry. Moreover, small works are unlikely to attract foreign bidders.
Goods and equipment. Goods to be procured under ICB will include traffic signals, ATC for HCMC,
vehicles and equipment valued at more than US$100,000 per contract. When bids are evaluated,goods
manufactured in Vietnam will be eligible for domestic preference under paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Bank's Guidelines and Appendix 2. International and national shopping may be used for eligible goods
valued at US$100,000 or US$50,000 or less per contract, respectively, up to an aggregate value of
US$500,000. At least three quotations from qualified bidders from at least two countries would be
sought in the case of international shopping. National shopping will be according to procedures
acceptable to IDA and based on three quotations from qualified suppliers. Where feasible, vehicles for
both cities' PMUs may be procured through the UNDP Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
(UNDP-IAPSO)i/.
Consultant services. These will include project management and technical advisory services to the
PMUs, traffic enforcement advisors to the TPDs, and training. The services under Components
1 see page 34 of the Procurement Guidelines.



Page 29                               ANNEX 6
A.2.1 and B.2.1 will be provided by qualified firms selected on the basis of quality-and-cost-based
selection (QCBS) as specified in the Consultant Guidelines. Contracts over US$200,000 will be
advertised in a national newspaper and in Development Business (UNDB).
Prior review thresholds:
Prior review thresholds are indicated in Table B to this Annex. Selective post review of
contract awards or purchases where costs are below the thresholds listed in Table B will be carried
out by the Resident Mission in Hanoi.
Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds.
The credit will be disbursed against eligible expenditures within the categories summarized
in Table C of this Annex. The project is expected to be frilly disbursed by June 30, 2003.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Disbursements will be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) under contracts for:
(a) civil works not exceeding US$200,000 equivalent each; (b) goods not exceeding US$100,000
equivalent each; (c) consultant services with firms not exceeding U$100,000 equivalent each; and
(d) consultant services with individuals not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent. Documentation for
these expenditures will be retained by the implementing agencies and made available to the Bank
on request. All other disbursements frorn the credit would be fully documented.
Special account:
To facilitate credit disbursement and reduce the volume of withdrawal applications, the GOV
will establish a special account for both PMUs to be maintained in US dollars, in a commercial
bank acceptable to IDA. For both Hanoi and HCMC, the authorized allocation is US$1.0 million
each, limited to US$0.5 million, until the amount disbursed plus committed equals SDR2.0 million
equivalent. Based on satisfactory documentation, the special account will be replenished monthly
or when drawn down by 30% of the initial deposit, whichever comes first.



Page 30                                 ANNEX 6
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                   Procurement Method                 Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB       NCB         Other     N.B.F
I .Works
Civil Works                    -         26.1         -          -          26.1
-        (22.7)       -          -          (22.7)
2.Goods
Equipment                     16.9         -         0.5         -          17.4
(16.9)       -         (0.5)       -          (17.4)
3.Services*                    -           -         2.6        1.1          3.7
(2.6)     (0.0)        (2.6)
Total                         16.9       26.1       3.1        1.1          47.2
(16.9)     (22.7)      (3.1)      (0.0)       (42.7)
* Includes detail engineering, project management and supervision, training and advisory services.
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Other = Local/international shopping and UNDP/IAPSO
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
All cost figures exclude taxes and duties



Page 31                                  ANNEX 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure        Contract Value           Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category          (Threshold)                Method          Prior Review / Estimated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
1. Works
Civil Works           Below $2,500,004)     N.C.B.                 >$200,000  US$26.lm
2. Goods
Equipment             Above $100,000        I.C.B.                 >$100,000  US$16.lm
Below $100,000        International Shopping
Below $ 50,000        National Shopping
3. Services
QCBS                  Firms:     US$2.6 m
>$ 100,000
Individuals
> $50,000
Total                                                                      US$44.8 m
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category             Amount in US$ million      Financing
Percentage
Civil Works                                          19.40           90 %
a) Hanoi                                             13.30
b) HCMC                                               6.10
Equipment and Vehicles                               16.70           100 % for both
a)Hanoi                                               4.70           foreign and local
b) HCMC                                              11.00           (ex-factory)
expenditures or,
85% for locally
procured goods
Technical Assistance                                  2.60           100%
a) Hanoi                                              1.50
b) HCMC                                               1.10
Unallocated                                           4.04
Total         42.74



Page 32                                   ANNEX 7
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)    (As of May 1998)
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       US$272,400            US$318,500
B. Project Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              06/21/1994            06/21/1994
Appraisal mission departure                      02/20/1998            02/20/1998
Negotiations                                     05/12/1998            05/28/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    10/15/1998
Prepared by: MOT and TUPWS of Hanoi and HCMC
Preparation assistance: PHRD: TF 022762
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Jitendra N. Bajpai (Task Team Leader, Pr. Transport
Specialist, EASTR); John Cracknell, Rod Stickland (Traffic Engineers, Consultants); Thach N. Phan
(Operations Officer, EACVF); Dong Liu (Transport Economist, EASUR); Carlos Escudero (Senior
Counsel, LEGEA); Pramod Agrawal (Resettlement Specialist); Gaye Lindsey (Disbursement Officer),
David Sislen (Research Assistant); Toru Hashimoto (Urban Planner, EASUR) and Eva Monteblanco
(Team Assistant, EASTR).
Peer Reviewers: John Flora (TWUTD); Stein Lundebye (SASIN) and Gerhard Menckhoff (LCSFP)



Page 33                              ANNEX 8
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.    Project Implementation P3lan: Hanoi TUPWS, May 1998
2.    Project Implementation Plan: HCMC TUPWS, May 1998
3.    Project Implementation File, March 1998
B. Other
The following reports were published in December 1995 by MVA, Asia Limited.
1.    Working Paper: Evaluation Framework
2.    Hanoi Traffic Data Collection
3.    Traffic Police Development
4.    Working paper for Road User Safety & Behavior: A Background Review for
Campaign Development
5.    HCMC Traffic Data Collection
6.    Development of Traffic Forecasts
7.    Traffic Police Development
8.    Campaign: Proposal for a Comprehensive Publicity and Education Program
9.    Functional Road Hierarchy
10.  Institutional Development
11.   HCMC Bus Public Transport Development
12.   HCMC Road Improvement and Traffic Management
13.   Area Traffic Control in Ho Chi Minh
14.   Hanoi Road Improvemenit and Traffic Management
16.   Hanoi and HCMC Cost E^stimation
17.   Draft Final Report
18.   Final Report



Page 34                                                                         ANNEX 9
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Vietnam
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
As of 30-Apr-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                          disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                               IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 3
Active Loans
VN-PE-45628   IDA30340       1998   GOV                               TRANSMISSION & DISTR               0.00     199.00            0.00         194.70        0.00       0.00
VN-PE-4839    IDA29960       1998   GOVT OF VIET NAM                  FOREST PROT.& RUL DE               0.00      21.50            0.00          20.73        -.46       0.00
VN-PE-4843    IDA30000       1998   GOVT OF VIET NAM                  INLAND WATERWAYS                   0.00      73.00             0.00         72.41         .48       0.00
VN-PE-39021   IDA29290       1997   GOV'T OF VIET NAM                 RURAL TRANSPORT                    0.00      55.00             0.00         42.65         .11       0.00
VN-PE-4830    IDAN0260       1997   GOV                               WATER SUPPLY                       0.00      98.61            0.00          96.14       10.21       0.00
VN-PE-4842    IDAN0130       1997   GOVT OF VIET NAM                  HIGHWAY REHAB II                   0.00     195.60            0.00         178.80        9.38       0.00
VN-PE-36042   IDA27850       1996   SOC. REP. OF VIETNAM              BANKING SYSTEM MODER               0.00      49.00             0.00         43.87       34.45       0.00
VN-PE-42236   IDA28200       1996   GOVT. OF VIETNAM                  POWER DEV                          0.00     180.00             0.00         15.04      -25.07       0.00
VN-PE-4838    IDA28080       1996   SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIE         NATIONAL HEALTH SUPP               0.00     101.20             0.00         83.60        7.38       0.00
VN-PE-4841    IDA28070       1996   SOC REP OF VIET NAM               POPULATION & FAMILY                0.00      50.00             0.00         38.95        8.08       0.00
VN-PE-4847    IDA28550       1996   GOV                               RURAL FINANCE                      0.00     122.00             0.00        106.51       40.28       0.00
VN-PE-4834    IDA27110       1995   GOV                               IRRIGATION REHABILIT               0.00     100.00             0.00         71.37       -1.77       0.00
VN-PE-4836    IDA27240       1995   EVN PC2 PC3                       POWER SECTOR REHAB &               0.00     165.00             0.00         81.40       69.16    -22.66
VN-PE-4832    IDA25490       1994   GOVT OF VIET NAM                  HIGHWAY REHAB                      0.00     158.50             0.00         87.77       80.27      29.92
VN-PE-4835    IDA25480       1994   SOC REP OF VIET NAM               PRIMARY EDUCATION                  0.00      70.00             0.00         42.05       18.39      -1.09
VN-PE-4837    IDA25610       1994   GOVT OF VIET NAM                  AGRIC REHABILITATION               0.00      96.00             0.00          4.16        -.43       0.00
Total                                                                                                    0.00   1,734.41            0.00      1,180.15       250.46       6.17
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 466.06              243.82              709.88
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                5.67                5.67
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               1,734.41              239.03            1,973.44
Amount sold                      :                0.00                 0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :            1,180.15                0.00            1,180.15
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance
(ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed
Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 35                                             ANNEX 9
Annex 9
Vietnam
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committedl and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Apr-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                            Disbursed
IFC                                  IFC
FY Approval             Company              Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic
1994             Hanoi Metropole                 4.00     0.00      3.50    13.46     4.00     0.00      3.50    13.46
1995             Baria Serece Prt                3.00     0.00     0.00      1.80     3.00     0.00      0.00     1.80
1995             Foremost Dairy                  7.20     0.00      0.00     5.85     7.20     0.00      0.00     5.85
1996             Kyoei Steel                    15.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    15.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1996             Mom.Star Cement                30.00     0.00      0.00    66.60    25.80     0.00      0.00    57.28
1996             Sucre de Bourbon               22.00     0.00     0.00    20.00    22.00      0.00      0.00    20.00
1996             SMH Glass Co.                  10.00     0.00      0.00     4.50    10.00     0.00      0.00     4.50
1996             Tosac Hotel                     3.39     0.00      0.00     2.78     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1996             Tourane Hotel                   6.00     0.00     2.30      6.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1996             Vimaflour                       8.00     0.00     0.00      3.00     8.00     0.00      0.00     3.00
1996             VILC                            0.00      .75      0.00     0.00     0.00      .75      0.00     0.00
1997             Saigon Hilton                  13.05     0.00     0.00    28.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:                   121.64      .75      5.80   151.99    95.00       .75     3.50   105.89
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997             NGHE AN SUGAR                  20.00     0.00     0.00    30.00
1997            NGHI SON CEMENT                 30.00     0.00     0.00    26.50
1997             SEM HOTEL                       0.00     0.00     4.50      0.00
1996             VIETNAM INTL LSE                5.00     0.00     0.00    10.00
1997             VINAFOOD                       10.50     0.00     0.00    13.50
Total Pending Commitment:           65.50     0.00      4.50    80.00



Page 36                                                   ANNEX 10
Annex 10
Vietnam  at a glance                                                                 2J18/98
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 East    Low-
Vietnam       Asia  income       Development diamond*
Population mid-1996 (millions)                          75.4      1,726    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                                290        890      500                  Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (bilrions US$)                                 21.9      1,542    1,601                        T
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                           2.2        1.3       1.7     GNP                                Gross
Labor force(%)                                           2.0        1.3       1.7
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                               capita             <           enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)                51
Urban population (%6 of total population)                 19         31       29                        1
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          68         68       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  40         40       69                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                45
Access to safe water (% of population)                    36         49       53
Illiteracy (%6 of population age 15+)                      6         17       34                 Vietnam
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    114        117      105                 Lietnam
Male                                                    ..        120      112                 Low-incomegroup
Female                                                  ..        116       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM
1975     1985       1996     1996
Economic ratios*
GDP (billions US$)                                ..    17.0       20.2     23.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                     ..      ..       27.1     27.9              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP                 ..      ..       35.9     41.5
Gross domestic savings/GDP                       ..       ..       16.3      14.3
Gross national savings/GDP                       ..       ..       16.8      16.6
Current account balance/GDP                       ..    -3.1      -10.0    -11.3                      .
Interest payments/GDP                            ..      0.0        0.4      0.4      Savings                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                   ..      0.4      127.5    114.7
Total debt service/exports                       ..       .,        5.0       3.5
Present value of debtUGDP                         ..      ..         ..   103.8
Present value of debt/exports                    ..       ..         ..   245.6                    Indebtedness
19764S  1986-96      1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                         Vietnam
GDP                                     ..      7.2      9.5        9.3       8.0
GNP percapita                           ..      4.8      7.4        7.3       6.2               Low-income group
Exports of goods and services           ..    25.8      27.1       22.6     14.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
('A of GDP)                                   1976      1986       1996     1996      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                      ..        ..      27.5      27.2      e-
Industry ".                                                ..      30.1     30.7      40
Manufacturing                                  ..        ..                          20-
Services                                          ..      ..       42.4     42.1
Private consumption                               ..      ..       76.8        ..    -20                   93   94    9s   r,
General government consumption                   ..       ..        6.9                               GDI   C_ GDP
Imports of goods and services                    ..       ..       46.7      55.1
1975-86  1986-96       1996     1996
(average annual growth)                                                               Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                      ..      5.2        4.7       4.8     as
Industry                                         ..    12.2        13.9      14.4     eo7
Manufacturing                                   ..       .
Services                                          ..     8.6       10.9       9.7     20
Private consumption                              ..       ..         ..        ..
General govemment consumption                    ..
Gross domestic investment                        ..    26.2        22.0      17.1    -20                   93   94   95   99
Imports of goods and services                    ..    27.0        41.2      27.8                    Exports  I     mports
Gross national product                           ..       7.2       9.5       9.3                       o
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those speciflied.
' The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group avenage. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 37                                                   ANNEX 10
Vietnam
PRICES and GOVERNMENT
1975     1985       1995     1996
Domestic prices                                                                       Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                           100
Consumer prices                                  ..       ..       16.8       5.6      7.
Implicit GDP deflator                            ..    94.2        19.5       6.1     s,)
Govemment finance                                                                      25
(% of GDP)                                                                             0
Current revenue                                  ..       ..       23.9      23.6             91    92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                            ..      ..        5.2       5.8                    GDP def. -C PI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..        ..      -0.1      -0.1
TRADE
1975     1985       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                        Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                              ..      507      5,198    7,331      1S,000
Rice                                            ..       ..       547      855
Fuel                                            .        ..     1,063    1,346
Manufactures                                    ..       ..                         10000
Total imports (cif                               ..      930      9,459   13,548
Food                                           ..        ..         ..       ..      s,0000oo-                          l
Fuel and energy                                 ..
Capital goods                                   ..-
Export price index (1987=100)                     ..      ..         ..                      90  91  92  93  94  95  93
Import price index (1987=100)                    ..        .                                         Exports    Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                         ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                        Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                     .        ..     7,272    9,695       0
Imports of goods and services                    ..       ..    9,459   12,870             90   9    92   93   94   95   96
Resource balance                                 ..       ..   -2,188   -3,176        -2 -
Net income                                        ..     -90       -310     -505      - -4
Net current transfers                            ..       ..        477    1,045
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers              ..    -534       -2,021   -2,636                                     _
Financing items (net)                            ..      265      2,378    3,107
Changes in net reserves                           ..     269       -357     -471      -12-
Memo:                                                                                _
Reserves induding gold (mill. US$)                .        ..     1,320
Conversion rate (/ocal/USS)                       *      8.3   11,010.0  11,080.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             ..       61     25,813   26,764
IBRD                                           ..        0          0        0                 G   412 539 D
IDA                                            ..       54       231       412                3882         112
Total debt service                                ..       2        367      346            F
IBRD                                            .        0          0        0           1582 /
IDA                                            ..        0          2        3
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              249        38       345       230
Official creditors                             ..        7         96      295
Private creditors                                        0       375       171
Foreign direct investment                       ..       0      1,400    1,500                                   E
Portfolio equity                                         0        155      390                                 20257
World Bank program
Commitments                                    ..        0        265      502      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  ..        7        47       189      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                           ..        0          1        1      C- IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                                7        46       188
Interest payments                               .        0          2        2
Net transfers                                  ..        7         45      186
Development Economics                                                                                                   2V18198
Note: Debt includes non-convertible currency debt.



IBRD 29540
VIETNAM
URBAN TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                         cRs.
ANCIENT QUARTER PERIPHERAL
HANOI                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANCIENT QUARTER AREA
.TRAN QUANG KHAI CORRIDOR
Ii   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      -    ~~~~~~~~~TAY SON CORRIDOR
~~v.~~OG   .~~~\C   ><  ~~~~                   EACH SAAI CORRIDOR
N  5.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~LE DUAN CORRIDOR
PROPOSED CENTRAL AREA IMPROVEMENTS
~~5~~4yENI~~~~i4R/HANG  o ~~~~~~MAIN STREETS
g  I\                                       S~~~~~~~~~~~~ECONDARY STREETS
CA  NG
1X7
DEMORATI
> ~ ~       ~        ~        ~        ~         
i          -i
Ir
SC                                                  IS~ AMB    )   
This ,.Cp p.d-d0415 by h. M,,p esTCLCC,loThi, WosId M-
T6  ,s    1-d o,o         -d -OCyC1h  5M m-l,CC-SS                   I-'                         5                   1                                                                    C      S    2C 
j~~d,-l - mh. (.g.l-, .1-Y .,i.,Y,., -, -d---  ~~~~~KILOMETERS
TONIH I       10  RlsI
JUNCE 1998



IBRD 29541
V I E T N A M                                                                    *   PROPOSED ATC SIGNALIZED JUNCTIONS
URBAN TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                                                                PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT CORRIDORS
HO  CHI MINH  CITY                                                                     _    0  3 THANG 2/1EN BIEN PHU
NGUYEN TAT THANH
-    NGUYEN VAN TROI
Q. B   BIH  NA NA  -  INH-    CACH MANG THANG TAM
0. TAN BINH                     T'~~~~~~~NA NAM                                     C~TNOIPROPOSED CENTRAL AREA IMPROVEMENTS
GO VAP                                     |                                _     MAIN STREETS
SAN BAY TAN SON NHAT                                I                              V ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECONDARY STREETS
t            ~~~~~SAN BAY TAN SONHAT                                                               o -   A                        RIVERS
Q. BINH TH-ANHs i,   .*, T,~  W n dM,,k
T-  --M        -;-h- -b          _-  - =    j      h C
II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t, ..,np d. -r,.ply. - th. pont fTh. WonMSonkAG-np. -ny
ond-l   A. 1.gnIol-w  f-y tiwy-n9n  -ny-on4--0
p.-.1 f-h ho-doni.c
iN6                                                          CHINA
o4NGr XAN--                                         P 
QH PHU NHUAN                                                                ! r'NE 199
41v                                                                                  V--N  Hanoi*
I'D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n LAO PEOPLE'S                                                                  O
DEMOCRATIC
STATION   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~/\ REPUBLIC                         VIETNAMl
VIETNAM          1~~~~Ch-o)
z  THU THIEM          l{                            -
THAILAND           -
-.   HoChiMinhCity
5         1          2       I-1
-    KILOMETERS
HUJYEN NHA BE
JUNE 1998



