Report No. PIC3396
Project Name                           Viet Nam-Urban Transport Improvement
Project
Region                                    East Asia and Pacific
Sector                                      Urban Transport
Project ID Number                 VNPE4833
Borrower                                Government of Viet Nam
Implementing Agencies          People's Committee of Hanoi
Transportation and Urban
Public Works Service(TUPWS)
12-14 Phan Dinh Phung Street
Ba Dinh - Hanoi, Viet Nam
Contact: Director
Tel: (84 4) 8-6537
Fax: (84 4) 8-6333
- and -
People's Committee of Ho-Chi-
Minh City
Transportation and Urban
Public Works Service
(TUPWS)
94 Rue Nam Ky Khoi Nghia
Ho-Chi-Minh City, Viet Nam
Contact: Director
Tel: (84 8) 822-3782
Fax: (84 8) 822-5067
Environment Category            B
Date PID Prepared                  November 1995
Projected Appraisal                May 1996
Projected Board Date             December 1996
Peer Reviewers                      Stein Lundebye, SAlIN
John Flora, TWUTD
A.   Background
Country Background
1.   With nearly 70 million people, Viet Nam is the thirteenth most
populous country in the world. It is a country with great potential,
but remains one of the poorest countries (per capita GNP of about
US$240). Over the past years it has steadily shown good economic
results (nine percent GDP growth in 1994) led by a growth in exports and
progress with its transition to a market economy. To sustain the
development Viet Nam needs to focus on poverty alleviation, improvement
of basic infrastructure and social services, and structural issues



affecting the growth (state enterprise reform, access land, entry
restrictions and import tariffs). The Bank's long-term objective in
Viet Nam is to promote broad-based and sustainable development that
results in a rapid reduction in poverty. With this, the Bank's country
assistance strategy pursues five objectives: strengthening of
macroeconomic management; support the transition to a market economy;
assist with the development of infrastructure; implement a strategy for
poverty alleviation; and support sustainable use of natural resources.
B.   Current Status of Urban Transport Sector
2.   Viet Nam is the second most populous nation in southeast Asia
(after Indonesia) with about 22 percent of its 70 million population
living in urban areas. Aost half of the urban population is
concentrated in the Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh (HCMC) and Haiphong areas. To
sustain the projected eight to ten percent annual GDP growth, the
envisaged role of the urban economy cannot be sustained without
reversing the trend towards dilapidation of basis infrastructure and
improving the management of urban assets and services.
3.   The impact of a market-based economic transformation and its pace
(9t GDP growth in 1994) has severely affected the condition of Viet
Nam's urban transport infrastructure. Road traffic conditions in Hanoi,
the capital city of 1.1 million, and in HCMC, the largest city with 3.2
million inhabitants, are rapidly deteriorating due to the accelerating
use of motorized two and four wheeled vehicles. The pace of change is
faster than the institutional and infrastructure capacity of each city
can support. Two-wheel vehicles are the predominant mode of transport
(80-90%), but the share of bicycles is rapidly declining in favor of
motorcycles/mopeds (e.g., in HCMC bicycles are declining by up to 20%
p.a.). The share of accidents and fatalities nationwide has doubled.
4.   The immediate concern is to maintain the existing levels of service
of the road system, and personal mobility, whilst reducing the potential
for road accidents. The need for preserving the use of non-motorized
(NMT) vehicles is critical for both environmental reasons and mobility
needs of the poor. An integrated approach to traffic safety covering
engineering, enforcement and road user education is urgently required.
C.   Project Objectives
5.   The objectives of the proposed project are: (a) to improve the
capacity, operating conditions and safety of the major road corridors
and the central city streets in Hanoi and HCMC through the introduction
of traffic management and engineering measures and construction and/or
improvement of strategic road links and intersections; and (b) to
improve the institutional capacity of both cities in traffic
administration, management and regulation.
D.   Rationale
6.   The contribution of Hanoi and HCMC towards the transformation of
the Vietnamese economy is well recognized. The CAS stresses the
importance of urban efficiency process and recommends Bank assistance
towards the inter-related issues of urban infrastructure, environment
-2 -



and municipal management. Bank involvement in the project is largely
justified by the positive impact it would have on the deteriorating road
safety and traffic conditions in the two key urban growth centers of
Viet Nam. Being the first project in the urban transport sector, the
aim is to introduce the basics of traffic management at an early stage
of motorization and thus build the foundation for sustainable urban
transport development.
E.   Project Description
Component A - Traffic Management Improvement:
7.   Hanoi Sub-Component:   Under this component low cost traffic
improvement measures will be introduced along key corridors and at
junctions to improve traffic flows with particular attention to two-
wheel vehicles, to reduce risks of accidents, and to reduce through
traffic within the old quarter. Typical traffic management measures to
be utilized will include junction improvements, one-way streets,
segregation of two-wheel vehicles, channelization, markings, signaling,
selective road widening, and provision of pedestrian facilities.
8.   HCMC Sub-Component:   Similar to the Hanoi sub-component, traffic
management schemes will be implemented for four to five priority
corridors, including over 75 junctions which radiate from the historical
center. For the core central area, an area wide traffic scheme that
applies restrictive policies on through auto movement and parking
controls, will be implemented. Additionally, an Area Traffic Control
(ATC) signal system will be installed for the central area (2 sq km with
70 junctions) and the extended area.
Component B - Strategic Road Investment:
9.   At certain locations, additional road capacity will be provided to
ease existing bottlenecks or to offer alternative links for a better
distribution of traffic.
Component C - Institutional Development:
10. This component will comprise technical assistance, training,
studies and a limited amount of equipment to improve the content and
process of urban traffic management and planning in both Hanoi and HCMC.
In addition, this component will focus on strengthening the traffic
enforcement and control, and road safety capacity of the traffic police
unit in each city.
F.   Project Cost and Financing
11. The total project cost is anticipated to be US$55 million
(excluding contingencies), of which IDA is expected to finance US$45
million (about 82 percent). For the technical assistance component
covering the project management and institutional development, bi-
lateral funding will be sought.
G.   Project Implementation
-3-



12. GOV, the Borrower, will transfer the funds in Viet Nam Dong to the
Peoples Committees of Hanoi and HCMC separately. The newly formed
Project Management Unit (PMU) within the TUPWS of each People's
Committee will have the sole responsibility for implementation of their
project components. As the Provincial Traffic Police departments come
under the Ministry of Interior but for specified purposes receive funds
from the Provincial Governments, the project sub-components dealing with
the traffic police will be financed by each People's Committee and
managed by the PMUs.
H.   Project Sustainability
13. The proposed project would be the first comprehensive demonstration
of the general principals of traffic management and engineering in Hanoi
and HCMC. The Bank's past experience with similar projects suggests
that the overall success of such projects greatly depends on the police
enforcement of traffic rules and the institutional capacity of the local
agencies to maintain the road facilities and equipment. In both cities
it is observed that despite resource constraints, roads are currently
maintained, and traffic signals, though quite out-of-date, are in
operation. Moreover, several piecemeal traffic management measures
(e.g., one-way street system, restriction on certain vehicles by time
and location, creation of bicycle lanes, channelization, and staggered
work or school hours) have been successfully implemented. There is
evidence of active coordination between the traffic police and TUPWS for
the day-to-day management of roads and traffic in both cities. Proposed
provision of technical assistance, training and equipment under the
project aims at nurturing the current strengths and further building of
adequate capacity within the police and TUPWS for sustaining and
expanding the project objectives.
I.   Lessons Learned From Past Operations in the Country/Sector
14. Bank experience with IDA projects in Viet Nam is still limited, as
the portfolio is in an early stage of development. A recent Country
Implementation Review identified three areas of incipient problems: 1)
procurement, the Government procedures are cumbersome and agencies are
unfamiliar with the Bank guidelines; 2) allocation of counter-part
funds; and 3) resettlement policy. To address these three
implementation issues, the Bank and other donors are currently assisting
the Government through various means, including the EDI training
courses, Institutional Development Fund (IDF) and technical assistance
programs from IDA.
15. Bank project experience in East Asian cities (Shanghai, Bangkok,
Kaula Lumpur, Manila, Seoul, Taegu, etc.) at their early stage of
motorization suggests that low cost traffic management schemes,
extension and improvement of basic road networks, better road
maintenance, and road safety measures have demonstrated very high rates
of return. However, success of traffic management depends heavily upon
road users' compliance with traffic regulations and controls.
J.   Poverty Category
16. The project aims at improving the road safety, and at lowering or
- 4 -



maintaining the costs (time and money) of access for urban poor to
employment, health, education and other amenities, while at the same
time improving urban productivity in general.
K.   Environmental and Social Aspects
17. With the focus on the attainment of smooth traffic flow, reduction
of through traffic within the old city area of Hanoi, access management
in Central HCMC, preservation of NMT use, and institutional
strengthening, the overall project impact will be positive on the urban
environment. As the planned civil works will be minor and within the
existing right of way involuntary resettlement will be minimal.
L.   Program Objective Categories
18. The project would ensure the most efficient use of the existing
infrastructure and reduce the adverse effects of motorized vehicle use.
Successful implementation of the project would result in improved
personal mobility and urban efficiency in general, whilst reducing the
potential for road accidents.
Contact Point:       Task Manager
Jitendra N. Bajpai, EAlIN
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-0459
Fax: (202) 477-2743
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 5 -



