                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 35958-VN




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-31250)

                                           ON A

                                          CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR31.8 MILLION
                              (US$42.72 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                             SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                          FOR AN

                        URBAN TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                        June 22, 2006




Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective May 15, 2006)

              Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong (VND)
                      VND 1 = US$ 0.00006
                       US$ 1 = VND 15,973.5

                    FISCAL YEAR
               January 1    December 31

        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ATC     Area Traffic Control
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
HCMC    Ho Chi Minh City
IDA     International Development Association
JICA    Japan International Cooperation Agency
MOT     Ministry of Transport
MPI     Ministry of Planning and Investment
NPV     Net Present Value
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PC      People's Committee
PHRD    Population and Human Resources Development (Japanese grant)
PMU     Project Management Unit
QAG     Quality Assurance Group (of the Bank)
TMU     Traffic Management Unit
TPD     Traffic Police Department
TUPWS   Transport and Urban Public Works Services
WBI     World Bank Institute



             Vice President:    Mr. Jeffrey Gutman (Acting), EAPVP
          Country Director:     Mr. Klaus Rohland, EACVF
            Sector Director:    Mr. Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
        Task Team Leader:       Mr. Shomik Raj Mehndiratta, EASTR

                              SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
                                Urban Transport Improvement Project


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
    6. Sustainability                                                                  9
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
    9. Partner Comments                                                              13
    10. Additional Information                                                       22
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32

Maps: 29540 (Hanoi); 29541 (Ho Chi Minh City)

Project ID: P004833                                                  Project Name: Urban Transport Improvement Project
Team Leader: Shomik Raj Mehndiratta                                  TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 23, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Urban Transport Improvement Project                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-31250
   Country/Department: VIETNAM                                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General transportation sector (42%); Roads and highways (38%); Sub-national government
                            administration (12%); Central government administration (8%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services and housing (P); Municipal governance and institution building (P);
                            Other urban development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/22/1995                                     Effective: 12/07/1998                11/26/1998
     Appraisal: 02/20/1998                                         MTR:
      Approval: 08/27/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          MOF, GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM/PC OF HANOI AND HCMC
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffrey S. Gutman                              Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Klaus Rohland                                  Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager:                 Jitendra N. Bajpai                             Jeffrey S. Gutman
Team Leader at ICR:             Shomik Raj Mehndiratta                         Jitendra N. Bajpai
ICR Primary Author:             Jacques Yenny


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background. When preparation of this project began in the mid 1990s, both Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City
were beginning to experience rapid urbanization and economic growth, with their transport systems shifting
from pedestrian and bicycle-based modes of motorization. Both cities had very limited knowledge of traffic
management techniques and limited enforcement capacity or their public transport systems were embryonic.
As a result, increasing traffic volumes and chaotic flows in both cities were leading to higher accident rates
and delays, thus constraining local development. IDA was called upon to design a project to alleviate
traffic bottlenecks and allow urban growth to continue.

Objective. The project's overall objective is to increase operational efficiency and safety on selected
corridors and in the central areas of Hanoi and HCMC, by:

    1.     Improving traffic flows by introducing a package of traffic engineering and management
           measures that will redesign junctions, provide new traffic signals and controls, segregate two-and
           four-wheeled traffic, and improve facilities for pedestrians; and
    2.     Strengthening the Transport and Urban Public Works Services (TUPWS) and Traffic Police
           Departments (TPD) in Hanoi and HCMC in areas of traffic management and enforcement with
           training and necessary equipment.

Assessment of Objectives. The objectives of the project were appropriately modest in scope, in light of
the fact that this was the Bank's first engagement in urban transport in Vietnam and given the
transport-related needs of Vietnamese cities at the time. The project was not overly complex, with two
components in two cities. The objectives, which focused on restoring traffic flows and building the related
institutions as the basic building blocks of urban transport, were also technically appropriate. At the time,
Hanoi and HCMC had very limited knowledge of traffic management techniques and limited enforcement
capacity, in a system shifting from bicycles and pedestrians to motorization. Further, while there were
deficiencies in other elements of the transport system (such as in the state of public transport),
improvements in traffic management practice and institutions were a necessary prerequisite for other more
complex interventions to be effective. The project opened the way for a policy dialogue with the main cities
of Vietnam in the area of urban transport by way of relatively low cost but effective measures. The
project's fit with the CAS and its riskiness are assessed in section 3.5 below.

3.2 Revised Objective:
N.A.

3.3 Original Components:
A. Hanoi City US$24.3 million

Traffic System Improvements (US$19.6 million). This included: (a) Corridors and intersections (US$10.1
million); and (b) Central area (US$9.5 million). The improvements involved traffic engineering measures
and management measures on four main radial corridors totaling 23.4 km in length and two central city
areas. In the project corridors and areas, the measures were designed to improve traffic flows and
specifically enhancing road safety and pedestrian conditions, by: (i) installing signs and markings along the
corridors and at intersections; (ii) creating medians physically separating opposing flows of traffic; (iii)
installing traffic signals; and (iv) installing channelization measures (such as safety islands) to guide traffic
at intersections.




                                                        - 2 -

Institutional Strengthening (US$4.7 million). This included technical assistance, training and equipment to
(a) the Transport and Urban Public Works Services Department (TUPWS) (US$2.6 million) specifically to
develop staff in its Traffic Management Department (TMD); and (b) the Traffic Police Department (TPD)
to improve traffic enforcement capacity (US$2.1 million).

B. Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) (US$22.9 million). The components below are basically the same as
those described above for Hanoi.

Traffic System Improvements (US$17.8 million). This included: (a) Corridors and intersections (US$8.6
million); (b) Central area (US$3.0 million); and (c) Area traffic control (US$6.2 million).

Institutional Strengthening (US$5.1 million), This included: (a) Assistance to the Transport and Urban
Public Works Services Department (TUPWS) (US$2.1 million); and (b) Assistance to the Traffic Police
Department (TPD) (US$2.9 million).

Assessment of Design. The project design related directly to its objectives. The design consisted of an
appropriate mix of (a) traffic management initiatives that would be relatively easy to implement and would
provide immediate benefits (such as the installation of traffic lights); (b) medium-term capacity-building
initiatives that would increase the cities' capability to enforce and improve traffic management measures;
and (c) some low-cost but ambitious initiatives such as junction channelization that are important elements
of a sustainable transport system in the long-term, but need time for public acceptance. This strategy
considered the Bank's experience in East Asia and particularly in China, which had shown both the benefits
of traffic management and the need to engage in a multi-pronged strategy to successfully create a culture of
traffic management in cities experiencing rapid motorization. In this context, the Bank's experience
suggests while measures such as physical medians, and junction channelization have significant benefits in
terms of safety, they invariably face initial opposition from individuals upset at constraints on their
mobility. Successful demonstrations, technical capacity in government to initiate locally adapted pilots and
time are needed before the value of these low-cost traffic management measures are fully accepted.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised, though the scope of the junction channelization works in both cities was
reduced, most significantly in HCMC, where actual civil works costs for this sub-component were only 17
percent of appraisal estimates. (See Sections 4.2 and 5.1.)

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not assess quality at entry. Quality at entry is rated as
moderately satisfactory for the following reasons:

a)       Consistency with CAS/Government Commitment and Participation in Preparation. The project
was consistent with the objectives of the 1996 CAS, which were to promote investments in key
infrastructure to support broad-based, sustainable development and poverty reduction. At the time, the
country's dilapidated infrastructure had been cited as a critical constraint to development. In the transport
sector, IDA's strategy was to help rehabilitate basic networks, promote regulatory reforms and strengthen
institutions responsible for providing and managing infrastructure. The CAS also stressed the importance
of urban efficiency as a catalyst to development. The project was consistent with this strategy and planned
to improve traffic operations and safety in Vietnam's two major cities whilst strengthening its related
institutions.

The Government showed its commitment to the project by establishing a steering committee for preparation



                                                       - 3 -

in 1995. The committee was chaired by the Vice Minister of the Ministry of Transport (MOT), with
members from concerned national and provincial agencies and the TUPWS directors from both cities. The
cities had already established Project Management Units (PMU) in 1995 to support the Japanese-financed
underlying studies.

b)       Readiness for Implementation. Though the reasons were only partially foreseeable during
preparation, implementation was significantly delayed. Project preparation had been carried out under the
Steering Committee headed by MOT and eventually approved by the Prime Minister. For execution, the
Government decided to transfer implementation responsibility to the two cities. The shift confirmed
Government commitment to decentralize responsibility; however, the move caused significant delays in
project execution, as the cities had not been intimately involved in preparation and had no experience in
dealing with foreign lending institutions. Corridors and areas had been identified, and conceptual plans (at
the feasibility study stage) had been agreed upon during preparation, but detailed designs and bidding
documents were ready only for the first year's works. Detailed designs for the rest of the project were to be
completed by consultants to be hired under the project. The contracting and mobilization of these
consultants, and of the contractors for the first year's civil works, took longer than expected due to the
cities' inexperience with Bank procurement procedures. Civil works finally started in 2000, about the time
when consultants were hired in the two cities, almost two years after Board approval.

c)       Suitability of Project Components. When project preparation started, the Bank was one of many
donors active in the two cities. A number of studies were either recently completed or underway; many
focused on master planning and new major road schemes development that would take time and capital to
implement. Meanwhile, with increasing motorization, traffic was growing rapidly in both cities. There
was a need to implement practical measures and build up the institutions in parallel to ongoing research and
studies. Making the most efficient use of existing infrastructure before making large investments in new
infrastructure was therefore particularly relevant. The Bank experience with traffic management schemes
in the region's cities at early stages of motorization had demonstrated that these projects generate high
returns. The project design reflected this experience and the Vietnamese situation. It was limited in scope
and seen as a first building block to more comprehensive policy formulation. See also Section 3.3 on the
mix between easy successes (low hanging fruit) and more difficult but necessary measures.

d)       Risk Management. For the most part, the project risks were correctly addressed, but two risks
were seriously underestimated. First, despite close monitoring and assistance of local Bank staff,
procurement turned out to be a major problem (see Section 5.2) due to the cities' inexperience with Bank
procedures. Second, the reaction of the population, which resisted some parts of the project and forced
design changes, should have been identified as a risk (see Section 5.1). Finally, though the PAD correctly
identified the risk of limited coordination between traffic police and PMU, the measures to strengthen
coordination were not enough. In retrospect, it would have been valuable to find a way to get the traffic
police more directly involved in project implementation. In all, the proposed project implementation period
of four years, which is shorter than the norm in Vietnam, was overly optimistic.

e)       Safeguard policies. The traffic management measures in the project focused on improving safety
for all road users, reducing traffic delays, and improving conditions for non-motorized vehicles and
pedestrians. All of these outcomes have desirable distributional benefits and contribute to lowering air
pollution from motor vehicles. The project was designed only within existing rights-of-way obviating any
involuntary resettlement. The project was appropriately classified as Category B under OP 4.01
(Environmental Assessment). No other safeguard policy was triggered.




                                                       - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the objectives of the project were met in a moderately satisfactory manner. Though the outcomes
related to reduced speeds and fatalities were largely achieved, there were considerable delays in
implementation and significant reductions in the scope of some of the proposed traffic management
measures.

Improving traffic flows by introducing a package of traffic engineering and management measures. This
objective was satisfactorily achieved in Hanoi and moderately satisfactorily in HCMC. As the outcome
indicators in Annex 1 illustrate, the project corridors in both cities benefited from significant savings in
travel time (up to 14 percent in HCMC and over 30 percent in Hanoi, relative to a target of 10 percent) and
substantial reductions in fatalities. These benefits were accrued despite significant increases in the levels of
motorized traffic caused by a combination of increased urbanization, rising incomes and significant
increases in the number of buses (small number of vehicles but large number of trips). As mentioned in 3.4
above, one of the corridors in HCMC was postponed due to a scheduling conflict with the HCMC
Environmental Sanitation Project (Cr. 3475-VN).

The travel-time savings in Hanoi were significantly higher than those in HCMC (where motorization and
traffic management were both more widespread at the start of the project). In Hanoi, prior to the project
most intersections did not have any traffic signals at all. As a result, the benefits of operational traffic
signals have been substantial. For HCMC, the 10 percent target for travel time savings was achieved only
in the central areas (in the corridors, savings ranged from one to six percent). In many instances, existing
isolated signals were replaced by a modern traffic-control system. These measures in use could facilitate
`green waves' and traffic actuated signal optimization as well as the incremental benefits, though
significant, are less substantial in magnitude. Also, two of the project corridors in HCMC were turned into
one-way thoroughfares due to high traffic levels; reducing traffic conflicts and associated benefits accruing
from traffic lights.

Though the SAR did not specify targets for reductions in fatalities, the actual reductions (30 to 80 percent
reductions in the number of annual fatal accidents per million vehicles in the project corridors) are very
substantial. In addition to the traffic lights and the limited channelization improvements that were actually
implemented, a key reason for the increased safety levels was increased levels of traffic police enforcement.
About mid-way through implementation (2003) both Hanoi and HCMC governments initiated highly
publicized traffic safety campaigns that included a strong focus on enhanced enforcement. Though it is
difficult to assess how much of the success of this campaign can be directly attributed to project-related
efforts, the project undoubtedly provided the cities with a heightened awareness of traffic management
issues and the tools needed for implementation: a professionalized Traffic Management Unit (TMU) and
traffic police force, equipment for the police, and traffic signals. An important outcome contributing to
lower fatalities is improvement in the behavior of motorcyclists. Partially in response to an increased
emphasis on enforcement, it is much more common (and the norm) now for motorcyclists to stop at stop
lines and red traffic lights than before the project. The best measure of success is that traffic management
principles developed by the project have now been applied in other corridors outside the project scope,
particularly in Hanoi.

Strengthening the Transport and Urban Public Works Services (TUPWS) and Traffic Police Departments
(TPD). This objective was satisfactorily achieved. Before the project, the cities did not have personnel



                                                        - 5 -

specialized in traffic engineering. In the course of implementation, both cities established traffic
management units (TMU) under their TUPWS. Staff were trained in Vietnam (see Annex 1) by advisors in
a number of related disciplines and also participated in study tours to France, the United Kingdom and
Australia. The TMUs were also provided with office equipment, traffic planning software, traffic and
topography survey equipment and vehicles, and are now effectively managing traffic. The traffic police
departments took advantage of the same package of training, study tours and equipment for enforcement,
including communication equipment, patrol motorcycles and cars, speed measuring devices and
breathalyzers. Staff were trained by the contractors in operating the area traffic control (ATC) systems in
both cities. The traffic police were professionalized in traffic enforcement and were very satisfied with the
training. The TMUs have bought additional equipment (such as red-light cameras) and are actively
implementing traffic management measures (such as fining violators using red-light cameras) outside of the
scope of the Bank-financed project. In Hanoi, the traffic police and the TMU have initiated a large
follow-on bilateral-aid program (financed by with the Japanese International Cooperation Agency, JICA)
focusing on training and intersection redesign that builds on this project. In summary, though
implementation took more time than anticipated, the project created a culture of traffic management and
safety in both cities that did not previously exist.

4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Hanoi City

Project outputs were substantially completed. However, due to protracted implementation and reductions in
scope of outputs, the component is rated moderately satisfactory.

Traffic System Improvements. Procurement and installation of the new traffic signals and associated area
traffic control (ATC) system proved more challenging than foreseen. The initial bidding documents
required the contractors to supply a system compatible with the system already installed under a French
bilateral aid program. Despite an elaborate pre-qualification procedure and significant efforts by city
officials and the Bank, it became apparent that only the supplier of the original system could install a
compatible system. It was agreed to re-bid without the inter-operability clause and the contract was
eventually signed in 2004. Vietnamese internal procedures further delayed implementation. Government
made some design changes and delayed road opening permits and site access, while the police stopped
installation during day time to limit disruptions. In addition, the contractor experienced personnel turnover
problems slowing implementation. The late procurement of the signal system prevented coordination with
other civil works, and in some cases new pavement had to be dug up to install cables and loops. The
contract was not complete at Credit closing, though over 75 percent of the signals have been installed and
are operational. The Bank has agreed to finance work done after Credit closing retroactively via a new
planned urban transport operation (proposed for FY2007).

Intersection improvements. The physical improvements to corridors and intersections were implemented
satisfactorily though with reductions in the scope of planned intersection improvements. The number of
kilometers of corridors improved was as much as planned at appraisal. Physical modifications were made
in 209 of 212 originally planned junctions. Traffic lights installation, road resurfacing and drainage were
completed. One-way systems were also introduced and facilities for pedestrians were improved.
However, protective islands at intersections were sometimes reduced from the original designs.
Channelization and the accompanying multi-phased signals were not installed at a number of intersections
both along the project corridors and in the central areas, because of adverse public reaction (see Section
5.1).

The reduction in the scope of works in the improved intersections is unfortunate, but does not obviate the


                                                      - 6 -

successes of the project. Most of the project benefits were generated by the introduction of traffic lights
and good enforcement by the police. Further, at many junctions, though physical channelization works
were not implemented, channelization schemes were painted on the intersection to provide traffic guidance.
At others, temporary schemes (using flower pots and other nonpermanent means) were implemented. These
measures provide users at least partial benefits of a channelization scheme. Such measures also allow city
officials to pilot new initiatives, to learn what works in their local setting, and to follow an incremental
approach to implementation that lets them educate the public on the benefits of traffic management before
dramatic changes are introduced. As discussed in Section 3.3, channelization is a long-term process, and
international experience suggests that it takes time and sustained effort to gain widespread public
acceptance of lower levels of personal mobility (which make for a free-for-all chaotic traffic stream) in
exchange for higher levels of safety. The project provided the key elements of such a sustained strategy: a
professionalized Traffic Management Unit, and a number of successful functional demonstrations.

Institutional Strengthening. This component was implemented satisfactorily. Technical assistance,
training and equipment related to traffic engineering and enforcement and related matters were procured
and delivered according to plans for both TUPWS and TPD. The Bank received training reports detailing
the achievements. There were 220 staff trained in Hanoi including 140 traffic police staff who received
training on traffic enforcement and management. About 80 TUPWS staff (including TMU) received
training on traffic management and project management. Because of unfamiliarity with Bank's
requirements, it took some time to appoint the project management consultants, who started work in 2000.

B. Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC)

As with the Hanoi component, implementation of this component was moderately satisfactory despite
substantial completion of planned activities, due to delays in project implementation (for reasons similar to
those in Hanoi), and reductions in the scope of the physical traffic management activities.

Traffic System Improvements. This component was implemented satisfactorily. In general, the
implementation followed the pattern described above for Hanoi. It took a long time to appoint the project
management consultant and to get works started. As mentioned in Section 4.1, one of the corridors was
deleted from the project, and the quantity of civil works was reduced to account for other projects being
implemented by the city. Nevertheless, 108 intersections were improved against the 135 planned at
appraisal. A number of one-way street pairs were also implemented. The ATC, with its control center,
covers 117 intersections and is operational. Again, because of procurement delays, installation of the ATC
could not be coordinated with civil works and required some extra work.

Institutional Strengthening.The comments made for this component in Hanoi apply to HCMC. About 280
staff were trained in HCMC. Some 33 traffic police staff were trained on traffic enforcement and traffic
management techniques. In addition 244 TUPWS staff (including TMU) received traffic management
training.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic evaluations conducted at appraisal and completion are based on travel time savings only. An
ex-post economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated by project corridor and aggregated for each city (see
Annex 3). For both Hanoi and HCMC, the ex-post ERRs (141 percent and 147 percent, respectively)
indicate substantial project benefits. In Hanoi, considerable time savings nearly doubled the net present
value (NPV) from its projected estimates, to US$49.57 million. Actual investment costs in HCMC were
significantly lesser that originally planned, resulting in an ex-post NPV of US$6.46 million.




                                                      - 7 -

It is noteworthy that despite the inefficiency inherent in the three year project delay, economic returns are
high, in large measure due to the success of the installed traffic signals and increased enforcement levels, as
well as implementation cost savings.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project is rated as having a substantial institutional impact. This was one of the two specific objectives
of the project and, as mentioned in Section 4.1 above, the impact of the project on the development of the
TUPWS and TPD of both cities was significant. The TMUs in both cities are functioning and operative.
This is a significant and positive institutional development and the Project had a critical role in catalyzing
this development. In addition, the Hanoi traffic police, in particular, have expressed a high degree of
satisfaction with the training received. That said, an ongoing WBI review of all capacity building
components of Bank transport sector interventions in Vietnam, including a review of this project, finds that
effectiveness of capacity building efforts could be increased by providing the beneficiaries (such as the
TMU and traffic police) more direct influence over the process.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There was a rapid increase in the number of motorcycles in Hanoi and HCMC during project
implementation, which complicated implementation efforts considerably. In part, this faster than forecasted
growth created a newly mobile motorized class that was not ready to trade in any element of mobility for
increased safety improvements. The project drew strong public response in both cities. In Hanoi,
advertisements were put in newspapers and on the street about the proposed schemes. Formal presentations
were made by the PMU to the public, but were poorly attended. Despite these significant outreach attempts
by city officials, people did not appreciate the project's impact on the ground until civil works actually
started. As civil works advanced, so did complaints from a very vocal (not necessarily representative)
section of the motorized middle class. Sometimes this was enough to stop a scheme entirely, and in other
cases schemes were altered. The situation was similar in HCMC, perhaps even more vocal, as the project
received unfavorable coverage in the press. People reacted particularly against barriers separating traffic
flows, as they prevented them from crossing the street as they pleased. They also protested guidance
islands and sidewalk works reducing ramps to access houses and shops with motorcycles. Design changes
made to accommodate the public required further rounds of clearances, thus also delaying works.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Although project implementation had been fully entrusted to the cities, following preparation mostly with
the central government (Section 3.5), approval of project documentation remained lengthy, especially for
the traffic management civil works. This delay can be at least partially attributed to official nervousness
following the initial adverse public reactions. Furthermore, the project was subject to multiple layers of
review and approval at the city level. In addition to the functional department, the project was also
subjected to separate review by the police and the People's Committee.

Significant problems resulted from differences between Bank and Vietnamese bidding procedures.
Although it had been agreed that the local procurement procedure would be revised and clarified to be
consistent with Bank guidelines, the authorities kept trying to make bidders conform to both types of
procedures. For instance, according to local rules, bid prices should be below the approved cost estimates
for the particular works or services. When bids exceeded the budget, negotiations with bidders began to
reduce the amount of works or services to fit the budget. In some cases, this led to re-bidding and



                                                      - 8 -

substantial delays in procurement.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The capacity and experience of PMU staff in both cities were limited at the outset of the project. They had
no experience with foreign lenders requirements, international bidding procedures, and specifications for
specialized equipment, such as traffic signals or police equipment. Staff training was done on the job.
There were also cases of lack of coordination between the PMU and the TUPWS, even though the PMU
was under the TUPWS. Coordination was also difficult with other agencies and donors involved in related
and, sometimes, overlapping projects.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The Credit closing date was extended by three years. However, two years of that delay are attributable to
decentralization of implementation to the cities: project start-up was therefore pushed back; and execution
only took one year more than anticipated, due to the delays discussed above. The implementation delays
did not produce cost overruns and provided some unanticipated benefits, facilitating the policy dialogue and
securing the improvements achieved. At appraisal, the project cost was estimated as US$47.2 million
(including contingencies of US$7.85 million), of which US$42.7 million was to be financed by IDA. The
total actual cost was approximately US$30.65 million, with IDA financing US$27.38 million, and US$8.0
million being cancelled from the Credit. The lower costs were in part a result of the reduction in scope of
the intersection improvements discussed in section 4.1.

Hanoi. Civil works were estimated at US$13.3 million, and the actual cost was approximately US$13.3
million. Procurement of goods and services was originally estimated at US$4.7 million and US$1.5 million,
respectively; actual costs were approximately US$4.53 million and US$2.43 million, respectively.

HCMC. Civil works were estimated at US$6.1 million, and the actual cost was approximately US$1.77
million. Procurement of goods and services as originally estimated as US$11.0 million and US$1.1 million,
respectively; actual costs were approximately US$6.89 million and US$1.74 million, respectively.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is rated likely. Despite some public opposition to some channelization schemes,
project investments definitely facilitated increase traffic flow and contributed to improved safety levels.
Over time, the benefits of the project will gradually be recognized and public acceptability is likely to
increase, as shown already in other urban transport interventions in the East Asia and Pacific region, indeed
globally. As described in Sections 4.1. and 4.2 there are a number of initiatives (such as the JICA-financed
traffic management program in Hanoi, and the nonpermanent measures undertaken to guide traffic in both
cities) that indicate that the ideas and culture of traffic management inculcated by this project will only
grow with time.

Further, in Hanoi the existing project has served as the basis for a new stand-alone urban transport project
(FY2007). The new project is being prepared by the same PMU that implemented the first project. A
significant component of the project is the development of a Bus Rapid Transit system, which consists of
an integrated set of bus priority measures. This proposed component will draw extensively on the city's
traffic management capabilities, and could not have been conceivable without the existing project. The new
project will also serve to reinforce the relevance and importance of traffic management institutions and
practices in Hanoi, further increasing the likelihood of sustainability.




                                                        - 9 -

One risk is that because of lack of experience and coordination, the ATC signals may not be maintained
and repaired in a timely fashion and that the system would gradually lose some of its efficiency. In
HCMC, maintenance of the traffic signals was entrusted to the Public Lighting Company, while the traffic
signal system and control center were handed over to the Traffic Police. Experience so far has not
indicated any problem, though in the long-term it would be appropriate to consolidate all related functions
under one agency.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
In HCMC, the ATC system has been handed over and is operational. In Hanoi, the system is not yet
complete. Fortunately, the remaining works are being financed by a new Bank project under preparation,
and the Bank will continue monitoring implementation. In any case, it will operate in parallel rather than
jointly with the French system due to the incompatibility discussed above. However, it is common for cities
to operate multiple ATC systems in parallel. Since the two systems operate in different areas of the city, it
should not be a problem, although the operation will be less flexible in terms of staffing and managing than
it would have been with a compatible system.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank assistance in lending including project identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory.
The Bank helped the Government to obtain a grant for project preparation and the consultants started work
in mid-1995. Following completion of PHRD-financed pre-feasibility studies, the project was basically
defined and agreed upon by mid-1996. During preparation, the Bank team coordinated with the numerous
other multilateral and bilateral donors active in the two cities. However, the cancellation of one corridor of
works in HCMC as a result of overlap with another Bank-financed project, indicates that more
coordination was probably needed, though the projects had different timelines and were subject to different
delays. As already mentioned, the project objectives and design were appropriate to the situation. The
appraisal team was composed of eight staff members representing a well rounded group of skills and
experience. Sections 3.1, 3.2 and 3.5 comment on project design, and readiness for implementation. The
key performance indicators identified in the PAD appropriately measured outcomes and intermediate
outputs (see also Section 8). Because of lengthy approval procedures within Vietnam, appraisal was
delayed by about one year, at no fault of the Bank team.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank assistance in supervision is rated moderately satisfactory. Although task managers changed four
times during the seven year implementation period, supervision was intensive, both from headquarters and
the field office. Task managers were all urban transport specialists and provided continuous and consistent
advice. In addition to biannual supervision missions, local Bank staff in the Hanoi office provided intensive
support on procurement, disbursement, financial management and operations. Despite training and
assistance by the Bank, procurement problems were continuous and the project had to be rated
unsatisfactory for about two years. Missions insisted on the PMUs making time tables and adhering to
them, but slippage continued despite their efforts. (Experience was similar in other Bank projects in
Vietnam at the time.) In retrospect, the Bank could have been more proactive in facilitating cancellation of
funds that would not be used, since almost 20 percent of the Credit had to be cancelled at completion.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance was moderately satisfactory.

Borrower



                                                      - 10 -

7.4 Preparation:
The Government performance was moderately satisfactory. A steering committee and PMUs were
established early on and took a serious interest in the objectives of the project. However, the overlapping
and not always clearly defined responsibilities of the central government ministries (Ministry of Planning
and Investment (MPI) and Ministry of Transport (MOT) and those of the cities lengthened project
preparation. The lack of experience of the protagonists in dealing with foreign donors also contributed to
the delays. In hindsight, the participation of the cities during preparation was insufficient, with inadequate
continuity of preparation staff through implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated as unsatisfactory due to extensive delays related to
project processing, approval and disbursements at the city government level. The components in both cities
were implemented by the city's People's Committee (PC). Clearances were required from the PC, police,
TUPWS and other relevant agencies before the appraisal schemes could be implemented. The process
involved long delays; the PMU did not have the authority or the ability to expedite processing. This was
particularly true after some early schemes faced some initial opposition from motorcyclists. Similarly,
disbursements were delayed by a long, complicated approval process that caused significant lags.
Obtaining clearances, even for minor design changes and contract modifications, always took an inordinate
amount of time and slowed project implementation and, consequently, its benefits to the people and the
local economy.

Central ministries such as MPI continued to be involved. MPI approves and monitors progress of all large
foreign-assisted projects and needed to approve all extensions and changes in allocating some resources
from HCMC to Hanoi.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing agency performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory. As discussed, PMUs had little
autonomy to make decisions. They reported to the TUPWS departments, which themselves were
answerable to the PC. The political process interfered and affected implementation, because the authorities
and the public were not familiar with traffic management ideas. Indeed, some of the design changes
adopted under popular pressure reduced the efficiency of the schemes. With motorization so new, it was
difficult for the users to appreciate the potential benefits of traffic engineering which had been well tested
and used in other countries. Procurement was particularly cumbersome and delayed implementation. The
project was rated unsatisfactory for about two years in terms of project management and implementation
progress.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, Borrower's performance was unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

    Continuity of responsibility from project preparation to execution is essential. The project was
    prepared mainly with national level agencies but executed by local authorities. Although the local
    authorities were represented on the steering committee for project preparation, it appears that decisions
    were largely made by central level staff. There is a difference between being consulted about a project
    and being responsible for it. Changes in responsibility between preparation and execution lead to
    substantial delays and to many modifications in the project components to adjust them better to local
    realities. Since project preparation took place early in the Bank's involvement in Vietnam, the situation
    was probably unavoidable. But, as much as possible, it is better to implement a project with the same
    agencies who prepared it.



                                                       - 11 -

Greater public information is necessary. Attempts were made to inform the public about the project,
but they did not succeed. Local ads in newspapers and on-street did not generate any reaction and few
people turned up at formal presentations by the PMU. People did not really understand plans or what
was really going to happen on their streets. It is only when works had started that complaints
materialized. In a few cases, a scheme was stopped and, more frequently, original plans were altered,
often to less efficient solutions. From subsequent experiences with other lenders, it became clear that
newspaper advertising was not enough. Multimedia campaign together with education of local
politicians and training of traffic agencies staff, including the police, have improved the acceptance of
subsequent traffic improvement projects (such as the JICA financed improvements in Hanoi). As
traffic increases, users also become more conscious of the benefits that can be gained from some
discipline and observation of the traffic signals and other traffic regulation measures.

Procurement of compatible traffic signals is complicated. If the Bank is going to finance signals, it
needs to develop a strategy that can effectively deal with the inevitable problems of compatibility with
legacy systems and other related procurement issues. Indeed, in response to the experience of this and
other similar ATC procurement experience, the Bank is conducting an on-going sector wide analytical
initiative to develop guidelines on ATC system selection and procurement issues to guide future
procurements.

Traffic management, though valuable, is messy and difficult to implement. The experience in Hanoi
and HCMC is not atypical of Bank experience. Investments are relatively low, procurement is
complicated, extensive coordination is required between different elements of the works needed and
approval is needed from several city agencies. In addition, conflicts at junctions often reflect
fundamental problems in the transport system, inadequate road hierarchy, poor secondary road
systems, too few roads in general, that limit the impact traffic management can have. Further, though
repeated international experience has proven that simple traffic management actions (one-way
circulation, median barriers, junction channelization and installation of traffic lights) have very high
returns in terms of safety and traffic flow, such schemes are inevitably initially opposed by the public,
particularly by the vocal, motorized middle classes. Nevertheless, these issues do not make traffic
management an unattractive proposal for future Bank interventions. Tackling traffic management is a
necessary first step, and a serious one with significant benefits - but it is important for the Bank to have
realistic expectations given how difficult it is and to temper impact expectations accordingly.

Measuring outcomes of institutional strengthening/capacity building remains a challenge. The
capacity building efforts were correctly identified to complement project investments to achieve the
project development objectives. The key performance indicators measured outcomes, and the outcomes
needed successful achievement of both the investments and the capacity building efforts. Performance
indicators of capacity building (number of persons trained, completion of technical assistance, etc.) in
the project essentially measured 'output'. Though outcome measures that would isolate the contribution
of the Bank would be desirable, it is not obvious what such indicators could be. The Bank has
commissioned a review of the capacity building efforts in the transport sector in Vietnam (concurrent
with the preparation of this ICR) in part to identify if stand-alone indicators that can measure the
outcomes of Bank interventions in capacity building can be developed.

Government structure in Vietnam poses considerable implementation challenges. Approval
processes are complicated, cumbersome and long. Future urban transport operations should be based
on a review of implementation and organizational arrangements and efforts should be made to work
with various levels of Government to streamline internal processing.


                                                  - 12 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS

HANOI:
Outcome:                                                                   Satisfactory
Sustainability:                                                            Achieved
Institutional Development Impact:                                          Achieved
Bank Performance:                                                          Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                                      Satisfactory
QAG (if available):
Quality at Entry:                                                          Satisfactory
Project at Risk at any time:

HCMC:
Outcome:                                                                   Satisfactory
Sustainability:                                                            Achieved
Institutional Development Impact:                                          Achieved
Bank Performance:                                                          Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                                      Satisfactory
QAG (if available):
Quality at Entry:                                                                   Satisfactory
Project at Risk at any time:



ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND DESIGN AND QUALITY AT ENTRY

Original Objective
HANOI:      The project's overall objective is to increase operational efficiency and safety on selected
corridors and in the central areas of Hanoi. To improve traffic flow, it will introduce a package of traffic
engineering and management measures that will redesign junctions, provide new traffic signals and controls,
segregate two and four wheeled traffic, and improve facilities for pedestrians. Moreover, Traffic Police
Department and Transport & Urban Project Management Unit, Transport & Urban Public Works Service
had been strengthened their capacity through training courses and procurement of necessary equipments and
instrument.

HCMC: The overall objective of project is to increase the operational efficiency and safety of the roads
along selected corridors and at central area of Ho Chi Minh city; to solve immediate outstanding problems
in order to maximize the utilization of road capacity under current road conditions and to reduce traffic
accidents. To improve traffic efficiency on some roads, projects provided some synchronous solutions in the
fields of management, re-structure of traffic system, supply of new traffic signal system and control center,
control arrangement of 2-wheels and 4-wheels vehicles, and improvement of roads system for pedestrian.
Moreover, Traffic Police Department and Traffic Management Section of the Transport & Urban Public
Works Service had been strengthened their capacity through training courses and procurement of necessary
equipments and instrument.




                                                   - 13 -

Revised Objective

Project objective is not changed during implementation periods.

Original components

Sub-project of Hanoi city includes the following components (based on project appraisal letter):
A.1       Hanoi Traffic Management System
A.1.1     Improvement of corridors and junctions: improvement of 43.7 km priority roads and 209
junctions.
A.1.2     Improvement of central area: traffic improvement including restriction of 4-wheel vehicles and
truck, creation of pedestrian path, traffic management.
A.2       Hanoi institutional Strengthening
A.2.1     Area traffic control: Supply a traffic signal system and equipment for ATC control center of 78
junctions.
A.2.2     Assistance to Transport & Urban Public Works Service: A Technical Assistance for institutional
strengthening on management execution of Traffic Safety Law, institutional improvement on project
management, traffic management and performance monitoring.
A.2.3     Assistance to Traffic Police Department: Strengthening the capacity of law execution management
through training, supply instrument and equipment for maintenance of discipline, management of automatic
traffic control and storage of traffic accident documentation.

Sub-project of Ho Chi Minh city includes the following components (based on project appraisal letter):
B.1.1     Improvement of corridors and junctions: improvement of 36km priority roads and 135 junctions.
B.1.2     Improvement of central area: traffic improvement including restriction of 4-wheel vehicles and
truck, creation of pedestrian path, traffic management.
B.1.3     Area traffic control: Supply a traffic signal system and equipment for ATC control center of 150
junctions.
B.2.1     Assistance to Transport & Urban Public Works Service: Assistance in technicalA Technical
Assistance for institutional strengthening on management execution of Traffic Law, institutional
improvement on project management, traffic management and control of implementationperformance
monitoring.
B.2.2     Assistance to Traffic Police Department: Strengthening the capacity of law execution management
through training, supply instrument and equipment for maintenance of discipline, management of automatic
traffic control and storage of traffic accident documentation.

Revised components
Main items of improvement works in A.1.1 and A.1.2 are as follows:
(i) Traffic organization design: to create pairs of 1-way road, traffic channelization at junctions,
      application of imperative traffic by barriers systems, road signs and road marking.
(ii) Improvement of pavement.
(iii) Improvement of sidewalk for convenience of pedestrian.

During the implementation of project, there were some changes reducing quantity of works in component
A.2.1:
(i) 10 junctions in Supply and Installation Traffic Signal Equipment was cancelled from the project,
      because these junctions coincided with another city's project.
The other components of project had no changes.



                                                       - 14 -

Main items of improvement works in B.1.1 and B.1.2 are as follows:
(i) Traffic organization design: to create couple of 1-way roads, traffic channelization at junctions,
      application of imperative traffic by barriers systems, road signs and road marking.
(ii) Improvement of pavement.
(iii) Improvement of sidewalk for convenience of pedestrian.

During the implementation of project, there were some changes reducing quantity of works in component
B.1.1:
(i) Corridor 3 (Nguyen Van Troi-Nam Ky Khoi Nghia) approximate 4.7km in length and 20 junctions that
      needed to be improved was cancelled from the project, without improvement, because this corridor
      coincided with another city's project, that is Environmental Sanitation Project funded by WB.
(ii) Almost quantity of concrete asphalt for pavement works on corridor 2, corridor 4, and central area
      were reduced because these roads are quarterly and yearly maintained based onunder city budget.
(iii) Almost quantity of sidewalk improvement works on corridor 2, corridor 4, and central area were
      reduced because sidewalks in use were still in good condition.
(iv) 3 pedestrian squares in centre area of city were reduced, not improvedcancelled because Ho Chi Minh
      city intended to do a separate project for pedestrian areas of the city.

The quantity reduction of some work items in component B.1.1 caused the reduction of project cost.

The other components (B.1.3, B2.1, B2.2) of project had no changes.

Quality at Entry

4.         Achievement of Objective and Outputs

Outcome/achievement of objective:

HANOI:
In general, project was completed on 31/12/2005. It took 4 months to complete payment procedures to
30/04/2006. In fact, project was implemented in 7 years, which is 3 years extension compared with original
anticipated schedule.

It can be affirmed that project reached its original objective. Although civil works items had some revision
to reduce quantity in compared with original design, those reductions are to adapt to realistic conditions of
the city in each specific periods of time.

Improvement of existing traffic capacity. From the objective of project is to apply "Low cost with high
efficiency" method, in more specific, the project is not concentrated on the widening of street
infrastructures, which needs large investment cost, but concentrated on the maximization of existing road
capacity by traffic management shemes. Many traffic management methods was applied to the project such
as re-design of junctions, traffic channelization, creation of 1-way street systems, in conjunction with traffic
signal system and control center adaptability to traffic density changes in order to optimize traffic capacity,
on central areas of city and on 4 main corridors.

Result: In total there are 209 junctions (Tay Son : 25, Le Duan : 23, Tran Quang Khai :25, Bach Mai : 18,
Ancient Quarter : 94, French Quarter : 24) improved, many pairs of 1-way streets were applied to make
convenient to traffic. Three remained junctions aren't improved due to another project of Hanoi city ( along


                                                       - 15 -

Tay son corridor). A traffic signal system with control center adaptability to traffic flow for 78 junctions
were installed and put into operation. Traffic in central area of city was improved clearly. During rush
hours, traffic on main streets such as Tay Son, Le Duan, Bach Mai ... was regulated to reduce traffic jams
(Table 3 of annex 2).

Institutional strengthening to Transport & Urban Public Works Service: based on project's proposal,
Transport & Urban Public Works Service established the Traffic Management Section in order to create a
professional department to perform traffic research for the city such as: preparing traffic development
plans, making proposals in order to solve traffic and transportation problems inside Ha Noi city area,
assessing development programs of new projects, establishing traffic design standards. In order to serve
these activities, project supplied equipments such as : Traffic planning software and GIS system, traffic
survey equipments and other office equipment, some vehicles. Its main functions and tasks are same as
proposals by the project. Now this Section is effectively operating for the traffic management demands of
Transport & Urban Public Works Service.

Institutional strengthening to Traffic Police Department: Project supplied training courses/ visits on urban
traffic management and traffic law execution for Traffic Police Department. In total there are 140
participations of Traffic Police Department attending some training courses/ visits. In order to strengthen
Traffic Police Department capacity, project supplied equipments such as : communication equipments (130
hand held portable radios & car mobile radios), Traffic Police Vehicle (20 motorcycle, 3 recorvery vehicle,
patrol vehicle, 4 light truck, 1 command vehicle), enforcement equipment (72 countertop breathalyser, 20
scene of accident kit for patrol car, 20 speed measuring device)... In fact these equipments have been used
effectively.

Effect: It can be said that project gave significant contribution effect to improve traffic management
capacity of the city. From 2002, project's point of views were applied, Transport & Urban Public Works
Service broadly applied traffic management method such as: channelization at junctions, development of
1-way street systems etc.

Currently, Transport & Urban Public Works Service also applies traffic organization methods of the
project to other areas and this is the primary method to be applied before considering the improvement
method.

Improvement of traffic safety: Based on results obtained from the accident investigation reports prepared
by Traffic Police Department, during periods from the year 2001 to 2005, traffic safety condition on the
streets of project was clearly improved. Specifics are shown in Summary table 4 of Project cost and
financing index.

HCMC:
In general, project was completed on 310/0612/2005. It took 4 months to finish complete payment
procedures to 30/1004/20065. In fact, project was implemented during the period ofin 7 years, which is 3
years extension compared with original anticipated schedule.

It can be affirmed that project reached its original objective. Although civil works items had some revision
to reduce quantity in compared with original design, those reductions are to adapt to realistic conditions of
the city in each specific periods of time.

Improvement of existing traffic capacity. From the objective of project is to apply "Low cost with high
efficiency" method, in more specific, the project is not concentrated on the widening of street


                                                     - 16 -

infrastructures, which needs large investment cost, but concentrated on the maximization of existing road
capacity by investigation and good traffic organization. Many traffic organization methods was applied to
the project such as re-design of junctions, traffic channelization, separation of 2-wheel and 4-wheel
vehicles, creation of 1-way street systems, in conjunction with traffic signal system and control center
adaptability to traffic density changes in order to optimize traffic capacity on large area, on central area of
city and on 4 main corridors.

Result: In total there are 123 junction improved, many couples of 1-way streets were applied to make
convenient to traffic, a traffic signal system with control center adaptability to traffic density for 117
junctions were installed and put into operation. Traffic in central area of city was improved clearly. During
rush hours, traffic on main streets such as Nguyen Thi Minh Khai, Nguyen Dinh Chieu, Le Duan, Pasteur
... was regulated to reduce traffic jams.

Institutional strengthening to Transport & Urban Public Works Service: based on project's proposal,
Transport & Urban Public Works Service established the Traffic Management Section in order to create a
professional department to perform traffic research for the city such as: preparing of traffic development
plans, making proposals in order to solve traffic and transportation problems inside Ho Chi Minh city area,
assessing on development programs of new projects, establishing of traffic design standards. In order to
serve these activities, project supplied equipments such as: 19 sets of computers, software and training,
traffic survey equipments, topography survey equipments, specialized automobile etc. At this time, this
Traffic Management Unit is more developed and operating in Traffic Management Department, its main
functions and tasks are same as proposals by the project. Now this Section is effectively operating for the
traffic management demands of Transport & Urban Public Works Service.

Institutional strengthening to Traffic Police Department: project supplied training courses/ visits on urban
traffic management and traffic law execution for Traffic Police Department. In total there are 33
participations of Traffic Police Department attending 6 training courses/ visits. In order to strengthen
Traffic Police Department capacity, project supplied equipments such as: 30 sets of computers and office
equipments , patrol equipments and vehicles (10 petrol cars, 6 accident investigation cars, 5 scene
restoration cars, 150 patrol motorcycles ...); communication equipments, speed control equipments, breath
check equipments... In fact these equipments were have been used effectively, except for 150 motorcycles
lot until now can not put into operation due to the incompletion of motorcycle registrations procedures for
circulation.

Effect: It can be said that project gave significant contribution effect to improve traffic management
capacity of the city. From 2002, project's point of views were applied, Transport & Urban Public Works
Service broadly applied traffic management method such as: channelization at junctions, development of
1-way street systems etc. According to data up to 11/2004, Transport & Urban Public Works Service
performed traffic organizations for 30 projects, with about 100 junctions and 85 main streets that
frequently occurred traffic jams. We can clearly see through following data: in 2002 there were
approximately 150,000 of motorized 4-wheel vehicles, 2 millions of motorcycles, all city had 111 points
locations that frequently occurred traffic jams. Based on the report of Traffic safety department, in 10/2004
number of motorized 4-wheel vehicles increased to approximately 180,000 and number of motorcycles
increased to 2.5 millions, whereas number of points locations that frequently occurred traffic jams
decreased to 37 points.

Currently, Transport & Urban Public Works Service also applies traffic organization methods of the
project to other areas mainly for inner areas of the city and important national roads in the city (District 2,
5, 6, 9, 10) and this is the primary method to be applied before considering the improvement method.


                                                     - 17 -

Improvement of traffic safety: Based on results obtained from the accident investigation reports prepared
by Traffic Police Department, during periods from the year 2001 to 2005, traffic safety situation on the
streets of project was clearly improved and strongly reduced. Specifics are shown in Summary table of
Project implementation index.

5.       Majors Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome:

Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

HANOI:
Traffic organization, traffic forcing are new view points to reality at Vietnam. Some traffic shemes
designs had met strong reaction from the community. The newspapers criticized the works that they thought
not suitable. The public thought that: making barriers at junction would create obstructions to traffic,
widening of sidewalks would reduce area of carriageways, and lead to traffic jams.

No                Problems               Traffic technical view points          Community view points
 1. Making central barriers,             Re-arranging suitably traffic     Raised oppinions about because
      traffic islands at junctions.      flow, guiding and forcing         road user have to change traffic
      Widening of sidewalk at            traffic flow orderly through      habits and barries are obstructed
      junction.                          junctions, reducing travel        to vehicles.
                                         time through junction

HCMC:
Traffic organization, traffic forcing are new view points to reality at Vietnam. First items of project,
corridor 1 which started in year 2000, had met strong responses reaction from the community. Series of
newspapers criticized the works that they thought not suitable. The public thought that: making barriers at
junction would create obstructions to traffic, widening of sidewalks would reduce area of carriageways, and
lead to traffic jams, the improvement of sidewalk would waste cost.

   No.                 Problems              Traffic technical view points Community view points
     1.     Making barriers, guidance Re-organizing suitably of suitable Don't agree because of road user
            traffic islands at junctions. traffic flow, guiding and forcing have to changing change traffic
            Widening of sidewalk at        traffic flow orderly through        customhabits, they thought that
            junction, making channel       junction, reducing travel time      it obstructed to vehicles.
            traffic flow                   through junction
     2      Synchronous improvement Creatinge conveniencet for                 Waste because existing sidewalk
            of sidewalk along roads        pedestrian, avoiding using of       is still usable.
                                           dangerous carriageway , create
                                           safety to traffic ensuring traffic
                                           safety
     3      Curb of sidewalk is 20cmCorrect apply of specification, to Not suitable with HCMC
            height above carriageway.      create safety for pedestrian        conditions, many houses, shops
                                                                               at both sides of road need
                                                                               ramp-way for taking
                                                                               motorcycles access to
                                                                               sidewalks.




                                                       - 18 -

From this reality, management authorities asked for review the design, revising the design to suit with
conditions applied in Ho Chi Minh city. The design of corridor 1 was changed, and the following civil
works packages also were revised according to the manner of maximum reducing the installation of
barriers, guidance island at junction, reducing quantity of improvement sidewalk and ramp-way of
sidewalk. These matters caused large effects to the project: (i) delay the implementation schedule of project,
(ii) project had many difficult problems in obtaining approval for design, (iii) project is not supported by
public.

Some new infrastructure construction projects affected the design of project to be revised: They are:
North-South through way project, Nguyen Huu Canh street extension project...

Biding results values of 3 civil works packages (Corridor 4, Central Area A, Central Area B) were higher
than approved cost-estimates. Therefore this matter caused re-bidding and revision of design and made
project delayed for 10 months

Lot of Package of 150 motorcycles supplied by Nguyen Giao Constructor Contractor, local press had
informed inexactly and make unsightly information with project.

Factors generally subject to government control:
HANOI: The procedures for approval of project documentations ( Design and procurement )took long
time, delaying the project progress.

HCMC: There is changing in responsible leadership, the views on the project were not always maintained.
Because Decisions on management of construction investment were changed during project implementation
period.
The procedures for approval of project documentations took long time, delaying the project. progress

Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

HANOI:
Capacity and experience of the TUPMU are limited, especially in the fields of ODA projects management,
international bidding, procurement of specialized equipments for traffic police, almost of staffs are studying
while working.

PMU's powers are limited, and don't have the right to actively solve problems immediately when there are
minor changes and revisions to avoid sequent consequences.

HCMC:
Capacity and experience of the Project Management Unit of Investment in Urban Transport are limited,
especially in the fields of ODA projects management, international bidding, procurement of specialized
equipments for traffic police, almost of staffs are studying while working.

PMU's powers are limited, and don't have the right to actively solve problems immediately when there are
minor changes and revisions to avoid sequent consequences.

Costs and financing: (Annex 2)

6.       Substainability:




                                                      - 19 -

Rational for sustainability:
HANOI and HCMC: In general, products of this project are able to be well maintained.

Transition arrangement to regular operations:
HANOI:
During the implementation process of project, after technical acceptanceed, each products of project were
handed-over    to operation agency to preserve and       to maintain for regular operations. Civil works;
equipment procured for Traffic management section of Transport & Urban Public Works Service were
handed-over to Urban traffic management department (belongs to Transport & Urban Public Works
Service); traffic signal systems at junctions and Traffic Police beong to the Hanoi Public sercurity.
Equipment procured for Traffic Police Department were handed-over to Traffic Police Department.

HCMC:
During the implementation process of project, after technical acceptanceed, each products of project were
handed-over to operation agency to preserve and to maintain for regular operations. Civil works; equipment
procured for Traffic management section of Transport & Urban Public Works Service were handed-over to
Urban traffic management department (belongs to Transport & Urban Public Works Service); traffic signal
systems at junctions were handed-over to Public lighting company (belongs to Transport & Urban Public
Works Service); equipments of traffic signal system at control center were handed-over to Control Center
of City Police. Equipment procured for Traffic Police Department were handed-over to Traffic Police
Department.

7.       Bank and Borrower Performance:

Bank

Lending
HANOI and HCMC: Bank had carried out prompt, clear, effective lending procedures.

Supervision:
HANOI and HCMC:           Bank had carried out sufficient and satisfactory periodic supervision. The
supervision of Bank are regular, including continuous support, and provide guidance for implementing
agency on conforming to regulations of WB.

Overall Bank performance
HANOI and HCMC: Overall Bank performance is assessed to be satisfactory. However, in order to make
more convenient for implementing agency, Bank need to organize more activities through dissemination/
training courses with the presence of agencies related to the project so that they can understand and support
point of views, ideas, and process of IDA funded projects.

Borrower

Preparation
HANOI: The project preparation of Borrower met requirements and satisfied lending conditions of the
Bank. However, the pre-feasibility study was approved by Vietnam side and the Bank to make the basis for
Loan agreement, showed somewhat to be not suitable with social conditions (cultural standard, realization
to obey traffic law, travel customs....), therefore some works items were revised during implementation
period.




                                                    - 20 -

HCMC: The project preparation of Borrower met requirements and satisfied lending conditions of the
Bank. However, the pre-feasibility study prepared by MVA, that was approved by Vietnam side and the
Bank to make the basis for Loan agreement, showed somewhat to be not suitable with social conditions
(cultural standard, realization to obey traffic law, travel customs....), therefore some works items were
revised during implementation period.

Government implementation performance
HANOI and HCMC: Government implementation performance are satisfactory with the requirement of
project. Government had granted authorities and did not participate in the implementation of project.

Implementing Agency:
HANOI and HCMC: Implementation performance of implementing agency are satisfactory. Although
problems, difficulties occurred during implementation of project, implementing agency tried his best and
completed the project without any problems of corruption, peculation and quality of works.

Overall Borrower performance

HANOI:        Overall Borrower performance are satisfactory. This is an urban traffic project, which is
implemented in fast development socioeconomic background, number of vehicles increase suddenly while
the urban infrastructure development does not accommodate.

HCMC:        Overall Borrower performance are satisfactory. This is an urban traffic project, which is
implemented in fast development socioeconomic background, number of vehicles increase suddenly while
the urban infrastructure development does not accommodate. The problems that project met with is a
explainable reason and lastly the project was completed with all relevant authorities' efforts.

8. Lessons learned

HANOI:
(i) Project's concept, technical view points should be carefully considered with reality local conditions in
      order to make the project feasibility.
(ii) Time from preparation of project and procedures to starting first works should be minimized,
      inadequacy should be avoided.
(iii) Extension of project implementation time will make negative effects to project and increase project cost.
(iv) Creating mechanism in order to that the relevant authorities to can take part in the project
      implementation process and taking responsibility of project progress together.
(v) It needs the multimedia participation to share full and continuous information of the project for creating
      supporting voice for the project.
(vi) It is necessary to establish the professional PMUs with reasonable salary to be paid, for example
      project management cost has to be paid by the piece.

HCMC:
(i) Project's ideas, technical view points should be carefully considered with reality local conditions in
      order to make the project feasibility.
(ii) Time from preparation of project and procedures to starting first works should be minimized,
      inadequacy should be avoided.
(iii) Extension of project implementation time will make negative effects to project and increase project cost.
(iv) It is necessary to strengthen PMU's power according to the way that PMU is an investor to have its
      rights to decide the main issues of the project as per the law for purpose of reducing problems and


                                                       - 21 -

     hastening the project implementation progress.
(v) Creating mechanism in order to that the relevant authorities to can take part in the project
     implementation process and taking responsibility of project progress together.
(vi) It is necessary to have mechanism to solve the matters of bidding price higher than estimated cost
     approved as per local stipulation. The re-bid takes too much time.
(vii)     It needs the Press' participation to share full and continuous information of the project for creating
     supporting voice for the project.
(viii)    It is necessary to establish the professional PMUs with reasonable salary to be paid, for example
     project management cost has to be paid by the piece.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                       - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                                   HANOI
   Project                 Performance                                    Results
   Outputs/Impacts         Indicators
                                                    Target at Appraisal               Actual in 2005
   Improve traffic         Km of roads                      20                            20.2
   operating conditions    improved
   in the central areas of No. of junctions                 100                            93
   Hanoi                   improved
   Improve priority        Km of priority                  23.4                           23.4
   corridors and critical  corridors improved
   junctions               No. of junctions                 112                           118
                           improved

   Improve operating       Reduction in                    Peak                         Off-Peak
   conditions of major     average travel time   3           3       Savings      3         3       Savings
   corridors               (in minutes) during  Months   Months        (%)     Months    Months      (%)
   (Target = 10%)          peak hours           Before     After                Before    After
                           Tay Son              27.65      12.6        54.4     21.29    13.87       34.9
                           Le Duan              22.27      13.44       39.6     20.78    14.78       28.9
                           Tran Quang Khai      12.1       6.89        43.1      12.2     7.59       37.8
                           Bach Mai              *           *          *         *         *          *

   Improve traffic safety  No. of fatal               2000                 2005               Reduction
   along priority          accidents per
   corridors               motorized vehicle                Per                  Per     Actual     (%) Per
                           along project        Actual    million    Actual    million              million
                           corridors                     vehicles              vehicles             vehicles
                           Tay Son               81        2.54        63        1.01      18       60.2%
                           Le Duan              102        2.92        24        0.54      78       81.5%
                           Tran Quang Khai       68        1.68        44        0.95      24       43.4%
                           Bach Mai              48        0.92        13        0.34      35       62.8%

                                                  2005 Actual
   Strengthen              No of TUPWS                 80
   institutional capacity  staff trained in
   of Transport and        traffic and project
   Urban Public Works      management
   (TUPWS) and             No. of TPD staff           140
   Traffic Police          trained in traffic
   Department (TPD)        enforcement and
                           traffic management




                                                      - 23 -

                                                Ho Chi Minh City
    Project                 Performance                                    Results
    Outputs/Impacts         Indicators
                                                     Target at Appraisal               Actual in 2005
    Improve traffic         Km of roads                     36.2                           26.3
    operating conditions    improved
    in the central areas of No. of junctions                 44                             20
    HCMC                    improved
    Improve priority        Km of priority                    -                              -
    corridors and critical  corridors improved
    junctions               No. of junctions                135                            108
                            improved

    Improve operating       Reduction in                    Peak                         Off-Peak
    conditions of major     average travel time   3          3       Savings       3         3       Savings
    corridors               (in minutes) during  Months   Months        (%)     Months    Months      (%)
    (Target = 10%)          peak hours           Before    After                 Before    After
                            3THang 2 - Dien      64.65     63.65        1.5      51.52     50.46       2.1
                            Bien Thu
                            Nguyen Tat Thanh     16.25     15.22        6.3      16.01     15.57       2.7
                            Cach Mang Thang      32.17     30.35        6.1      25.49     24.02       5.8
                            Tam
                            Central Area1        42.38     36.43       14.0        *         *          *

    Improve traffic safety  No. of fatal               2000                 2005              Reduced by
    along priority          accidents per
    corridors               motorized vehicle               Per                   Per                (%) Per
                            along project        Actual   million     Actual    million   Actual     million
                            corridors                     vehicles              vehicles             vehicles
                            3THang 2-Dien         43                    22
                            Bien Thu2                       0.56                  0.69      21          *
                            Nguyen Tat             6                     4
                            Thanh2                          0.08                  0.11       2          *
                            Cach Mang Thang       31                    25
                            Tam                             0.69                  0.48       6       30.16%



                                                   2005 Actual
    Strengthen              No of TUPWS                244
    institutional capacity  staff trained in
    of Transport and        traffic and project
    Urban Public Works      management
    (TUPWS) and Traffic     No. of TPD staff            33
    Police Department       trained in traffic
    (TPD)                   enforcement and
                            traffic management




Note:
1/ Central Area time savings based on trial runs conducted by the ATC supplier (see Annex 7).
2/ These corridors operated as 2-way corridors in 2000 and as 1-way corridors in 2005. As a result, total
2005 traffic flows were actually lower that 2000 flows. Traffic fatality rates are therefore not comparable.




                                                      - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
A.1 Hanoi Traffic Management System
     Corridors and Intersections                            12.20           12.20               99
     Central Area                                            4.50             3.60              80
A.2 Hanoi Institutional Strengthening
     Assistance to TUPWS                                     1.10             2.50             227
     Assistance to Traffic Police                            1.70             1.95             114
B.1 HCMC Traffic Systems Improvement
     Corridors and Intersections                             7.88             1.43              18
     Central Areas                                           2.80             0.34              12
     Area Traffic Control                                    5.49             4.36              79
B.2 HCMC Institutional Strengthening
     Assistance to TUPWS                                     1.13             2.30             204
     Assistance to TPDs                                      2.55             1.97              77

Total Baseline Cost                                         39.35           30.65
 Physical Contingencies                                      2.16             0.00
 Price Contingencies                                         5.69             0.00
                          Total Project Costs               47.20           30.65
                   Total Financing Required                 47.20           30.65


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           26.10         0.00          0.00         26.10
                                   (0.00)         (22.70)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (22.70)
2. Goods                           16.90            0.00         0.50          0.00         17.40
                                   (16.90)         (0.00)      (0.50)          (0.00)       (17.40)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         2.60          1.10          3.70
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (2.60)          (0.00)       (2.60)
   Total                           16.90           26.10         3.10          1.10         47.20
                                   (16.90)        (22.70)      (3.10)          (0.00)       (42.70)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           15.07        0.00           0.00        15.07
                                   (0.00)         (13.58)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (13.58)
2. Goods                            8.68           0.00         2.74           0.00        11.42
                                   (8.54)         (0.00)       (2.74)         (0.00)       (11.28)

                                                - 25 -

   3. Services                             3.71               0.00              0.01             0.45              4.17
                                          (3.60)             (0.00)            (0.01)            (0.00)           (3.61)
       Total                               12.39             15.07              2.75             0.45             30.66
                                          (12.14)           (13.58)            (2.75)            (0.00)           (28.47)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
A.1 Hanoi Traffic
Management System
Corridors and                  8.50         1.60                    10.90         1.30                  128.2     81.3
Intersections
Central Area                   9.30         0.20                     2.40         1.20                  25.8     600.0
A.2 Hanoi Institutional
Strengthening
Assistance to TUPWS            2.00         0.60                     2.50         0.00                  125.0     0.0
Assistance to Traffic Police   2.10         0.00                     1.95         0.00                  92.9      0.0
B.1 HCMC Traffic Systems
Improvement
Corridors and                  7.50         1.10                     1.30         0.13                  17.3      11.8
Intersections
Central Areas                  2.60         0.40                     0.31         0.03                  11.9      7.5
Area Traffic Control           6.20         0.00                     4.36         0.00                  70.3      0.0
B.2 HCMC Institutional
Strengthening
Assistance to TUPWS            1.60         0.50                     1.74         0.56                  108.8    112.0
Assistance to TPDs             2.90         0.00                     1.92         0.05                  66.2      0.0




                                                          - 26 -

           Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

           The economic evaluation conducted at project appraisal and completion is based on travel time savings
           only. All costs and benefits have been discounted to 2000 prices, at 12% per year. The benefits stream for
           travel time savings of the urban roadworks and interchanges (by project corridor) are calculated based on
           traffic counts, travel times during peak and off-peak hours, vehicle occupancies, and value of time.
           Physical works were implemented over five years in Hanoi, and four years in HCMC. The benefits were
           calculated for five years, beginning in the final year of implementation.

                                                                 Cost-Benefit Analysis

                              Average Daily Traffic Volumes
                                      (Vehicle Trips)              Travel Time           Cost (US$ m)              NPV (US$ m)            ERR (%)
                               1999      2005    Change (%)       Savings (min) 1  Estimated     Actual2      Estimated       Actual2 Estimated Actual
Hanoi   3

Tay Son                       122,560    239,399      95              9.30          2,520,000     3,907,036          8.34        27.33     70%     97%
Le Duan                       134,540    171,530      27              6.70          4,160,000     2,229,806          9.76        12.55     54%     89%
Bach Mai                      200,503    178,243      -11             6.35          2,470,000     3,259,493          5.77         9.69     57%    237%
Tran Quang Khai               155,982    145,905
                                                                                    9,150,000     9,396,335         23.87        49.57     60%   141%


HCMC     4

3Thang 2 - Dien Bien Thu      297,824    122,560      -59             1.05          2,710,000     1,150,000         28.80         0.95    135%     53%
Nguyen Tat Thanh              274,290    134,540      -51             0.59          1,670,000        90,000          1.80         1.27     37%    175%
Nguyen Van Troi               192,129    155,982      -19                           1,370,000                        0.92          N/C
Cach Mang Thang Tam           173,634    200,503      15              1.54          2,070,000       180,000          7.19         4.24     73%    213%
                                                                                    7,820,000     1,420,000         38.71         6.46     82%   147%
NOTES:
1 - Weighted by mode and purpose
2 - in year 2000 values
3 - The Tran Quang Khai corridor in Hanoi was not calculated, as implementation had not been completed prior to Credit closing.
4 - The Nguyen Van Troi corrdior in HCMC was cancelled from the project. The 3Thang 2 - Dien Bien Thu and Nguyen Tat Thanh corridors were
converted to one directional thoroughfares.




                                                                           - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/22/1993                2    Urban Transport Specialist (2)
              06/16/1994                2    Urban Transport Specialist (2)
              03/04/1995                1    Urban Transport Specialist (1)
              05/29/1995                3    Urban Transport Specialist (2);
                                             Urban Specialist (1)
              01/23/1996                5    Urban Transport Specialist (3);
                                             Resettlement Specialist (1);
                                             Infrastructure Engineer (1)
              06/24/1996                3    Urban Transport Specialist (2);
                                             Infrastructure Engineer (1)
              12/20/1996                3    Urban Transport Specialist (1);
                                             Financial Analyst (1);
                                             Infrastructure Engineer (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/14/1998                8    Urban Transport Specialist
                                             (2); Traffic Consultant (1);
                                             Resettlement Specialist (1);
                                             Operations Officer (1);
                                             Water Transport Consultant
                                             (1); Environmental
                                             Specialist (1);
                                             Procurement/Disbursement
                                             Specialist (1)


 Supervision

              11/14/1998                3    Urban Transport Specialist (1);      S               S
                                             Transport Engineer (1);
                                             Operations Officer (1)
              04/29/1999                2    Urban Transport Specialist (1);      S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist (1)
              11/24/1999                3    Urban Transport Specialist (1);      S               S
                                             Operations Officer (TR) (1);
                                             Disbursment Analyst (1)
              02/25/2000                3    Urban Transport Specialist (1);      S               S
                                             Operations Officer (TR) (1);
                                             Procurement Analyst (1)
              05/05/2000                2    Urban Transport Specialist (1);      S               S
                                             Operations Officer (1)
              10/26/2000                1    Urban Transport Specialist (1)       S               S
              04/13/2001                4    Urban Transport Specialist (1);      S               S
                                             Operations Officer (TR) (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Operations Officer (UR) (1)
              11/29/2001                2    Urban Transport Specialist (1);      U               S
                                             Operations Officer (1)
                                              - 28 -

               05/03/2002              4   Urban Transport Specialist (1);     U    S
                                           Operations Officer (1);
                                           Procurement Analyst (1);
                                           Consultant (1)
               11/28/2002              5   Urban Transport Specialist (1);     S    S
                                           Transport Specialist (1); Sr.
                                           Urban Transport Specialist (1);
                                           Operations Officer (1);
                                           Procurement Specialist (1)
               05/15/2003              2   Sr. Urban Transport Specialist      S    S
                                           (1); Urban Transport Specialist
                                           (1)
               12/23/2003              2   Operations Officer (2)              S    S
               07/29/2004              1   Operations Officer (1)              S    S
               02/25/2005              2   Urban Transport Specialist          S    S
                                           (1);Operations Officer (1)
               06/13/2005                  Urban Transport Specialist          S    S
                                           (2);Operations Officer (2)
                                                                               S    S

 ICR
               10/07/2005             4     Urban Transport Specialist         S    S
                                            (2); Operations Officer (2)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            64.0                            371.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                          167.9                            395.4
  ICR                                   21.2                            35.7
  Total                                253.1                            803.0




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Back to Office Reports (including management letters, aides-memoire, PSR/ISRs)

Development Credit Agreement (Cr. 3125-VN) date September 8, 1998.

Frame, Gladys. "Context Report for Implementation Completion Report - Hanoi Component." December
9, 2005.

Project Appraisal Document (PAD) dated June 17, 1998.

Telvent. "ITACA Trial Runs - Supply and Installation of Traffic Signal Equipment and an Area Traffic
        Control System for Ho Chi Minh City". 2004




                                                 - 32 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 29540


                                                                                    V I E T N A M
                                     URBAN TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                  TRAFFIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                        CORRIDOR:


                                                                                       HANOI                                                                                                                      ANCIENT QUARTER PERIPHERAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ANCIENT QUARTER AREA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TRAN QUANG KHAI CORRIDOR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TAY SON CORRIDOR
                                                                   West      Lake
                                                                                                                                                        BRIDGE                                                    BACH MAI CORRIDOR
                                                                                                                                                    BIEN                                                          LE DUAN CORRIDOR
                                                                                                                                                LONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROPOSED CENTRAL AREA IMPROVEMENTS

                                                                                                                                  YEN PHU/HANG DAU                                                                MAIN STREETS
                                                                                                                                                           BRIDGE                                                 SECONDARY STREETS
                                                                                                                                                      RIVER
                                                                                                                                                   RED                                                            RIVERS

                                                                                                                                                   DAU CAU
                                                                                                                             ANCIENT               CHUONG DUONG

                                                                                                                             QUARTER


                                                                                                                                                                 Hong                                                   105                                      110


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C H I N A




                                                                                                                                                                       (Red)
                                                                                                                             FRENCH
                                                                               Q CHO DUA                                   ARCHITECTURAL                                                                                Hanoi
                                                                                                                             QUARTER
                                                                                                                                        RO                    TRAN
                                                                                                                                                                                             20LAO PEOPLE'S                                                       20
                                                                                                                                          DIRRO                                                 DEMOCRATIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                  REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                  QUANG                                                                    G u l f          Hainan I.
                                                                                                                                               C                                                                        V I E T N A M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o f             (China)
                                                                  CORRIDOR                              CORRIDOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To n k i n

                                                               SON                                                                      MAI
                                                            TAY                                     DUAN                                                                 KHAI

                                                                                                  LE                                BACH                                     CORRIDOR



                                                       NGA TU SO
                                                                                                                                                                                                 T H A I L A N D


                                                                                                                                                                                             15                                                                   15

                                                                                       NGA TU VONG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C A M B O D I A




    DONG
  HA
TO

                                                                                                                                                                                                  Gulf
                                                                                                                                                                                                   of                                    Ho Chi Minh City
                                                                                                                                                                                                Thailand

                                                                                                                                                                                             10                                                                   10


           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
           The boundaries, colors,denominations and anyother information shown                                                                   0                 1                    2                                               0    100       200      300
           on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                                                                                                                  KILOMETERS
           judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                                                               KILOMETERS
           acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                        TO N.H. 1                  TO 3 RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        105                                      110

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JUNE 1998

                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 29541


                                          V I E T N A M
                                                                                                                                                        PROPOSED ATC SIGNALIZED JUNCTIONS
                 URBAN TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                    PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT CORRIDORS:

                                     HO CHI MINH CITY                                                                                                     1    3 THANG 2/DIEN BIEN PHU

                                                                                                                                                          2    NGUYEN TAT THANH

                                                                                                                                                          3    NGUYEN VAN TROI

                                                                                                                                                          4    CACH MANG THANG TAM
       Q. TAN BINH                                                                                           CAU BINH LOI
                                            NGA NAM                                                                                                     PROPOSED CENTRAL AREA IMPROVEMENTS
                                              GO VAP                                                                                                    MAIN STREETS

                                                                                                                                                        SECONDARY STREETS
                 SAN BAY TAN SON NHAT                                                                         THANH BA                                  RIVERS


                                                                              Q. BINH THANH                               SAIGON

                                                                                                                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                         G                 The boundaries, colors,denominations and anyother information shown
                                                                                                                        N                  on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                                                                       SO                  judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                           acceptance of such boundaries.




                                                                                                                                                                   105                                           110
                                                                                        1
                                                                                                         NGA TU                                                                                     C H I N A
                                                                                                       HANG XANH
                                                           Q. PHU NHUAN
                                             3      NGUYEN                              PHU
                        CACH
                            MANG                           VAN
                                THANG                         TROI      SAU    DIEN                                                                               Hanoi
                                     TAM                             THI
                                                             NAM                   TIEN
                                  4
                                                                KY                     HONG
                                                                                                            SAIGON                  20LAO PEOPLE'S                                                                20

                                                                                                                                       DEMOCRATIC
                                                     RAILWAY           BIEN
                                                     STATION        KHOY                                                                 REPUBLIC                                           G u l f
                                                                                                                                                                  V I E T N A M                             Hainan I.
                                                             VO                                      T SONG
                                                                                                                                                                                             o f            (China)
                                                                         NGHIA                     NO                                                                                     To n k i n
                                                                                                CUD

                                       Q.10

                                                      DIEN         4                       GNAHT        THU THIEM



                                                                                                                                        T H A I L A N D
                                                                                                        NGUYEN
                            6
                   Q.11                                                                                                             15                                                                            15
                                                                                                      2
                       THANG                                                                                   TATTHANH
                                                                                     Q.4
                                                                                                                            ROAD5
                                                Q.5


    VUONG                                                                                                                                                     C A M B O D I A
       1
HUNG




                                                                                                                                         Gulf
                                                                                                                                          of                                           Ho Chi Minh City
                                                                                                                                       Thailand

                                                                                          0                  1               2      10                                                                            10


                                                                                                         KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                                     0        100      200      300

                       Q.8                                                                                                                                                                     KILOMETERS

                                                                                                      HUYEN NHA BE
                                                                                                                                                                   105                                           110

                                                                                                                                                                                                            JUNE 1998

