RESTRICTED
Report No.   PA- 123a
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL REPORT
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
ETHIOPIA
April 10, 1972
Agriculture Projects Department
Development Finance Companies Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00              =  2.30 Ethiopian dollars (Eth$)
Eth$ 1.00            =  US$0.43
Eth$ 1 million      =  US$434,285
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AIDB      =  Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
CADU      =  Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit
CBE       =  Commercial Bank of Ethiopia
DBE       =  Development Bank of Ethiopia
EIC       =  Ethiopian Investment Corporation
FIRC      =  Financial Intermediaries Reorganization Commission
NBE       =  National Bank of Ethiopia
FISCAL YEAR (AIDB)
July 8 - July 7



ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
.Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ....................                 i-iii
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                   1
II. BACKGROUND.                                                     2
A. General.                                                   2
B. The Agricultural Sector .                                  2
Agricultural Structure.                            2
Agricultural Production.                           3
Priorities and Pattern of Development              3
Agricultural Inputs and Services.                  4
C. The Industrial Sector                 .5
Industrial Structure.                              5
Industrial Production and Investment.              5
Government Policies.                               6
D.  Banking and Development Institutions.                    6
III. THE COMPNY .7
A. Organization and Policies.                                 7
Constitution.                                      7
Management.                                        7
Policy Statement.                                  8
Lending Terms, Interest Rates and
Investment Policy.                             9
Small Farmer Credit .10
B.   Operations, Resources and Demands .10
Transferred Assets .10
Current Operations .13
Financial Position .13
Profitability .14
Accounts and Audit .15
Resources .                                       15
Forecast of AIDB Operations .15
Financial Prospects .16
This Appraisal Report is based on the findings of a Development Finance
Companies Department mission which visited Ethiopia in May-June 1971 and
of whlch Messrs. C. R. Lethbridge, S. Kpognon (IDA) and L. E. Peterson
(Consultant) were members, and of an Agriculture Projects Department
Mission of August 1971 of which Messrs. C. H. Walton (IDA) and L. Anderson
and L. E. Peterson (Consultants) were members.



-2-
Page No.
IV.  THE PROJECT         .......................................  16
A.   General Description ...........................        16
B.   The Agricultural Credit Program ....      ...........    16
Definition   ...............................     16
Detailed Features ........................    18
Cost Estimates and Financing ....     .........    19
Production and Marketing ....      .............    21
Prices and Producers' Benefits ....     .......    21
C.   The Industrial Credit Program ............    21
Industrial Demands .....       ..................    21
Resources Requirements ....       ...............    22
D.   Conditions of the IDA Credit ....       ..............    22
Terms and Approvals .....       .................  22
Procurement and Disbursements ....     ........    23
V.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .........................        24
VI.   RECONMENDATIONS ....................................        25
ANNEXES                                                                                    9
1.   Financial Institutions in Ethiopia
2.   Structure of Prevailing Interest Rates in Ethiopia
3.   Decree No. 55 of 1970
4.   AIDB - Board of Directors and Loan Committee
5.   AIDB - Organization Chart
6.   AIDB - Statement of Policy
7.   Development Bank of Ethiopia - Utilization of IBRD Loans 32-ET
and 301-ET
8.   AIDB - Transferred Portfolio
9.   AIDB - Financial Statements
Appendix 9-1   Balance Sheets
Appendix 9-2   Income Statements
Appendix 9-3   Cash Flow Statements
Appendix 9-4   Commitments and Disbursements
10.   AIDB - Summary of Accounting System and Disbursement Procedures



*                                 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~3-
11.   Commercial Farming Sub-Project
Appendix 11-1  -  Estimated Increases in Cropped Area and Production
Appendix 11-2 - Area, Investment Costs, Yield and Price
Assumptions
Appendix 11-3 - Financial Rates of Return by Type of Enterprise
Appendix 11-4 - Economic Rates of Return by Type of Enterprise
12.   Agricultural Credit Survey - Consultants' Terms of Reference
13.   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements of the IDA Credit






ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
BASIC DATA
1.   I)ate of Formation:  November 1970
2.   Share Capital:  Eth$ 35 million wholly owned by the Government of
Ethiopia.
3.   Resource Position /1 (as of January 9, 1972):           (Eth$ millionD
Share capital and retained earnings                            37.1
Government account                                             18.0
Borrowings                                                     18.7
Deposits                                                        9.1
Uncommitted foreign loan                                        8.3
Total resources                                          91.2
Short term loans                                               14.7
Loans and equity investments                                   62.7
Undisbursed commitments                                         2.1
Fixed assets                                                    1.7
Total commitments                                        81.2
Uncommitted resources                                          10.0
91.2
4.   Portfolio outstanding (as of July    1971):              (Eth$ millions)
Short term loans for agriculture                                5.5
Term loans for agriculture                                     11.7
Equity investments in agriculture                               2.5
Total for agriculture                                    19.7
Short term loans for industry                                   2.7
Term loans for industry                                        18.9
Equity investments in industry                                 28.0
Total for industry                                       49.6
Total loan and equity portfolio                          69.3
5.   Financial positio /  (as of January 9, 1972):
Overall debt/equity ratio                                        .47
Current ratio                                                   2.0
Net earnings after taxes and provisions to average
net worth (on annual basis)                                   2.2%
6.   Minimum interest rate                                           9.5%
/1   According to unaudited balance sheet.






ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises the Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank of Ethiopia (AIDB) and its expected lending and investment program for
part of which, together with a small technical assistance component, an IDA
Credit of US$11 million is proposed. It would support AIDB's commitments
over about one-and-a-half years for financing medium- and long-term invest-
ments through a Project comprising an agricultural credit and an industrial
credit program. It would also finance consultants to prepare a further
program for agricultural credit, particularly to small farmers, throughout
Ethiopia.
ii.       The Bank Group first assisted a development finance company in
Ethiopia in 1950 when it made its first loan of US$2 million for the Devel-
opment Bank of Ethiopia. This was followed by a further loan of the same
amount ten years later. Government in 1964 set up another wholly-owned
development bank, the Ethiopian Investment Corporation, and the two co-mpanies
were subsequently operating in the same fields, competing for scarce financial
and managerial resources and with unsatisfactory results for both. With Bank
Group encouragement and some staff assistance, Government agreed that the two
companies should be merged into a single development institution. In
November 1970, AIDB was thus established.
iii.      Although AIDB has wide powers and may make loans (including short-
term) and equity investments in virtually any commercially viable development
scheme, its investment policies are well defined in a board statement which
provides a generally sound basis for project financing. The portfolio of
loans and shares taken over has been realistically valued and, given some
management strengthening through the appointment of senior advisers (whlich
would be a condition of credit effectiveness), its staffing is sound anad well
organized. AIDB is thus well equipped for its task and its limited first
year's operations have shown a good beginning. AIDB should, however, guard
itself from becoming over-extended in financing short-term agricultural credit
and in providing related procurement and marketing services beyond the levels
for which it is presently equipped. To meet future credit demands, in
particular of small farmers, Ethiopia needs the advice of consultants to
prepare proposals for an agricultural credit program.
iv.       In addition to the two loans to DBE for US$4 million, Bank Group
assistance to industry in Ethiopia comprises four IFC investments of US$12
million in three companies. In agriculture, because of weak infrastructure,
assistance has so far concentrated on comprehensive projects in limitedi areas.
Since 1969 IDA has approved four such projects for a total of US$17.3 laillion
and two of these include finance for on-farm credit. Two other similar
projects have been appraised and a third one is in an advanced stage of pre-
paration. Recently, however, agriculture has been developing more widely,
resulting in increased credit demand from small subsistence farmers,



- ii -                                                 0
commercial farmers and larger entrepreneurs with agribusiness projects.
AIDB is endeavoring to meet these needs as well as fulfill the more
traditional role of a development finance company in the industrial sector.
v.        The Project would comprise an agricultural credit program to help
finance a variety of agricultural sub-projects estimated to cost US$13.4
million and consultant studies, estimated to cost US$0.2 million, for which
IDA would contribute US$5.5 million, or 40% of Project cost. An industrial
credit program would help finance investments in this sector for which AIDB
commitments of US$8.7 million are expected and the industrial component
of the IDA Credit, also for US$5.5 million, would provide 63% of those
requirements. In each case the IDA Credit would finance the import compo-
nent of AIDB's medium- and long-term loans and equity investments in respect
of its commitments made over about one-and-a-half years ending December
31, 1973.
vi.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$11 million would finance US$3.8 mil-
lion for commercial farming, US$0.5 million for cooperatives, US$1.0 million
for agribusiness, US$0.2 million for technical assistance and US$5.5 million
for industry. Government would retain the technical assistance component and
would make the balance of the IDA Credit (US$10.8 million) available to AIDB
at an interest rate of 7-1/4% annually. This would be repayable by AIDB, over
a period not exceeding 15 years, so as to reflect repayments by AIDB's sub-
borrowers to AIDB.  Government would carry the foreign exchange risk.  AIDB
would charge an interest rate of not less than 9-1/2% annually on its medium-
and long-term loans (at present 8-1/2%).  Its rate for short-term lending
although not financed by IDA would also be increased to 9-1/2% annually.
Loans to intermediaries (e.g., cooperatives) for on-investment could con-
tinue to be made at not less than 8-1/2% (medium- and long-term) and 9%
(short-term).
vii.      The IDA Credit relating to commercial farming, together with the
technical assistance, would be disbursed in accordance with normal project
procedures and, except for individual loans above US$100,000 equivalent,
would not require further review by the Association; individual loans of
not more than US$100,000 equivalent in industrial sub-projects would be
similarly treated. Other agricultural and industrial investments would be
subject to sub-project approval under the usual procedures for development
finance companles. About 20 sub-projects would be involved, about evenly
divided between agriculture and industry.
viii.     Commercial farming investments to be financed would be generally
small and varied (tractors, farm machinery, livestock, irrigation equipment,
etc.) and would not be suitable for bulk procurement enabling international
competitive bidding. The method of procuring goods and services for invest-
ments requiring sub-project approval would be determined at the time of such
approvals; AIDB's procurement procedures should ensure procurement at reason-
able prices.
ix.       Because investment purposes are only partially identified, overall
financial and economic benefits of the operation cannot be fully quantified.



Financial returns to commercial farmers are, however, estimated to range from
23% to 53% and the economic returns from 23% to 56%; approval of cooperative,
agribusiness and industrial sub-projects would be subject to their demonstra-
ting a satisfactory rate of economic return. In addition, the IDA Credit
would bring about substantial institutional and sectoral benefits through the
strengthening of AIDB, the preparation of an agricultural credit program for
small farmers and the application of sound criteria and appraisal techniques
to IDA-supported sector investments. The Project would be suitable for an
IDA Credit of US$11 million.






ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Bank Group originally assisted a development finance company
in Ethiopia in 1950 with a loan of US$2 million to Government to finance its
share capital contribution in the then new Development Bank of Ethiop.La
(DBE). In 1961 a second loan, also for US$2 million, was made directiy to
DBE and this was followed two years later by a request from DBE for a
further loan. At that time however Government was establishing a second
wholly-owned institution, the Ethiopian Investment Corporation (EIC), with
the same functions as DBE and it was therefore decided not to provide further
finance to DBE until there was a rationalization of the development financing
structure in Ethiopia. In 1964, the Bank prepared a report in which it
recommended the merging of the industrial operations of DBE and EIC atLd
offered assistance in the separate reorganization of agricultural cre,lit.
1.02      In 1969 Government decided that DBE and EIC should be merged. into
a single institution to finance both industry and agriculture and, at its
request, the Bank seconded a staff member to advise the Financial IntEr-r-
mediaries Reorganization Commission (FIRC) set up to carry through the
merger. Its recommendations, which included the transfer to the new
institution of investments directly held by Government, were subsequently
approved. In November 1970 the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
(AIDB) was established, taking over certain investments previously held by
DBE, EIC, and Government. The Bank Group was later invited to appraise AIDB
for a loan.
1.03      In agriculture, because of weak infrastructure support, Bank Group
lending has hitherto focussed on comprehensive projects in limited areas.
Four have so far been approved: the Wolamo Agricultural Development Project
(IDA US$3.5 million) in October 1969, the Humera Agricultural Developmnent
Project (IDA US$3.1 million) in April 1970, the Addis Ababa Dairy Project
(IDA US$4.4 million) in July 1971, and the Coffee Processing Project
(IDA US$6.3 million) in January 1972. Of these, the Wolamo and Dairy projects
include some on-farm credit, with the latter project using AIDB as the credit
channel. AIDB is also used as a credit channel for financing of coffee
processing plants constructed under the Coffee Processing Project. Two
other projects - a second livestock project and an irrigation project (para
2.01) - have been appraised recently and a third one - the "Minimum package
program" (para 2.06) - is to be appraised shortly. Ethiopian agriculture is,
however, beginning to develop on a broader basis and, in recognition of this,
a Bank Group agriculture sector survey mission visited Ethiopia in October/
November 1971 and is now finalizing its report. Meanwhile it is evident
that recent developments have created a wider demand for agricultural credit,
which AIDB is seeking to meet.
1.04      In industry, Bank Group financing has totalled US$16 millior.  Of
the two loans totalling US$4 million made to DBE, almost half was relent to
the textile industry and an additional 20% was relent for food processing.



-2-
Four IFC investments have been approved comprising US$1.2 million in
Ethiopian Pulp and Paper Share Company in February 1965, US$7.9 million in
HVA Metahara Share Company (a sugar company) in May 1967, and US$3.1 million
in Cotton Company of Ethiopia in October 1964 and April 1970. Manufacturing
output grew at a rate 3-1/2 times faster than GDP during the 1960's. How-
ever, the industrial base in Ethiopia is still very small, and in the last
few years the growth rate in manufacturing output has declined to a rate
about twice that of GDP.
II. BACKGROUND -
A. General
2.01      The greater part of Ethiopia consists of the mountains and plateau
of the Ethiopian massif which rises to 4,620 m and is dissected by the Rift
Valley. Although within the tropics, the differences in altitude provide a
wide range of ecological zones and climate. Rainfall increases from north to
south from a minimum of 250 mm in the north-east region near the Red Sea to
over 1,000 mm in the mountainous plateau region of the south-west. Irrigation
is at present insignificant but there are prospects for its expansion in
the Awash Valley where the Bank Group has appraised the Melka Sadi-Amibara
project.
2.02      The population of some 25 million is increasing at approximately
2.5% annually. About 85% live in the highlands and with Addis Ababa (popula-
ation 850,000) and Asmara (230,000) as the only major cities, the total urban
population is less than 2.2 million. Nearly 90% of the populatiton derives
its livelihood directly or indirectly from agriculture which contributes about
60% of GDP. Per capita income in 1970 was estimated at about US$65 and is
one of the lowest in the world.
B. The Agricultural Sector
Agricultural Structure
2.03      Only 11% of the total land area is under crop cultivation, 52%
being taken up by grazing areas, 4% by forests, the balance (33%) being
unsuitable for plant or livestock production. Agricultural land provides
just over 3 ha for each of the estimated 4 million farm families.  About 90%
of these fami'lies, however, cultivate less than 2 ha and are not yet part of
the monetary economy. Half the total area under crops is in the intensively
cultivated Central Highlands, farmed in the main by subsistence farmers.
Recently however, commercial farming by Ethiopian landlords and entrepreneurs
has emerged in the less densely settled areas of the highlands, in the Rift
Valley and in the uninhabited plains of the north-west. They, together with
1/   Further detailed information is given in "Current Position and Prospects
of Ethiopian Economy Report?!, No. AE21 circulated on November 18, 1971.



0                                             -3-
a few large and mainly foreign concessionaires, provide, except for coffee,
most of the marketable crop surpluses. The land tenure system is complicated
and uncertain but it is estimated that half the subsistence farmers are
tenants without security of tenure and many of these are share-cropping.
Agricultural Production
2.04      Arabica coffee is Ethiopia's most important crop, providing about
60% (1970) of the country's total export earnings; other important contrib-
utors are oilseeds (9% of total exports), hides and skins (10%) and cereals
and pulses (8%). Together, agricultural commodities accounted for 97% of
Ethiopia's total exports in 1970. Of food crops teff 11 (18% of total cropped
area), barley (13%) and wheat and sorghum (each about 10%) are the most
important. Ethiopia was until recently self-sufficient in staple foods but
now imports wheat; cotton, although an important crop, has also to be
imported to meet the needs of the local manufacturing industry. The value
of agricultural production increased over the period 1961-69 at a rate of
only 2% per annum (compared with 4.5% increase in total GDP), and the growth
of agriculture has not even kept pace with population increase.
Priorities and Pattern of Development
2.05      Since the mid-sixties, Ethiopia has given priority to agricultural
development and the Third Five-Year Plan 1968-73 aims at a 3.1% annual growth
rate over the period.  Until recently, priority has been given to infrastruc-
ture development and although this in many respects remains weak (and continues
to receive attention) emphasis is now directed at programs designed to bring
more immediate increases in cash crop surpluses. In particular Ethiopia aims
to reduce its overwhelming dependence on coffee for exports (now restricted
by international agreements) by diversifying into other crops, some of which
would replace existing imports, and to do this by the development of both
subsistence and commercial farming.
2.06      Infrastructure weaknesses, particularly an acute shortage of
qualified extension staff, only rudimentary cooperative, credit and marketing
facilities and a poor road network compelled Government to concentrate their
efforts to develop small-scale farming on a few intensive projects in
limited high potential areas. The first of these "package" projects, the
Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit (CADU) started in 1967 and was followed
by others including the IDA-supported Wolamo project. Encouraged by their
results and by the impact of an FAQ fertilizer program, Government in 1970
started a more widespread operation, the "minimum package program" wita a
concept similar to the earlier projects but with a lower level of infrastruc-
ture and inputs. AIDB is the channel for credit under this scheme with the
Government providing a 95% guarantee. This program, tentatively scheduled
for appraisal by the Bank Group around mid-1972, is planned to reach 1,30,000
small farmers over the next five years.
1/   Teff (Eragrostis Abyssinica):  a short annual grass whose tiny seed is
used to prepare an unleavened bread.



- 4                                                     0
2.07      A small but important class of commercial farmers (probably not
more than 2,000) has also recently emerged. Some are experienced agricul-
turists but most are retired civil servants or businessmen employing farm
managers for technical advice. Their farms, usually 50-500 ha, are mostly
located in the less populated areas and are mechanized and often irrigated.
This development has been encouraged by Government's increased emphasis on
agriculture and by relatively high crop prices but depends on the availability
of credit. On a larger scale, Government's favorable foreign and domestic
investment policy (para 2.12) has brought proposals, mainly from overseas
sponsors for a number of agribusiness projects--large-scale vertically
integrated operations with production closely linked with processing and
marketing. Ethiopia's varied ecological conditions favor a wide range of
crops (e.g., tea, cotton, fruit) which could be grown on an estate basis in
areas of low population, mainly for export.
Agricultural Inputs and Services
2.08      Sustained efforts over a few recent years have brought about a
marked increase in the consumption of fertilizers (all of which have to be
imported) from 4,000 tons in 1968 to an estimated 14,000 tons in 1972. Backed
by extended research and multiplication programs, similar progress has been
made in the use of improved seed varieties though, with expected sales in
1971/72 of 6,000 tons, they will probably amount to only 5% of the total used--
mainly wheat, barley and maize.  Credit and marketing services, particularly
at the primary level, have however lagged behind and the lack of trained
personnel to organize the distribution and use of inputs and the marketing
of crops is still a major constraint to further development. Despite con-
siderable progress there were in mid-1971 only 100 cualified Ethiopian
agricultural extension officers and only a few (about 20) agricultural
cooperatives; organized marketing remains rudimentary, largely in the hands
of private traders.
2.09      Commercial farmers have been less affected by the inadequate
extension and other services and with their large land holdings or concessions,
they have been quick to seize the advantages of farm mechanization. With less
than 3,000 tractors in the country, farm mechnization has not yet had much
impact on the rural economy and even on commercial farms, where most of the
harvesting and some other cultivation practices are still carried out by draft
animals and manual labor. While there have been problems of rural unemploy-
ment created in a few areas, there has probably been no overall rural
unemployment effect. Tractor demand is however unduly inflated, on the
one hand by a nil import tariff on tractors and exemption from all duties
on gasoline products used by tractors and, on the other, by the relatively
high prices obtained for many crops. If uncorrected this situation can
be expected to lead to labor displacement. The gasoline duty exemption,
which is particularly subject to abuse, is estimated to have resulted in
an Eth$ 5 million loss of Government revenue in 1970:  in effect it
provides a substantIal subsidy to the mainly large and wealthy farmers
who least need it.  It was agreed at negotiations that Government would
submit to the Parliament, not later than March 31, 1973, a recommendation
to eliminate the exemptlion from duty of gasoline products used by tractors,



*.-5
and that by the same date a Government study would be prepared of the poten-
tial effects of the absence of import taxes on tractors. The study would
make recommendations for any changes in policy deemed appropriate.
C. The Industrial Sector
Industrial Structure
2.10      Industrial development is still at an early stage in Ethiopia.
Manufacturing contributed only an estimated 5% to GDP in 1969 (equivaLent
to 10% of monetary GDP), while handicrafts and small scale industry
contributed another 5%. There are 440 registered manufacturing firms
with fixed assets of about Eth$ 385 million, value added of Eth$ 225
million and employment for some 50,000. The characteristics of the major
industries are as follows:
Value         Fixed
Industry                 Employment (%)  Added (%)    Assets (%)
Textiles and apparel                48            35             30
Food and drink                      25            45            30
Construction materials              14             9             11
Others (chemicals, metals,
printing)                         13           11             29
Total              100           100            100
Manufacturing output is predominantly sold domestically, with only small
quantities of cement, sugar, and a few other commodities being exported.
Industry typically depends heavily on imported technical skills, and most
industries are controlled by foreign firms. Because of the dearth of local
private capital and local entrepreneurs, Government has often entered into
joint ventures with foreign partners in a minority position, and it has
also taken a controlling interest in a dozen or so enterprises. The
food and construction material industries are reasonably efficient. Because
Ethiopia still imports about half of its cotton requirements, the value
added in the textile industry is rather low.  Protection granted to ot:Aer
industries has often been excessive, resulting in inefficiencies and high
prices, but Government is considering means to correct these deficiencLes
(para 2.12).
Industrial Production and Investment
2.11      Between 1961-69 the growth rate of manufacturing output averaged
16% annually as against 4.5% annually for GDP (measured in terms of 191il
prices), but from a very small base. Latest figures indicate a decline in the
growth rate over the last three years, from about 14% in 1968 to 11% in 1969
and probably lower in 1970, and the 15% rate projected in the Five-Year Plan
may therefore prove over-optimistic.  Investment in manufacturing increased
from an average of Eth$ 40 million in 1963 and 1964 to a peak of Eth$ 75
million in 1966, decreasing to Eth$ 52 million in 1967. Data are unavailable
for 1968, but there was a partial recovery in manufacturing investment in
1969 (the latest year for which data are available) to Eth$ 62 million.



-6-
Government Policies
2.12      Government's industrial policy is based on the creation of a favor-
able climate for foreign private investment, on which it largely depends for
the implementation of its industrial plan. Under the Investment Proclamation
of 1966, Ethiopia offers industrialists making a minimum investment of
Eth$ 200,000 a number of incentives, including tax relief and tariff pro-
tection. Government is at present reconsidering these incentives with a view
to reducing the levels of protection enjoyed by industries that make little
contribution to the economy and to encouraging export oriented industry,
particularly the processing of domestic raw materials such as meat, coffee,
oilseeds and other agricultural products. At the request of the Government,
the Bank Group has provided some technical assistance to the work of revising
the Investment Code.
2.13      Although most industries are controlled by foreign enterprises,
it is Government's policy to encourage the development of Ethiopian partici-
pation and ownership in private business. A Center for Entrepreneurship and
Management was set up jointly by Government and ILO in 1969 to train local
businessmen in production management and techniques.
D. Banking and Development Institutions (Annex 1)
2.14      Apart from the National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE), the country's
central bank, the Government-owned Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE) is the
leading banking institution, with a level of deposits and loan portfolio
far exceeding those of the three private banks which operate in Ethiopia.
Through about 80 branches, GBE is the major source of commercial credit for
the financing of imports and exports and in providing short-term loans for
industrial and agricultural development projects. However, it does not
generally make medium- or long-term loans for such development although,
before AIDB's creation, Government encouraged it to provide some projects
with equity and long-term loans.
2.15      CBE, and the private commercial banks, have been cautious in
providing agricultural credit. This has been due partly to the inherent
difficulties and risks in this type of financing but it also reflects the
interest rate structure, controlled by NBE, whereby depositors receive
the maximum allowa'ble interest (at 6%) on one-year deposits and the com-
mercial banks have therefore found it difficult to attract sufficient longer
term savings to support agricultural credit. Before its merger, DBE had
provided a limited amount of short-term crop finance through a subsidiary
(the Ceres Company), but much demand for crop lending could only be satisfied
by money lenders, if at all. Although little is known about the non-
institutional sources of finance, they are thought still to provide over
half the country's short-term credit requirements at interest rates of
40-60% annually. The CGE's interest rates vary (Annex 2) but for short-
term crop financing the rate is 9-1/2% annually.



0.-7-
III. THE COMPANY
A. Organization and Policies
Constitution
3.01      The Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) was estab-
lished as a share company under the Commercial Code in November 1970 with an
authorized share capital of Eth$ 100 million. By Decree No. 55 of August
28, 1970 (Annex 3) AIDB took over part of the loan and equity portfol:Los of
DBE, EIC and Government: its initial paid-up share capital of Eth$ 50,000
was increased to Eth$ 35 million following the completion of the valu.ation
of these transferred portfolios. Government or its nominees are AIDB's sole
shareholders.
3.02      AIDB's constitution provides for a board of not less than five
nor more than seven directors. The Chairman is the Minister of Finanne
and other present members of the Board include two Ministers (Agriculture;
Commerce, Industry and Tourism), the Governor of NBE, the Chief Commissioner
of the Planning Commission and the Managing Director of AIDB (Annex 4).
3.03      The Board's high-level composition emphasizes the importance
the Government attaches to AIDB, but limits its working capacity. This has
led the Board to delegate to the Managing Director the power to authorize a
loan or investment in any single project up to Eth$ 500,000. Althougli this
facilitates AIDB operations, it places heavy responsibility on one person
and carries an element of risk. In practice, however, the Managing Director's
powers are circumscribed by a Board Statement of Operational Policies
(para 3.08) which not only sets out principles but contains detailed guide-
lines for AIDB's lending and investment decisions. Moreover, an advisory
staff loan committee is required to make recommendations on all proposals
and when considering the Managing Director's authorizations, the Board has
to be informed of any differences between his decisions and those of the
loan committee. The Managing Director is therefore subject to substantial
guidance in the exercise of his powers.
Management
3.04      The Managing Director, H.E. Ato Asafa Demissie (the appointment
carries ministerial rank) was appointed by the Board in November 1970,
his previous appointments being Assistant Minister of Finance, Vice-
Minister in the Prime Minister's office responsible for Economic Affair7s
and, from 1967, Auditor-General of Ethiopia. Although Ato Asafa has no
previous experience of investment banking, his previous posts gave him
familiarity with the fields of activity with which AIDB is concerned arid
earned him a reputation for independence and firmness.
3.05      As of August 1971, AIDB had a total staff of 90 of whom about:
half are professionals. It partly consists of staff taken over from
DBE and EIC but most have been directly recruited. There are four main
departments (Annex 5). Agriculture is the largest and is divided into two



-8-
divisions, one for appraisal and the other for supervision and follow-up.
The smaller Industrial Department is similarly organized, but relies more
heavily on consultants. The two other departments are the Finance and
Banking Department and the Evaluation and Research Department.
3.06      Partly through its ability to offer competitive salaries,
AIDB has been able to build up in a short period a nucleus of well qualified
and enthusiastic staff. Nevertheless many have little previous investment
or banking experience and need guidance in various techniques, notably
appraisal. AIDB's Board and Managing Director recognize this and propose to
appoint internationally recruited advisers where suitably qualified and ex-
perienced Ethiopians are not available. AIDB agrees that priority should be
given to the appointment of three advisers, for agriculture, industry and
economics, and the first of these has recently been engaged. It was agreed
at negotiations that the remaining two appointments, which should -also be
to the satisfaction of the Bank, would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
UNDP has agreed to meet the cost of the three appointments and the Bank
Group is executing agent.
3.07      On its formation, AIDB took over the nine branch offices of
DBE. Of these, however, only two are effectively operating (mainly to
facilitate collections and project supervision) and AIDB is therefore
almost entirely centered on its head office in Addis Ababa. At the cost of
substantial travel time, AIDB at present can handle its relatively few accounts
in the provinces, but any significant expansion in its agricultural operations
will necessitate an improved branch network.  However, any recommendations
concerning AIDB's branch requirements for banking and supervision purposes
should await the outcome of the detailed study which would design a system
for a national agricultural credit program (para 3.16),
Policy Statement
3.08      In June 1971, AIDB's Board adopted a Statement of General Policy.
This Statement (Annex 6) particularly emphasizes the Board's intention
that AIDB will be operated on a fu1ly commercial basis, that it will charge
interest rates adequate to meet its costs, provide for reserves and a
profit margin, and maintain a sound balance between the maturities of its
own obligations and those of the loans it finances; its debt/equity ratio
limit is set at 3:1. In order to increase its resources and encourage the
growth of an Ethiopian share m2rket, AIDB intends to sell its equity
investments as appropriate opportunities occur. AIDB may make loans (in-
cluding short-term), equity investments and guarantees for projects in the
public and private sectors; the Policy Statement stresses that such projects
must be financially and economically viable and have competent management.
The Statement, inter alia, also details specific policies regarding lending
contributions, security requirements, interest rates, procurement and
appraisal procedures (para 3.09 et seq) and provides AIDB with a generally
satisfactory basis for project financing.
0'



-9 -
Lending Terms, Interest Rates and Investment Policy
3.09      AIDB's powers provide for a flexible approach to the financ:Lng
of projects, particularly the larger industrial and agribusiness activities
where terms have to be tailored to individual requirements. Loans may be
made for a wide range of purposes. In general, however, AIDB does not:
provide more than 50% of the total cost of the project to be financed or
take more than 30% of the equity in a company and its investment in arny
single enterprise may not exceed 10% of its net worth. Total equity invest-
ments are limited to 100% of AIDB's net worth. Collateral in the range of
125-200% is normally required in the form of mortgages but this can be
substantially reduced, particularly for short-term crop financing. To meet
varying circumstances, AIDB maintains flexible loan repayment terms. Maturities
are conservative and within the life of the assets financed; generally they
are limited to 10 years and for farm machinery 5 years, and AIDB normally
requires procurement by international competitive bidding to the externt
feasible.
3.10      Although AIDB has been relatively cautious in financing long-
term development, its short-term lending to direct borrowers, particularly
commercial farmers, has not always been related to incremental needs; it
has therefore often lent more than development needs justified - a situation
encouraged by AIDB's relatively low interest rates. While AIDB should
ensure that long-term development is not prejudiced by the shortage of
working capital, it should avoid substituting its limited resources for those
of commercial banks (para 3.11). To give emphasis to investments by eKperienc-
ed resident farmers, it was agreed at negotiations that AIDB would amend its
Policy Statement to permit, where appropriate, financing of up to 75% of
such investments, through medium- or long-term loans, up to a maximum of
US$100,000. AIDB's limit for financing of industrial sub-projects and
agricultural projects requiring financing in excess of US$100,000 would
remain unchanged at the present 50%.
3.11      AIDB lends medium-term (1-5 years) and long-term (above 5 years)
at 8-1/2% annually and short-term (up to 1 year) in the range 9-11%, though
in practice mainly at 9%. Although AIDB has already increased its lenciing
ri.tes by 1% above the levels charged by its predecessors, its present rates
are still below those charged by commercial banks (9-1/2% for similar
operations) while the same type of borrowers under the IDA-supported Addis
Ababa Dairy Project (which is channelled through AIDB) are also paying
9-1/2% annually. Such rates are very low in relation to non-institutional
rates (para 2.15) on which most farmers and small entrepreneurs depend..
Preferential institutional rates tend to favor those larger borrowers, both
agricultural and industrial, who least require such assistance.
3.12      AIDB's dual role as a prime lender to direct clients, involving
high staff costs and risks and as a credit channel to other institutions,
justifies a two-tier interest structure. Accordingly it was agreed at
negotiations that AIDB's lending rate (for any period) to final borrowers
would be not less than 9-1/2% annually.  In cases where AIDB was operating
as a credit channel for on-lending to institutions, other than its own subsi-
diaries, the prevailing interest rates would be maintained (not less than



- 10 -                                                 0
8-112% on medium- and long-term loans, and not less than 9% on short-term
loans). The forecast rate of inflation in Ethiopia is 2% per annum.
Small Farmer Credit
3.13      AIDB's establishment coincided with the rapid increase in small
farmer demand for credit, mainly short-term, to finance fertilizers and
other improved inputs. Much of this demand originates from package projects
(para 2.06) and in some cases AIDB is either the channel for Government loans
or is providing credit from its own resources. To meet seasonal financing
demands, AIDB is setting up a subsidiary company, mainly for the procurement
of fertilizers and its sale to farmers on credit.
3.14      In areas not served by the package projects, few effective primary
institutions and little infrastructure exist to support the provision of
credit. AIDB itself presently lacks a branch network and, with a limited
agricultural staff capability, it is unable to provide the necessary level
of supervision for large scale lending to small farmers; because of this
the relatively few loans it is capable to supervise tend to be for larger
investments. Moreover, AIDB has virtually no rediscounting facilities with
NBE and its own resources, including annual transfers from NBE, are not
adequate to meet the total agricultural credit demand.
3.15      AIDB, while anxious to help the small farmer, recognizes the
dangers of overextending itself in this field and of repeating the errors
of its predecessor DBE. During negotiations AIDB's representatives
expressed their agreement to the need to limit the number of loans in
amounts of less than Eth$15,000 to a number commensurable with AIDR's
administrative and technical capabilities. For the same reason they also
agreed to restrict its provision of marketing, supply or similar non-
banking services through its new subsidiary to the beneficiaries of its
loans and investments, to cooperatives or to agencies or authorities
which provide farmers with extension and other supervisory services at a
Level satisfactory to the Association.
3.16      It has to be recognized, however, that the present institutions
are not capable of providing a complete and integrated system of agricultural
credit and Ethiopia now lacks a concept of how to meet the needs of the next
few years. The designing of such a system, however, requires a more precise
assessment of credit demands and resources than is now available. The
situation therefore requires a detailed study by consultants to prepare a
national agricultural credit program, and finance for this purpose would be
included in the IDA credit (para 4.13).
B. Operations,_ Resources and Demands
Transferred Assets
3.17      With the completion of asset transfer 'n January 1971 an investment               0
portfolio with a book value of Eth$ 100 million was acquired by AIDB. Of the



portfolio's value, Government and EIC each contributed 35%, while DBF contrib-
uted the remaining 30%, part of which was financed by the IBRD loans (Annex 7).
About 70% of the portfolio was invested in industry and 30% in agrictulture.
The portfolio transferred from Government and EIC was primarily invested in
industry, while that from DBE was primarily in agriculture.
3.18      Loans and guarantees amounted to 57% of the transferred porctfolio,
while shareholdings constituted the remaining 43%. Slightly over half the
loans and guarantees and over 90% of the shareholdings were made to, or
invested in industry. The portfolio transferred from Government was all in
the form of shareholdings 1/, while 20% of EIC's portfolio and only 2% of
DBE's portfolio was by way of equity investments.
3.19      On the recommendation of FIRC, Government agreed that AIDB could
defer issuing shares to it, in full satisfaction for assets transferred,
until after each investment and loan had been professionally reviewed and
valued. This was done by an experienced American banker, Mr. Richard Henry,
who completed his assessment in May 1971. He examined most of the individual
investments transferred to AIDB, and evaluated them on a methodical and
conservative basis. Mr. Henry recommended that the book value of the
transferred portfolio be reduced by Eth$ 29 million (29%) and this recom-
mendation was subsequently accepted by AIDB and Government. The reduction
in the portfolios transferred from both Government and DBE amounted to 30%,
while the EIC portfolio was reduced by 24%. The percentage reduction of
investments in agriculture and industry were both 28%. The percentage
reduction in the loan portfolio was 27%, being slightly less than the 29%
reduction in the equity portfolio.
3.20      For that part of the portfolio invested in agriculture, a category
seriously affected by the write-down was DBE's coffee loans, where about
Eth$ 2.0 million was assessed as irrecoverable out of a total outstanding
of Eth$ 3.4 million. EIC's equity investments in five agricultural enter-
prises were also seriously affected by the evaluation, being written down
by Eth$ 1.1 million, equivalent to 80% of the book value. In the indtstrial
loan and guarantee portfolio, the major single loss from the evaluation was
an Eth$ 3.2 million guarantee EIC extended on behalf of a coffee processing
company, which was judged to be a complete write-off. DBE had also written
off an Eth$ 1.2 million loan for a meat packing plant and an Eth$ 1.0 million
loan for a textile mill. Of the Eth$ 11.4 million reduction in the industrial
equity portfolio, the major losses occurred in two government-owned textile
mills, whiich were written down by Eth$ 8.1 million, equivalent to two--thirds
of the book value of the shares. A reduction of Eth$ 1.6 million in the
value of Government's shareholding in a paper company was also recommended.
3.21      The revised value of the transferred portfolio (Annex 8) amounted
to Eth$ 71 million, of which Eth$ 20.5 million was invested in agriculture,
including Eth$ 18 million in the form of loans and guarantees and Eth$ 2.5
1/   Including some shareholdings originally transferred to EIC at its
0               establishment by Government.



-12-
million in shares. Over half of the investments in agriculture was accounted
for by two projects: Eth$ 6 million was invested in a cotton plantation
(including a share investment of Eth$ 2.2 million which is currently paying
dividends of 8%), and a short term loan of Eth$ 5.1 million had been made to
an association of large-scale farmers, the latter accounting for 80% of the
short-term loans included in the transferred assets. The revised value of
the industrial portfolio was Eth$ 50.5 million, of which Eth$ 22.5 million
was loans and guarantees and Eth$ 28 million was shares. Almost 40% of the
industrial portfolio, including Eth$ 14 million in shares and Eth$ 6 million
in loans, was invested in six companies in which AIDB received majority
shareholdings. The revised value of the share investment in these firms and
the percentage AIDB owns is as follows:
AIDB shareholding
Eth$ '000          -
Cotton textiles                        4.6             100
Shoes                                  3.6              95
Cement                                 2.6              57
Glass and bottles                      1.5              55
Woolen textiles                        1.2              100
Matches                                0.1              55
The only major loan to a subsidiary company is for Eth$ 5 million to the
glass and bottle company.  The cement and the shoe company are profitable and
are paying dividends.  The glass company is not yet in operation, and the
textile mills are suffering losses. Since the merger of DBE and EIC, two
other small companies in which a majority of the share capital is publicly
owned have been transferred to AIDB (a pharmaceutical company and a lime
company). Government has retained its majority ownership in five very large
enterprises, namely a cement mill, an oil refinery, a shipping company, a
tire company and a leather tannery, the last two of which are still under
construction.
3.22      The revised value of the remaining loan and guarantee portfolio to
industry was Eth$ 16.5 million. No individual loan exceeded 10% of the value
of the portfolio. The revised value of AIDB's minority shareholdings in
industrial companies was Eth$ 14 million, of which three investments account
for Eth$ 11 million, including Eth$ 8.7 million in a sugar company, Eth$ 1.2
million in synthetic textiles, and Eth$ 1.1 million in a paper company. The
sugar company has just come into full production, and has declared its first
dividend of 6%. The synthetic textile company is paying dividends of 20%,
while the paper company has suffered substantial losses (para 3.25).
3.23      The evaluation of the transferred portfolio shows that neither
DBE nor EIC was able to develop into a financially viable institution during
their respective 20 and 7 years of existence. Accumulated provisions only
totalled Eth$ 10.3 million, and accumulated profits another Eth$ I million, so
the reduction in asset value resulted in a considerable financial loss to
Government which has now received shares in AIDB to a considerably lesser
value than the nominal worth of the assets it previously held either directly
or through DBE and EIC. However, this has served to emphasize that AIDB must
avoid the mistakes of its predecessors, resulting from indifferent management,



- 13 -
inadequate appraisal capacity and the frequent thwarting of supervision and
collection by political interference. The staff of AIDB are aware of the
high cost of the earlier failures - not least the Managing Director who, as
Auditor-General, had to face the consequences of investment errors. This
should help AIDB avoid similar mistakes, while the conservative valuction
placed on its assets puts AIDB in a sound financial position to undertake
new loans and investments.
Current Operations
3.24      Since its establishment in November 1970, much of AIDB's t:tme has
been devoted to building its organization, recruiting staff and handling
problems arising from some of its newly acquired investments. Nevert:heless
as of July 7, 1971, AIDB had approved medium- and long-term loans amounting
to Eth$ 6.5 million, of which Eth$ 3.6 million (56%) was for agriculture
and Eth$ 2.9 million (44%) was for industry. AIDB's outstanding portfolio
of short-term debt to agriculture remained constant at Eth$ 5.5 million,
although at July 7 there was a commitment to extend additional short-term
debt of Eth$ 6.4 million to the Setit Humera association of large farmers.
AIDB's outstanding portfolio of short-term debt for industry decreased during
the period by Eth$ 2.1 million to Eth$ 2.7 million.
3.25      During the six month period from July 8 to January 9, 1972, AIDB
approved medium- and long-term loans and guarantees of Eth$ 1.2 million, of
which Eth$ 0.6 million were for agriculture and Eth$ 0.6 million for :Lndustry,
including a guarantee of Eth$ 0.4 million to creditors of the Ethiopian Pulp
and Paper Share Company. AIDB also obtained the foreign sponsor's 35%t
shareholding in the paper company in return for cancelling an Eth$ 1.C) million
loan to the sponsor, which had been transferred to AIDB from DBE. Together
with the shareholding AIDB received from Government, it now owns 61% of
the shares of the paper company which suffered substantial losses during its
first year of operation, It was disagreements with the foreign sponsor which
led AIDE to take over the company. A consulting firm has recently examined the
company's operations in depth, and AIDB is currently negotiating for a new
management to be installed.
Financial Position
3.26      AIDB's balance sheet as of July 7, 1971 (Appendix 9-1) is summarized
as follows:



- 14-
Assets                          Eth$ mn         Liabilities                Eth$ mn
Cash & short-term
investments                     4.3           Deposits                      7.1
Short-term loans                  8.2           Creditors                     2.9
Other current assets              1.4              Total current liab.       10.0
Total current assets           13.9           Guarantees                    6.3
Customer liability for
guarantees                      4.0           Foreign borrowings           17.8
Government bonds                  1.0
Equity:
Loans                            30.6             Share capital              35.0
Equity investments               30.5             Government account         10.8
Fixed Assets                      1.5             Retained earnings           1.1
Total equity              46.9
Total Assets                     81.5             Total Liabilities          81.5
AIDB's ratio of current assets to current liabilities is 1.40:1, which is
satisfactory.  AIDB's ratio of long-term debt and guarantees to equity is
0.5:1, which gives AIDB power to borrow or guarantee an additional Eth$ 115
million (US$50 million).  AIDB has issued to Government Eth$ 35 million of
shares for the assets transferred to it, and has another Eth$ 18 million
of shares to issue to it for the remaining transferred assets and the
Eth$ 14.9 million contribution from the National Bank (para 3.29). AIDB's
foreign borrowings are from USAID, Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, and a
small amount from IBRD (since completely repaid), all of which were trans-
ferred from AIDB's predecessors.
Profitability
3.27      AIDB's estimated income and cash flow statements for the six month
period ending July 7, 1971 are at Appendix 9-2 and Appendix 9-3, respectively.
Profits after taxes of about 10% were Eth$ 0.7 million, equivalent to 1.7%
of total assets on an annual basis. While the current level of profitability
is low, it should provide AIDB with sufficient retained earnings to cover
possible losses on new loans or equity investments. (No provisions have been
made in the income statement against bad investments.) The low level of pro-
fitability is to a large extent due to the large investment in shares having
a low return. AIDB's investment in shares is as large as its long-term loan
portfolio, and amounts to 37% of total assets, with an average dividend
return of only 1-1/2% on an annual bas's. With AIDB's largest share invest-
ment in the Metahara sugar company (equivalent to 29%o of the share portfolio)
now paying a 6% dividend, AIDB can expect a doubled dividend return, to
3%, on its equity portfolio. ATDB's profitability was also adversely affected
by the low rate of interest of only 7-1/2% it receives  on the loan portfolio
transferred to it from DBE and EIC. Total revenue amounted to 5.5% of total
assets.  Financial expenses were equivalent to 1.6% of total assets.  AIDB's
average cost of borrowing on the foreign loans transferred to it is about
4% and it pays about 6-1/2% on its deposits, giving a weighted average cost
of borrowing of about 5%. AIDB's administrative expenses are reasonable, at
2% of total assets.



-15-
Accounts and Audit
3.28      The accounting system of AIDB (Annex 10) is sound and well
maintained. Assisted by the recent installation of a computerized accounting
machine a regular flow of management information is obtained through daily
cash position statements and monthly returns on loan commitments, disburse-
ments and trial balance and profits and loss accounts. AIDB's accounts are
audited annually by Mann Judd and Company, a London firm of good standing.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that AIDB's accounts would
continue to be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association
and that AIDB would submit to IDA such audited accounts within four months
of the end of each fiscal year. The same would apply to AIDB's subsidiaries.
Resources
3.29      The Decree No. 55 of August 1970 also provided that for fou-r years
1970-74 Government would allocate to AIDB one-half of the annual profits of
NBE in the form of additional equity. Based on NBE's performance in
recent years, this is expected to average Eth$ 6 million annually, although
Eth$ 7.75 million was allocated from its 1970 profits and Eth$ 7.15 million
from its 1971 profits. Unlike its predecessors which had to depend on
annual and unreliable budget allocations, AIDB can therefore rely on some
local currency resources.
3.30      Apart from its share capital and retained earnings, AIDB's other
source of local currency is deposits which, as of January 9, 1972, anurunted
to Eth$ 9 million. Such deposits, at varying interest rates depending on
their period, are mainly those of AIDB's borrowers who are encouraged to
keep any surplus funds with AIDB rather than with commercial banks.  The
Ministry of Finance has also placed funds on deposit (at 6-1/2%) and the
proceeds of the coffee diversification fund are also deposited with AIDB.
3.31      AIDB at present has available an uncommitted balance of Eth$ 8.3
million of a USAID. loan taken over from EIC which AIDB has so far been unable
to use, due in part to differences with USAID over procurement regulaz:ions.
Some modifications to these regulations have been agreed recently to
facilitate use of remaining funds for fertilizer procurement which would
supplement the proposed IDA credit. Apart from this, AIDB at present has
no other foreign exchange resources.
Forecast of AIDB Operations
3.32      Given the paucity of historical data concerning investment .n
Ethiopia and the early stage of AIDB's existence, national credit neecls
are difficult to forecast and the demands expected to be made on AIDB must
necessarily be tentative. Estimates of AIDB's commitments at Appendix 9-4
have therefore been limited to a period of about one-and-a-half years ending
December 31, 1973, during which the IDA Credit is expected to be committed.
Total commitments for medium- and long-term loans and equity investmenLts
over this period are estimated to amount to Eth$ 40 million, being about
equally divided between agriculture and industry. The import componeiLt of



-16 -
AIDB's commitments is estimated to be 63%, which will be financed by the
IDA Credit. AIDB is expected to finance the local currency component from
internally generated funds, the annual allocation of half of NBE's profits,
and from local borrowings. Guarantees are expected to remain at their
current level. The outstanding amount of short-term loans is expected to
increase to Eth$ 14.7 million and to remain at this level.
Financial Prospects
3.33      Projected balance sheets, income statements and cash flow statements
for FY 1972, FY 1973 and the first half of FY 1974 are shown at Appendices
9-1, 9-2 and 9-3. Annual profits after tax are expected to be about Eth$ 1.3
million, which is approximately 2% of total equity and 1.2% of average total
assets in FY 1974. At that time, total revenue will amount to 5.6% of
average total assets, administrative expenses to 1.9% and financial expenses
to 2.1%. Total assets are projected to increase from Eth$ 93 million at
the end of FY 1972 to Eth$ 125 million by the middle of FY 1974. The current
ratio will increase from 2.24 at the end of FY 1972 to 3.03 at the middle
of FY 1974. The ratio of long-term debt and guarantees to equity is forecast
to grow to 0.64 by the middle of FY 1974, still leaving ample room for
further borrowing by AIDB. The projected interest coverage exceeds 1.70 through-
out the period and loan collections will cover at least four times debt
repayments.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The program to be financed under the project would have-two
distinct components: an agricultural credit and an industrial credit program,
each in the amount of US$5.5 million. Because of the different nature of
investments and the financing requirements in the agricultural and industrial
sectors, it is intended to maintain the sector allocation for a sufficient
period to provide for fluctuations in demand and the build-up of AIDB's
processing capacity in each of the sectors. Some of the resources, which
are expected to be committed over about one-and-a-half years, may however
be reallocated from one sector to the other in tne light of AIDB's
experience with the use of the Credit (para 4.27). The two components of
the project are described in more detail in the following sections.
B. The Agricultural Credit Program
Definition
4.02      The agricultural credit program would help finance AIDB's medium-
and long-term commitments over a period of about one-and-a-half years in



*                                               - 17-
commercial farming (63% of total program), cooperatives (8%) and large agri-
business undertakings (29%). 1/  The project would also include a consultant's
study to prepare a national agricultural credit program. The IDA Credit to
Ethiopia would, except for the small technical assistance component (US$0.2
million) to be retained by Government, be on-lent to AIDB. The total cost
of the agricultural investments is estimated at US$13.4 million and IDA's
contribution would be US$5.3 million or 41%, covering slightly less than
the estimated import component (48%) (para. 4.16).
4.03      The following table shows the major categories of commitments
expected to be made over the period:
Typical Size                                 Total
of Individual   Number of       Total       Investments
Investment             Sub-project    Loans/Invest.  development Eth$   US$
- (million)-
Mixed Farming             120 ha          175            21,000 ha 10.8   4.6
Cotton                     80 ha           25             2,000 ha  2.7   1.2
Vegetables                 30 ha           25               750 ha  2.3   1.0
Dairy                      40 cows         20           800 cows    1.0   0.5
Commercial Farming
Sub-total                 -             245               -       16.8   7.3
Cooperatives                                5               -        2.3   1.0
Agribusiness                                4               -       11.7   5.1
Total Investments                    254                      30.8  13.4
4.04      About 250 farmers and agricultural enterprises would participate
in the program. They would be: (a) for commercial farming investments, mostly
well established enterprises of 50-500 ha with considerable additionaLl land,
now either idle or underutilized, which would be developed under the project;
(b) cooperatives providing custom or other services to their members who,
except in one case (the Setit Humera Cooperative), would be small farmIers;
and (c) in the case of agribusiness, mostly joint ventures sponsored by
Ethiopian or foreign entrepreneurs. While in practice investments are
often a combination of different farm types and a wide range of sizes,
each investment category has been considered separately to test the potential
viability of each activity (Annex 11).
4.05      The composition and size of the agricultural credit program are
based on the kinds of loans AIDB has typically made and an assessment of its
financial and managerial capability having regard to the other operations
1/   In the loan documents, commercial farming and agribusiness have not
been separately categorized. The differences in lending conditions
have been based on whether or not the financing required would exceed
US$100,000.  It is anticipated, however, that loans for agribusiness
would be in excess of US$100,000.



-18                                                        0
(e.g., industrial investments, existing and proposed projects under other
agricultural programs and some short-term agricultural credit) which AIDB
also expects to undertake (para 3.15).
Detailed Features
4.06      Mixed Farming.  Loans would be made to about 175 commercial farmers
to cultivate mainly improved varieties of maize, wheat, barley, teff and
haricot beans.  Because the farms are mainly located in areas of relatively
low population density and low rainfall, they tend to be large and require
considerable mechanization. Investments would be for tractors, harvesters,
other farm machinery, land development, buildings and on-farm roads.
4.07      Cotton.  About 25 loans would be made to cotton farmers.  Medium-
staple cotton would be grown under irrigation in the dryer zones (about
750-1000 mm rainfall), notably in various parts of the Awash Valley and
would extend the production of good quality medium staple (1-1/16") cotton
which can be successfully cultivated in these areas. When combined with
wheat these farms would have an overall cropping intensity of about 150%.
Investments would be mainly in sprinkler irrigation equipment, other
farm machinery and equipment but additionally would include land development,
buildings and roads.
4.08      Vegetables.  Some 25 investments would be mainly for production of
tomatoes and mixed vegetables (cucumber, marrow, peppers, etc.) for which
there is an increasing demand in the towns and also for export to countries
in the Persian Gulf. Also located in the dryer areas, these farms would
be irrigated and as some crops can be grown three times in a year, an overall
cropping intensity of about 200% is envisaged. Investments would be in
irrigation equipment, farm machinery, land development and buildings.
4.09      Dairy.  About 20 loans for dairy farming would be similar to
those envisaged under the IDA-supported Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project
hut would be directed to areas outside the Addis Ababa milkshed which is being
covered by that project: this was agreed at negotiations. In order to
ensure adherence to the technical standards laid down under that project,
any AIDB loans for dairy farming, including the source of proposed livestock
imports, would recuire the prior approval of a livestock expert previously
agreed to by the Association.  Investments would be mainly in  imported
Friesian heifers (about 800), in dairy buildings and equipment.
4.10      Cooperatives.  Although cooperatives are still at an early stage
of development in Ethiopia, Government attaches importance to their establish-
ment on sound principles and AIDB has made medium- and long-termt loans to 15
cooperatives mainly to meet their building and storage requirements. Their
foreign exchange needs have therefore so far been low but it is expected that
a few small farmers' cooperatives, probably not more than four, will seek
AIDB loans to finance dairy equipment, tractors and farm machinery (parti-
cularly threshing machines) to provide custom services to their members.
investment items and potential borrowers have not all been identified. In
addition, an association of large mechanized farmers: the Setit Ilumera
Cooperative, is also exDected to require additional farm machinery and



- 19 -
equipment. As successful lending to each service cooperative must depend
on their financial soundness and managerial capability, each loan would
require the Association's prior approval.
4.11      Agribusiness.  At the end of its first year's operations, AIDB
had not made any investment in agribusiness. As of August 1971 it was
investigating about 20 such possibilities, many of which are being
promoted by sponsors from outside Ethiopia who in some cases are presently
undertaking feasibility studies. While at the time of appraisal, noine were
sufficiently advanced to permit a judgement as to their need and suitability
for AIDB finance, it is probable that four would require financing during
the proposed commitment period. These would likely include a large dairy
undertaking, a tea plantation and an alfalfa pellet scheme (all submitted as
joint ventures by overseas interests).
4.12      The costs and phasing of these schemes cannot be precisely
estimated as firm proposals have not been received by AIDB. Moreove-:, the
amount of import financing which AIDB may be asked to take-up would depend
on the extent of sponsors contribution in foreign exchange or export credits.
Thus, although the import component is provisionally estimated at 40,% of
total cost, the proposed IDA contribution of US$1.0 million equivalent
represents only 20%. It was agreed at negotiations that up to US$0.5 million
of the IDA Credit could be used to support AIDB equity investments in
approved sub-projects (para 4.25) and that such support in a single project
equity investment would not exceed US$0.2 million.
4.13      Technical Assistance.  In view of the need to develop an agricultu-
ral credit system in Ethiopia which would meet the needs of increasinLg
credit demands during the next few years (paras 3.13-3.16), the proposed
IDA credit would include US$200,000 to meet the total cost of an agricultural
credit study to be carried out by a firm of consultants which would Fe
required to report in accordance with draft terms of reference (Annex 12).
It was agreed during negotiations that the consultants and their terms and
conditions of employment would be acceptable to IDA and that they would be
appointed within five months of Credit signing.
Cost Estimates and Financing
4.14      The estimated cost of the agricultural credit program, together
with the import component, are detailed as follows:



- 20-
Eth$ Million            US$ Million         Import
Lending Categories  Local   Import   Total Locai   Import  Total  Component
Mixed Farming         5.4       5.4   10.8    2.3       2.3    4.6       50
Cotton                1.1       1.6    2.7    0.5       0.7    1.2       59
Vegetables            0.9       1.4    2.3    0.4       0.6    1.0       61
Dairy                 0.6       0.4    1.0    0.3       0.2    0.5       40
Commercial Farming
Total             8.0      8.8   16.8    3.5        3.8    7.3       52
Cooperatives          1.2       1.1    2.3    0.5       0.5    1.0       50
Agribusiness          7.0       4.7   11.7    3.1       2.0    5.1       40
Total Investments   16.2       14.6   30.8    7.1       6.3   13.4       47
Technical Assistance -         0.4    0.4      -        0.2    0.2      100--
TOTAL           16.2     15.0   31.2    7.1        6.5   13.6       48
/1   A small amount of local currency financing is also included.
4.15      The total cost of Eth$ 31.2 million (US$13.6 million) would be
financed from the following sources:
Eth$ million
Lending Categories        Sub-borrowers  Government  AIDB  Total  Of which IDA
Commercial Farming              4.2            -       12.6   16.8       8.8
Cooperatives                   0.6             -        1.7    2.3       1.1
Agribusiness                    5.9            -        5.8   11.7       2.3
Total Investments              10.7            -       20.1   30.8      12.2
Technical Assistance            -             0.4        -     0.4       0.4
TOTAL                    10.7            0.4      20.1   31.2      12.6
% of Total                     34              1        65     100       40
4.16      That part of the proposed IDA Credit earmarked for agriculture
would cover the estimated import component of AIDB's financing of sub-
projects (Eth$ 12.2 million, US$5.3 million) and the full cost of technical
assistance to Government (US$0.2 million). The credit would provide about
40% of estimated project cost as against a total import component of 48%,
the balance of which (Eth$ 2.4 million) being provided by the sponsors of
agribusiness sub-projects (para 4.12). AIDB and the Government would supply
66% of the total project cost (including IDA's contribution of 40%), AIDB's
loans for commercial farming and cooperative investments not exceeding 75%
and its total loan and equity participation in agribusiness not exceeding
50% of individual sub-project costs (para 3.10).



-21-
Production and Marketing
4.17      Excluding the cooperative and agribusiness sub-projects, the agri-
cultural project is expected to result in the development of some 11,500 ha
of land which is now idle or under-utilized and of some 20 dairy farms. The
incremental value of annual production of the identified commercial farming
investments would, at full development, be about Eth$ 15 million (US$6.5
million) brought about by an estimated additional annual production of 60,000
tons of cereals, 4,000 tons of cotton, 26,000 tons of various vegetables as
well as small increases in milk and other less important crops (Appendix 11-1).
Although not yet quantifiable, the agricultural credit program anticipates
the first commercial production in Ethiopia of tea and alfalfa.
4.18      The domestic market, which suffers from chronic shortages,
can easily absorb the forecast incremental production from the commercial
farming operations: in particular wheat (25,000 tons) and cotton production
are likely to result in foreign exchange savings and some vegetables; would
be exported. Markets for crops planned for production under agribusiness
investments would be reviewed at the time of sub-project appraisal and their
approval would be subject, inter alia, to satisfactory prospects at that time.
Prices and Producers' Benefits
4.19      Current prices provide sufficient incentive to farmers to invest
in the proposed commercial farming activities. This is illustrated by the
expected level of incomes after debt service but before taxation which is
based on expected investment costs, yield and price assumptions of four
illustrative models (detailed in Appendix 11-2). These farm models show
financial rates of return to the farmers (Appendix 11-3) of 34% for mixed
farming, 37% for cotton, 53% for vegetables and 23% for dairy farming and
economic returns ranging from 23% to 56% (Appendix 11-4).
4.20      There is at present no official price support for agricultural
commodities in Ethiopia and it is expected that the price levels of some
crops, notably cereals, may drop in the next few years. In part to measure
the effect of this, the farm models include sensitivity tests which, allowing
for a 10% drop in the incremental value of production and a 10% increase in
costs, still show satisfactory returns.
C. The Industrial Credit Program
Industrial Demands
4.21      AIDB's commitments for industrial projects over the about one-and-
a-half year period ending December 31, 1973 are estimated to amount to
Eth$ 20 million. This forecast is equivalent to annual commitments of
Eth$ 11.4 million, which is about 14% more than DBE's and EIC's previous
combined average annual investments in industry, and which is considered a
reasonable target given AIDB's backlog of sub-projects.  About 80% of AIDB's
industrial investment is expected to be medium- and long-term loans, with



- 22-
the remainder being invested in share capital. About 20, of the commitments
for industry are expected to be invested in companies in which AIDB holdls
a majority of the share capital. AIDB understands that IDA will pay special
attention to proposed investments in these companies, because of tlhe close
relationship between AIDB and the companies concerned.
4.22      On the basis of the industrial projects which AIDB currently has
under study, it is expected that AIDB's industrial financing, will be
distributed as follows:
Industry                          AIDB Commitments (Z)
Textile and apparel                                25
Food                                               25
Construction materials                             20
Small industry                                     20
Others                                             10
Total                             100
Resources Requirements
4.23      The import component of AIDB's commitments over the period is
estimated at Eth$ 12.7 million or 63%, which will be met under the
industrial credit program of the IDA Credit.  The local currencv requirement
is estimated to be Eth$ 7.3 million which will be met from AIDB's local
resources. The projection of AIDB's financing in the industrial sector
is shown below (Eth$ million):
FY1972       FY1973      FY1974        Total
(2nd half)               (1st half)
Commitments:                 3.5          10.5        6.0          20.0
- local component (37%) 1.3            .3.8        2.2           7.3
- import
component (63%)      2.2           6.7         3.8          12.7
D. Conditions of the IDA Credit
Terms and Approvals
4.24      The proposed IDA Credit would be on normal terms to Ethiopia.
During negotiations it was agreed that Government would relend to AIDB
US$10.8 million at an interest rate of 7-1/4% annually. This would be
repayable over a period not exceeding 15 years from December 31, 1973,
which is the last date for sub-projects to be submitted to the Association,
in accordance with an amortization schedule to be agreed with IDA and
reflecting the terms of AIDB's loans to its borrowers. Because AIDB is a



_                                                - 23 -
new institution and has not yet built up a substantial level of busi-aess, the
government, following standard bank practice, would not levy the staadard
commitment charge. Instead, AIDB would pay Government a commitment charge
of 3/4% per annum against the undisbursed amount authorized for withdrawal
by IDA in respect of sub-project loans or investments, from the date
authorization for withdrawal is given with respect to those sub-projects.
That part of the Credit relating to the technical assistance would be
retained by Government which would also carry the foreign exchange risk for
the whole Credit.
4.25      IDA financing would be applied to the import component of AIDB's
medium- and long-term loans and equity investments over a period of about
one-and-a-half vears ending December 31, 1973. Apart from AIDB indiridual
loans to commercial farmers or to industrial enterprises, which toget:her
with any other amounts financed or proposed to be financed for the same
project or for the same borrower, out of the proceeds of the Credit, would
not exceed US$100,000 equivalent, all proposals seeking IDA reimbursement
would be subject to the Association's approval. It is expected that about
1 0 agricultural and 10 industrial sub-projects would be involved. IDA
approval would also be needed a) for loans and investments in industrial
sub-projects of less than US$100,000 when their aggregate value exce,-ds
US$1.5 million, and b) for any proposed agricultural investment in tle area
of the proposed Melka Sadi--Amibara Irrigation project. For industri--l sub-
projects not requiring IDA approval, authorization to make withdrawals would
be required, which authorization would be granted upon receipt of suirmary
descriptions of the loan and the project. This was agreed to at negotiation.
Procurement and Disbursements
4.26      Procurement and disbursement requirements would broadly foLlow
Bank Group practices appropriate to the two main components of the proposed
Credit. Commercial farming investments would be generally small and varied
and would not be suitable for bulk procurement through international bidding.
In most cases on-farm works (e.g., buildings, land development) woulci be
undertaken by the farmer himself or by small contractors. Goods required for
other on-farm investments (about 200 tractors with agricultural machinery,
livestock, irrigation equipment and pumps) can be imported without restriction
and would be bought by AIDB borrowers from suppliers of their choice. Most
of the large international machinery suppliers are represented in Ethiopia;
competition is keen and servicing and the availability of spare parts is
reasonable. The procurement of items to be financed for cooperative, agri-
business and industrial investments would be considered at the time cGr
sub-project authorization or approval and would comply with arrangemeats
normally required of development finance companies. Consultants for 'he
agricultural credit study would come from outside Ethiopia and their
appointment and terms of reference would be subject to IDA approval.
4.27      Although AIDB's disbursements for commercial farming and cooperatives
are not expected to extend beyond about one-and-a-half years, its disbursements
for some agribtusiness and industrial sub-projects could extend over three
years and the IDA disbursement period is therefore expected to cover about
four-and-a-half years. IDA would reimburse AIDB 70% of its agricultural term



- 24-
loans, other than to cooperatives, of less than US$100,000; in the case of
all other agricultural loans and all industrial investments, reimbursement
would be based on the actual import component of AIDB's participation, which
would be assessed at the time of sub-project authorization or aoproval..  IDA
would disburse the full cost of the technical assistance coTnponent. Against
its approved loans and investments, AIDB expenditures from March 1, 1972 would
be considered eligible for IDA reimbursement, subject to any such loans having
an interest rate of not less than 9-1/2% per annum. Specifically, IDA dis-
bursements are expected to be US$3.8 million for commercial farming, US$0.5
million for cooperatives, US$1.0 million for agribusiness, US$0.2 million for
technical assistance, and US$5.5 million for industry. A schedule of esti-
mated IDA disbursement is given in Annex 13. If under-expenditure were to
occur under any of the categories, such savings could, subject to the Associa-
tion's approval, be transferred to other categories. Such transfers would
not be made to cover temporary demand fluctuations within sectors. A pro-
posed transfer from one sector to another would only be agreed after the
Association was satisfied that AIDB could handle the increased amount of
lending in that sector.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The proposed IDA Credit is designed both to assist in strengthening
AIDB as a development finance company and a suitable channel for Bank
Group financing, and more directly to support productive investment in
agriculture and industry.
5.02      AIDB offers promise of becoming a soundly based and progressive
investment institution with the capability of playing an important part in
the development of Ethiopia. Its role in the provision of short-terr credit,
however, remains uncertain pending the outcome of the consultant's study of
this subject to be financed with part of the IDA Credit. The proposed
credit would cover a major share of the commitments that AIDB anticipates
making over a year-and-a-half period for financing of a variety of agricul-
tural and industrial investments which are fully consonant with sector
priorities and project standards for Bank Group financing. It would. at the
same time, result in the strengthening of AIDB as an organization -
operationally by supplementing its technical staff and financially through
the additional resources which IDA would provide and through an increase in
its lending rargins.
5.03      Because investment purposes are only partially identified,
financial and economic benefits cannot be fully quantified at this stage.
Financial returns to commercial farmers are, however, estimated to range
from 23% to 53% and economic returns from 23% to 56% (para 4.19); approval
of cooperative, agribusiness and industrial sub-projects would be subject
to their demonstrating a satisfactory rate of economic return.  Sub-projects
will also be carefully examined to ensure their conformity with sectoral
priorities and the Bank Group's project lending policies.  The proposed IDA
Credit would thus enable the Bank Group to support various investment pro-
posals which might otherwise be too small for direct project lending.



- 25 -
5.04      Within the financial and economic returns outlined above, benefits
to Ethiopia from the Credit would include foreign exchange earnings from
exports (mainly agricultural) and savings from import substitution; in the
agricultural sector alone these together are expected to be worth at least
US$3.5 million annually at full development, and could rise to over US$5.0
million annually if investments in agribusiness are made as anticipated.
Other crops produced for domestic consumption would help meet the country's
increasing food demands. Employment creation is less easy to quantify,
but in the agricultural sector it is estimated at between 3,000 and 4,000
new jobs. Government would benefit from additional revenue, particularly
from corporation taxes (at present 40%) which should ultimately total at
least US$2 million equivalent.  Lastly, the proposed Credit should lead
to fundamental improvement of the institutional structure and financial
provision for assistance to small farmers which is a necessary condition for
any widespread rural development in Ethiopia and for effective supporz by the
Bank Group to such development.
VI. RECOMMENDAiTIONS
6.01      During negotiations the following main assurances were obtained:
(a) Government would:
(i)  appoint, within five months of Credit signing, a firm
of consultants to carry out the agricultural credit
survey; the consultants to be appointed and their
terms and conditions of employment to be acceptable to
IDA (para 4.13); and
(ii) make the proceeds of the Credit, except for the technical
assistance portion, available to AIDB at an interest
rate of 7-1/4% annually to be repaid by AIDB over not
more than 15 years from December 31, 1973, in accordance
with an amortization schedule to be agreed with IDA,
AIDB paying Government a commitment charge of 3/4%
per annum against undisbursed amounts authorized for
withdrawal by IDA; Government would carry the foreign
exchange risk (para 4.24);
(b) AIDB would:
(i) except as agreed by the Association, restrict marketing,
supply or other non-banking services, provided by itself
or its subsidiaries, to the beneficiaries of its loans,
to cooperatives or to project entities (para 3.15);



- 26-
(ii)  limit individual loans of less than Eth$ 15,000 to
a number commensurate with its administrative and
technical capabilities (para 3.15);
(iii)  not utilize more than US$0.5 million of the IDA Credit
in total equity investments in approved agricultural
sub-projects and not more than US$0.2 million in any
single agricultural sub-project (para 4.12); and
(iv)  submit to IDA for prior approval all prospective
sub-projects to be financed from the Credit, except for
loans to individual farmers or to industrial enterprises,
which together with any other amounts financed or
proposed to be financed for the same project or for the
same borrower would not exceed US$100,000 equivalent; the
aggregate free limit in industrial sub-projects not to
exceed US$1.5 million (para 4.25).
6.02      Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(a) AIDB's appointment of industrial and economic advisers
acceptable to IDA (para 3.06); and
(b)  AIDB's amendment of its Statement of Policy to (i) increase
its interest rate on lending to final borrowers to not
less than 9-1/2% annually (para 3.12), (ii) permit lending
to experienced resident farmers up to 75% of their development
costs through loans of up to US$100,000 (para 3.10), and (iii)
extend the maximum loan period to 15 years.
6.03      With the foregoing assurances, the project is suitable for an
IDA Credit of US$11 million on normal IDA terms.
April 10, 1972



ANNEX I
Page  1
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOIPMENT BANK
Financial Institutions in Ethiopia
1.        The Ethiopian banking system is relatively diversified comprising
a central bank, four commercial banks, one medium- and long-term financial
institution for industry and agriculture, one investment corporation for
tourism and other institutions specialized in real estate, mortgage financ-
ing, etc.
2.        In 1964 the former State Bank of Ethiopia, which had been created
in 1942, was replaced by two new institutions. One, the National Bank of
Ethiopia (NBE) assumed the central banking functions. The other, the
Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE), also wholly-owned by the Ethiopian Govern-
ment, assumed the commercial banking functions.
3.        National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE):  The NBE, with two branches in
Ethiopia, is empowered to: (a) regulate the supply of money and credit;
(b) manage the foreign exchange resources; (c) impose the requirements for
liquidity ratios as well as an interest rate ceiling on bank deposits; and
(d) license and supervise banks.
4.        As of December 31, 1970, NBE's deposits from public and commercial
banks amounted to Eth$ 72.6 million. Advances to commercial banks against
eligible paper amounted to Eth$ 53.9 million; advances against Treasury
Bills were Eth$ 18.5 million. NBE's financial assistance to Government, in
form of non-interest bearing notes, bonds and direct advances was Eth$ 147.3
million. Net profit for the fiscal year 1969/70 amounted to Eth$ 19.4
million of which Eth$ 7.75 million was paid to the Ministry of Finance, and
a similar amount to AIDB.
The Commercial Bank of Ethiopia S.C. (CBE)
5.        CBE's initial and paid-up share capital is Eth$ 20 million.  As
of December 31, 1970, its deposits amounted to Eth$ 263 million, and its
loan portfolio Eth$ 317 million. Of the total loans, about Eth$ 116 million
were for financing exports and imports; Eth$ 71 million for financing
domestic trade (coffee and other); Eth$ 9 million for financing industrial
activity; Eth$ 24 million for agricultural production; and Eth$ 54 million
for financing building and construction 1/. The CBE does not normally make
medium- and long-term loans. Interest rates charged by CBE range fronm
1/   Loans for building and construction include Eth$ 24.5 million advanced
to a subsidiary company, the Mortgage Company of Ethiopia.



ANNEX 1
Page  2
7-1/2%o to 9-1/2%.  CBE's net profits for 1970 amounted to Eth$ 8 million
and a dividend of Eth$ 2.5 million was paid.  As of May 31, 1971, CBE had
about 80 branches in operation and a total staff of about 1,300.
The Addis Ababa Bank S.C.
6.        The Addis Ababa Bank was established in 1964 as a private share
company with 40% of the stock held by the National and Grindlay's Bank Ttd.,
and the rest by individuals. As of December 1970 the Bank's share capital
and reserves amounted to Eth$ 6 million and deposits stood at Eth$44.6
million. Advances outstanding at December 31, 1970, were Eth$ 36.7 million
of which 26% were in respect of trade and imports, 19% to exports, and 14%
to agriculture. The Bank's investment portfolio was Eth$ 0.7 million and
its holdings of Government Treasury Bills was Eth$ 6.1 million as at the same
date. The Bank's net earnings for 1970 were Eth$ 0.85 million from which
dividends of Eth$ 0.4 million were paid.  The Bank has 19 branch offices in
five provinces and a staff of about 300.
The Banco di Roma S.C.
7.        The Banco di Roma was registered as an Ethiopian Company in
February 1967 as successor to a branch office of the Banco di Roma (Italy),
which had been operating in Asmara since before World War II.  It now has
eight branch offices.  The share capital of the Banco di Roma is Eth$ 4
millon and it has reserves of about Eth$ 0.5 million.  Its deposits as of                 l
December 31, 1970 amounted to Eth$ 45.7 million and loans and a'dvances to
some Eth$ 40.4 million. of the latter Eth$ 12.5 million were for foreign
trade, Eth$ 10.4 million for industry, Eth$ 6.2 million for domestic trade,
Eth$ 8.5 million for building and construction, and Eth$ 2.5 million for
agriculture.  Interest rates charged range from 8% to 10% p.a.  The Banco di
Roma's net profits for 1970 were Eth$ 0.6 million and a dividend of
Eth$ 320,000 was proposed.
The Banco di Napoli
r,       EThe B&ik was established in July 1970 with a paid-up share capital
of Eth$ 2 million. Its deposits stood at Eth$ 8.7 million as of December
197C and its loans amounted to Eth$ 8.8 million. Of the loans Eth$4.4
mill4on were for foreign trade, Eth$ 2.1 million for building and construction,
Eth$ 0.9 -mf.llon for ir,dstry, Eth$ 0.7 million for agricul-ture. Net profit
for 1970 was Eth,$S Mt m lion.  ?Zt has one branch office.
The Xortga* e Comp    of EthC S
9.        The Mbrtgage Company of Ethiopia was formed _n 1965 as a wholly-owned
mortgage subsidiary of the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia with a fully paid-up
capital of Eth$ 3 mil'lionr It took over all the miortgage loans previously
held by the Savings and loan branch of the CBE in Addis Ababa.  The company
orovides credit tacilities for the construction of commercial, industrial and
residential build4ings  its loan assets at December 1970 amounted to Eth$ 35.1             w
million.  Interest ralCs are 9% for construction and 9-1/27  for purchase of
buildings. Mortgage Ia-'s are given for a maximum of fifve years.



ANNEX I
Page  3
The National Resources Development Company S.C. (NRDC)
10.       The NRDC was established in December 1965 as a Government-owmed
share company, to develop and manage certain real estate holdings, valued
at Eth$ 19.5 milliorn, which it took over from the former Ministry of State
Domain.
Ethiopian Tourism and Hotels Investment Corporation S.C. (ETHIC)
11.       ETHIC was established as the second new financial institution
(recommended by the FIRC) under the Decree No. 55 (1970).  Its objectives
are to finance hotels and other tourist facilities and to manage such
investments. Government shareholdings in the Development & Hotel Share
Company (owner of the Addis Ababa Hilton Hotel) and in the Ras Hotel Company
were transferred to ETHIC in a nominal amount of Eth$ 12.1 million; in
exchange ETHIC will issue shares to the Ministry of Finance, after re-.valuation
of the assets taken over.
0
DFCD
March 22, 1972






ANNEX 2
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Structure of Prevailing Interest Rates in Ethiopia
1.        Rates on Deposits
Pursuant to the provisions of Article 17 (b) of the Monetary
and Banking Proclamation 1963, the National Bank of Ethiopia
has fixed the maximum rates of interest payable on deposits
by banks and designated financial institutions, in accordance
with the following schedule:
(i)  Savings Deposits                           6% p.a.
(ii)  Time Deposits:
(a)  Over twelve months                    6% p.a.
(b)  Six to twelve months                  5% p.a.
(c)  Thirty days to six months             4% p.a.
(iii) Demand Deposits:
No interest may be paid on demand deposits.
2.        Rates on Loans
A. Rates of interest charged by the National Bank of Ethiop:La
(pursuant to the provisions of Article 16 of the Monetarv
and Banking proclamation 1963.)
(i)  Discounts and Rediscounts
(a)  Eligible paper covering export of goods
from Ethiopia                        5% p.a.
(b)  All other eligible paper:             6-1/2% p.a.
(ii)  Advances:
(a)  Eligible paper covering export of goods
from Ethiopia                        5% p.a.
(b)  All other eligible paper:             6-1/2% p.a.
(c)  Freely negotiable Treasury Bills
issued by the Imperial Ethiopian
Government                           6% p.a.



ANNEX 2
Page  2
B. Rates of interest charged by other financial institutions
(Commercial banks or specialized institutions)
(a)  Imports:                             9-1/2% p.a.
(b)  Exports:                       from 7-1/2% to 8-1/2% p.a.
(c) Agricultural and/or Industrial
loans:                         from 8% to 11-3/4% p.a.
(d)  Business or Personal:          from 8-1/2% to 9-1/2% p.a.
(e)  Mortgage:                      from 9% to 9-1/2% p.a.
C. Interest Rates charged by AIDB
(i) Industrial Loans:
(a)  Large and medium scale:              8-1/2% p.a.
(b)  Small scale:                         8-1/2% p.a.
(C)  Short-term (overdraft):              9-1/2% p.a.
(ii) Agricultural Loans:
(a)  Large and medium scale:              8-1/2% p.a.
(b)  Small scale:                         8-1/2% p.a.
(c)  Fertilizer and short-term
crop loan:                           9-11% p.a.
DFCD
March 22, 1972



ANNEX 3
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Decree No. 55 of 1970
A Decree to Provide for the Disposition of the Assets and Liabilities
of the Development Bank of Ethiopia
Conquering Lion of the Tribe of Judah
Haile Selassie I
Elect of God, Emperor of Ethiopia
WHEREAS, in 1951 we ordained the creation of the Development Bank
of Ethiopia in order to encourage the development of industrial and agricul-
tural production in Our Empire, and thus raise the standard of living Df
Our People;
WHEREAS, the stage of economic development that Ethiopia has now
reached calls for the mobilization and investment of all available funds in
profitable development projects; and
WHEREAS, to achieve this purpose, two new financial institut:ions
by the name of the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank, S.C. and the
Ethiopian Tourism and Hotels Investment Corporation, S.C., have been formed in
accordance with the provisions of the Commercial Code of 1960;
NOW, THEREFORE in accordance with Article 92 of Our Revised Consti-
tution and on the advice of Our Council of Ministers, We hereby decree as
follows:
1.   Short Title
This decree may be cited as the "Development Bank (Repeal)
Decree, 1970."
2.   Repeal
The Development Bank Proclamation of 1951 (Proclamation 116
of 1951) is hereby repealed subject to the terms and conditions set out
hereunder.
3.   Exemption from Licensing
The Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank S.C. shall
enjoy the exemption granted to the Development Bank of Ethiopia pursuant
to Article 29 (1) of the Monetary and Banking Proclamation, 1963, and shall
not be required to obtain a license for the use as part of its name of the
word "bank" or its derivatives.



ANNEX 3
Page  2
4.   Transfer of Assets
(i) Without prejudice to the requirements of the Commercial Code
of 1960, Our Minister of Finance is, as of the effective
date hereof, hereby authorized to transfer:
(a)  to the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
S.C. all shares held by the Ministry of Finance
in the Ethiopian Investment Corporation S.C. and in
the Development Bank of Ethiopia; and
(b) all shares listed in Appendix 'A' attached hereto,
subject to the terms and conditions specified therein;
(ii)  The Development Bank of Ethiopia shall as of the effective
date hereof transfer to the Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank S.C. all the assets of the Development Bank
of Ethiopia except:
(a)  shares held by the Development Bank of Ethiopia in
the Development and Hotel Co., S.C.; and
(b)  fixed assets not exceeding $25,000 - at book value;
which shares and fixed assets together with the records
relating thereto shall be transferred to the Ethiopian
Tourism and Hotels Investment Corporation, S. C. as of
the effective date hereof.
(iii)  The Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank S.C. and
the Ethiopian Tourism and Hotels Investment Corporation S.C.
shall be entitled to and shall enjoy all rights, benefits
and privileges with respect to any assets as were enjoyed
by the Ethiopian Investment Corporation, S.C., the Development
Bank of Ethiopia or any other company prior to the transfer
of such assets. In particular, no tax shall be due on any
asset acquired by the Development Bank of Ethiopia before
the effective date hereof, where such assets transferred to
the Agricultural and Lndustrial Development Bank S.C. or to
the Ethiopian Tourism and Hotels Investment Corporation, S.C.
as the casze may be, pursuant to paragraph (2) above.
5.   Liabilities
(i)  In consideration of the transfer of assets to be made
pursuant to Article 4 (1) and (2) hereof, and as a
condition thereto the Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank S.C. shall assume all of the liabilities of the
Development Bank of Ethiopia, provided, however, that:



ANNEX 3
Page  3
(a)  any guarantees accorded by the Imperial Ethiopian
Government in respect of the liabilities of the
Development Bank of Ethiopia shall remain effective
as if given hereunder;
(b)  at the request of the National Bank and notwithstEnding
the provisions of Article 13 (8) of the Monetary and
Banking Proclamation, 1963, the Agricultural and Indus-
trial Development Bank S.C. shall, in exchange for the
debts of the Development Bank of Ethiopia to the
National Bank, issue shares in the Agricultural and
Industrial Development Bank S.C. to the National Bank
to an equivalent nominal value.
(ii) The Development Bank of Ethiopia shall deliver to the Agricultural
and Industrial Development Bank S.C., all records relating to
the assets transferred to and liabilities assumed by th.e
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank S.C. herei.nder,
and shall take all other measures necessary or desirable.l to
effectuate the said transfer to and assumption by the Agricul-
tural and Industrial Development Bank S.C.
6.   Assignment of Profits of National Bank
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 11 of the Na.-.ional
Bank of Ethiopia Charter, 1963, fifty% (50%) of the amount due to be
distributed annually to the Ministry of Finance shall be credited each year
to the account of the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank S.C. in
respect of the financial years of the National Bank 1970-1974 inclusi'ke.
7.   Approved Institutions
For the purposes of Article 17 of the Income Tax Proclamatioin,
1961, as amended, and regulations issued pursuant thereto, the Agricu:.ltural
and Industrial Development Bank S.C. shall be considered as a credit institu-
tion approved by Our Minister of Finance and for the purposes of Artic.le
18 (3) of the same Proclamation interest paid by the said finantcial institu-
tion shall be regarded as bank interest.
8.   Effective Date
This Decree shall enter into force as of 28th August 1570.
Done at Addis Ababa, this 2Eth day of ".`ugust, 1970
TSAHAFE TAEZAZ AKLILU HABTE WOLD
Prime Minister & Minister of Pen.






APPENDIX 'A' (to Decree No. 55 of 1970)
Pursuant to Article 4 (1) (b) of this Decree, Our Minister of
Finance shall:
(1) Transfer to:
(a) The Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank S.C., the
shares of the Ministry of Finance in the:
(i) Bahar Dar Cotton Factory S.C.;
(ii) Berhanena Selam Printing Press S.C.;
(iii) Debre Berhan Wool Factory S. C.;
(iv) Ethiopian Pharmaceutical Manufacturing S.C.;
(v) Ethiopian Pulp and Paper S.C.;
(vi) Eritrean Cement Factory S. C.;
(vii)  H.V.A. Metahara S.C.; and
(viii)  Tehdaho Plantations S.C.;
(b)  The Ethiopian Tourism and Hotels Investment Corporatio,n S.C.,
the shares of the Ministry of Finance in the;
(i) Development and Hotel S.C.; and
(ii) Ras Hotels S. C.;
(2)  Transfer to the Ministry of Finance from the Agricultural ard
Industrial Development Bank S. C. shares which the Ethiopiar.
Investment Corporation S. C. holds in the Ethiopian Grain
Corporation and the Ethiopian Shipping Lines S. C.; and
(3)  Transfer from the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
S. C. and contribute to the Ethiopian Tourism and Hotels
Investment Corporation S. C. shares which the Ethiopian Invest-
ment Corporation S. C. holds in Ras Hotels S. C. and Wanza
S. C.






ANNEX 4
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Board of Directors and Loan Committee
Board of Directors:
H. E. Ato Mammo Tadesse             Minister of Finance (Chairman)
H. E. Ato Abebe Retta               Minister of Agriculture
H. E. Ato Menasse Lemma             Governor of the National Bank
of Ethiopia
H. E. Ato Ketema Yifrou             Minister of Commerce, Industry
and Tourism
H. E. Ato Asafa Demissie            Managing Director of AIDB
H. E. Ato Tekalegn Gedamou          Commissioner, Planning Commission
Ato Yawand-Wossen Menghasha         Vice-Governor of the National
Bank of Ethiopia
_                       Loan Committee
Ato Tessaye Dinka                   Deputy Manager, Industrial
Department
Ato Addis Anteneh                   Manager of Agricultural
Department
Ato Melesae Endalemaw               Division Chief, Agricultural
Department
Mr. A. Everett                      Acting Controller
Ato Bekele Tamirat                  Deputy Controller (Accounting)
Ato Habte Mariam Wolde Mikael       Deputy Controller (Banking)
Ato Zerabruk Aberra                 Division Chief, Legal Division
DFCD
March 22, 1972






*                                                                * 
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Organization Chart
Board of
Directors
Managing
_Director
Legal                           PublicAdiitaieIerl
D)epartment                     Relations                                            Srie                                vi
OfficeDivisi
O P ER AT ION AL    D EPA RT ME NT S
Industrial               Agiutr                                                 n                                   n
Branch
Offices
DF'CD
December I0, 1971






ANNEX 6
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
STATEMENT OF POLICY-
(Approved by AIDB Board of Directors on june 18, 1971)
A. GENERAL POLICY
The purpose of this statement is to outline the policy that will be applied
to the activities of the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank S.C.,
hereinafter referred to as the Bank, subject to any subsequent amendments
that may be made to this policy by the Bank's Board of Directors.
I.  A_IS AND OBJECTIVES
1.   The Bank shall assist in the development of the country by
the mobilisation and investment of all available funds in
profitable development projects, by way of equity partici-
pation, loans and/or guarantees in compliance with successive
development plans of the Government.
2.   The Bank is the Government's principal instrument for extending
!!W                 long and medium term credits to, and equity investment in,
commercially justifiable projects in agricultural, industrial,
mining and other sectors not reserved for other financial inter-
mediaries, and for receiving and managing investment funds for
those sectors. Short-term financing operations such as crop
loans and loans for agricultural inputs and simple implements,
will be undertaken as required through a self-accounting sub-
sidiary organisation of the Bank.
3.   The Bank's activities shall be augmented wherever appropriate
and necessary, with advisory or other services in planning,
management, accounting, marketing .... etc.
4.   The Bank will endeavour to foster the growth of share owner-
ship in the country and to encourage Ethiopian investors to
participate in the capital of projects in which it has an
interest. In order to diversify share ownership, and mobilize
further resources for development the Bank will consider dis-
posing of shareholdings from its own portfolio whenever this
is appropriate.
2/
5.--- The Bank shall select projects, subject to sound investment
criteria., on as broad a geographical basis as possible.
1/   True copy of printed Statement of Policy unless otherwise mentioned.
2/   Paragraph 5 not included in printed version; however, paragraph 6 and
following were not renumbered.



ANNEX 6
Page  2
II. INVESTMENT POLICY
6.   The Bank shall conduct its operations in such a way that, by
establishing efficiency and credit worthiness, it will be in
a position to raise funds, both locally and abroad. Standards
of project appraisal shall be uniformly high in all sectors.
The Bank shall aim to assist all projects which meet its basic
requirements of adequate management experience and ability,
and of satisfactory financial and economic returns.
7.   Enterprises that submit projects to the Bank shall be required
to have efficient management, good market prospects for their
products and contribute to the economic growth of the country.
8.   In order to ensure that a loan is in fact productive, the
Bank shall appraise the adequacy and availability of inputs
(seed, fertilizer, various raw materials, machinery.... etc.)
to be purchased with the proceeds of the loan. In its
agricultural lending operation the Bank shall emphasize
"supervised credit" and technical advice, particularly for
small and medium scale farm projects.
Whenever possible, the Bank shall make loans to small and
medium scale farmers through agricultural co-operatives or
other farm organizations and partnerships.
9.   The Bank, while requiring adequate security for its loans,
will give particular weight to the viability of the project
and its managerial competence. It shall require the keeping
of adequate records, and the use of sound accounting proce-
dures wherever possible. The Bank shall obtain rights of
inspection and audit and, in the event of faulty management,
of intervention in enterprises in which its financial in-
volvement is substantial.
10.   In general, the Bank's loans will finance capital expenditures,
but the provision of working capital will also be considered,
part4cularly for agricultural loans, where other sources of
such capital cannot be arranged. For any loan to be extended,
the apwplicant shall be required to provide adequate own funds.
11.   The total amount of loans granted by the Bank together with
its equyit particLipations and any other commitments of a
financial nature in favour of a single enterprise may not
exceed 10% of its paid-up share capital plus unimpaired
reserves. In general, the Bank's investments by way of loan
and/or equity shall not together exceed 50% of the total cost
of the project to be financed.
12.   Except in respect of those enterprises taken over by the Bank
upon its establishment, the Bank's share participation, excep-
tional circumstances apart, in any given enterprise shall not



ANNEX 6
Page  3
exceed 30% of the total share capital of the enterprise. The
Bank shall not normally assume managerial responsibility in
such enterprises.
13.   The Bank's total investments in the form of equity participa-
tions shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the Bank's
paid-up share capital and reserves.
14.   The Bank may give its clients an appropriate grace period (llot
normally exceeding two years after the completion of the loan-
project) before loan repayments commence.  The period of loans
shall normally be a minimum of 5 to a maximum of 10 years, to
be fixed in accordance with requirements of each project.
III. FINANCIAL POLICY
15.   The Bank's financial policy shall aim to enable it at all times
to honour its obligations on time, and to achieve a profit mar-
gin to enable it to cover operating costs and adequate reserves.
16.   The rate of interest, commitment fees, and other charges raised
on the Bank's loans shall be as determined by the Board from
time to time. The rate will be such as to ensure an adequate
margin to enable the Bank to implement its financial policy -as
stated above.
17.   The Bank shall make adequate provisions against potential o1i3ses
and build up reserves to a level consistent with sound financial
practices. It shall set aside each year adequate reserves f:rom
its net income and appropriate amounts of additional reserves
designed to strengthen its equity.
18.   The Bank shall maintain a satisfactory balance between the
maturities of its own obligations and those of the loans it
grants.
19.   The Bank shall not incur debts with a maturity of more than
one year in excess of three times the amount of its capital
and reserves.
20.   Clients would generally be required to secure prior written
consent from the Bank for the payment of dividends and/or
incur other debts.
21.   The Bank shall not incur a foreign exchange risk in respect
of those borrowings that are repayable in foreign currencies.
IV. MANAGEMENT AND STAFF
22.   The staff of the Bank shall be selected on the basis of quali-
fications and ability. The Bank shall strive to develop and
maintain a well-balanced organization and a management team



ANNEX 6
Page  4
capable of appraising the financing proposals put before it,
assisting enterprises in the formulation of their projects and
supervising their execution.
23. Until local staff have been trained for some senior posts the Bank
shall, where necessary, seek outside assistance for organizing,
training, particularly in project evaluation and follow-up for
supervisors and loan officers.
24. Whenever the Bank acquires the right to a directorship on the
Board of a company in which it has an investment, the Bank shall
appoint as its nominee a person (whether from among the Bank's
staff or otherwise) whose qualifications and ability will ensure
that the Bank's interests in the company shall be properly
safeguarded.
B. INTEREST RATE POLICY
I.   GENERAL PRECEPTS
1.   A fundamental consideration guiding the operations of a develop-
ment bank must be that the basic rate at which the bank lends
should bear a reasonable relationship to the real cost of capital
in the country as well as to the prevailing interest rate structure.
2.   Moreover, interest rates should be sucb as to enable the institu-
tion to cover its costs, provide satisfactory provisions for
losses as well as to make a reasonable margin of profit.
3.   At present, the profit margin it makes may not be of prime im-
portance to AIDBank as it does not heavily depend on its ability
to raise capital from private sources. This factor should not
be ignored, however, as the time will come when AIDBank will
have to rely on its own cash generation to meet the demand for
development financing.
II.  AIDBAN ; INTLNATERESJ  aT  RUCTURE
4.   The prevailing interest rate structure in Ethiopia, among various
types of lending institutions, covers a range from 8-1/2% to
9-1/2%.  The lending rates of AIDBank should conform generally to
this pattern.
5.   Of the funds available to AIDBank for lending, some 40% are repre-
sented by the Bank's net worth. About 5% are from domestic bor-
rowing, such as Time Deposits costing 6% to 6-1/2% and occasional
1/   Section B was not included in printed version but is retained as part of*
Statement of Policy adopted by AIDB Board.



ANNEX 6
Page  5
bank borrowing at a special rate of 7-1/2%. At present the balance
of nearly 55% of the funds available for lending comprises iunds
borrowed abroad.
III. FUTURE POLICY ON INTEREST RATE AND OTHER CHARGES
6.   Historically, there is a higher degree of risk and correspondingly
a higher rate of loss on agricultural loans. However, since one
of the principal objectives of AIDBank is to promote and expand
its financing in the agricultural field, and in view of the prio-
rity accorded to agriculture in successive development plans of
the country, the basic lending rate for investment in agriculture
should not be higher than the rate for industrial lending.
7.   AIDBank's future lending rate for fixed investment will, for the
time being be fixed at 8-1/2% per annum, interest payments being
effected semi-annualy.
8.   Short-term and crop loans will, however, be set at a higher rate
of 9-11% p.a.
9.   A commitment charge of 3/4 of 1% will be paid on the undrawrt
amount of a loan. A commission fee of 2% will be charged to
guarantee repayments to third party creditors.
10. The above rates should be subject to periodic review by the
Board and should be adjusted in the event of any significant
change in the factors affecting the overall cost of funds.
C. INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT POLICY
I.   General Objectives
1.   The aim of AIDBank's policy in industrial enterprises is to expand
this sector's contribution to the growth of the national economy
by:-
a)   serving as a vehicle through which funds could be chan-
nelled to industry on the basis of a selection process
which promotes those projects that are technically sound,
economically viable and financially remunerative.
b)   encouraging industrial undertakings primarily based on
domestic raw material supplies.
c)   promoting the growth of manufacturing industry that would
increase employment opportunities and undertake training
of personnel.



ANNEX 6
Page  6
d)   aiding import-substituting and export-oriented industries
with the objective of saving or earning foreign exchange.
e)   assisting industrial establishments that help create forward
and backward linkages in production, thus supplying their
own basic inputs as well as semi-proceed products for other
industrial concerns.
f)   contributing towards the development of new growth centres,
eigher directly or through its branch operations.
II.  Loan Procedure and Project Appraisal
2.   Upon receiving an application for a loan AIDB will provide the
applicant with a standard form outlining all relevant data re-
quirements with respect to the project for which the loan is
sought. The loan application will not be appraised until the
applicant has completely filled the form and returned it to
AIDB. AIDB will then appraise the project and prepare a written
report. This procedure will save considerable time for the
applicant and greatly facilitate the work of the loan officers
preparing the report.
3.   The project, whether industrial or agricultural, for which
financial assistance is sought will be appraised as follows:-
a)   The existence of a market for the outputs of the project
will be examined from the point of view of past demand
trends and sources of supply both domestic and foreign,
the structure of competing firms, the proposed methods
of distribution, and projections of future demand and
supply.
b)   The technical soundness of the project will be examined
to investigate the possibility of producing at reasonable
cost, and to determine whether the estimated costs are as
low as any other possible alternatives (such as alter-
native sources of inputs), which could produce the
intended results.
c)   T'ae organi.zational set up and management of the project
will be critically looked into to ascertain the existence
of adequate management, proper accounting, including man-
agement accounting, reliable procurement procedures and
similar factors that would enhance the implementation of
the project.
d)   The overall social benefit of the project will be assessed
by estimating the project's contribution to the economy in
general, the likely increase in new employment, training
of manpower, foreign exchange savings or earnings, govern-
ment r.venue, the degree to which domestic resources are



ANNEX 6
Page 7
exploited and the appropriate level of protection requiLred
with its justifications.
e)   The commercial profitability of the project will be examined
to ensure repayment of loans and a return on capital inivested
as indicated by the project's internal rate of return amd the
net present worth of the discounted cash flow projections.
f)   The credit-worthiness of the applicant
III. Terms and Conditions for Loans
4.   Loans will only be considered following the Loan Committee's
review and acceptance of a positive proposal by the industrial
department of AIDB through the written report referred to ir
paragraph 2 above.
5.   Loan disbursement schedules will be prepared and agreed upor
between AIDB and the applicant before the contract is signed.
Wherever feasible, loans shall be disbursed in kind or by pay-
ments direct to suppliers and contractors.
6.   The goods and services required for the project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the loan shall normally be
procured on the basis of international competion under ac-
cepted procedures.
7.   Loans made available for a project shall be used exclusively
for the project until its completion. AIDB's representative,;
shall be allowed to inspect the implementation of the project,
the goods financed out of the loan and any relevant records
and documents.
8.   AIDB shall cause the imported goods to be insured against
hazards incidental to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of the goods to the place of use or installation;
the insurance costs shall be debited to the borrower's
account.
9.   Security on Loans:  mortgages and other security worth 150-200%
of the loan amount will normally be taken to cover loans.
However, the inability of a borrower to provide security to
cover the loan will not normally hinder or prevent the loan
from being considered. Emphasis will be placed on the es-
timated net income generation of the proposed investment,
the general financial situation and the management capability
of the borrower.
10.   Borrowers shall keep adequate accounts to be audited annually
in a manner satisfactory to AIDB, and such audited accounts
shall be made available promptly to AIDB.



ANNEX 6
Page  8
D. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT POLICY
I.   General Objectives
1.1 As the agricultural sector plays such a vital role in
Ethiopia's economic life, the Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank S.C.'s (AIDB) policy would be so directed
as to make this sector's contribution, in collaboration with
other agencies, to the economic growth of the country as
effective as possible.
The advantages of such a policy are manifold and interwoven:-
a)   increase domestic food production,
b)   diversify our present export,
c)   establish the basis of present and future
industrial raw material,
d)   increase the purchasing power of the largest number
of our population - thus enlarging the markets for
industrial products,
e)   popularize the spread of new technology e.g. use of
fertilizer, insecticide, selection of better seeds.
The successful implementation of these objectives would raise
the standard of living of the people and simultaneously increase
the taxable capacity of the population - thus, enabling the Gov-
ernment to put more money into development.
1.2  Flexible Policy
It is not the purpose of this policy to set down hard and fast
rules by which AIDB has to abide under all circumstances.
Rather, the purpose of this policy is to set guidelines of what
is normally acceptable to the Bank so that at the appropriate
early stage in project planning and appraisal, the Bank's
officers and its clients know what the Bank's decision are
likely to be in providing all types of agricultural credit.
There will, however, be very little to compromise on such stand-
ards. With this in mind, the Bank's policy would be flexible
within reasonable limits, in procedural matter involved in the
processing of loans for projects that are technically and finan-
cially sound.



ANNEX 6
Page  9
To achieve all this, AIDB's financial and manpower resources
would have to be strengthened. Financially, it will have to tap
various sources. Domestically, by attracting deposits, savings,
issue of bonds, borrowings from other financial institutioni as
well as contribution from the Government. Internationally,
AIDB will make a sustained effort, with tnhe assistance of
Imperial Ethiopian Government (IEG), to obtain long-term loans
from multilateral and bilateral sources.
II.  Basic Approach for Future Policy
2.1 In order to achieve the general objectives of the Bank;-
a)   careful selection of clients and a thorough
evaluation of projects,
b)   close supervision of such projects,
c)   where appropriate, suitable technical assistance,
marketing and other advisory services, would be
of prime importance.
2.2 Selection
0                     2.2.1     The general approach would be to encourage those clients
who seem most likely, by the contributions which t'hey
can make in terms of finance or effective management, to
advance AIDB's objectives in the agricultural field.
A distinction between resident and non-resident farmers
is made following the assumption and from the accomLpany-
ing conviction that, whereas resident farmers, because
of their sole dependence on farming, have shown a degree
of commitment to it, and are therefore likely to give
their farms energetic, regular and attentive manag;ement,
non-resident farmers on the other hand are able to make
limited contribution to the management of their farms.
However, it is assumed that the latter are usually better
placed to substantially contribute to the farm's finan-
cial requirements and to the commercial side of manage-
ment.
2.3 Supervised Credit
2.3.1     AIDB would adopt a policy of close supervision; but:
in future such supervision will extend to giving some
technical advice and assistance to the farmer as well
as to ensuring disbursement for approved purposes.
Supervision of existing clients, within reasonable cost
limits, would be given priority for available funds over
0                                new lending, and within those areas which can be conven-
iently controlled by AIDB's branches a far more in--
tense supervision would be launched. Outside branch



ANNEX 6
Page 10
areas loans should only be extended to highly reliable
customers, and in such cases at least twice-yearly
supervisory visits would be made.
2.4  AIDB would pay particular attention to the development and
credit needs of agricultural cooperatives. Making credit avail-
able through these cooperatives is one of the ways of reaching
the small peasant farmers. Special emphasis on very close super-
vision on the cooperatives' lending operations and financial
practices, at least in the initial stages, would be given top
priority.
2.5 Purposes and Uses of Loans
2.5.1.    Long and medium-term agricultural loans would be
granted for the following purposes:-
1.   Purchase of agricultural and agro-industrial
machinery, equipment, implements and initial
spare parts;
2.   Land development, improvement and preparation
(including clearing, levelling, construction of
irrigation, drainage, flood protection works,
seedbed preparation);
3.   Construction and/or installation of farm buildings
and other facilities such as barns, storage bins
and living quarters for management, staff and la-
bour;
4.   Other structures - project land fencing, well
drilling and related water supply equipment;
5.   Purchase of livestock for draft purposes as well
as for dairy and beef production;
6.   Planting material, planting cost and maintenance
of plantation until fruit bearing for tree crops
witn a gestation period longer than two years.
7.   a)   through its self-accounting subsidiary AIDB
would provide storage, marketing and credit
services to assist the farmer and to assure
the collection of its loans ard advances.
b)   with the aim of stabilizing prices and pre-
venting undue seasonal fluctuation of farmers
produce, AIDB would also provide short,
medium and long-tenn credits to marketing
institutions and agencies, always in accord-
ance with its normal lending policies and



ANNEX 6
Page 11
procedures so as to benefit both the producer
and the consumer.
2.5.2.    Short-term loans, if granted, would cover the reqtuire-
ments of working capital for fuel, lubricants, seeda,
fertilizer, insecticides, herbicides, feed for livre-
stock and other operational costs to cover direct
labour expenses, etc.
2.5.3.    Other Considerations
1.   Whereas it would be AIDB's policy to provide
large farmers, package programmes and coopera.-
tives with their working capital requirements
for as long as they need to borrow these, AIEB
would encourage farmers to seek their working
capital requirement from the commercial banks
or provide from own funds. Guarantee loans would,
in the future as in the past, be accepted on the
same conditions as direct loans. AIDB would,
however, normally avoid refinancing. Under ex-
ceptional circumstances, however, it would be
prepared to consider such types of finance, pro-
vided there is a farm development plan and finan-
cial projections satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   No loans would be granted to finance the purcdiase
of land other than for expansion purpose unle.3s
sufficient technical and financial justifications
are provided that the success of the project and
enterprise is absolutely dependent on the acquis-
ition of the land.
3.   No loans would be granted for the purchase of
transport vehicles unless it is part and parcel
of the proposed project, and unless such trans-
port vehicles are for the use either of the
applicant, who must be a resident farmer, or the
applicant's resident manager.
4.   Mechanization:  Past and present practice maintains
that the degree of mechanization should be care-
fully monitored in granting agricultural loam,.
Agricultural machinery and equipment of the nature
of tractors, combine harvesters and clearing equip-
ment are normally purchased from outside and in-
volve the outlay of foreign exchange. Such ar. out-
lay should be justifiably utilized to minimize idle
capacity. On the other hand, the Bank would Lot be
prepared even indirectly, to finance a rental bus-
iness of such equipment by individual borrowers.



ANNEX 6
?age 12
Application to buy a tractor with the requisite
attachments for rain-fed-farming, experience supports
that loans should only be granted for a minimum
holding of 100-120 ha. (2.5 to 3 gashas). However,
in respect of a group of farmers wishing to purehase
a tractor for joint use and provided the aggregate
holding is not less than 100-120 hectares, the Bank
would consider financing the purchase of a tractor
subject to the fulfilment of other conditions.
III. Acceptance and Process-ing of Applications and Loan Approvals
3.1 Location of Project
3.1.1     Applications from large and medium scale farmers, from
package programmes, and from cooperatives would be
accepted (provided that they meet the other conditions)
wherever in Ethiopia the projects to be financed are
situated.
Applications from small farmers would normally be
accepted when the project to be financed lies within
a branch area.  Applications from large medium scale
farmers in respect of projects outside branch areas
would be accepted where:
either a) the applicant is a past customer of DBiM or
EIC with a good credit rating,
or b) the application is from an already existing
enterprise with a proven record of success
under trained agricultural management
provided of course, that such applications meet other
conditions.
3.2  New Non-Resident Farmers:  Applications from new non-resident
farmers are only acceptable where either evidence is produced
that farm capital to the amount of (depreciated value) 50% of
the value of loan approved has already been spent on the farr-
or where 50% of an amount approved is put on deposit with
AIDB, to be disbursed under the Bank's control as part rf the
owner's own contribution. Any combination of past investment
and deposit amounting together to 50% of the amount applied for
is also acceptable.
3.3 Nature of Financing (Equity and Loans)
3.3.1     AIDB would provide both loans and/or equity capital
depending on the requirements of each case. When the
Bank provides substantial equity (20% of total share



ANNEX 6
Page 13
capital or E$50,000 whichever is the higher) capit:al
it would normally seek representation or to have zm
option to be represented on the board of the enter-
prise assisted.
1/
3.5 Legal Status of Borrowers
3.5.1     AIDB would require all enterprises, involving part-
nerships to have formal partnership agreements in accord-
ance with the Commercial Laws of Ethiopia. For small
enterprises a "Joint Venture" status is acceptable. In
the case of applications for loans of $75,000 or more
and involving borrowers of more than one person, the
Bank would insist on such enterprises acquiring status
of general partnership, limited partnership, private
limited company or share company as a pre-condition for
disbursement of the loan. 'But wherever the Bank deems
it necessary each of the major partners should noriaally
be jointly and generally made responsible for the whole
of the Bank's loan.
3.6 Credit Rating of Applicants
3.6.1     Credit information would, in all appropriate cases, be
sought from suppliers of machinery and other agricttl-
tural inputs as well as from commercial banks and other
institutions as a matter of course. Wherever possible
this would also be supplemented by local information
obtained in the area of the farm. The guidelines indi-
cated below for interpreting and applying consisteLnt
treatment to past customers as well as current custom-
ers of AIDB would be followed, and as far as pos-
ble credit information from other institutions will be
treated in the same way.
AIDB's future practice would be the following:
3.6.2     Past Customers
i.   Court Actions Taken
Branch Managers and loan officers would refuse to
accept applications from these.
ii.  Seriously Overdue
The applications of these may be accepted but at
time of acceptance customers would be forewarned
1/   Apparently there is no paragraph 3.4.



ANNEX 6
Page 14
that they have very little chance of approval,
unless through close scrutiny the proposed new
loan is considered to deserve another risk taking.
iii. Slightly Overdue
Such customers would be warned on future performance
but would have a fairly good credit rating and their
viable projects would be assisted.
iv.  P;rompt Payers
Their applications will be given accelerated
treatment in processing and their reasonable
requests granted. The Bank would do its best
to encourage such customers.
3.6.3     Current Customers
i)   Court Action Taken
Applications would definitely not be accepted.
ii) Seriously Overdue
(Applications for additional loans would not normally
(be accepted unless the borrower out of his own funds
(settles all amounts overdue ard outstanding.
iii) Slightly Overdue) _/
Applications for additional loans would be accepted
but would not normally be recommended or approved
unless the borrower's and the project's financial
position, including repayment obligations under the
previous loan, can be shown to cover repayments
adequately; in case of approval the applicant would
pay all overdue interest and principal before dis-
bursements on the new loan are made.
3.7 Debt/Equity Ratios
3.7.1     AIDB would ensure that borrowing enterprises hnave
debt/equity ratios commensurate with the risk involved
in the business in which they are engaged; but only on
the most exceptional circumstances, the reasons for
which would require the most careful justification,
would AIDB's participation in both equity and medium
and long-term loans for fixed investment in a single
enterprise exceed the following percentages:
1/   (   ) Not included in printed version.



ANNEX 6
Page 15
New non-resident farmers         30%
Resident farmers and
share companies                40%
"Special" resident farmers       50%
Cooperatives                     According to the
cooperative law.
Under exceptional circumstances, for agricultural
loans of less than 50,000, the Bank may finance up to
100% of fixed investment requirements, provided 50%
of this will be paid back by the borrower within one
year after the disbursement of the loan.
3.8 Minimum Returns
3.8.1     In the future AIDB would rarely lend for projects
yielding a net annual return on investment of less than
10% during the whole life of the proposed project.
3.9 Management
3.9.1     No loan would be approved unless the Bank is assured
that the farmer can properly manage a proposed agricul-
tural enterprise. AIDB would also insist on appro-
priately qualified and/or experienced management for
the projects it finances. The minimum acceptable qual-
ifications would be:
Type of Farm                  Management by
Small farm                    Owner/tenant
Medium-scale  resident        Owner if sufficiently
experienced
non-resident   Qualified agriculturist
Large-scale                   Hired/resident manager:(s)
qualified in all relevant
fields.
3.10 Repayment Schedules
3.10.1    Repayment periods, grace periods and final maturity
dates would be tailored to the needs of the enterprises
assisted and to the financial position of the Bank. As
a general principle repayment schedules are to be based
_0                               on the extra income accruing to the owner as a result of



ANNEX 6
Page 16
the loan, after allowance for other short term obliga-
tions of the (borrower where these cannot be subordinated
to the) 1/ Bank's loan. However, where non-resident
farmers have high outside sources of income', AIDB would
ensure that it can capture part of this to allow
accelerated repayment of the loan and so free AIDB's
resources for fresh investment. Within the framework
of general policy, the Bank would be reasonably flexible
in extending repayment periods where a borrower has made
good use of a loan and the project is believed to have
good prospects but, while profitable, has liquidity
problems.
The Bank would be ready to reschedule repayments due
from customers where such rescheduling is for the benefit
of the borrowing enterprise and either is required
because the original repayment schedule was unrealistic
or because unforeseeable circumstances have made it no
longer possible for the client to keep it.
3.11 Loans for Projects Operated on Leased Lands
3.11.1    AIDB would, in its direct lending to large, medium and
small farmers, require a farmer to have a valid contract
for the leased land for at least two years, or 50% of
the period of the loan, whichever is the greater, longer
than the full period of the loan. Where a landowner
contributes the use of land to a joint venture, partner-
ship or company, a valid lease agreement should be made
between that partner and the organization.
3.12 Collateral
3.12.1    AIDB would seek, as collateral, mortgages on real
estate; preference would be for mortgages on property
with Town Title Deeds where a farmer can offer these.
AIDB would normally not take mortgages on urban
property where TTDs do not exist as collateral.  In
the case of resident farmers who take crop> loans of
less than one year's duration, and especially where
these loans are taken in kind, personal guarantees,
and promissory notes from the farmer, would normally
be acceptable instead of a real estate mortgage where
to insist on real estate mortgage would involve delays
and expenses prejudicial to the loan. The incomes,
assets and liabilities of the personal guarantors
would be investigated.
3.12.2    In assessing the value of real property offered for
mortgage AIDB would base its valuation on the free
market price. This will be ascertained by discovering
1!   ( )  Deleted in printed version.



ANNEX 6
Page 17
recent sales prices of several similar properties in
the area. Particular attention would be paid to the
relative accessibility, degree of development, and, in
the case of farm property, fertility of the property
offered as mortgage compared to those subject to recent
sale in the district. Where a property has been devel-
oped, for example, by the construction of buildings or
water supplies, the depreciated value of these inmest-
ments can be included in the valuation of the pro-perty
only if they are likely to be of interest and value to
a potential purchaser. For the purpose of the co3lat-
eral to be offered final estimations of the value shall
be based on the price arrived at as outlined above de-
creased by 25%.
3.12.3    In taking mortgages AIDB would be guided by the
following:-
Special resident farmers                 100 - 125%
Share companies and resident farmers    125- 150%
Non-resident farmers                      175 - 200%
When AIDB develops a subsidiary marketing and short-
term credit organisation, it would attempt to increase
the security of its loans by ensuring that clients mar-
ket their crops, where possible, through this organiza-
tion, so that obligations to AIDB can be automati-
cally deducted from the sales value of the crop.
3.13 Insurance
3.13.1    AIDB would require that all building on property put
up as a collateral and all machinery and equipment pur-
chased from the proceeds of an AIDB loan be adequate-
ly insured.
3.14 Basis for the Preparation of Loan Proposals
3.14.1    Wherever possible each project, whose development is to
phase over a period of years, be considered as a w1hole
from the beginning.  Future commitments would be dis-
bursed subject to positive results of programmed strict
supervision and related technical a4vice to be provided
by the AIDB. Such a consideration would be reflected
across the whole spectrum of project appraisal and con-
ditions to be attached to the granting of the loan.
Sufficient collateral would always have to be provided
for the first year's loan but this may be successively



ANNEX 6
Page 18
reduced on the basis of the successful outcome of the
project's operation. Applicants who fall under this
category of borrowers would be expected to present a
well-thought-out programme covering the whole phase of
project development including their medium and long-
term loan requirements.
3.15 Deadline for Accepting and Processing Applications
3.15.1    Because of seasonal nature of farming, particularly
rainfed farming, and because of past difficulties in
accepting late applications, AIDB has no other
alternative but fix a final date for accepting loan
applications. Until further studies, investigations
and experience show for modification, AIDB will not
accept applications after March 30th of each year.
March 22, 1972



ANLJ
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Development Bank of Ethiopia - Utilisation of
IBRD Loans 32-ET and 301-ET
1)  Loan 32-ETI/                                                            Eth$
a) Projects over Eth$ 100,000
Cotton Company of  Ethiopia                                 1,300,000
United Oilmills and Soap Factories                            259,678
Mardiros Darakjian Tannery                                    :220,000
Diabaco Cotton Company                                        450,378
N.S.A. Michos Macaroni Company                               :L27,129
Fibre Company of  Ethiopia                                    455,000
Cottonificio  Barattolo, Asmara                               '00,000
Industria  Ceramica Tabacchi                                  '00,000
Modern Bakery                                                 L19,094
Soci6te Electrochimie d'Ethiopie                              100,695
Manifattura  Sacchi, Asmara                                   747,871
Sub-total       4, 179,845
b) Projects under Eth$ 100,000
19 projects totalling                                         820,155
Total Loan 32-ET 5,000,000
2) Loan 301-ET&'
Ethiopian Greek Cotton Processing Company                     c94,646
Societe du Tej d'Ethiopie                                     540,000
Ethiopian Woodworks                                           121,895
Manifattura Sacchi, Asmara                                     50,794
General Ethiopian Transport                                   1400,000
Ethiopian Iron and Steel Company                              800,000
National Meat Corporation                                   1,106,720
Ethiopian Fabrics  Company                                  L085,945
Total Loan 301-ET   5,000,000
Loan 32-ET, signed in 1951, was made to the Ethiopian Government and the proceeds
applied by the Government as part of its contribution to DBE's Share zapital.
j/ Signed in 1961.
FI3RD/DFC
December 30, 1911






ANNE 8
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL & INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Transferred Portfolio
1. Book value
Go3eernment          DBE             EIC         omixiins       Total
Eth3inn   -    Eth$ mn      %   Eth$ mn      %   Eth$ m
Industry         32.9      941%   11.2    38%    26.4    76%                 70.5    71%
Agriculture       2.2       6%    17.9     62%      8.3     24%              28.4      29%
Omissions                                                           1.1       1.1
Total            35.2             29.1             34.7             1.1     100.0
%              35%              30%             35%                       100%
Loans and
Guarantees                        28.4    98%    27.6    80%        1.0      57.0    57%
Shares           35.2    100%      0.7      2%      7.1     20%     0.1      43.0    43%
Total            35.2             29.1             34.7             1.1     100.0
2. Amounts written down & %reduction
Industry         10.4      30%     2.9     26%     6.6      25%              19.9    28%
Agriculture         -              6.0     34%      1.8     22%                7.8    28%
Omiissions                                                          1.3       1.3
Total            10.4      30%     8.9     31%      8.4     24%     1.3      29.0    29%
Loans and
Guarantees         -               8.7     31%      6.5     23%     1.1       16.3    28%
Shares           10.4      30%     0.2     29%      1.9     27%     0.2      12.7      30%
Total            10.4      30%     8.9     31%    =.4       24%     1.3       99.0     7
3. Net amount of Transferred Portfolio (1-2)
Industry         22.5      91%     8.3     41%    19.8      75%               50.6     71%
Agriculture       2.2       9%    11.9     59%      6.5     25%               20.6     29%
Omissions                                                          (0.2)      (0.2)
Total            24.7             20.2             26.3-            MM-   71.0
X6             35%              28%              37%                       100%
Loans and
Guarantees         -              19.7    98%    21.1       80%    (0.1)      40.7     57%
Shares           24.7      100%    0.5      2%      5.2     20%    (091)      30.3    43%
Total            24.7             20.2            26.3             T0.2)     71.0
March 23, 1972



ANNEX a
Notes                                                                 Page 2
a.  Analysis of Loan & Guarantee Portfolio
Government           DBE             EIC         0Tdssions      Total
Eth   mn        Et  %   Eth$ mn               %   Eth$ mn   Eth$, mn
Book value:
Industry                          10.5      37%    20.7      75%               31.2     5,6%
Agriculture                       17.9      63%     6.9      25%               21,.8    44%
Omissions                                                            1.0
TIotal                            28.4             27.6              1.0       57.0
Written down & % reduction:
[ndustry                           2.7      26%     5.8     28%                 8.5     275
Agriculture                        6.0      36%     0.7      10%                6.7     275
Omissions                                                            1.1        1.1.
':I'otal                           7.7      31%     6.5      24%     1.1       137-     29%
Net transfer:
I:ndustry                          7.8     40%    14.9       71%              22.7      56%
Agriculture                       11.9      60%     6.2      29%               18.1     45%
Omissions                                                            (0.1)     (0.1)
T'otal                            19.7             2(.1             (0.1)   -TJ7T-7
b. Analysis of Equity Portfolio
Book value:
Inrdustry         32.9     94%     0.7      100%    5.7      80%               39.3     92%
Agriculture        2.2      6%       -              1.4      20%                3.6       8%
Omissions                                                            0.1        0.1
'T'otal          35.2              0.7              7.1              0.1       43.0
Wr,itten down & % reduction:
Tnoiustry        10.4      32%     0.2      29%     0.8    1k%                 11.4     29%
Agriculture         -                -              1.1      79%                1.1     31%
O;nissions                                                           0.2        0.2
TOt              10.4      32%     0.2      29%     1.9      27%     0.2       12.7     29%
Dr B Transfer:
: 5: i-7:V  22.5      91%     0.5    100%      4.9     94%               27.9      92%
,t5'i-cKtn,-re    2.2       9%      -               0.3      6%                 2.5      8%
.)inis s:iL   ns  ________        ________        ________          (0.1)      (0.1)
Total            24.7              0.5              5.2             (0.1)      30.3
Tr)FCD
M'Aarch 23, 1972



ANNEX 9
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANR
Financial Statements
A.   Attached are Balance Sheets (Appendix 9-1), Income Statements (Appendix
9-2), Cash Flow Statements (Appendix 9-3) and Commitments and Disburse-
ments (Appendix 9-4) for FY 1971 (second half, actual), FY 1972 (project-
ed), FY 1973 (projected) and FY 1974 (first half, projected). AIDB's
fiscal year starts at July 8; the first half year ends on January, 8.
B.   Assumptions Underlying Projected Financial Statements:
1.   Balance Sheets
(a) Short-term loans, other current assets, guarantees issued,
government bonds and current liabilities will remain at their
January 8, 1972 levels throughout the period.
(b)  No Government bills will be held during the period.
0                    (c)  The proposed IDA credit is the only foreign exchange
borrowing during the period.
(d)  AIDB's liability for half of the loan disbursements under
the IDA Addis Ababa Dairy Credit and for the full amount
of some disbursements under the IDA Coffee Credit have been
included as a contingent liability. Provisions against
losses on these projects have been made equal to AIDB's
income from these operations.
2.   Income Statements
(a) The following interest rates have been used:
Government bonds:                    5.25%
Short-term loans:                   9.5%
Term loans:  Transferred             7.5%
New                    9.5%
Return on equity investments:       3%
Deposits:                           8%
IDA - Credit:                       7.25%
Other foreign borrowings:           4%



ANNEX 9
Page  2
(b) Provision for bad loans and investments calculated at
2% of disbursements. Provisions for losses on the IDA
financed Dairy and Coffee Projects equal to interest
income. This amounts to 1% of the outstandincg balance
in case of the Dairy subloans and 2.25% in case of the
Coffee subloans.
(c)  Tax calculated at effective rate of 10%".
3.   Cash Flow Statements
(a) Repayment of loans committed by AIDB taken at 15% of
outstanding amount after one year grace period.
(b) Repayment of transferred loans and transferred foreign
borrowings taken from actual repayment schedules.
(c) Government contribution equal to half of NBE's annual
profit projected at Eth$ 6 million annually during
FY 1973 and 1974.
DFCD
March 22, 1972
0



ETHIOPIA                          ApZn3dix 9-1
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVEWOPMEfT BANK
Balance Sheets
(Eth$ tOO)
Actual                 Projected
July 7,    July 7,      July 7,   Jan. 8,
Assets                                        1971       1972         1973         1974
Cash                                        1,872      5,61o        8,767      14,459
Government Bills                            2,450        -            -            -
Short-term Loan                             8,183     14,700       14,700      14,700
Other Current Assets                        1,424      4,500        42500        4,500
Total Current Assets                       13,929     24,810       27,967       33,659
Customer Liability for Guarantees i         3,954      4,712        4,712        4,712
Borrower Liapility on IDA Dairy and Coffee  -            -            868       1,830
Projects 
Sub-total                                   3,954      4,712        5,580        6,542
Term Loans:  Transferred 2                 27,565     22,041       17,041      14,541
New 21                        3o14        6,421      22,727       29,212
Total                        30,579      28,462      39,768       43,753
Equity Investments !                       30,472     31,354       34,098       35,568
Government Bonds                            1,036      1,036        1,036        1,036
*       Net Fixed Assets                            1,497       2,142       3,562        4,272
Total Assets                               81,467     92,516      112,011     124,830
Liabilities and Equity
Deposits                                    7,073      9,000        9,000        9,000
Other Current Liabilities                   2,898      2,100        2,100        2,10
Total Current Liabilities                   9,971     11,100       11,100      11,100
Nuarantees Issued                           6,786      7,400        7,400        7,400
Liability for Disbursement on IDA
Dairy and Coffee Projects                                               o 890    1,884
Sub-total                                   6,786      7,400        8,290        9,284
Foreign Borrowings:  IDA                      -          450       13,000       18,750
Others               17,827     18,135       16,935      16,335
Total               17,827      18,585       29,935      35,085
Equity:  Share Capital                     35,000     50,000       50,000       50,000
Government Account               10,791       2,992        8,992      14,992
Retained Earnings                 1,092       2,439       3,694        4,369
Total Eouity                     46,885      55,431       62,686      69,561
Total Liabilities and Equity               81,467     92,516      112,011     124,830
*       Current Assets/Current Liabilities          1.40        2.24         2.52        3.03
Guarantees Issued and Long-term              .52         .47         .61          .64
Debt/Equity
j/ Net of provisions.



Ap)ncndix )-?
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPME.. BArNK
Income Statements through January 8, 1974
Actual                 Projected
Year ending July 7             -             1971        1972             i)     YIt
2nd half                          1st  ;alf
Interest                                   1,828       3,396      4,250       2,528
Dividends                                    233         930        981+        523
Rievenue from IDA Dairy & Coffee Projects-             -             22          32
Othler Revenue                               184         535        4!5o        250
Total Revenue                              2,245       4,861      5,806       3,333
Exoense s
Salaries                                     560       1,174      1 ,00         750
Genleral expenses                            272         703        700         350
Total Administrative expenses                832       1,877      2,1C0       1,100
Provision for bad loans C investments   -                 97        398         182
Provision for losses on ID- Dairy and
coi ec Projects                           -           -             22          32
nteresJ                                    _ 633       1,368      1,          1.2(
Total Expenses                             1, L[65     3,L2 3,412             2,53
Profi.t:,efore tax                              7-80      ,5)       1, -)9         750
t -ix                             ~~~~~~~~78  152'       >9           75
' L: Jer  tax                             702       1,397      1,255         679



Appendix 9-3
ETHIOPIA
0                     AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMKIT BANK
Cash Flow Statements through January 8, 1974
(Eth   1 000)
Actual                Projected
Year ending July 7                          1971       1272       1973        19Y4
2nd half                          1st half
Sources
Profit                                      702      1,347      1,255         675
Depreciation and provisions                  30        209        500         254
Total from operations                       732      1,556      1,755         929
Term Loan collections:  Transferred       2,895      6,000      5,000       2,500
New              -          -            45          963
Total           2,895       6,000      5,452      3,463
Net foreign borrowings:  IDA              -            450    12,550        5,750
Other          _(979)        308    (1,200)        (600)
Total            (979)       758    11,350       5,150
Government Contribution                   7,753      7,201      6,ooo       6,000
S        Total Sources                            10,401     15,515    24,557       15,542
Uses
Fixed Assets                              1,183         757     1,500         750
Equity investmcnits                         172         900     2,800       1,500
Term loan disbursements:  Transferred   2,004          486      -           -
New            ,014       3,620    17,100       7O600
Total         5,018       4,106    17,100       7,600
IncreaSes in Short-term loans            (1,866)     6,517      -           -
Increasc in Working CapitallJ             5,894      3,235      3,157       5,692
Total Uses                               10,401     15,515    24,557       15,5142
g/ Excluding short-term loans and short-term borrowings.



Appendix 9-4
ETH[IOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Commitments and Disbursements
(Eth$ '000)
Actaal                 Projected
Tear ending July 7                        1971       1972        1973        l9Th
2nd half                           1st half
Commitments during period
Equity Investments                       172        900        2,800        1,500
Term Loans                             62500      8,100       18,200       l0,t5O
Total Commitments                      6,672      9,000       21,000      12,000
IDA - Credit Commitments                 -        4,40o       13,200       7,600
Disbursements during period
Equity Investments                       172        900        2,800        1,5Qo
Term Loans:
Committed before March 1, 1972       5,018      3,962        1,000       1,000
Committed after March 1, 1972          -          -         16,100        6,600
Total Disbursements                    5,190      4,862       19,900       9,100
IDA - Credit Disbursements                            o 450   12,550        5,750
Outstanding commitments at end of
period ji                              3,962      8,100         9,200      121C00
'tasbursements on behalf of Government
Addis Ababa Dairy Project                -          -          1,10           711
Coffee Proces$ing ProJect:
8t AIDB's risk                         -          -            338          638
at Government's risk                   -          -          1,052         920
j  Of which Eth.$7 million committled after March I, 1972 and eligible for IDA
finatncing.
2/  Equal to projected import component, estimated at 63% of total commitments
after March 1, 1972.
j Equal to projected import component, estimated at 63% of disbursements for
commitments made after March 1, 197'2.
)g/ Outstanding commitments at beginning of period = Eth$2,480,000.



ANNEX 10
Page  1
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Summary of Accounting System and Disbursement Procedures
*          Accounting
1.        The accounting system employed at AIDB has been designed to meet
its diverse role, combining the requirements of a development finance
institution with some aspects of a commercial banking business. The Finance
and Banking Department is staffed with a nucleus of qualified senior officers
who have been taken over from the Ethiopian Investment Corporation or
recruited from the Auditor General's office. The acting Controller is a
British accountant with considerable experience in Ethiopia; the remaining
staff is Ethiopian.
2.        Procedures governing the collection of cash and disbursement of
loans are straightforward and appropriate for AIDB 's business. Loan accounts
are divided into 6 main classifications (agricultural, industrial, coffee,
crop and small loans, staff loans, other loans).  These classifications are
mainly to accommodate loans taken over from DBE and EIC and will be reviewed
for their suitability to AIDB's business in due course. A complete ledger
system and auxiliary accounts records all financial transactions, and
postings to ledger cards are made from payment vouchers, receipts, journal
vouchers, etc.
3.        A new accounting machine (NCR-400) was installed at AIDB in
May 1971, and is intended to cover all principal operations. Accounting
staff is being trained in the use of the machine by NCR experts. The
machine will enable automatic calculation of all principal outstanding on
each account, interest balances, overdues and other basic information to
be provided at short notice on each loan account. It represents a subtistantial
improvement in management information availability over the previous system.
The Data Processing and Bookkeeping section of the Department is responsible
for maintaining these records and regular information statements (daily
cash position, monthly statement of loan commitments, monthly movement:s on
loans, monthly trial balance and profit and loss accounts) are prepared.
Disbursements
4.        The disbursement procedures adopted by AIDB since its establishment
have been modified from the systems inherited from the DBE and EIC. lhe
operations to date have been mainly in respect of local currency, agricul-
tural loans, although some disbursements have been made from foreign
exchange resources and for industrial projects.



ANNEX 10
Page  2
5.        Once a loan is approved by the Managing Director, on the
recommendation of the Loan Committee, the Legal Department draws up a loan
agreement with the borrower. Before clearance with the Controller, the
Legal Department initials the contract and then, after signature and
registration of the contract, disbursement is authorized.
6.        Payments are made either directly to suppliers or to the
borrower, but in the latter case only after an inspection report has been
filed. In certain cases reimbursement for expenditure incurred previously
is permitted but only in accordance with a scheme of costs originally
agreed upon in the loan agreement. Procurement of goods and services is
made on a contract basis aqd the disbursements officer seeks the recommend-
ation of the responsible operations department before proceeding.
7.        Disbursements originate from the operational departments by
request to the chief accountant. Supporting documents are required (such
as Managing Director's approval of the loan, Legal Department opinion on
compliance by the client with the conditions of the loan contract, inspection
supervision report, suppliers invoices, and contracts between supplier and
sub-borrower). For subsequent disbursements a further inspection or
supervision report is a standard requirement.
8.        Under the terms of the Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) loan,
the only foreign exchange disbursements made by AIDB since its establishment,
AIDB is responsible for checking the qualifications of the supplier and for
reviewing costs and specifications of the machinery to be set forth. Com-
petitive bidding is preferred (but is not a requirement) and AIDB may agree
to selected or negotiated bids. Upon finalization of procurement arrange-
ments, AIDB opens a letter of credit in favor of the supplier and authorizes
KfW to disburse.
DFCD
March 22, 1972



ANNEX 11
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Commercial Farming Sub-Project
Farm Incomes and Financial and Economic Rates of Return
1.        Attached are schedules detailing for the Commercial Farming Sub-
project, the Estimated Increased Cropped Area and Production (Appendix 11-1),
the assumptions underlying the four illustrative Farm Models (Appendix 11-2),
the Financial Rates of Return (Appendix 11-3) and the Economic Rates of
Return (Appendix 11-4) for the farm models. The following explains the
methodology and assumptions adopted in the preparation of these schedulles.
2.        In the financial models, data on costs, sales and net incremental
value of production are based on present farm gate prices and net incremental
production value is calculated on the basis of comparative static analysis
of each individual enterprise. Farm labor has been fully costed at prevailing
rates and management and supervisory expenses have also been included as
appropriate to each model. For the purpose of demonstrating individual
farmer's incomes after debt service, farmers' loans have been assumed at
about 75% of investment costs.
3.        In the calculations of the economic rates of return, indirect taxes
and allowances for cost increases have been excluded and where availatble,
world market prices for commodities as projected by the Trade Policies and
Export Projections Division of IBRD's Economics Department have been adopted.
The current rate of exchange of US$1 to Eth$ 2.30 has been used.
4.        Sensitivity tests have been made in order to demonstrate the
effect of (i) a 10% increase in investment costs; (ii) a 10% decrease in
the net incremental value of production; and (iii) of both a 10% increase
in investment costs and a 10% decrease in net incremental value of production.
The results of these tests are shown on each individual model.
APD
March 22, 1972






ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Commercial Farming - Estimated Increases in Cropped Area and Production
Cropped Area (ha)                          Production (tons)
Before          After          Increase      Before        After        Increase
Maize                 5,250           7,000            1,750        9,975        35,000          25,025
Wheat                 5,250           8,ooo            2,750        4,725        29,200          24,475
Barley                   --           1,750            1,750          --          6,300           6,300
Teff                  3,500           3,500              --         3,150         7,700           4,550
iHaricot Beans          --            1,750           1,750           --          3,500           3,500
Cotton                   --           2,000            2,000          --          44,           ,000
Tomatoes                --              750              750          --         15,000          15,000
Mixed Vegetables        --              750              750          --         11,250          11,250
Total           14 000          25,500          11 5001/    17,850         111,950          942100
iLivestock (nm)                            Production (litre)
Cows in Milk             260            600              3h0      130,000    1,680,000        1,550,000
Heifers in Milk          80             180              100       32,0L0       396,00o         364,000
Total              3i4o            780              4ho      162,000    2,076,000       12914 000
Note 1/  of which 2,750 ha represents a loss of grazing for native cattle
APD
January 18, 1972






*                               9                                                                0                                             
ETHIOPIA
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
Commercial Farming - Aroa,Inveot,ent Costs, Operating Costs, Yield and Price AssumDtions
efoCrp;ed Aea        Oeratng Costs                               Yield_______                                       _______
Hefo       ull          Bere a   Oeforeatg           Before         Full         Full Develop-         Farm-Cate         World Market 1/
Development                                               Beve 1     t     ment Year          Price Per Ton       Price Ier Tcn
-----in ha                          in-ha---in  th$ -
MODEL   I:  Mixed Farming:  (120 ha)
Investment:  Eth$ 62,000
Matte                                             30            4sO           2,855        i4,900           1.9           5.0                3                  120                 120
Wheat                                            30             4O            6,270         5,890           0.9           3.6                3                  200                165*
Barley                                             0           10                 -         5,890             -           3.6                3                 140                 130*
Teff                                             20            20             3,115         5,110           0.9           2.2                3                 250                 250
Baricot 13Bans                                     0           10                 -         5,020             -           2.0                3                  250                250
Total:                       80           120           12.240        36,810
Cropping Intensity:          67           100
MODEL II: Cotton Farming: (80 ha)
Investment: Eth$ 111,000
Grazing                                           80             -
Cotton                                             -            80             -          57,600              _           2.0               3                  500                  500*
W,heat                                            -            40                          1 14,580           -           4.0                3                  200                 165*
Total                       80           120                         72,210
Cropping Intensity           -           150
MODEL Il:  Vegetable Farming:   (30 ha)
Investmmnt: EthI 91,000
Grazing Cattle (near)                             30             -             -                                            -                -       
Tomatoes                                           -            30             -           4t7,900            _          20.0                1                  120                 120
Mixed Vegetables                                 -_             30             -           37,420              _         15.0                1                  100                 100
Total                       30            60                         85,320
Cropping Intensity           -           200
MODEL  V    Dai       Farming Development:                  Number                                                     Yield in Liter Per Cow Per Year                 Price
Investment.  Eth$ 49,700                       Before         Full                                            Before         Full            Full                 of
______  Development                                           Development   Development Year        Milk per
Liter
Native Cows in Milk                                 13             _                  )             )            500           _                                   0.25                n.25
Native Deifers in Milk                                             -                  )             )            400           -
Friesian Cows in Milk                                -            30        1,160 2/ )   16,360 2/)               -          2,800               11
Friesian Heifers in Milk                             -             9              -                 )             -          2,200               11
1/ World Market Price Per Ton CIF as forecast by IBRD's Trade Policies and Export Projections Division where shown * for purposes of calculating economic rates of returi..
2/  Totpl onerating  oe.tq of deiry an+.trnrise.
ja,,uary 18, 19i2






*~             _,
ETHIOPIA
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
Commercial Farming - Financial Rateof Return by Type of Investment and Farmers Income after Debt Service
(in Eth$)
Year           O              1             2             3              4             5              6             7              8             9              10
Model I:  Mixed Farming (120 ha)
Investment Costs:
Land Development                                             6,000          4,000         2,000
Buildings                                                    5,000            -             -
Machinery and Eeuipment                                     45.000
56,000         4,000         2,000
Operating Costs:
Labor                                          4,980         7,570          7,510         8,200         8,200          8,200         8,200          8,200         8,200          8,200          8,200
Fertiliz.er, Seed, Pesticide, Bags             1,320        15,580         15,580        18,440         18,i.40       18,440        18,440         18,440        18,440         18,440         18,440
Operating rost of Machinery/Equipment          5,760         6,290          6,080         6,800         6,800          6,800         6,800          6,800         6,800          6,800          6,800
Maintenance/Repair                               -           3,100          3,100         3,100          3,100         3,100         3,100          3,100         3,100          3,100          3,100
Land Tax                                         180            270           270           270            270           270            270           270            270           270            270
12,240        32,810        32,540         36,810        56,810        36,810         36,810        36,810         36,810         36,810        36,810
'total Costs                                    1, 240         88,810        36,540        38,810         36 810        36,810         36,810            1          36,810         36,810        36,810
Gross Production \alue:
Maize                                          6,840         8,400         19,200        24,000         24,000        24,000        24,000         24,000         24,000        24,000         24,000
lWheat                                         5,400        28,000         14,400        28,800         28,800        28,800        28,800         28,800         28,800        28,800         28,800
Barley                                           -            3,920         2,520         5,040          5,040         5,040         5,040          5,040          5,040         5,040          5,040
Teft                                           4,500         3,250          8,000        11,000         11,000        11,000        11,000         11,000         11,000        11,000         11,000
laricot beaw.s                                   -           __ -,500                     5,000          5 000         5,000         5,000          5.000          5.000         5,000          5,000
16,740        43,570        4              73,840        73,840         73,840        7              7             7              73,840        73,840
Not ProducLion Value                             4,500        (45,240)       1,080         35030          37030         37,030         37_030        37,030         37,030         37,030        37,030
Incremeetal NeL Production Value                   -          (49,740)        6580         30.530         32,530        32_530         322530        32,530 32353032,530                         32 530
Pinancial Sates of Return:  (1)  46;' on best estimate.
(2)  41/ on best estimate but assu,Aing 10/ increase in investment cost.
(31  41t  on best estimate but assumieg 107 deceases  in incremental net production value.
(4)  36.  n best estimate but assuminig hoth  O/ increase in investment cost and 107 decrease in incremental net production value.
-armers laconte and Debt Service:
Net l'roduction Value (brouglt-dos)n-                          10,760        11,080         35,030        37,030        37,030         37,030         37,030        37,030         37,030        37,030
Debt Service I/-                                                               4_370 -/    4-11,093              11,093 11 ,093                        8,597         8,597          8,597            -
Parmer's Income after Dlebt Service                 -           6,390         6,710         23,937        25,937         25,937        25,937         28433         28,433         28,433         37,030
1/  Ass-mcas oa1  of Etl,S,8OOo h,r tractor repayable over 4 years and of ELti$38,000 iccr other purposes repayable  6ver 6 years in eace aase after                                                             i
one year's grace af.er completion of major development.
2/  Interest only (at 9+>'/ per annum)
January 18, 1972



ETHIOP IA
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
Commtercial Farming - Financial Rates of Retorn by Tvpe of Enterprise and Farmers Income after Debt Service
(in Eth$)
Year                0              1             2              3             4              5             6              7              8              9              10
odel II: Cotton and Wheat Farming (80 ha)
Investment Costs:
Land Development                                                             8,000
Buildings                                                                    8,000
Machinery and Equipmcnt                                                     35,000
Irrigation                                                                  60,O1O
111,000
Operating Costs:
Labor                                                            -          24,600        25,880         26,640         26,640        26,640         26,640        26,640         26,640         26,640         26,640
Fertilizer, Seed, Pesticides, Bags                               -          27,400         27,400        27,400         27,400        27,400         27,400         27,400        27,400         27,400         27,400
Operatiog Cost of Machinery/Equipmert                            -          12,200        12,200         12,800         12,800        12,800         12,800        12,800         12,800         12,800         12,800
Maintenabce/Repairs                                              -           5,200          5,200         5,200          5,200         5,200          5,200          5,200         5,200          5,200          5,200
Land Tao                                                        _              200            200           200            200            200           200            200            200            200           200
-          69,600        70,880         72,240         72,240        71,240         72,240        72,240         72,240         72,240         72,240
Total Costs                                                        -         180,600         70,880        72,240         72,240        72,240         72,240         72,240         72,240        72,240         72,240
Cross Prod,action Value:
Grazing Cattle (meat)                                            200
Cotton                                                           -          64,000        72,000         80,000         80,000        80,000         80,000         80,000        80,000         80,000         80,000
Wheat                                                            -          20,000         3             32,000         3200          32,00          32,000         32,000         32,000        320020         32,000
84,000       104,000             0              0                       1120000       112,000        112,000        012,000        112,000
Net Production Value                                               200       (96,600)        33,120        39,760         39_760         39,760        39,760         39,760         39,760         39,760         39,760
Increme,,tal Net Producti-o  Valuse                                          (96,800)       32,920         39,560         39,560        39,560         39560                         39,560        3956           39.560
Fin,ancial Rates of ietarn:  (1)  37/ o e hent estimate.
(2)  32/ ob I>est estimate bhot ass-mirtg 10/ increase in investmoent cost.
(3)  32J on b-st estimate bhot ossumis       7 lO' decrease in is-remn- t.l net prod-ti-n va- on.
(4)  28  on best estimate bht assmintg hot 107 increase in investment cost and 107, decrease in incremental net production value.
Farmers Income a.od Debt Service:
Net Production Value (brought-doo-)                                -          14,400         33,120        39,760         39,760         39,760        39,760         39,760         39,760         39,760        39,760
rIbt Service 1/                                                    -           7,885 2/    17,                        648   17,8 1648                                 15,152         15,152 
I'armer's Income after Debt Ser-ice                                -           6,515         15,47         2 2_112        22,112         22_112        22,112         24,608         24,608         39,760         39,760
1/ Assumes loan of Eth$8,000 for tractor repayable over 5 years and if Eth$75,000 for other purposes repayable over 7 years after completion of major investment.
2/  tnt-rest only (at 9' per annum)
January 18, 1972
*                               h    '                                                                                                                                 ,    



*                               b*                                                                                                                                     S
ETHIOPIA
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
Commercial Farming - Financial Rates of Return by Type of Enterprise and Farmers Income after Debt Service
(in Eth$)
Year                 0              1             2              3             4              5              6              7              8             9              10
Model III: Vegetable Farming (30 ha)
Investment Costs:
Land Development                                                         3,000
Buildings                                                               11,800
Machinery and Equipment                                                28,200
Irrigation                                                             45,000
Miscellaneeus Tools                                                      3,000
91,000
Operating Costs:
Labor                                                      -           42,740         42,740         42,740        42,740         42,740        42,740         42,740         42,740         42,740         42,740
Fertilizer, Seed, Pesticides, Others                       -            31,830        31,830         31,830        31 830         31,830         31,830        31,830          31,830        31,830         31,830
Operating Cost of Machincry/Equipment                      -             6,180         6,180          6,180         6,180          6,180          6,180          6,180          6,180         6,180          6,180
Maintenance/Repairs                                        -             4,510         4,510          4,510         4,510          4,510          4,510          4,510          4,510         4,510          4,510
Land Tax                                                   -                60             60            60             60             60            60             60             60             60             60
65,320        85,320         85,320        85.320         85,320         85,320         85,320         85,320        85,320         85,320
Total Costs                                   85                                       .320  85,320    85,320         85,320        85,320         85,320         85,320         85320          85320          85320
Gross Production Val.o:
Crazing Cattle (meat)                                      1(10
Tomatoes                                                                72,000        72,000         72,000        72,000         72,000         72,000         72,000         72,000         72,000        72,000
Mixed Vegetables                                           -           452000        ~45000          45,000        4              45,000         45,000         4              45.000         45,000        45,000
117,00        117,p0         117,000       11,00          117,000        117,000        1117,000
Net Production Value                                          100        (59,320)        31,680        31,680              0         31,680        31,680         31,680         31,680         31,680         31,680
Incremental Net Production Value                             -           (59,420)       31,580         31,580         31,580        31,5858        0 3180         31_580         31,580         31,580         31,580
Iinancial Rates of Return:  (1)  52/ on best estimate.
(2)  25/ on best estimate but assuming 10/. increase in investment cost.
(3) 32' on best estimate buL assuming 10/ decrease in incremental net production value.
(4)  21' on best estimate bltL assuming both 10/ increase in investment cost and 10Z decrease in in,cremental net production value.
Farmers Inome and Debt Service:
Net Production- Vale (brought-dovu)                          -           31,580 2/    31,680          31,680         31,680         31,680        31,680         31,680         31,680         31,680         31,680
Debt Service -                                                -           6,460-        14,618        14,618         14,618         14,618        14,618         12,122         12,122             -             -
Farmer's lneome after Debt Service                            -          25,120         17,062        17,062         17,062         17,062        17,062         19,558         19,558         31,680         31,680
1/ Assumes loall oi Eth$8,000 Inc tractor repayable uver 5 years and of Eth$60,000 inr other purposes repayable over 7 years after completion of investment.
2/ I,:terest only (at 9'5/ per anoom)
january 18  1972



ETHIOPIA
Agric.latral and Industrial Development B-nk
Conmercial Farming - Financial Rates of Return by Type of Enterprise
(in Eth$)
Yenr             0            1            2             3            4            5            6            7             8           9-10             11            12             13-15
Model IV: Dairy Faming Development (40 rowsj
Investment Costs,
Fencing                                                                   1,000        2,200
Cowshed                                                                   7,500           -
Buildings                                                                 3,000 
Water Facilities                                                          2,600
Milk Handling Equipment                                                     -             -          1,100
Other Eqnifment and Tools                                                   950           -            100
E.t.blishment of Alfalfa                                                    250                        -
Friesian Heifers                                                         18,000       12-000
33,300       14,200        1,200
lperating Cnst-:
Labor                                                        I,t00        5 ,300       5,300         5,900        5,900        5,900        5,900        5,90(        6,500          6,500         6,500          6,500            6,500
Feed                                                           -          2,940        5,250        5,000         5,280        5,120        5,690        5,490        5,730          6,030         6,320          6,320            6,320
Veterinary Servi-es/Artificial Inse1i- ati-n                   -            660        1,170         1,230        1,220        1,160        1,280        1,280        1,280          1,280           1,280        1,280            1,280
For-bc Prodnotio-                                              -            110          220           330          440          550          880          880        1,100          1,100          1,100         1,100            1,100
P-rcbose/Replace-eot of Ioll                                               -            -             -            700          -            -            -             700           -               -            700              -
Mainte-anc-/Rep.irs                                            200          400          400           500          600          700          900        1,100         1,100         1,100          1,100         1,100            1,100
Land Tan                                                        60           60            60           60           60           60           60            60           60            60              60           60               60
1,460         9,470      12,400       13,020       14,200       13,490       14,710        04,710       16,470        16,070          16,360       17,060           16,360
Total Costs                                                    1_460       42,770       26,600       14,220        04,200       13.490       14,710       14.210       16,420         16,070                1       7.660   16 360
Gross Production  Value:
Mlilk Sale-                                                  1,420        1,580       14,520        13,010       22,180       22,570       26,800       26,580        26,640        27,810          24,150       24,150           24,150
Cattle Sales 1/                                              1.120        3_660        3.650         1,410        1,290        9,590        5,860        6,810         6,960         6,810           6,810        7,110            6,810
2_           5,          18,170       25,4         23.470       _2,160       32,60         3    0       333 6         34.620          30.960       332L6i           30_960
Nct lrndt-cti,tt V.tl-                                          L.080     (37_530)       (8,430)      11,210        9.270       18,670       17.,950       18.80        17,130        18,550          14,600         14,200         14.600
0,trremerctnl Net lcrod-ctio- V'al,,r                            -        (38.6101       (9.510)      10.130        8.190       17,33q       16,870       17,600        16,050        17,470          13.50        13 120           13.520
Fi--o,icjol Rates of lct,,cc:  (1)  23-  bit l,est esti-at,.
(2)  21      best ectinar-  but ass-ming I0/ incrj.s.  io inven ...  t coot.
(3)  20' no be-st es-l-nate bnt ass-eing 107 decrease in incremental net production valuc.
(4)  186 ,,,[ best -sti-aste  tit assuning both 10' inres  in invest-ent tut nd 10% decrease in i-toremental net production value.
Farmers Inrcom  and Dlebt Scrvice:
Ner Prid-ti,i,o vah-ic (br-,nlghL-d1ot)                           _         (4,230)       5,770       11,210 3/    9,270 3/   18,670         17,950        18,860       17,130        18,550          14,600       14,200           14,600
l)ebt Scrvic- 2/                                                  -              _                           -      3.990 -      6,689        6,689         6,689        6.689         6,689           6,689        6_689            6.689 (year 14)
Farners income  after Debt Sri-ce                                 -         (4_2         5770          7,220        5,280       10,981       10,261        12,171       10,441        11,601          72911         2,511           7,91t
1/  Sale price assnmed (0til):  Natic  cull cow 61), Friesia-  -ll1 coo 150, Nativ-  io-calf heiter IO, Frie sian it-colt heifer 800, Native barren heifer 60, Friesian barren heiftr 120,
9-24 montht  old native c-ttlo 40, Nativ- calf 20, Pri-uin-i bitll calf 30, Native roll bull/stecr 150 -ntd Friesia-t cull boll 300.
21  Ausanes latt of Cl.t$42,00() i-icludti,g Ctr$6,000 capitali-ntio-t nf liiereti itt first t-w, yearn, repayable after 4 years grace over 14 yearn.                                                                                              I
3/  Int-eret only (at 9!l/ per- vum                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
Ja-nary 18, 1972
*                         tW            I                                                            *                                                           '              j P t  .



*                            1(*                                                                                             *
ETHIOPIA
Agricultuwal and Industrial Development Bank
Commercial Farming - Fconomic Rate of Return by Type of -Enterprise
(in Eth$)
Year        0           1          2          3           4          5           6          7           8           9          10
Model I: Mixed Farming (120 ha)
Investment Costs:
Land Development                                        6,o00      4,ooo       2,000
Buildings                                               4,900                    -
Machinery and Equipment                                4       ooo
+5 ,~0900   IT,ooo       -oo
Operating Costs:
Labor                                       4,980       7,570      7,510      8,200       8,200      8,200       8,200      8,200       8,200       8,200      8,200
Fertilizers, Seeds, Pesticides, Bags        1,320      15,020     14,810      17,310     17,310     17,310      17,310     17,310      17,310      17,310     17,310
Operating Cost of Machinery/Equipment       5,760      6.290       6,o80      6,800       6,800      6,8co       6,800      6,Bo       6,8oo       6,8oo      6,800
Maintenance/Repairs                           -         3,100      3,100       3,100      3,100      3,100       3,100      3,100       3,100       3,100      3 100
12,d6o     3T983      31,00       35,410     35,410      35,410     35,410 g7f U341                    35,410 t;f
Total Costs:                               12,060      87,880    23,0         37,410     35,410     35,410      35,410      35,410     35,410      35,410     35,410
Gross Production Value:
Maize                                       6,840       8,400     19,200      24,oo0     24,000     24,000      24,000     24,ooo      24,0cc      24,ooo     24,ooo
Wheat                                       4,400      22,810     11,741      23,470     23,470     23,470      23,470     23,470      23,470      23,470     23,470
Barley                                        -         3,640      2,340       4,683      4,680      4,680       4,680      4,680       4,680       4,680      4,680
Teff                                        4,50f       3,250      8,ooo      11,000     11,000     11,0oo      11,000     11,000      11,000      11,000     11,000
Haricot Beans                                 -           -        3,500       5,000      5,000       5,00o      5,300       5,000      5,000       5 000      5,0cc
,-774   3,0           44783       69TTT-0    M,5-05    68,150       6U;T5;                  6 tB735  T            68,150
Net Production Value:                       3 680    (49,780)      9,280      30,740     3,740       32,740     32,740    32,740       32,740    >32740        32.740
Incremental Net Production Value:             -       (53,460)     5,600      27,060     29, 060     29,060     29,060      29,060     29,6        29,060      29,060
Economic Rates of Return:      (1)  39% on best estimate
(2)  35% on best estimate but assuming 10% increase in investment cost
(3)  34% on best estimate but assuming 10% decrease in incremental net production value
(4)  31%Z on best estimate but assuming both 10% increase in investment cost and 10% decrease in incremental net production value
January 18, 1972



ETHIOPIA
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
Commercial Farming - Rconomie Ratesof Return by Type of Enterprise
-  (in  tht)
Year      0           1            2            3            4            5            6            7            8            9           lo
Model TI: Cotton and Wheat
Farming (80 ha)
Investment Costs:
Land Development                                       8,ooo
Buildings                                              7,800
Machinery and Equipment                               35,000
Irrigation                                            56,700
O7,5071
Operating Costs:
Labor                                         -       24,6o0       25,883       26,640       26,640       26,640       26,640       26,640       26,640       26,640       26,640
Fertilizer, Seed, Pesticides, Bags            -       25,900       25,900       25,900       25,900       25,900       25,900       25,900       25,900       25,900       25,900
Operating Cost of Machinery/Equipment         -       12,220       12,22)0)     12.8(0       12,80)       12,800       12,800       12,800       12,800       12,800       12,800
Maintenance/Repairs                           -         5,200       5,200        5,200        5,200        5,200        5.200        5,200        5,200        5,200       _5,20
67,900       6 9,180      70,5140      70,540      70,50,5      70,540       70,540        70,540       70,540       70,540
Total Costs                                          175,400       69,180       70,540       70,540       70,540       70,540       70,540       704          70,540       70,540
Gross Production Value:
Grazing Cattle (meat)                        20i)
Cotton                                                614,.)0      72,000)      83,D):)       3, 80,000   80,000       80,000       80,000       80,000       80,000       80,000
Wheat                                                 16,330       26,103       26,100       26,1oo       26,100       26,100       26,1oo       26,100       26,100       26100o
8D,3D(Y      98,100     106,100      106,100      1:D6,100     106,100      106,100      1o6,loo       1o6,1oo      106,1o
Net Production Value                         230     (95,100)      28,920       35,560       35,560       35,560       35,560       35,560       35,560       35,560       35,560
Incremental Net Production Value                     (95,30))      28,720       35,360       35,360       35,360       35,360       35,360       35360        35,360       35,360
Economic Rates of Return:       (1)  32% on best estimate
(2)  29% on best estimate but assuming 10% increase in investment cost
(3)  28% on best estimate but assuming 13% decrease in incremental net production value
(4)  24% on best estimate but assuming both 1 )% increase in investment cost and 12% decrease in incremental net production value
January 18, 1972
*                          '   1                                                 0                                               4'



** 
ETHIIOPIA
Agricultural and lndustrial Development Bank
Commercial Farmning - Economic Rates of Return by Type of Enterprise
(in Eth$)
Year      0            1            2            3            4            5            6            7            8            9           10
Model III: Vegetable Farm-ing
(30 ha)
Investment Costs:
Land Development                                        3,000
Buildings                                              10o,800
Machinery and Equipment                                28.2DO
Irrigation                                             42,500
Miscellaneous Tools                                      3,000
g7,50
Operating Costs:
Labor                                         -        42,740       42,740       42,741       42,740       42,740       42,740       42,740       42,740       42,740        42,740
Fertilizer, Seed, Pesticide, Others           -        31,56)       31,560       31,560       31,560       31,560       31,560       31,560       31,560        31,560       31,560
Operating Cost of Machinery/Equipment         -         6,180        6,180        6,180        6,180        6,180        6,180        6,180        6,180        6,180         6,180
Maintenance/Repairs                           -         4t,510n      4,51D         4,51O)      4,510        4,510        4,510        4,510         4,510        4L510        4,510
84,90)      814,990       814,900     84,990       84,990       84,990        84,990       84,990       84,990       84,990
Total Costs                                           172,400       814,0        814,990      84,990       84,990       84,990       84,990       84,990        84,990       84,990
Gross Production Value:
Grazing Cattle (meat)                        10))
Tomatoes                                      _         72,000       72,000       72,000      72,000       72,000       72,000        72,000       72,000       72,000       72,000
Mixed Vegetables                                      145,000       45,ooo       45,000       45,000        45, oo     145,000        45,000       45,000       45,000       45,000
117,         117,900(    117,000      117,000      117,000      117,000       117,000      117,000      117,000      117,000
Net Produc!tion Value                        11L)      (55,140-)     32,010       32,010       32,o10      32,010       32,010        32,010       32,o10       32,010       32,010
Incremental Nlet Production Value             -        (55,510o)    31 .10       31,0.10      31,010       31,910       31,910        31,910       31,910       31,910       31,910
Economic Rates of Return:       (1) 56% on best estimate
(2)  48% on best estimate but assuming 10% increase in investment cost
(3)  47% on best estimate but assuming 10% decrease in incremental net production value
(04)  41' on best estimate but assuming both 10% increase in i.nvestment cost and 10% decrease in incremental net production value
JanUarv 18. 1972



ETHIOPIA
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
Commercial Farming - Economic Ratesof Return bv Type of Enterprise
(in Eth$)
Year          0          1          2         3          4         5          6         7          8         9-1o        11         12     13-15
Model IV: Dairy Farming Development (40 Cows)
Investment Costs:
Fencing                                                        980     2,150        -
Cowshed                                                      7,350        -
Buildings                                                    2,940        -         -
Water Facilities                                             2,450        -          -
Milk Handling Equipment                                        -          -       1,100
Other Equipment and Tools                                      950        -         100
Establishments of Alfalfa                                      250        -         -
Friesian Heifers                                            16,000    12,(0F)       -
32,920    l8,150      1,200
Operating Costs:
Labor                                             1,200      5,300     5,300      5,900      5,900     5,900      5,900   5,900        6,500      6,500      6,500     6,500      6,500
Feed                                                -        2,91,0    5,250      5,000      5,280     5,120      5,690   5,490        5,730      6,030      6,320     6,320      6,320
Veterinary Services/Artificial Insemination         -          660     1,170      1,230      1,220     1,160      1,280   1,280        1,280      1,280      1,280     1,280      1,280
Forage Production                                    -         110        220       330        h8o       550        880      880       1,100      1,100      1,100     1,100      1,100
Purchase/Replacement of Bull                        -          -          -         -          700       -          -       -            700        -          -         700        -
Maintenance/Repairs                                 209        400       400        500        600       700        900   1,100        1,100      1,100      1,100     1,100      1,100
1,800     g,)J810    12,3L0    I2,960    14,140    13,830    14,650  181,650       16,410    16,010    -6,300    17,000    16,300
Total Costs:                                         1,400    12,330    26,090    l ,,io        1 4,l0O   13,430    14,650  14,650      16,810    16,010    16,300    17,000    16,300
aross Production Value:
Milk Sales                                        1,420      1,580   1l,,520)   2h,020    22,180    22,570    26,800  26,580          26,640    27,810    24,150    24,150    24,150
Cattle Sales L1                                   1,120      3,660     3,650      1,hlo      1,290     9,590      5,860   6,810        6,960      6,810      6,810      7,110     6,81o
2,580     1,280    19,170    25,430    23,470    32,160    3?2660  33,390           33,600    34,620    30,960    31,260    30,960
lNet Production Value                                1,1lhO   (37090)   (8,320)   11,270        9,330    18,730    18,010  18,740        17,190    18,610                           14,660    18,260    18,660
Incremental Net Production Value                        -     (36,230)   (1,860)     10,13()    8        17,590    16,870  17,600        16,050    17,470    13,520    13,120    13,520
Economic Rates of Return  (1)  234 on best estimate
(2) 2171 en best estimate but assunin0 10(/ increase in investment cost
(3)  207/ on best estimat., but assuming 10/ decrease is incremental net production value
(8)  18/7 on best estimate but assuming both 10W  increase in investment cost and 107% decrease inincremental net production value
L/ Sale prices assumed(tLh$): Native cull cow 60, Friesian cuill cow 150, native in-calf heifer 70,
Friesian in-calf heifer t00, native barren heifer 60, Friesian barren heifer 120, 9-211 month old
native cattle R(), native calf 20, Friesian bull calf 30, native cull bull/steer 150 and Friesian
cull bull 30.).
laiilary 18. 1972
p~~~~~~~                                                          ~. * 1



ANNEX 12
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Agricultural Credit Survey for the ImperiaL Ethiopian Government
Consultants' Terms of Reference
1.        The demand for agricultural. ZraUit 1- .          is li.ksly to ,,'
significantly in the next few years in particaL   'aoJcause o -'he expec4:eu
increase in small farmers' demand for c3hort-ternm loans o finance annu.al
inputs. Apart from the few comprehensive~ or jpack.age' projects, the falfi:.1-
ment of that demand will partly depend  nr, setting-u; `'nstitutions at t ve
primary level to provide coordinated credit, supply and marketing faciit: .s.
It will also depend on establishing an institutional framework linking the
primary organizations (including package projectsS) Txi<6  thA main sources t
funds in Government and the banking system. whici -iould provide both a
channel for development funds and for resourcee mcbilization. Although the
present constraints mainly affect small farmers outside the scope of e"xist-
ing institutions, proposed organizatlonal and  ii.aancia! changes will have
to be seen in the context of total agricultural and otaer credit requireme'ts,
the existing institutional arrangements to<. wh...c may- ?iso require modifi-f
cation. Neither prospective credit demands nor the likely availability of
resources have been forecast.
2.        The terms of reference of the consUt'rts hired to advise an.`
submit proposals to the Imperial Ethiopian Governaent on the organizati.on
and method of financing agricultural credit with special regard to small
farmers would therefore be as follows:
(a)  To review the trend of agricultural ere-Ait demand and having
regard to present constraints on its arowth- make recommendatiorE
for the development of credit, input su:Tply ana' marketing ins tU-
tutions in particular for small farmers at %he primary level
but also for and in the context of all agricultural requirementE
on a country-wide basis;
(b) taking account of the effects of such proposals to forecast
over the next five years the anrnun. irrem^til total short-
term agricultural credit requirercnts divided into the main
identifiable sources of demand, wh:'.ci sic -l1  AU lcast zncludu
small farmers (those within and thos'. outside pz. ekage projects
shown separately), commercial farmer (aLen aeparately shoiL.g
those within and those outside AIDB's rerms ef reT2--rence) ano
the working capital requirements of large agrThusiniess under-
takings.  The medium-term and long-texnf: agricultural and other
credit requirements should also be a"   mar.y forecast;



ANNEX 12                  0
Page 2
(c) to recommend measures which would increase the mobilization
of savings and resources throughout Ethiopia, particularly
in the agricultural sector and, on the basis of such
proposals, estimate the total funds likely to be available
within Ethiopia to meet short-term credit requirements.
The amount of such funds should also be broken down by
identifiable sources;
(d) to propose at the apex and secondary levels on institutional
framework which would provide a channel to funds to primary
level organizations to meet agricultural credit, particularly
short-term requirements but also having regard to other
credit needs within the sector; and
(e) to recommend arrangements for rediscounting, the banking
and technical appraisal of investments and credit supervision,
the assumption of risks, an interest rate structure and
margins in each case appropriate to the various levels of
institutions involved.
3.        The consultants' report should be submitted to the Imperial
Ethiopian Government and IDA not later than June 30, 1973.
APD
March 22, 1972
0



ANI EX I 3
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INIJSTRIAL DEVEOPMT BANK
Schedule of Estimated Disbarsement of the IDA Credit
(US$ million)
Commercial                                 Technical
Quarter ending      Farming    Coops Agribu.siness Indstry  Assistanc(  .'ual
September 1972       0.500     0.050       -         1.250        -         6C0
December 1972        0.350     0.050       -         0.300      0.025      0.7-5
March 1973           0.650     0.100       -         0.500      0.025          5
June 1973            0.900     0.150     0.100       0.750      0.075     -.9'5
September 1973       0.800     0.100     0.100       0.500      0.075      .
December 1973        o.600     0.050     0.100       0.250
March 1974                               0.100       0.250                (C.  )
June 1974                                0.100       0.200                 (,3( )
.        September 1974                           0.050       0.200                (C.2--'
December 1974                            0.050       0.200       
March 1975                               0.050       0.200                 C.2
June 1975                                0.050       0.200                 C.25
September 1975                           0.050       0.200                   2 I
December 1975                            0.050       0.100
March 1976                               0.050       0.100                 0.J5C
June 1976                                0.050       0.100                 0.150
September 1976                           0.050       0.100                O0,1
December 1976 y                          0.050       0.100                 __
TOTAL           3.800     0.500     1.000       5.500      0.200    11l.OC
1/  Estimated Credit Effectiveness.
___  Estimated End of Project Commitment Period.
2 y Closing Date.
APD/DFCD
April 7, 1972



