CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 304 ET
Project Agreement
(Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK S.C.
DATED MAY 10, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 304 ET
Project Agreement
(Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK S.C.
DATED MAY 10, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 10, 1972, between the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK S.C. (hereinafter
called AIDB):
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Association, the Association has agreed to lend
to the Borrower, for relending to AIDB, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to ten million eight hundred thousand dollars ($10,800,000), for carrying out
Parts A and C of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that AIDB agree to
undertake certain obligations towards the Association as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS AIDB, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) shall have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. AIDB shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project, described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and conduct its operations
and affairs, in accordance with sound economic, financial and investment standards
and practices, with qualified and experienced management and staff and in
accordance with its Memorandum and Articles, Statement of Policy and with


﻿4
Schedule I to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Association and AIDB.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement, AIDB shall submit Investment Projects (other than
free-limit Sub-loans for Agricultural Investment Projects) to the Association for
its approval or for authorization for withdrawals to be made from the Credit
Account.
(b)   When submitting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) or an
Investment to the Association for approval, AIDB shall furnish to the Association
an application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with a description
of the Investment Enterprise and of the Investment Project to be financed
thereunder (including a description of the expenditures for such Investment Project
proposed to be financed by AIDB and an appraisal of the Investment Project)
and the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or Investment, including
the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan, and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(c)   Each request by AIDB for authorization to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan (other than for Agricultural
Investment Projects) shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit) and the terms and
conditions of such free-limit Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.
(d)   The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan shall provide
for an appropriate period of grace, if any, and, unless the Association and AIDB
shall otherwise agree, (i) shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date
specified in paragraph 2.02 (e) of this Agreement or such other date as may be
agreed to by the Association, and (ii) shall in the case of any Industrial Investment
Projects provide for approximately equal, semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate
payments of principal and interest or approximately equal, semi-annual, or more
frequent, payments of principal, and in the case of any Agricultural Investment
Projects provide for 'approximately equal, annual, or more frequent, aggregate
payments of principal and interest or approximately equal, annual, or more
frequent, payments of principle.
(e)   Except as the Association and AIDB shall otherwise agree, AIDB shall
submit applications for approval of Investment Projects pursuant to the provisions


﻿5
of paragrap- "6) of this Section and requests for authorizations to withdraw from
the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section
on or before December 31, 1973.
Section 2.03. (a) AIDB shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, the Sub-loans and Investments and the administration, operations and
financial condition of AIDB or its subsidiaries.
(b)   AIDB shall maintain records adequate to document the progress of
the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof) and to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of AIDB and its subsidiaries and shall enable
the Association's representatives to examine such records.
Section 2.04. AIDB shall: (a) have its and each of its subsidiaries' accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied;
(b) furnish to the Association, as soon as available but, in any case, not later
than four months after the end of each such year, certified copies of such audited
financial statements for such year, and an audit report by the said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as Lhe Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (c) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of AIDB or its subsidiaries and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 2.05. (a) The Association and AIDB shall cooperate fully to ensure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and AIDB shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance by AIDB of its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of AIDB
and any other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   AIDB shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by AIDB
of its obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿6
Section 2.06. (a) AIDB shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to protect the interests of the Association and of AIDB,
to comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and to achieve the purposes of the Project.
(b)   AIDB undertakes that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, any
Sub-loan or Investment will be made on terms whereby AIDB shall obtain, by
written agreement or other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Association and of AIDB, including, in the case of any such Sub-loan
and te tie extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any such Investment:
(i) the right to require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(ii) the right to require that the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Sub-loan or Investment shall be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the Investment Project; (iii) the right of the Association and of AIDB to
inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the
Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(iv) the right to require that the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with
sound business practice and that, without any limitation upon the foregoing, such
insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
of the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or Investment to the
place of use or installation, and that any indemnity thereunder shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods; (v) the right to obtain all such information as the Association or AIDB
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) the right
of AIDB to suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the
use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or Investment upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its agreement with AIDB.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association and AIDB shall otherwise agree,
AIDB shall not incur or permit any of its subsidiaries, if any, to incur any debt
if, after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of AIDB and all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would exceed three times the
consolidated capital and surplus of AIDB and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes
of this Section:
(a)   The term "subsidiary" wherever used in this Section shall be deemed
to refer to a "Non-Manufacturing Subsidiary" as defined in Section 1.02 (q) of
the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿7
(b)   The term "debt" means any debt incurred by AIDB or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred,
including debt assumed or guaranteed by AIDB or by a subsidiary.
(c)   Wherever reference is made in this Section to the incurring of debt,
such reference shall include any modification of the terms of payment of such
debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan contract or agreement
on the date and to the extent the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(d)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of Ethiopian dollars debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall
be made at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by AIDB for the purposes of servicing
such debt.
(e)   The term  "consolidated debt of AIDB and all its subsidiaries" means
the total amount of debt of AIDB and all its subsidiaries, excluding (i) debt owed
by AIDB to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to AIDB or to any other subsidiary;
and (ii) debt referred to in paragraph (f) (ii) of this Section.
(f)   The term   "consolidated capital and surplus of AIDB and all its
subsidiaries" means the aggregate of (i) the total unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus
and free reserves of AIDB and of all its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such
amounts as shall represent equity interests of AIDB in any subsidiary, or of any
such subsidiary in AIDB or in any other subsidiary, and (ii) such amount of any
other loan which the Association may determine to be included in the consolidated
capital and surplus of AIDB.
Section 2.08. AIDB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AIDB shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, or amending,
abrogating or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. Except as the Association and AIDB shall otherwise agree,
AIDB: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets, except in the ordinary course of business; and (ii) shall take all action
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on operations and
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises necessary
or useful in the conduct of its business.


﻿8
Section 2.10. Except as the Association and AIDB shall otherwise agree,
AIDB shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity in respect of any
of its borrowings (other than deposits) having an original term exceeding one year.
Section 2.11. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AIDB shall
cause each of its Non-Manufacturing Subsidiaries, if any, to observe and perform
the obligations of AIDB under this Agreement to the extent to which the same
may be applicable thereto as though such obligations were binding upon each of
such subsidiaries.
Section 2.12. AIDB shall notify the Association of any proposed amendment
of its Memorandum, Articles or Statement of Policy sufficiently in advance to
permit the Association to express its views as to whether the proposed amendment
would in the opinion of the Association affect materially and adversely the
operations or financial condition of AIDB or its ability to carry out Parts A and
C of the Project.
Section 2.13. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AIDB or its
Non-Manufacturing Subsidiaries, if any, shall restrict its provision of marketing,
supply or similar non-banking services to the beneficiaries of its loans or
investments, to cooperatives, or to agencies or authorities which provide farmers
with extension and other supervisory services at a level satisfactory to the
Association.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
Effective Date. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates pursuant to
Section 10.04 of the General Conditions, this Agreement and all obligations of
the parties hereunder shall terminate.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of AIDB and of the
Association hereunder shall terminate on the date when the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms or on December 31, 1988,
whichever shall be the later.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power
or remedy accruing to either party under this Agreement upon any default shall


﻿9
impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof
or an acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such party in respect
of any default, or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right,
power, or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 4.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement, and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement, shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, radiogram or telex to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at its address hereinafter specified, or at such other address
as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
Telex:
440098 (ITT) or 24423 (RCA)
For AIDB:
Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank S.C.
P.O. Box 1900
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:
Aidbank
Addis Ababa


﻿10
Section 4.03. (a) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of or by AIDB, may be taken or executed by its Managing Director, or by such
person or persons as AIDB shall so designate in writing.
(b)  AIDB shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority of each person who will act under paragraph (a) of this Section, together
with the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names by their representatives thereunto duly
authorized and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Simon Aldewereld
Vice President
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT BANK S.C.
By /s / Teferra Wolde Semayat
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Policies and Procedures of AIDB
A.    For all AIDB financing operations irrespective of the source of funds for
such financing
(1)   Interest rate:
(a)   to borrowers, other than AIDB subsidiaries, who will on-lend
the proceeds, hereinafter called intermediary borrowers, will be
not less than 8-1/2% on maturities of more than one year and
not less than 9% on maturities of up to but not exceeding one
year.
(b)   to final borrowers who will not on-lend the proceeds hereinafter
called final borrowers will be not less than 9-1/2% per annum
on all loans.
(2)   The cost of a project shall be calculated on the basis of incremental
development requirements and shall be evaluated in terms of
incremental returns.
B.    For all AIDB agriculture financing operations irrespective of the source of
funds for such financing
(1)   (a)   For operations involving loans or investments of less than
US$100,000 equivalent, AIDB will not finance more than 75%
of the cost of the project.
(b)   For operations involving loans or investments of US$100,000
equivalent or more, AIDB will not finance more than 50% of
the cost of the project.
(2)   The granting of loans to intermediary borrowers for on-lending to final
borrowers shall be limited to cooperatives, or to agencies or authorities
which provide farmers with extension and other supervisory services
at a level acceptable to the Association.
C.    For all AIDB lending financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
Repayment including an appropriate period of grace will normally be
over a period of not less than 5 years nor more than 15 years


﻿12
commencing one year after the completion of the Investment Project
provided, however, that the repayment period of any Sub-loan shall
in no case be longer than the life of the asset financed.
D.   For AIDB lending for Agricultural Investment Projects financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit
(1)   No free-limit Sub-loans will be made for dairy development to be
located within the operational area of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (Addis Ababa Dairy
Development Project) dated August 30, 1971 between the Borrower
and the Association.
(2)   AIDB will not make any free-limit Sub-loans for dairy development
unless (i) a livestock expert whose qualifications and experience have
been previously approved by the Association has approved the
proposed project's adherence to appropriate technical standards and
the suitability of the source of any proposed livestock imports, and
(ii) the Head of the Veterinary Services of the Ministry of Agriculture
has certified that any proposed livestock imports meet the appropriate
animal health standards.
(3)   AIDB will not make any free-limit Sub-loan in the areas of Melka
Sadi or Amibara in the Middle Awash Valley without seeking the prior
approval of the Association.


