CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 304 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 10, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 304 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 10, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 10, 1972, between EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association):
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in
paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
(b)   The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(c)   Paragraph (h) of Section 6.02 is deleted and paragraph (i) of such
Section becomes paragraph (h).
(d)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period
of thirty days or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.02 (e) of the Project
Agreement no applications for approval or requests for authorization to
withdraw from the Credit Account in respect of any portion of the Credit
shall have been received by the Association, or having been so received, shall
have been denied or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Credit
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right to request such approvals


﻿4
and authorizations or to make withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the
case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon
the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Credit shall be
cancelled."
(e)   The words "the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06; and
(f)   The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 8.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in the Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "AIDB" means the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank S.C.,
a share company established and operating pursuant to the Commercial Code
Proclamation of 1960 (Proclamation No. 166 of 1960) and to Decree No. 55 of
1970 and Notice of Approval No. 10 of 1971, and shall include any successor
or successors thereto.
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and AIDB, as such agreement may be amended from time
to time.
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and AIDB pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
(d)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by AIDB to
an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project out of the proceeds of the
Credit relent to AIDB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(e)   "Investment" means an investment other than a Sub-loan made or
proposed to be made by AIDB out of the proceeds of the credit in an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(f)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which AIDB proposes
to make or has made a Sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or has made
an Investment.
(g)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan or
Investment.


﻿5
(h)   "Agricultural Investment Project" shall mean any Investment Project
which is primarily for the production of agricultural raw materials.
(i)   "Industrial Investment Project" shall mean any Investment Project not
primarily for the production of agricultural raw materials.
0)    "Cooperatives" means cooperative societies duly established and
registered pursuant to Proclamation No. 241 of 1966 of the Borrower.
(k)   "Eth $" means the currency of the Borrower.
(1)   "foreign currency" means any currency other than the cur -nc  of
the Borrower.
(m)   "Statement of Policy" means the Statement of Policy of AIDB as
adopted and approved by its Board of Directors on June 18, 1971, and as the
same may be amended from time to time.
(n)   "Articles" means the Articles of Association of AIDB adopted oii
November 10, 1970 as amended from time to time.
(o)   "Memorandum" means the Memorandum       of Association of AIDB
adopted on November 10, 1970 as amended from time to time.
(p)   "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by AIDB or by any one or more subsidiaries of AIDB or by AIDB
and one or more of its subsidiaries.
(q)   "Non-manufacturing subsidiary" means any subsidiary other than those
listed in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time.
(r)   "Free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies
as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million dollars (S1 1,000,000).


﻿6
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower may withdraw from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended, for expenditures made, or with the Association's approval to
be made in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project; provided that no withdrawal shall be made for a Sub-loan or Investment
unless:
(i)         it is for a free-limit Sub-loan for an Industrial Investment Project
for which authorization for withdrawal from the Credit Account
has been given by the Association;
(ii)        it is for a free-limit Sub-loan for an Agricultural Investment
Project committed by AIDB prior to December 31, 1973, or
such later date as shall be agreed upon by the Association; or
(iii)       it has been approved by the Association.
(b)   A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for:
(i)         an Industrial Investment Project; or
(ii)        an Agricultural Investment Project, (other than a Sub-loan for
Cooperatives), for the puiposes of production of cereal or root
crops, cotton, vegetables, fruits, oil seeds or for dairy farming,
or such other purposes as may be agreed upon by the
Association;
in an amount to be financed under the Credit Agreement which, together with
any other amount or amounts financed or proposed to be financed for the same
Investment Project or for the same Investment Enterprise out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and not repaid, shall not exceed, either individually or in the aggregate,
the equivalent of $100,000 and which, in the case of Sub-loans for Industrial
Investment Projects, shall not cause the aggregate of such free-limit Sub-loans for
Industrial Investment Projects to exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000.
(c)   Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree and
subject to the limitation contained in Section 5.01 (a) of the General Conditions,
no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an Investment
Enterprise in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the Association's approval, more
than ninety days prior to the date on which the Association shall have received
in respect of such Sub-loan the application and information required by Section
2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, under a free-limit Sub-loan for an Industrial


﻿7
Investment Project, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan the request
and information required by Section 2.03 (b).
Section 2.03. (a) When submitting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Association for approval, the Borrower shall
cause AIDB to furnish to the Association an application, in form satisfactory to
the Association, together with a description of the Investment Enterprise and an
appraisal of the Investment Project (including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit) and the proposed
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or Investment, including the schedule of
amortization of the Sub-loan or of repayment to AIDB of the amount of the
Credit to be used for the Investment, and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-lean for an Industrial
Investment Project shall contain a summary description of the Investment Enterprise
and the Investment Project (including a description of the expenditures proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit) and the terms and conditions
of such free-limit Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)   Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
applications and requests permitted under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section
shall be submitted to the Association on or before December 31, 3973.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the " .sociation a service charge
at the rate )f three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from    time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 1
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing
July 1, 1982 and ending January 1, 2022, each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such later
date as shall be agreed to by the Association.


﻿8
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project and
shall cause AIDB to carry out Parts A and C of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative and financial practices
and in accordance with AIDB's Memorandum, Articles and Statement of Policy,
and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purposes of carrying out Part B of
the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit other than the
portion for carrying out Part B of the Project to AIDB under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and AIDB on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including inter alia those set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be modified from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ a firm of consultants with technical, financial, credit and management
experts acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association by a date not later than five months from the date of this
Agreement or such later date as may be agreed to by the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall not take, or pennit any of its political
subdivisions, or any of its agencies or instrumentalities, or any agency or
instrumentality of any political subdivision to take, any action which would prevent
or materially interfere with the performance by AIDB of any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall take
or cause to be taken all reasonable action which shall be required on its part in
order to enable AIDB to perform such obligations.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿9
ARTICLE IV
Consultation; Information
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of the respective obligations of the parties under the Development
Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territory of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the
performance by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or the performance by AIDB of
its obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territory.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection
with the execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territory.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territory.


﻿10
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately,
together with the service charges thereon, and upon -ny such declaration such
principal, together with such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in the Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a default shall occur in the performance of any obligation of AIDB
under the Project Agreement;
(b)   the Statement of Policy, Memorandum or the Articles of AIDB shall
have been amended so as, in the opinion of the Association, to affect materially
and adversely the operations or financial condition of AIDB or its ability to carry
out Parts A and C of the Project;
(c)   AIDB shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature or any action
or proceeding shall have been taken whereby any of the property of AIDB shall
or may be distributed among its creditors;
(d)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to AIDB having an
original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have
become due and payable in advance of maturity, as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(e)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of AIDB or for the suspension
of its operations;
(f)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by AIDB, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would adversely
affect the conduct of AIDB's business, its financial situation, the efficiency of
its management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project;


﻿(g)   a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution or liquidation
of AIDB; or
(h)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that AIDB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in Section 6.02 (a), (b) or (f) of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association tc. the Borrower and to AIDB; or
(b)   any event specified in Section 6.02 (c), (d), (e) or (g) of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of AIDB
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate action;
(b)   the Borrower and AIDB have entered into the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has become fully effective and binding on the parties thereto
in accordance with its terms, subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(c)   AIDB shall have approved the appointment of an industrial adviser
and an economic adviser both upon terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association; and
(d)   AIDB shall have amended its Statement of Policy so as to conform
with the provisions of this Agreement and the Project Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:


﻿12
(a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, AIDB and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of AIDB in accordance with its terms; and
(b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and AIDB and
constitutes valid and binding obligations of the Borrower and of AIDB in accordance
with its terms, subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 7.03. The date August 11, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Authorized Representative of
the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
Telex:     21147
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿13
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
Telex:     440098 (ITT) or
24423 (RCA)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
By /s / Ghebeyehou Mekbib
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Simon Aldewereld
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below    sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated                % of
(Expressed in              Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
I.   Disbursements by                          (  100% of amounts expended
AIDB for the                              ( (or, if the Association
following:                                (  shall so agree, such
( amounts as shall be re-
( quired to meet expendi-
( tures to be made) for
( financing the reasonable
( cost in foreign currency
( of goods and services
( imported for carrying
( out the Investment
( Project;
( the equivalent of 70% of
( the invoiced price less
( import duties, paid for
( goods previously imported
( into the territories of
( the Borrower through nor-
( mal trade channels and
( purchased for carrying
( out the Investment Project;
( and
( the equivalent of 50% of
( the invoiced price paid
( for goods produced in
( the territory of the
( Borrower to a substan-
( tial extent from compo-
( nents or raw materials
( imported into the terri-
( tories of the Borrower
( and purchased for carry-
( ing out the Investment
( Project.


﻿15
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in             Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
(a)  Investments           5,500,000
and Sub-
loans for
Industrial
Investment
Projects
(b)  Investments           1,000,000
and Sub-
loans for
Agricultural
Investment
Projects,
other than
free-limit
Sub-loans
and Sub-
loans to co-
operatives
(c)  Sub-loans to            500,000
cooperatives
II.  Disbursements by           3,800,000        70% of such disburse-
AIDB for free-                             ments
limit Sub-loans
for Agricultural
Investment
Projects
III.  Consultants'                200,000        100% of total expendi-
Services                                   ture
TOTAL          11,000,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   Loan disbursements by AIDB prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals may be made on account of loan disbursements after
March 1, 1972 for Sub-loans made on terms and conditions consistent with the
provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement and the Project Agreement;
(b)   disbursements by AIDB for Investments made prior to March 1, 1972;


﻿16
(c)   expenditure for consultants' services incurred prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(d)   Investments in Agricultural Investment Projects, if, or if as a result
of such an Investment, the amount of Investments in such Projects would exceed
in aggregate $500,000;
(e)   Investment in any single Agricultural Investment Project in excess of
$200,000; and
(f)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be
reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account
of payments for such taxes.
3.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category 3 shall
increase, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditure in order that further withdrawals under such
category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program for encouraging the
development of industrial and agricultural production by providing financing for
industrial and agricultural investment projects and consists of:
Part A
An agricultural credit program to help finance AIDB's medium- and long-term
commitments over a period of approximately one and one-half years for investment
projects for commercial farming, cooperatives and agribusiness undertakings such
as tea production and processing, banana cultivation and packing, dairy farming
and milk processing, alfalfa production.
Part B
A consultant's services to prepare proposals for a national agricultural credit
program.
Part C
An industrial credit program to help finance AIDB's medium- and long-term
commitments over a period of approximately one and one-half years in the
industrial sector such as financing for wood processing, textiles, brick, meat and
vegetable processing, canning and miscellaneous small industries.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms of Subsidiary Loan Agreement
The following sets forth the principal terms and conditions under which parts
of the proceeds of the Credit required for purposes of Parts A and C of the Project
or the equivalent thereof shall be lent to AIDB by the Borrower:
(1)  Interest Rate: 7-1/4% pe, annum.
(2)  Repayment: in accordance with an amortization schedule representing
the sum of:
(i)   the aggregate of the individual repayment schedules for
Sub-loans, other than free-limit Sub-loans for Agricultural
Investment Projects; and
(ii)  repayment of amounts provided for Investments, or for free-limit
Sub-loans for Agricultural Investment Projects, in approximately
equal semi-annual payments of principal and interest over a
period of 14 years commencing December 31, 1974 and ending
June 30, 1988.
If a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan for an Agricultural Investment
Project) or any part thereof shall be repaid to AIDB in advance of maturity or
if a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan for an Agricultural Investment
Project) or an Investment or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned
or otherwise disposed of for value by AIDB, AIDB shall promptly notify the
Borrower and shall repay to the Borrower on the next following interest payment
date the amount withdrawn from the Credit Account in respect of such Sub-loan
or Investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Borrower.
(3)   Commitment Charge:
(i)   Sub-loans (other than free-limit Sub-loans for Agricultural
Investment Projects) or Investments: 3/4% per annum of the
amount or amounts approved or authorized for withdrawals by
the Association but unwithdrawn.
(ii) Free-limit Sub-loans for Agricultural Investment Projects: no
commitment charge.
(4)   Foreign Exchange Risk: The Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange
risk.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 4
List of AIDB Subsidiaries Other than
Non-Manufacturing Subsidiaries
Bahar Dar Textiles Mill S.C.
Ethiopian Pulp Paper S.C.
Rubber and Canvas Shoes S.C.
Eritrea Cement S.C. (Asmara)
Debre Berham Wool Factory S.C.
Glass and Bottle Making Co. S.C.
Ethiopian Light Industry S.C.
Ethiopian Farm Development (in liquidation)
African Match and Paper S.C.
Suntu Coffee Processing Corp. (in liquidation)


