Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23907
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-42700; PPFB-P3270)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
FOR A
SUPREME COURT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
06/28/2002
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management, Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 26, 2002)
Currency Unit = Bolivar (Bs)
Bs 1285.5 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.00078 = Bs 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALIANZA              Alianza Social Para la Justicia (umbrella NGO group)
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
DCHR                 Danish Center for Human Rights
DEM                  Direccion Ejecutiva de la Magistratura
ICT                  Information and Communication Technology
JC                  Judicial Council (subsequently integrated into the Tribunal Supreeno de Jfst.icia)
LIL                  Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E                  Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
SC                   Supreme Court (subsequently transformed into the Supreme Trib.aia of Justice)
TEPUTY XI            Software for modernized court management and support system
TSJ                  Supreme Tribunal of Justice (Tribunal Supremo de Justicia)
Vice President:  David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director:  Emesto May
Sector Manager:   Ronald E. Myers
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Waleed Haider Malik



VENEZUELA
SUPREME COURT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               15
6. Sustainability                                                                   16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  19
9. Partner Comments                                                                 20
10. Additional Information                                                          24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                31
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                37
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                39
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 40
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               43
Annex 8. List of Contributors                                                       44






Project ID: P044325                                     Project Name: SUPREME COURT
MODERNIZATION
Team Leader: Waleed Haider Malik                        TL Unit: LCSPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: June 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: SUPREME COURT MODERNIZATION                   L/C/TF Number: SCL-42700;
PPFB-P3270
Country/Department: VENEZUELA                                          Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: BJ - Judicial Reform
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   08/23/1997                            Effective: 03/01/1998
Appraisal:  00/00/0000                              MTR:
Approval:  12/30/1997                             Closing:                    06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/SUPREME COURT OF JUSTICE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     David de Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Olivier Lafourcade                       Andres Solimano
Sector Manager:      Ronald Myers                             Geoffrey Shepherd
Team Leader at ICR:  Waleed H. Malik                          Waleed H. Malik
ICR Primary Author:  Herman Nissenbaum
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible).
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: L.
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: HS
.QAG (if available)      ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
-The Supreme Court Project derived from widespread popular and Government desires for remedying
deficiencies in Venezuela's judicial system. These centered around the need to make the judiciary more



effective, accessible and credible. There was also a general recognition of the requirement for improving
the system's consistency and equity in its application of laws, as well as better protecting basic civil rights.
Therefore, in line with the CAS' goals, the Government and the Bank agreed to collaborate in pursuing
ways of achieving:
- more transparent and predictable judicial decision-making;
- more effective judicial processes and administration;
- greater opportunities for appropriate alternative providers of legal services; and
- greater integrity and discipline within the judiciary.
It was agreed to address these requirements at the head of the judicial system--the Supreme Court-while
the Government and the Bank continued to execute an earlier IBRD-supported project focused on the
Judicial Council (discussed below). The Supreme Court, although the country's highest tribunal, then had a
somewhat limited role and influence. It primarily ruled on the legality of decisions made by other branches
of government and the constitutionality of the laws passed by the Congress. The Supreme Court was also
charged with defining rules for the lower courts and theoretically concerned with coordinating the
formulation of the country's judicial sector policy. In fact though, the lower court system was managed by
the Judicial Council, and the Court only fully assumed the role of defining sector policy with the 1999
Constitutional changes.
Furthermore, the Court failed to provide reasonably timely access to justice. It took a long time for its cases
to reach disposition. Meanwhile, the Court's agent for publishing its decisions stopped doing so in 1989.
Similarly, the Court had no communication policy or effective medium for informing the public of its
activities even though its decisions shaped and reflected national values and policies. Citizens were
unaware of its work as were some public institutions.
Internally in addition to the plenary Chamber, the Court then had three Chambers, which dealt with civil,
criminal and political-administrative matters. Each operated quite autonomously without substantial
institutional guidelines, adequate technical staff or suitable organizational arrangements and personnel
policies. Its judges and staff had no common integral vision of the institution. The Court's internal
organization developed over time from a series of ad hoc decisions. It made limited use of information
technology and only started in 1997 to document its decisions. The Court's case management methods were
outdated and ineffective; its backlog of cases was estimated to be in the thousands and growing. The
Court's fifteen justices appointed by the Congress with 9-year ternns commanded low public confidence.
Overall thus, the institution's work was commonly considered to be marked by lengthy delays, lack of
objectivity, an opaque performance record, high costs and administrative deficiencies As a result, the
Supreme Court was perceived by Venezuelans as an ineffectual public service requiring major and urgent
changes.
The Project accordingly was aimed at improving the performance of the Supreme Court in the areas judged
to be its greatest weaknesses. Its objectives were set at upgrading the Court's transparency, case
processing, decision- making and administration. They also included identifying effective ways of engaging
Venezuelan civic organizations and other interested groups in improving the performance of the judicial
system. In connection with the latter, the basic premise was that judicial reform activities would gain added
stimulus and direction by the addition of the NGOs' involvement.
3.2 Revised Objective:
None
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
The components of the Project included:
--Improvement of communications, policy research and quality assurance;
--Improvement of caseload administration;
--Improvement of the dissemination of Supreme Court decisions;
--Improvement of administration and management. (including monitoring and evaluation)
3.4 Revised Components:
None
3.5 Quality at Entry:
When the Supreme Court began discussing the Project with the Bank in 1996/97, it had never undertaken
any development project with intemational organizations. It was unfamiliar with their processes. The
Court moreover, a traditionally conservative and somewhat insular institution, was then somewhat resistant
to change. It was particularly unaccustomed to dealing with an external organization on reforming the ways
in which the Court conducted its business.
In addition, the Bank's storehouse of knowledge about Venezuela's public sector at the time of project
preparation was thin. Furthernore, the performance record of Bank-financed activities in the sector was not
exemplary. Some of these projects suffered from unduly optimistic goals and poor implementation,
generally attributed to the weaknesses of Government agencies and their difficulties with IBRD policies and
procedures.
These factors posed concems about the design of the proposed Project. So too did the Bank's comparatively
meager analytic material on the Venezuelan judiciary. The sole prior activity (Judicial Infrastructure
Development) had been appraised without thorough sector knowledge. It was also relatively narrow,
focused largely on the infrastructure of the Judicial Council. No pertinent studies had been carried out
subsequently; nor had the Infrastructure Project been reviewed in ways which permit drawing any sectoral
lessons. Neither had the Bank acquired any knowledge of the Supreme Court in the course of that
operation. Moreover, the Bank and the Court then had relatively thin concepts of--and experience
in--judicial reform.
Against the backdrop of these factors, the task team confronted a ticklish situation: one in which a well
intentioned government requests IBRD support in an area in which it is keen to see significant problems
solved with some dispatch--but whose solutions are not firmly established. Moreover, this element was
especially sensitive because the Bank had been criticized by an important Venezuelan NGO on the focus of
the Infrastructure Project, as well as civic society's limited involvement in its preparation, both with some
justification.
These conditions might have prompted the design of the new Project in a somewhat expedient manner in
order to seek quick, impressive-looking remedial measures. Instead, the task team aptly opted for the
Project's progressive development from the ground up through a highly participatory approach. This
decision appears to have been very appropriate for a project pursuing behavioral changes, for which clear,
proven models were not available.
-3 -



In fact, the approach adopted proved useful for helping to provide good quality project preparation. In
particular, it stimulated a significant contributing role by the Court Justices. In contrast with their
traditional detached posture, they participated in numerous stakeholder consultations on the Project's aims
and activities. They met in workshops with businesses and others interested in the sector, various judicial
service clienteles, concerned NGOs, and others. They interested themselves in assessments of stakeholders'
perceptions.
Based on these, the Justices produced a first version of the Project documnent. They and other participants
were active in identifying priority subjects for reform. These proved valuable for targeting the Project's
objectives and content. In the process incidentally, these activities helped to promote considerable
commitment to the Project among these groups. Equally important, it appears that they directly contributed
to the Justices' taking, and subsequently maintaining, leadership of the operation.
The task team directly guided this process in a highly constructive manner. It designed a scheme which
called for extensive self-learning and strengthening the Court's capabilities. Also, the appraisal document
set out the Project's goals and operating conditions in a well formulated-albeit somewhat general--manner.
This was appropriate for the situation in which it was impossible to know ex ante what would work, and
thus did not lend itself to precise design and planning. The PAD also included the definition of model
performance indicators and other yardsticks for assessing the Project's results.
Under the circumstances, the Project was designed for a "Learning and Innovation Loan." (It was in fact
the Bank's first application of this new instrument.) In line with the approach taken and LILs' nature, the
Project's main development was launched shortly after the Loan's approval by the Court's initiation of the
strategic global study suggested by the task team. This assessed the Court's organization, institutional
policies, judicial and administrative practices, budgeting and personnel administration. A three-person
panel of extemal experts evaluated its conclusions early on. Based on these, the Court then employed a
firm knowledgeable in judicial systems to define, and subsequently help in implementing, the actions
recommended to reform fundamental aspects of the Court's workings. These provided a sound footing for
carrying out the operation.
A review of this record indicates that the participatory strategy adopted for the Project's preparation was
"Highly Satisfactory."
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Project achieved all of its major objectives and somewhat exceeded several of its initial targets.
There were however some divergencies from the agenda of project activities, as might be expected in a LEL.
In this instance, the intentions to create policy research and quality assurance groups were not fulfilled. At
the beginning of project execution, the Court found it difficult to undertake these measures, particularly
because of uncertainties about its jurisdiction, especially vis a vis the Judicial Council (with which there
were strained relations). Later, the proposal for these groups was set aside in favor of a loosely structured
Court group created for these purposes. One of its products was an inventory of cases which was carried
out and published in Court Annual Reports. There was thus no substantial shortfall.
Meanwhile, Court officials accelerated other activities which were of higher priority and responsive to the
changes in sector responsibilities caused by the 1999 constitutional reforms. There was still however
-4 -



considerable success. The automatization of case management and tracking functions and the modernized
infonnation systems installed surpassed expectations. The steps taken toward opening the Court to greater
public accessibility and in reforning its managerial and administrative practices evoked sharp changes. In
the process moreover, these and the effects of other Project actions could well turn out to have set
directions for improvements in other entities of the judiciary.
As a result of these developments, the Court is reported to be gaining greater credibility in Venezuela in
terms of public sector performance and efficiency. It asserts that this performance is now perceived as more
adequate, for which there is beginning to be supportive evidence. These suggest that the Court is on the
way to becoming more effective, as well perhaps as headed toward greater accountability. Separately as
well, citizen and professional groups gained more direct access to public decisions on the judiciary's
development and future. They became more engaged in national dialogue on these matters, e.g., ref. letter
from "Consorcio Justicia " in Section 9.
The Project can also be fairly credited with improving Venezuela's governance capacity by helping to
bolster the existence and maintenance of a sound legal framework for economic and social development It
did so by enhancing the Court's role in the enforcement of civic rules, albeit to a possibly minor extent.
It bears noting moreover that these strides were made under somewhat tumultuous political changes,
notably at the end of the 1990s. These events (discussed in Section D of para. 4.2) expanded the Court's
importance in Venezuela. It is now unquestionably the rector institution in judicial matters, ending the
previous uncertainty of its standing compared to the Judicial Council and other sector institutions. As the
now also unchallenged interpreter of the Constitution, the Court can more unequivocally review actions of
other elements of the public administration. At the same time, the Constitutional changes also set some new
national policy goals for the judicial sector. The public now has more explicit rights of access to justice,
accompanied by assurances that it should be provided expeditiously and without unnecessary formalities.
Expanded public accessibility to judicial information has also been pledged. The Court moreover is
charged with overseeing the Judicial Branch, as well as appointing and supervising judges.
Considering these developments, the Project activities usefully strengthened the Court in important
respects. However, not all of their consequences are very clear, and some actions appear to need further
clarification, enhancement and extension.
4.2 Outputs by components:
ComDonent A. ImDroved Communications
Hiahlv Satisfactory. The Project helped mobilize and increase citizens' participation on legal and judicial
matters. To this end, the Court opened a Civil Society Unit under the Project so as to bring together
concerned civic parties for collaboration. The Unit met extensively with different interest groups on such
issues as human rights, child protection and public defenders' roles. It also promoted a wide range of
activities involving them, in which process it fulfilled the Project objective of examining how these groups
could be usefully engaged to improve judicial performance.
In point of fact, Court officials believe that the Unit's functions have helped to improve civil society's
perceptions of the judiciary's interest in cooperation with and better serving the public. They also credited
these activities with contributing to the resolution of some public misunderstandings with---as well as to
identify important policy issues and deficiencies in-some Executive Branch agencies. The Court officials
also believed that they helped to press different judicial agencies for better performance and results.
- 5-



In addition, the Danish Center for Human Rights (DCHR) reviewed the performance and outcome of this
Project component to see what lessons were learned for the process of civil society participation. Its
observers reported that the national human rights organizations interviewed commended the Project and the
modernization process it tried to advance. They felt that the Supreme Court had become more accessible
and transparent because of the Civil Society Unit's functions. These organizations judged that the Unit's
work had significantly increased Court-civil group interactions (the same opinion, incidentally, which most
of the Court judges expressed to the DCHR observers). The Unit's workshops were considered to be useful,
particularly those held outside Caracas. In this connection, the DCHR report underscored the national
organizations' requests for broader Court information dissemination than mainly within the nation's capital.
Further regarding civic participation, the Court encouraged the formation of, and later supported, an
umbrella group of NGOs, all of which were involved in "access to justice" issues. This was intended to help
them support and monitor reform activities with a "louder voice" than individual NGOs would have
separately. Other aims included facilitating their communications with one another, and to create a lobby
for pressing government judicial organizations and judges individually to honor their obligations. The result
was the creation of the "Alianza Social Para la Justicia " group, consisting of 45 previously single issue
proponents. This was achieved with the help of the prestigious US Council for Court Excellence. "Alianza"
effectively promoted some important measures. One was helping the judiciary obtain a significant measure
through the provision in the amended National Constitution for its receipt of a minimum of two percent of
the annual Budget -- roughly twice its past level. "Alianza" has also proposed actions regarding significant
changes in constitutional provisions and their implementation.
"Alianza" members have also helped expand sector communications. Several produced reports on such
concerns as the impact of ineffective judicial performance on business activity. Some developed training
materials for citizen groups on legal framework changes. Others publicized the number of prisoners in jail
who had not had trials. In addition, "Alianza" members also collaborated with the Court in seminars on the
uses of Justices of the Peace and Chambers of Commerce for resolving disputes. These activities have
stimulated civic discussion and interest in sector reform.
In addition, the Civil Society Unit undertook to help disadvantaged groups enlarge their inadequate access
to judicial services. It encouraged NGOs to study this requirement in poor communities in two regions, and
to stimulate the judiciary to provide remedial actions. It also initiated the "Voices of the Poor" proposal for
such a study, which incidentally won a Development Marketplace 2000 Competition award. The findings
from the survey of these communities, which are reported in Section 10 of this Report, provide a valuable
perspective on the population's view of Venezuela's justice system.
The Project was also instrumental in the Court's installation of modern information and communications
technology (ICT) and the creation of its Website (a judicial portal). The institution previously operated
without much automated, let alone, advanced technology in its communications and information
dissemination operations. This was substantially changed by the installation of an information network,
supplemented by the Website. Moreover, there was an initial multiplication of Court computer equipment
(whose stock first increased from 42 to 200, and multiplied thereafter) for the creation of an electronic
database and conmmunications medium. (The database aspect is elaborated upon in the "Court
Administration and Management" component description below.)
The "public access" segment of the Website also led to distinct changes. This portal provides a variety of
up-to-date information on all cases under review in all Chambers, as well as other judicial and legal matters
-6 -



in the country. The public can access the details of court dates and other developments on individual cases
before the Court. It can obtain a record of all Court decisions made after 1999 (as well as some in that
year), and the calendars and daily activities of each Chamber as well as their case processing data. Court
administrative information is likewise available. There are now also video links to library databases,
jurisprudence from international sources and support materials, as well as a digitalized inventory of
historical records. Those lacking access to Internet facilities can see these kinds of data at information
kiosks in the Court, as well as different 'lower courts. There are also Court kiosks for providing data on
citizens' rights and responsibilities, as well as the judicial system's operations.
The Court reports having received favorable feedback to these developments from the public at large and
legal professionals especially. Similarly, the aforementioned DCHR review team reported that the
Venezuelan civic groups and lawyers interviewed were highly complimentary of the Website's introduction.
They said that it had contributed to improving the transparency of the Court's actions, as well as their
quality. However, some of the national institutions and individuals outside of Caracas noted that many
there lacked access to Internet facilities. They considered that their inability to draw on the Website's
information about the Court's modernization activities was harmfiul. They also suggested that lower court
judges and others outside the capital city were suspicious of, and not well motivated to participate in, these
activities as a result.
Separately, the Project also uniquely contributed to regional and global sector communications through the
Court's creation of the " IUDICIS " (Latin for court) virtual knowledge network for comparable
Ibero-American courts. The network was established to harness and share international knowledge on
judicial matters through the use of the Internet. It provides examples of different countries' experiences,
information on judicial reform issues and improvement options. The system also promotes and facilitates
training and "distance learning" by providing access to world-wide publications and juridical databases.
Supreme court presidents constitute the subscribers to the network, with the vision of interconnecting their
information systems in the future. These are projected to provide current data on the jurisprudence of the
participating institutions, as well as studies on the regulations and judicial precedents of the member
countries. All this is planned for an international public access Website in the future. Representatives of the
prospective participants from several countries agreed in 2000 on the network's principles and the
preparation of a proposal for designing its architecture.
Component B. Case Administration
Highlv Satisfactorv. The Project introduced new measures to enable the Court to discharge more
effectively its prime function of hearing and judging cases. This was achieved in a manner which should
uniformly uplift the institution's performance.
Previously, each magistrate determined how his office would carry out its work in the absence of
Court-wide standards and procedures. Chamber staff were unable to draw on global Court jurisprudence,
which was not systematically collected. Therefore, as part of the-process of preparing Court decisions,
legal assistants and others had to conduct considerable research on how to address particular case issues.
This was quite time consuming and possibly duplicatory of others' work on similar problems. The
disposition of individual cases was solely recorded in the Chamber's files. Their processing was outdated
and commonly engaged numerous clerks. These factors contributed to the aforementioned sizeable backlog
of unprocessed cases, one of the Court's most serious deficiencies.
One of the reasons why Venezuela's judiciary failed to provide the population with ready access to justice
- 7 -



was the excessive time delays in getting cases through the system. At appraisal, one source estimated that
the Court had about 10,000-15,000 cases pending. This backlog was then forecast to grow to 30,000 by
year 2000 unless reduction measures were successfully effected. Since the Court was then only resolving
about 4,300 cases annually, it was calculated that it would take some seven years to clear the backlog.
To worsen matters, there were no reliable, readily available statistics on the number of cases in process or
the length of time taken for their decisions. The Court kept no systematic data on caseload volume or
trends. Thus, its managers could not judge the quality of their operations with any great precision. Neither
was there any systematic monitoring or evaluation of individual Chambers' performances.
To help improve this condition, a consultant's study on improving case management recommended new,
more efficient procedures. These were installed in the Chambers with the 'TEPUYXX!" instrument (the
software for a modem court management and support system, detailed in Section 10). Under this, each
Chamber must now employ a uniform system for locating case files, fixing case numbers and other
identifying details, as well as standard formats for documenting case decisions. These provide the
advantage of standardization of Court documents and greater uniformity of work methods throughout the
organization. The system in addition enables documents that judges approve to be automatically registered
in the Court's database. This makes this information readily and instantaneously available for compiling
records, management perusal, public consumption or reference by various Court offices for their individual
purposes. It then can also be stored in a documentary database. All these have begun to replace the former
manual methods, and to enable the Court to perform such unprecedented activities as the provision of
on-line information on individual cases' statuses. The new systems led in addition to changes in the methods
used for allocating new cases among the judges, based on review of their respective workloads. These
assignments are reported to be made now much more expeditiously and without requiring considerable
resources, unlike the past.
In line with these changes, each Chamber's Secretariat now has a control unit which monitors its activities.
(This and the results of other organizational restructuring are elaborated in Section D below.) In tur, the
information these units produce enables the Secretariat to keep the Court's management informed on a
timely basis of developments on the number of cases being received and decided, the number still pending
and like indicators. The new infornation available also indicates the types of case problems with which the
Chambers are dealing.
These measures and the resulting availability of useful information appear to be spawning the development
of better Chamber management, as well as the foundation for monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activity.
However, the Court does not yet appear to have fully availed itself of this information for current
management assessment purposes, or for future planning. Moreover, it is still too early to gauge the
adequacy of the newly established M&E systems or the quality of the data they produce. At this stage
therefore, the Court has primarily progressed to having established a workable foundation for continuing,
well set out M&E, which the Court managers consider important. Significantly though, they have already
ensured that "TEPUYXXI" provides an "early warning system" flagging case delay problems.
Another productive change instituted was the creation in each Chamber of a pool of lawyers who examine
incoming cases and prepare decisions on the simpler ones. This should help speed case clearances, as well
as relieve the senior Chamber officials of more mundane determinations. These innovations and the
re-engineering of procedures have begun to change the culture of the Court. In addition to benefiting from
the new Chamber pools, the Judges are reported to consider that their more routine operational functions
are being simplified and made less onerous. As a consequence, they are gaining more time for the principal
function of handing down decisions, and are said to be able to focus more on establishing global
- 8 -



"jurisprudence policies."
Another new development is the perception that the Court is moving toward assuming a greater
"business-minded" environment, concemed with its productivity and efficiency. There is now weekly
monitoring of the volume of each Chamber's workload and output. Also, the Court's management has
focused attention on productivity gains, particularly in seeking to overcome the aforementioned "backlog
delay" problem which was clogging the judiciary. With the help of the newly installed case management
instruments and procedures, the Court installed a reporting and monitoring system to fill the previous void
of reliable, up-to-date statistics. Also, the individual Chambers employed their new resources and the
complementary organizational and procedural changes to materially accelerate the pace of case disposition.
Court documents refer to some judges engaging in "marathon working sessions" to reduce their backlogs to
this end.
There is only reliable Court data on this subject beginning with year 2000. However, it already
demonstrates important developments. From 2000 to 2001, the total number of cases the Court decided
rose from 7,675 to 8,842, a sizeable increase over the some 4,300 estimated annual disposition at appraisal
time. The two major agents--the Constitutional and Political/Administrative Chambers--settled 5,842 cases
in 2001, a more than 50% increase over their previous year's sum. Significantly as well, the actions taken
have been helping the Court clear its backlog of sorely outdated cases. In 2001, the Civil Chamber recorded
decisions on ten cases which entered the Court in the 1940s and 75 cases in the 1950s. The
PoliticaVAdministrative Chamber cleared 78 cases pending since the 1960s.
Further, Court managers have stressed the importance of their efforts to improve the caseload situation by
giving prominent coverage to processing increases in the institution's Annual Reports since 1999. The 2001
Report's chapter on the Constitutional Chamber, for example, underscored that it had decided almost the
same number of cases as the new ones received for decisions.
This progress is impressive. But unfortunately, the problem is being complicated by the fact that the overall
volume of new case filings has actually increased since the Project began and continues to do so. On the
basis of rough data, the Court estimated that this total rose to 5,180 in 1998 and 7, 202 in 1999. With the
benefit of the new systems, it now reports more authoritatively that the number of new cases rose to 6,461
in 2000 and to 6, 839 in 2001.
This trend is worrying because it appears to be increasing the overall judiciary's need to reduce its stock of
backlogged cases (which was a significant part of the Project's rationale). It has been estimated that some
800,000 cases are filed in the first instance courts nationwide each year, and that the number is growing.
Furthermore, Court data still shows protracted lengths of time which different Chambers spend in reaching
decisions. These are said to have ranged from averages of 285 days in the "Casacion Civil" to 950 in the
"Sala Plena."
Despite these concerns though, somewhat ironically, some Court officials view these increases in their
caseload favorably. They interpret them as signs of expanded public interest and confidence in the
judiciary. They also are somewhat reluctant to consider restrictive actions. That is because they appear to
fear that limiting or rejecting cases might damage their image as the "court of last resort," which some
perceive to be their core function.
This disparity of views raises the question as to whether measures need to be taken to reduce the pressure
on the Court of deciding several thousand cases annually--rather than focusing exclusively on increasing its
workload capacity. The Project concentrated on the latter with the measures taken for simplifying
-9-



procedures, clearing out organizational impediments, and IT mechanisms to speed case processing and the
transmission of information. In principle, these should help reduce case transaction time (as is reported to
have already transpired in one Chamber), perhaps accompanied by lesser related costs. These
improvements would be important since the Court has had rising rates of cost-per-case disposals.
Unfortunately, there is relatively limited information on the effects of the Project's and the Court's
independent measures during its period on this condition. Only two years have passed since the Court's
organizational structure was substantially altered by constitutional changes (described below), resulting in
the establishment of three new chambers. The same changes also brought some new cases to the Court,
different than before. All these factors hamper the identification of any meaningful, reliable trends, which
the Court needs to analyze continuously and thoroughly.
It also warrants consideration whether the Project-motivated improvements might actually serve to
stimulate greater demand for these judicial services. If so, they could end up perversely increasing the
current backlog rather than. reducing it. If that occurred, with the dimensions of the Court's caseload, the
Judges rnight then have even less time to issue reasoned opinions, clear up ambiguities or resolve
conflicting decisions from the lower courts. They might also spend too much time on low priority instances
(where no significant legal issue is at stake or the facts in dispute could just as well be resolved by a lower
court). In addition, there are significant policy questions involved in the pricing of public legal services
which bear on decisions regarding burdens placed on the judiciary.
The problem basically though is that the Court must hear every case that is properly brought before it,
unlike the situation in common law-govemed countries. In addition, it is reported that some cases can be
brought directly to it without first passing through lower courts. However, some European supreme courts
exercise the power to decline to hear cases which they consider unsuitable. Argentina's Supreme Court has
changed its rules to assert this practice too. So too actually has the Venezuelan Court's Penal Chamber
based on recent amendments of the relevant organic code. Therefore, to the extent that judicial sector policy
should serve to minimize the demand on formal, higher level judicial institutions, it would appear advisable
for the Court to explore generalizing this change, as it is in fact reported to be considering presently.
ComDonent C. Dissemination of Court Decisions
Highlv Satisfactory. The Project contributed to the Court's dissemination of its decisions on a virtually
immediate basis, rather than the seven years it used to take. Before the Project, the procedure called for
their reproduction and distribution by the "Fundaci6n Gaceta Forense" publication. However, the
"Fundacion " did not publish this material after 1990, a bottleneck for those interested in the judiciary's
rulings. Therefore, the Project assisted in the development of a system which provides for online
publication of Court decisions via its Website. (This surpassed the intention in the Project plan to solely
study altemative methods of achieving this publication.) The same data moreover can be obtained at Court
information kiosks without the necessity of employing Internet facilities or the payment of fees. Further, a
quarterly publication of the Court shows its decisions.
A knowledgeable NGO reports that one law school faculty and students applaud the Website's provision of
up to date, accurate statements of the Court's decisions. It indicated similar reactions from various Court
lawyers themselves, who view their new capabilities to learn what is emerging from other Chambers as a
distinct improvement over the past. The change constitutes a key element in the promotion of transparency
and accountability in the Court.
Component D. Court Administration and Management
- 10 -



HiRhlv Satisfactory. The Project substantially altered the Court's previously outdated, inadequate
administrative practices, which contributed to its slow moving, unproductive and inefficient reputation.
Significantly, the important managerial and administrative improvements and the changes in handling
cases, disseminating sentences and other central functions were preceded by the introduction of several
judiciously selected incentive measures. These were designed to improve working conditions for Court
functionaries, as well as the institution's image. The widespread installation of personal computers (now
estimated above 1,000) throughout the Court is almost universally credited with boosting staff morale.
There were also salary increases granted, which the Court reported to have totaled 150% over 1997-98 and
2040 percent p.a. subsequently. In addition, judges and their aides were sent to other countries for
exposure to their judicial sector reforms, as well as received management training.
The aforementioned changes have been accompanied by the establishment of new units in each chamber
which carry out archive, public information, management control and service functions. In addition, the
Court installed a solid ICT infrastructure composed of multiple servers and approximately 850 networked
stations serving over 1,000 users in the Court building. The application software was consolidated into two
main systems, both based on Oracle DBMS. The administrative support application, which evolved over
the project period, is considered adequate to meet most needs at this time. It particularly serves the Court's
requirements in personnel and financial management. It also furnishes modem office automation support,
particularly word processing and e-mail, to all professional staff.
Each Court office has its own ICT module within the overall system, which affords visual interface and
user-friendly screen services. Court chambers and administrative offices are connected. The judges and
other judicial officials have "private access" facilities for sending and receiving mail, obtaining news about
judicial developments and directory service. Also, a digital storage system has replaced the outmoded
inventory of historical records which had not been published. These developments have effectively ended
the past work pattem in which each functionary functioned in an isolated manner.
Other changes included the reorganization of Court administrative work and staff, which were defined in
new manuals to prescribe the transition. These have encompassed personnel administration, financial
controls, operations and logistics, in addition to the ICT systems. A new organizational structure was put
in place in addition to manage these functions, supported by organizational manuals. New job descriptions
for staff were also prepared.
In conjunction with these, the Court initiated a substantial body of training courses covering managerial,
language and technical subjects. This constituted a major departure since there was little if any training
provided before the Project. So too have the revisions in Court budgeting to follow "cost center" concepts.
This replaced a system which generally functioned on the basis of planned inflation adjustments to past
years' budget allocations. Conversely though, the improvements made failed to include anything significant
in personnel management.
Simultaneously, the Court underwent dramatic changes in its structure, management and other key aspects
as a result of Venezuela's adoption of a new Constitution in December 1999. This triggered a sweeping
body of sector changes affecting the judicial system's organizational framework, accountability
arrangements and the role of the central judicial apparatus. The Court was re-titled the "Supreme Tribunal
of Justice" (TSJ) and it added chambers for constitutional, social and electoral matters. It assumed the
responsibility for administration of the lower courts with the abolition of the Judicial Council. In addition,
the method of selection of judges was changed to make the process more transparent and participatory.
Open national competitions are now required for lower court appointments, which the Court's judicial
- I 1 -



commission promptly launched. It also began an evaluation of sitting judges in the lower courts, some of
whom have since departed. These measures were accompanied by the imposition of a ban on judges' union
activities, along with greater emphasis on their professional development. A separate tribunal was
announced to be established for discipline of judges.
In connection with the last mentioned, the steps taken in 1999 also included efforts to rid the courts of
corrupt judges. A special commission was appointed to clear out a large body of complaints (estimated at
about 2,900 then) against judges which had been unattended to and poorly enforced. Over 120 judges out
of the total force of about 1,200 were dismissed on the basis of the commission's work, in which the Court
and civil groups participated.
E. Other Proiect Activities
Satisfactor. The Project helped the Court take useful initiatives to stimulate the growth of alternative
judicial services for the public. It convened meetings with justices of the peace in 1998-99 in efforts to
strengthen their capabilities, and a seminar on their activities. The Camaras de Casacion Social y Civil
collaborated with the Caracas Chamber of Commerce's arbitration commission to prepare a proposed
mediation law. The Project's assistance also facilitated the Casacion Chamber's development of possible
amendments to the Ley Procesal del Trabajo to permit the uses of arbitration or conciliation system
methods. Similarly, it helped implement the introduction of oral procedures in criminal matters in July
1999, and in the drafting of proposals for their use in labor and family courts.
Furtherrnore, the Court helped initiate dialogues and other discussions regarding judicial transparency,
womens' and indigenous groups' issues, which were supported by the Bank, targeted at civil society and
NGOs. In addition, it developed a medium-term plan for strengthening the judicial branch, designed to
make it more consistent with the provisions of the new Constitution.
F. Overall Proeect Accomplishment
Hirhlv satisfactorv results on the Fround. An across-the-board review of the Project's accomplishments
leads to the conclusion that the Supreme Court Modernization LIL warrants a highly satisfactory rating
which reflects:
** In sharp contrast with most other Bank-assisted activities in Venezuela, the Project was
completed on schedule and carried out relatively close to its funding plan. Further, much more was
achieved than was targeted in the relatively modest Project goals, and at comparatively low cost. Moreover,
the Project realized its orderly conclusion despite a tumultuous political environment and considerable
changes within the sector. These included a redefinition of the Court's role, its restructuring and new top
management, the creation of new sector entities and accountability arrangements, and more rigorous
procedures for appointments of judges. Strikingly too, the level of "Borrower commitment" throughout the
operation was unusually strong for Bank projects in Venezuela.
** The Project scored clear, notable gains in the areas needed by the country's judiciary to become
a more successful system. Within the Supreme Court, these included the reduction of delays in the
processing and publication of case results along with other instances of limited productivity, instilling a
service-oriented culture, innovating novel mechanisms for providing the public with ready access to the
Court, making its functioning more transparent, and creating a role for civic society involvement. These
developments which started at the top of the system led the way and facilitated the planning for similar
improvements in the lower courts.
- 12 -



Among the most distinctive of these were the elimination of the impediments which had obstructed the
publication of Court decisions. Before the Project, this took some seven years. With the Project, these
decisions are put on-line immediately after resolution and are also readily available at the Court's
information kiosks. The Court's judicial portal (www.tsj.gov.ve) recently won an award (lo mejor de punto
com) for being the best public sector website in Venezuela for the year 2001 (Section 10 Item C provides
some e-justice accomplishments). Similarly, the Court's annual case clearance rate increased substantially.
At appraisal, it was estimated to be about 4,300 p.a. By contrast, the Court decided 7,675 cases in 2000
and 8,842 in 2001. In the process, Court chambers disposed of cases which had not been resolved over
50-60 years.
** It aided the Court's measures to promote greater judicial accountability and integrity, which
would help to advance improved governance of the system. This led to sweeping anti-corruption measures
resulting in the dismissal of corrupt and other unqualified judges, along with strengthening procedures for
their oversight. It has been helping to introduce a judicial ethics code and career system, combined with
making the selection ofjudges more participatory and transparent. The court also increased its sector
responsibilities with the addition of the task of supervising the lower court system. It similarly undertook a
strong part in shaping sector policy, manifested in significant reforms in the penal code, family and child
protection laws and the procedures of labor courts. Other reforms may result from the Court's initiative
("Voices of the Poor" study) to call public attention to the problems disadvantaged persons face in trying to
obtain justice. On these accounts, the Project was applauded by civil society organizations that closely
follow justice reform issues, as well as international observers. It remains to be seen however whether the
still changing governing political conditions will affect these improvements.
** The Project also led the way to the Court's entries into entirely new, important ventures, e.g., a
pioneering Latin American court network, information and staff exchanges around the world, introducing
"e-justice" practices. These developments helped to make Venezuela's Court prominent globally in
knowledge-sharing.
* The Project's accomplishments demonstrate the benefits of a sharply focused, disciplined effort
to modemnize a relatively conservative institution through a clear strategy and highly participatory
management, abetted by strong strongly demonstrated desire for change from the Court's top management.
** Despite its lack of preparation for refornist efforts at the outset, the Court carried out chaange
management activities energetically and with conviction. New organizational arrangements and procedures
evolved; modem automated systems were integrated; and the Court recognized and began to work from its
"business processes." Performance monitoring and evaluation took hold with the systematic collection and
analysis of operational data, the conduct of special studies and the publication of results in Annual Reports.
The successful implementation of these reforms exceeded expectations.
In addition, the Project brought about more far reaching institutional improvements than were considered to
be feasible during project appraisal, and for a LEL to achieve. These are discussed in para. 4.3 on
"Institutional development impact."
All of the aforementioned actions were salutary accomplishments. Furthermore, while the judicial reform
effort is new, what was accomplished suggests promising grounds for substantial future improvements. At
the same time though, it merits noting that the overall Venezuelan judicial system was quite weak before the
Bank's interventions, and that there is little evidence of any very great differences since then in areas of
- 13 -



some significant deficiencies. Low income and other disadvantaged Venezuelans seeking justice do not
approach the courts, in fact are reported to give it little heed. This is partly attributed to the general public
belief that the system only serves, and in fact favors the privileged. Also, the lower court's restructuring
has not fully improved, and offers relatively meager prospects of enhancing, its service delivery in the
inmmediate future. Further, the start of the cleansing of unfit or otherwise inappropriate judges, although
symbolically good, is just a first step toward remedying the poor quality of the corps throughout its ranks.
And the 1999 re-direction of national policy regarding the judiciary has weakened its autonomy and ability
to provide needed check and balances within the Government. Clearly therefore, more needs to be done to
address these weaknesses.
In this connection, it should be borne in mind that neither of the two Bank projects have dealt with the kind
of policy changes needed for basic structural judicial reform. The Supreme Court PAD in fact explicitly
limited the Project's purpose to solely creating an impetus for such reform (which the LIL is judged to have
effectively done). More needs to be done on a broader scale in the future. In this connection, the results of
the "Voices of the Poor" survey (ref. Section 10) indicate that many citizens perceive numerous problems
impeding their access to effective, equitable justice services, some of which stem from deeply rooted
cultural attitudes in the Venezuelan society. The solutions to the issues they raise could be crucial to
improving the performance of the country's judiciary. Substantial efforts are thus called for.
ExDerience with LIL as a Lending Instrument. Some observations are:
a. The LIL enabled the Court to weave and flesh out the Project's goals and activities
progressively during loan implementation. If the project preparation team instead had tried to define its
design and components before loan approval as in traditional investment lending cases, it could have
created a much more rigid environment for its operations. For one, the consequences of the new
constitutional provisions could have been much harder to deal with. In the process therefore, the Project
confirmed one of the expected benefits of the creation of adaptable lending instruments: the expectation of
greater flexibility for adapting project design over time as borrower conditions and partnerships evolve.
b. The same flexibility also proved essential for the task feam's basic reliance on participatory
activities as the Project's main approach. It enabled the Court to communicate with and engage in wide
ranging contacts with disparate international as well as local institutions on sector issues.These provided
rich inputs for Court decisions on institutional and operational issues. The Project therefore might be a
leading case of a judicial reform initiative which was implemented through extensive participation from
government as well as civic entities.
c. Both of these verified the LIL's usefulness (especially in dealing with relatively conservative
organizations) to experiment with untried techniques for purposes of advancing innovations. This
opportunity was well exploited here. The LIL advanced changes in the Court's uses of its senior officials
for self diagnoses through participatory techniques. These assessments are probably less likely to have been
performed equally successfully otherwise.
d. The Project also sought to help explore the possibility of introducing greater diversity in judicial
services. But in the limited Project period and range of activity, less was achieved than desired in
stimulating the expansion of alternative dispute resolution resources. This is somewhat mitigated by the
fact that the substantially increased public information on Court decisions and working results provided the
basis for a more realistic picture of its products, and insights on how to deal with it. These could serve to
better empower its Venezuelan clients and guide other judicial service providers. This would be usefully
complemented by maintaining the Civil Society Unit's activities on an ongoing basis (as seems likely, ref.
- 14 -



para. 6.1).
e. The Project's achievements might also serve as a good example of applying the principle of
"making knowledge central to capacity building," another core objective of the creation of LILs. Its
considerable attention to workshops, networking and training seems to have paid dividends.
f. More should have been done for systematically evaluating the benefits of the Project-assisted
activities alongside of their implementation. This was comparatively neglected in the course of the work
undertaken on the Court's information systems and flows, in which it was left to a secondary place. Perhaps
this reflected problems in the management of the related contracts with the consultants involved and the
installation of the revised procedures and tools. Also, the sweeping organizational changes within the Court
after the constitutional revisions diverted attention from this issue. This shortfall should be remedied in
post-project implementation learning activities.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Project's institution-building features do not readily lend themselves to a precise calculation of rates of
return. However, the investment made could produce fiscal savings. The more efficient Court management
procedures introduced should lead to efficiency gains and improved performance, and in turn some lesser
operating costs.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
(ref. para. 4.3)
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Substantial. The Project is helping to modernize the Supreme Court in ways which should substantially
contribute to upgrading its effectiveness and efficiency over time. It also has been enhancing the Court's
capabilities to be the rector institution for the entire judicial system, as well as the provider of some of its
most essential services. The lower courts have already taken lessons from the Supreme Court's experiences.
Simultaneously, the Court also helped increase the importance of the country's civic organizations on
important sector issues. Moreover, the Court has helped Executive Branch and Legislative organizations
develop information systems. In all these respects, the Project made a useful contribution to meeting some
Venezuelans capacity- building needs. In addition, the Project added an extra dimension to the Court's
portfolio by helping to transform it into a global facility for information-sharing and stimulant for judicial
reform. For example, China, Chile, El Salvador, Guatemala, Russia, UK and others have learned from the
Court's ICT application. On these accounts, the Project's institutional development impact is judged
"Substantial."
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
None.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
From the outset of operations and until the end of 1999, the Government's commitment to and leadership of
the Project were exemplary. They were sustained and encompassed ample financial support and close
collaboration with the Bank. However, Venezuela's judiciary underwent significant changes following the
- 15-



new constitution adopted in December 1999 (ref. para. 4.2D). In their wake, the Project was somewhat
buffeted by factors beyond the control of Court officials. The most immediate effects were to cause
discontinuity in the position of the Supreme Court President and other key leaders. This resulted in some
delays and uricertainties but did not in fact impede the Project's completion or affect its accomplishments
adversely.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The aforementioned development at the end of 1999 brought about an important change affecting the
Court It incorporated the successor to the Judicial Council which became the Direccion Ejecutiva de la
Magistratura (DEM) under the Supreme Tribunal of Justice. This caused some workload pressures on the
Court staff responsible for managing the LEL, who then had to divert some resources for directing the last
stages of the (still ongoing) Infrastructure Project. Despite this, to an almost surprising extent, the Court's
direction of its modemization program remained steady and effective, as it did throughout virtually all of
the LIL's execution period.
This was demonstrated from the outset when the past Supreme Court President set up a senior staff
implementation team which ably assisted project activities during institutional changes and kept its
objectives focused. This high quality leadership was sustained by the present President and Justices, ably
abetted by technical consultants (local and intemational). To be sure, the Court officials encountered some
difficulties in maintaining strong management control of some consultant firms responsible for the main
Project components. However, these were unsurprising in a pilot venture of this type directed by a
relatively novice institution in organizational change, which was moreover operating under unfamiliar
(Bank) rules. Overall thus, the Supreme Court undertook demanding tasks and performed them very well.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The Project was executed at some 12% greater cost ($8.17 million) than forecast, primarily for more
advanced streamlining than had been planned of the Court's administration and management (ref. Annex 2).
To this end, the Govermment provided greater support for the Project than called for in the funding plan. In
this connection incidentally, Annex 2 fails to indicate the full sum actually spent for "Component C.
Supreme Court Decisions' Dissemination." That is because the related expenses were mostly covered under
the contracts which were primarily awarded for work related to Components A and B. Estimates indicate
that US$1.1 million was spent for Component C related activities.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Likely. The exploratory, somewhat experimental nature of several of the activities and the short period of
their operation during the project period make sustainability difficult to assess. But given that this is a
Leaming and Innovation Loan which was implemented on time, adopted a participatory approach
(engaging staff and NGOs) and spread over two govenmments (and Supreme Courts) there are more pros
than cons for its sustainability.
Some of the concerns pertain to constitutional reform. The 1999 constitutional changes and their aftermath
have generated problems regarding the future prospects for sector changes. Some of the present
Govenmment's measures have put some strains on the judiciary. They arguably have weakened Venezuela's
system of checks and balances, on which much of the judiciary's authority and autonomy depend. The then
President of the Supreme Court resigned in protest over the assumption of unlimited powers by the
- 16 -



constituent assembly, which the Court challenged. Then the Court itself was replaced by the TSJ which the
Assembly appointed. There are also questions about the implications of the creation of the new "Peoples
Branch" (consisting of the Attorney and Controller General, plus the Ombudsman). It is empowered to
issue instructions to the executive and legislative branches (in cases of corruption) and is responsible for
forwarding nominations of Supreme Court judges to the Congress.
There are also doubts over whether the administration's sector program reflects a national consensus on the
direction of the changes needed, as well as questions about its sustainability. These developments,
according to some of the civic organizations surveyed by the DCHR, are even said to have affected the
credibility of the Supreme Court. These concems raise doubts about the authorities' continued commitment
to the direction of the Project's accomplishments. It is questionable whether the consideration of any
further such reforms in the immediate future would find a "good fit" with the country's political conditions,
which have increased in volatility but the overall demand for judicial modernization remains high.
Nonetheless, the modernization of Supreme Court operations and administration that has emerged appear
likely to be sustainable. This is on account of severalfactors. The new systems and infrastructure seem
sufficiently well grounded to judge that it would be difficult to undo, reverse or abandon them. Especially
since the NGOs that worked with the Supreme Court over the last 4 years (1998-2002) continue to take a
closer look at the improvements in transparency and case handling efficiency. These NGOs (e.g. Consorcio
Justicia) continue to develop programs and activities with the Supreme Court through its civil society unit
created under the Project and now staffed by the Supreme Court. The justices are aware of the importance
and the continued need to engage civil society groups which are key factors in sustaining the Projects
accomplishments.
After the completion of the Project the Supreme Court has continued to expand citizen outreach and funded
workshops on women rights, access to justice, indigenous peoples's rights and children matters with Court's
budget, and partnership of donors and IDF resources. These citizen outreach activities are fully shared
through the website of the Supreme Court (www.tsi.gov.ve) which has been lauded by the citizen groups
and other users. There is an emerging consensus among the people interviewed that Supreme Court's
openness with publishing decisions online and setting up mechanisms to obtain timely information on the
operations of the court is a step in the right direction. Users have become accustomed to these services and
now expect them. Therefore, if the services are discontinued it would not be accepted by the citizens thus
ensuring sustainability.
In addition, the Supreme Court presently (in its new role as leading the Judicial Branch) has already begun
to oversee the automation of lower court operations similar to its own measures. This is apt to create
demands elsewhere in the country for further replication. The Court is also promoting the expansion of
public access to the judiciary. Both of these well orchestrated activities seem to present strong prospects for
continuity, although there are some disquieting signs now of reduced Government support under the current
financial situation. This suggests some reasonable prospects of locking in the changes in the judicial
system, as well as augmenting them.
The success of the Project's e-justice initiatives have been well recognized in local circles and lessons are
being shared at the lower courts level and with other institutions of government. The institutional-capacity
building measures aimed at streamlining case dissemination have led to an award "Lo major de punto com"
for the Courts website for the year 2001.
This was a LIL based on homegrown ideas spearheaded by the outgoing President of the Supreme Court
which were later promoted and implementation completed by the new authorities. This signifies the
- 17 -



importance and support with the internal core staff of the Court to strengthen the administrative capacities
and modernize.
Particularly with some additional assistance from local and international sources, it should be feasible to
maintain these improvements, extend them to the lower courts, and to mitigate the related risks. Moreover
as noted, strong public demand for judicial improvements is likely to remain in force, as well as the
increased presence of civic groups in the sector.
These cross-cutting factors, as indicated, do not permit a clear picture of the prospects for sustainability.
Nonetheless, taking all these considerations into account, this review concludes that those prospects must
be judged closer to "likely" than a negative rating. To be sure, the present political cast and trends
discussed above are not auspicious. However, the fact is that the Tribunal has successfully weathered
those forces over the almost three years since the constitutional changes. The institutional capacity
improvements which the Project brought about have not been disrupted or reversed, and there are not now
any indications of those occuring.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Supreme Court leadership is reported to be considering the preparation of a follow-up project targeted
to future needs (ref. para. 6.1). It is in addition contemplating embarking on a sorely needed program to
enhance the quality of instruction and preparation of Venezuelan judges, which is also required in
connection with their new recruitment. These would usefully complement the other measures needed to
provide better quality service to the population.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Hinhlv Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the preparation-appraisal phase was of a high order. It
correctly judged the requirements, consensus and momentum for judicial reform within Venezuela,
notwithstanding the sparsity of sector analyses. It was especially energetic and imaginative in generating
interest among Court Judges and senior staff in organizing and launching this pilot activity. The task team
also successfully collaborated with private groups in shaping their more active roles in sector matters.
Similarly, it helped improve the Government's appreciation of the concerns of civil society and its potential
aid in facilitating change. These and other aspects of the task team's performance led the Court to commend
it for seeking to promote change without imposing preconceived or rigid ideas.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Bank supervision requirements were fully met. Implementation difficulties were quickly
identified and resolved collaboratively with the Borrower. The latter's representatives however felt that
somewhat more should have been done to expedite agreement on procurement proposals. Some consultants
employed by the Bank to provide advice, they 'also said, were not very helpful. The task team maintained
consistently close communications with the Court and involvement in helping to solve operating problems,
which the Borrower felt were generally well managed.
The Resident Mission as well played a useful supporting role throughout in providing advice and follow-up
on implementation activities. It also helped to maintain close communication with the various civil society
groups so as to sustain an appreciation of their concerns and their input in project implementation. But
- 18 -



neither the task team nor the Resident Mission were very successful in seeing that monitoring and
evaluation activity received full attention, as at least the former should have. This was perhaps due to the
impact of the tumultuous constitutional changes on project implementation and provision of supervision
resources.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Highly Satisfactory in view of the quality of the Project's preparation and its accomplishments.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Highlv Satisfactorv. The Court's participation in the analysis and preparation of the LIL was particularly
impressive in the light of its limited familiarity with such activities and its readiness to assume their tasks.
Its assessment of sector problems and imaginative views on their remediation were commendable. The
Court officials, including its key judges, assumed "ownership" of the Project readily and relatively rapidly.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The Government's commitment to and support of the Project were largely quite strong, and
as noted, substantially superior to their levels on other Bank-assisted projects in the country. It provided the
requisite counterpart funding and approval of administrative actions in a timely and effective manner The
Govemnment's actions overall are considered to have demonstrated a positive and forward looking attitude
towards the desired judicial reform, although there was some deterioration in this support toward the end of
the project period (with the change in govemment).
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Court's project and IT units merit particularly high praise for their work. The latter performed
especially well in bringing about probably the most advanced, complete element of the nascent Court
modernization which the Project supported. The project unit, under the able guidance of the Court's
Administrative Director, provided good quality leadership, coordination and supervision of implementation
actions, as well as sound managerial judgment. This was especially commendable given the project unit's
somewhat excessive turnover rate during the project period and the relative inexperience of its junior staff.
This was performed particularly admirably after the constitutional changes, which led the Administrative
Director and the project unit to become heavily involved in the absorption of the responsibilities for the
Infrastructure Project, as well as DEM's integration. The project unit gained substantial expertise during
the LIL's implementation in contracting goods and services, as well as supervising their suppliers, which
helped produce good quality works and technical services. This competence was especially advantageous
over the last year with both the Infrastructure Project's phaseout activities and the wrap-up of the Court
Project.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:.
Hiehlv Satisfactory on balance (ref. paras. 7.4-7.5)
8. Lessons Learned
a. For judicial reform:
(i) Efforts to successfully assist judicial reform processes may require holistic, carefully sequenced
-19-



measures in order to deal with the sometimes closed nature and other characteristics of some-judiciaries.
The process might also involve winning the collaboration of diverse stakeholders and other concerned
groups. For these purposes, continuing research and learning would be useful for plumbing the nature of
the inherent problems and guiding the changes needed for their solutions.
(ii) Judicial reform efforts may also require a multi-faceted program. In this Venezuelan case, court and
political leaders initially sought assistance for buildings, computers and training. But not all envisioned (let
alone immediately supported) the behavioral changes needed to make judicial output more efficient,
predictable, equitable and subject to transparent rules.
(iii) Forcefully and transparently addressing problems of corruption among judges and court staff can make
a substantial contribution to judicial reform, especially in countries where justice services are poor and
inequitable. The Venezuelan authorities followed the Constitutional changes with measures to discharge
judges who had been fairly criticized, televised proceedings on selection of new judges, and tightened
disciplinary standards and activities.
b. For reform-oriented efforts in general:
(i) It is helpful in uncertain project environments to demonstrate progress early on since such elements as
information technology installations may not be clearly understood. This can tend to produce doubts about
the reforn processes per se. In the Venezuelan case, the Court management set up its Website early on in
order to try to ward off such negative reactions. It had the advantages of being designed and built totally
in-house, as well as providing information on Court activities much wanted by the staff. This also
demonstrated an adroit use of resources to address direct interests of project participants.
(ii) As a "global knowledge institution," the World Bank can creatively use its contacts and expertise to
involve others in partnership-and capacity-building for reform initiatives. The Project demonstrated that
the organization of visits to "good practice" locations around the world and global networking can help to
better inform judicial and civil society leaders. It also promoted teamwork among individuals who had not
collaborated previously.
(iii) Distributing computer equipment simultaneously and as soon as practicable to all staff scheduled to
receive them may help avert problems of staff frictions (in the event of more phased distribution). This
applies particularly to situations in which information technology is being introduced for the first time, and
the acquisition of workstations may be equated with status symbols. In this Venezuelan case, the Court
management wisely circumvented these problems by having all workstations installed within a short time in
a single operation (preceded by familiarization training).
(iv) Involving an "NGO unit" in a project implementing agency can help build bridges with skeptical civil
society groups, as well as develop solutions for difficult problems (e.g., obtaining adequate budget
resources). It can also contribute to creating a "demonstration effect" at the top for others to emulate.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
There follows the English translation of a letter from the Supreme Court President. The original SRanish
text is contained in the project file.
"Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
-20 -



Supreme Court
Office of the President
Caracas, February 21, 2002
Mr. Olivier Lafourcade
Country Director, Colombia, Mexico, Venezuela
Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
World Bank
Dear Mr. Lafourcade:
I am responding to an invitation from the Bank, extended through a mission that visited last
January, to provide you with comments on the Supreme Court Modernization Project, carried out by this
institution with assistance from the World Bank. These comments are aimed at underscoring a number of
points which, in my view, can be mentioned in the Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
The Supreme Court of the Republic of Venezuela [Corte Suprema de Justicia de la Repuiblica de
Venezuela], which has been restructured and renamed the Tribunal Supremo de Justicia, fulfilled all the
obligations assumed under the Loan Contract for the Project. These obligations were clearly outlined in the
activities covered in the Modernization Project. Through its implementation, we think that it can be stated,
with a fair degree of certainty, that the Supreme Court now enjoys a good reputation in Venezuela, because
of the different innovative methods and procedures implemented in recent years. Also, we think that the
Court has won greater support from the Government of Venezuela as a result of the activities carried out
under the Project.
The foregoing points are especially important in the context of the specific situation prevailing in
the Venezuelan justice system at the start of Project execution. Our justice system was not held in
sufficiently high esteem by the public and in other circles. This was the result of problems that impeded the
functioning of the Judiciary, which were compounded by the volatile social situation, which in turn led to
insecurity in both the personal and legal spheres. Against that backdrop, the improvements resulting from
the Project have served to remedy past failures in a timely and effective manner.
Because the gains of the Project are so numerous and diverse, it is not possible to describe them in
detail here. We do, however, think that they merit special attention, given the fact that the loan amou-nt and
defined objectives of the Project were fairly modest. For this reason, we can legitimately state that the
objectives of the Project were fulfilled in a manner that far exceeded expectations, and that based on the
results, the experiment was a successful one.
I think it equally important to mention the fact that as a result of execution of the Project, the
Court has undergone sweeping change. This institution is now much more open, better integrated, and
more oriented towards effectiveness and efficiency than it was at the start of the Project. It is now much
more committed to communication of its decisions and fulfillment of its obligations to the Venezuelan
society that it serves.
Apart from its improved management in a national context, I think that the Supreme Court has won
international recognition for its pioneering work, from which other judicial systems in Latin America and
Europe have benefited, through the exchange of information. This constitutes another noteworthy effect of
the Project.
- 21 -



We have read the preliminary version of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). We agree
with its contents and would like to express our appreciation for the objective comments related to our
achievements outlined in this document.
In light of the progress made, I would like to thank your institution for the technical and financial
assistance provided during execution of the Modernization Project. The support that we have received
from you has been very positive and constructive.
Lastly, I would like to inform you that we stand ready to forge ahead with the process ofjudicial
reform and strengthening of our First Instance Courts, based on the current corporate plan. We would like
to continue our partnership with the World Bank, with a view to the sound implementation of these
initiatives, and, in that regard, we hope to obtain further technical and financial assistance, through a new
Project, which will focus on improving access to the justice system and transparency, in order to strengthen
and consolidate definitively the Venezuelan Judiciary. This is motivated by our desire to fulfill the mandate
set forth in the new Venezuelan Constitution and to foster our economic and social development.
Very truly yours,
lsl Dr. Ivan Rinc6n Urdaneta
President
[Supreme Court stamp]"
An additional statement from the Borrower read as follows:
"i. The modemization of the Supreme Court is very important for the country because it augments
confidence in the Judicial Branch by demonstrating that one of its representative elements is being
reformed.
ii. The modemization of the Supreme Court, traditionally considered archaic and distant, could provide an
important stimulus for other elements of the public sector.
iii. Attempting to modemize the Supreme Court has greater possibilities of success than trying to
modernize the entire Judicial Branch in having fewer and better trained personnel and in addressing a
specific problem. It could provide the seed thus for modemizing the total judicial system.
iv. It is important to systematize all work processes before their automatization, and to have a clear
organizational and functional model before installing a case management system.
v. Installing a new organizational and functional model in the Court chambers should be simultaneous with
installing related case management and documentation systems. It is very complicated to change the staffs
working practices with installing an information system that requires them to follow prescribed routes.
vi. Delegating the Justices' tasks to other functionaries, particularly those of a management nature, was
key to achieving greater efficiency since they have been excessively centralized. To this end, it is necessary
to identify capable managers and to introduce information systems that facilitate management controls.
vii. It is fundamental in these projects to involve a group of functionaries that follow Justices and Judges in
hierarchy since the latter have little time and the former really manage the institutions.
viii. It is important that the leader of the institution be committed to the planned change since their
- 22 -



functionaries always have doubts about these changes and about the confidentiality of judicial information
with the introduction of new technologies.
ix. It is necessary to sensitize the staff, and to stress the imperatives for administering justice more
efficiently, in order to break resistance to change, so that the personnel understand that they can provide
judicial services efficiently and compatibly with other mechanisms which would be superior.
x. General modernization lessons are that: (a) It is fundamental that an institution's main persons
participate in these projects. (b) It is necessary that information about these projects be provided to
external entities. (c) "Learning by doing" is an important element of these activities for the flexibility
required to achieve changes in the modernization process. There should not be any effort to impose one
"perfect solution", which might be seen as having always served or functioned in other countries. What is
important is having clear goals and the means to achieve them. (d) It is necessary to have a vision of the
future of the institution to be modernized, bearing in mind not only what it will be immediately after the
reform but also over the longer term and in keeping with the country's integrated future perspective. (e)
Changes are adopted gradually in order to avoid friction between the old and the new. (f) It is necessary to
demonstrate some tangible results as early as possible, even if they are less integral for the desired final
products. (g) Endowing an institution with new technology should be a project feature but it also should
held advance important institutional changes. (h) During project execution, it is important to stimulate
good motivation among the functionaries of the institution. First, raise their salaries, followed by providing
for their active participation in courses, travel and analyses of others' experiences in modernization so that
they can " learn to innovate." (i) The use of global knowledge was fundamental in the Venezuelan case
because this was the first national project of this type, and it was therefore impossible to copy other local
experiences."
(b) Cofinanciers:
Spain, USAID, and UNDP collaborated in knowledge sharing activities.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
A statement from one of the leading iustice sector NGOs.
"Mr. Waleed Malik
The World Bank
Washington, DC
February 28, 2002
Dear Mr. Malik,
On behalf the Civil Association Consorcio Justicia, and I believe reflecting the views of fellow
non-governmental organizations (Alianza Social por la Justicia), here and have worked very hard with the
court. I welcome this opportunity to express some comments on the Bank assisted "Supreme Court
Modernization Project," recently completed here.
Thanks to effective execution of well designed provisions of the Project, the private groups
interested in this judicial system has been able to both observe and communicate their views regarding the
Court's activities far better than before. For this purpose, the greater accessibility of information on the
Magistrates' decisions and other particulars about the Court is a major improvement. Almost in and of
itself, we see this change as an indication of the accomplishment of the Project's goals.
Partly because of this greater transparency, I believe that the Project has helped to create greater
-23 -



trust and confidence between our groups and the Court. In turn, this has enabled us to play a larger role,
for example, in pressing for legislative ad policy changes on important justice issues. However much more
remains to be done. I hope therefore that there will be further measures taken to enable civic groups and
non-governmental organizations to strengthen their participation with the courts. Additional actions to
upgrade the quality of judges are also needed at the lower court level. Advances in transparency have been
made very possible with the use of other technology by the Court and its administration services
In addition, I believe that the many changes which the Project and independent Court actions have
stimulated have had a material impact on the substances of its decisions and sentences. There is a general
sentiment here that there are qualitative improvements. In this connection, we are pleased to see that the
rationale for decisions is now being explicitly set out by the Court's Chambers.
Finally, despite the Project's concentration on our highest court, I consider that it made an
important contribution to identifying and to publicizing improving access to legal services. We have been
especially interested in expanding the role of the justices of the peace and dispute resolution methods at
local level, and hope this approach can be enhanced. We also think that it is a good opportunity to increase
civil society participation in the justice system.
Sincerely,
/s/ Carlos Ponce Silen
Director General
Consorcio Justicia"
10. Additional Information
This section provides background information on (a) the TEPUY  I Management System (software for
modernized court management and support system); (b) the survey "voices of the poor" regarding access to
justice; and (c) the impacts of e-justice initiatives in Venezuela (News article dated June 18, 2002).
A. "TEPUY XXI MANAGEMENT SYSTEM"
Obiectives. It is an IT based Management and Documentation System designed to provide support to the
Organizational Model of the Judiciary. The System provides (a) support for the follow-up of cases, making
it possible for cases to be registered and updated, and for court proceedings to be easily managed, (b) helps
coordinate the activities of the Judicial Support Offices and the offices that handle court proceedings; and
(c) generates multiple documents that range from management monitoring reports, to interactive forns, and
reports on judicial statistics. When compared to traditional manual methods and non-integrated systems,
the use of TEPUY XXI Management System optimizes the jurisdictional function, facilitates access to
information and transparency, and streamlines the administration of the courts.
-24 -



Salient Features. The TEPUY XV Management System includes productivity tools that make it possible,
among other things, to circulate interactive documents facilitating case processing. This enables, for
instance, the automatic updating and integration of the information provided in documents relating to cases
stored in the database, the insertion of paragraphs from multiple sources, and the automatic feedback of
information to the databases, which are automatically updated. One example of interactive document is the
notification slip: the judicial operator can select the persons to be notified from a preexisting list, generated
when the case was first registered, and choose the document format from a pre-defined format menu. The
Management System will insert, where appropriate, the personal details of the individuals concemed and
print the required document.
As the above suggests, the creation of documents is not an entirely automatic process. Someone has to
decide for whom, how, when and what the document is intended, but the information does not have to be
entered each time a document is required. Once the information exists in the database, it need then only be
selected. Documents that have been created and circulated, once they have been approved and signed by a
judge, are automatically registered in the System. As cases proceed through the courts, information is
progressively entered in the database, which can then be used to compile the Daily Log of proceedings.
One important difference between the new System and traditional methods is that it precludes the necessity
of writing down in the records book each and every one of the proceedings of a given court as they take
place, since these are automatically "captured" by the system and entered into the database. That
information is then readily available when it comes to compiling court records or other statistical
documents. Another significant advantage of the new system is the standardization of official court
documents. The fact that the system incorporates pre-defined codes and formats, such as court orders,
registration forms and bulletins for court proceedings, allows for a greater uniformity of working methods
across the different courts. In this respect, the System is designed to streamline the operations of every one
of the Judicial Support Offices because its activities are adapted to and coordinated with the Procedural
System that already exists in each court.
-25 -



TEPUYXX7 offers the possibility of configuring System warnings to alert judicial operators to the elapsing
of intervals in judicial processes, thus ensuring that decisions are made efficiently and in a timely manner.
These alarms can be configured according to the sequences and intervals of certain procedures, docket
notes, writs awaiting response, the legal standing of defendants etc. The System also provides information
on the respective case loads of judicial operators, thus enabling the rationalization of task distribution.
Also, among its many functions, the System offers the possibility of launching searches according to
categories. There are examples of a wide range of possible searches that can be launched by specifying
either the legal entity involved, the participants or parties, specific cases, decisions, proceedings etc., either
individually or in combination. Searches can also be defined according to temporal intervals (dates of first
appearance, of deadlines, of change of status), the personal details of parties or participants, the type of
intervention they perform (defendants, witnesses, experts, respondents, plaintiffs, etc.), phase, status,
jurisdiction etc. The System has the capability of automatically generating statistical reports and reports on
the functioning of the courts. It is custom-designed for the needs of the judicial operators. Its development
was based on the computerized Judicial Management System SEINSIR  Seintex adapted to the specific
needs of the Supreme Court's Chambers. Technologically it is accessible via telecommunication networks,
adaptable for nationwide application and modifiable to include new features.
B. 'VOICES OF THE POOR' SURVEY FINDINGS
The basic purpose of the "Voices of the Poor" study was to obtain a qualitative assessment of the
perceptions of the justice system from lower income Venezuelan citizens. This effort to look at the "demand
side" of problems of access to judicial services was intended to identify proposals for policy and procedural
changes in the judiciary, as well as to raise awareness of these issues among disadvantaged and other
community groups.
For these purposes, researchers and Venezuelan NGOs administered questionnaires to 212 persons and
interviewed several persons residing in poor rural communities in Barquisemeto and Barcelona. These
communities were chosen with the provisos that they included residents classified as "economically
marginal" and were relatively close to justice sector institutions. In the actual sample of those surveyed, the
majority had incomes below the poverty line.
The survey sought to evaluate the judicial or legal culture of poorer Venezuelans. Its results are considered
to reflect the factors that condition their access to justice, including the attitudes predisposing these
Venezuelans' uses of these services. The results included:
*   The persons surveyed reflected a strong perception of a basic distinction between private and public
matters and spheres. They indicated a possibly general view that the boundary between the two
should-and does-determiine whether or not Venezuelans turn to justice sector services for settlement of
claims or disputes. Those issues which are considered personal in nature are popularly considered to
not be subject to state intervention or assistance. Strikingly, this attitude is not affected by whether the
individual knows--or is ignorant of the fact--that there is legal machinery to address or assist in the
matter in 4uestion. This has been interpreted as reflecting a deeply rooted cultural preference to keep
"private" spheres solely within the ambit of family relations. Another assessment is that civil rights in
Venezuela are not seen as "given" and not guaranteed by the state.
*   Those surveyed indicate that the population generally does not make great use of public sector
institutions responsible for administering justice. For example, only 5 percent of the respondents
- 26 -



correctly identified courts as appropriate institutions for addressing matters which they ought to handle,
e.g., murders, domestic violence.
*   Knowledge of laws and institutions varied slightly according to class. There were only marginally
different results between the target group and a middle class control group. Knowledge differences
between persons with varied educational background were less than anticipated (about 23 percent with
primary education versus about 37 percent for those who completed secondary education). On the other
hand, members of community womens' groups were highly knowledgeable about gender-related issues.
*   The vast majority of respondents do not believe the judiciary is sovereign and independent, or free from
economic influence. This perception is particularly pronounced among the middle class, and individuals
with the highest educational background are the most critical of the judiciary. The survey's most
pronounced opinion was that the rich are favored in the administration of justice.
*   Justice sector services are not seen as overly inefficient, with 46 percent of the respondents having
favorable views of the courts. Respondents who had direct contact with their services were generally
more positive than those with only second hand experiences.
*   Respondents were generally aware of the location of sector institutions. But the proximity of courts or
other service institutions is not an indicator of the degree of their usage (travel time to courts are not
disincentives to their uses). Proximity is thus less significant in influencing the poor's access to their
services than other factors. One of the latter appears to be the social and cultural distances separating
potential users from these institutions, for example, involving the technicality of legal language. The
manner in which lawyers treat their clients was also found to be an index of peoples' predisposition to
use court services. Here too, respondents with actual experiences with lawyers differed substantially
(being much more favorable towards them) than the general public opinion about lawyers.
*   Some 65 percent perceive that lawyers are expensive, a factor of primary importance in deciding
whether or not to embark on legal procedures.
- 27 -



C. NEWS ARTICLE DATED JUNE 18, 2002
E-Justice in Venezuela
High-impact projects: technology-driven judicial reform
June 18, 2002-In 1997, the Bank introduced Learning and Innovaton Loans (LIL) to provide a small,
flexible source of funding for testing new solutions in difficult, but promising developmental sectors.
Completion earlier this year of the first LIL-the Venezuela Supreme Court Modernization
Project-showcased the tremendous potential of technology-driven judicial reform. By streamlining and
automating case handing and reporting systems, the Court eliminated multi-year backlogs that had
hampered its efficiency and had ultimately eroded public confidence in the institution.
The Supreme Court of Venezuea In Carcas
Information and Communications Technology, when strategically engaged, has often proven to be
effective in improving institutional reforms and enhancing their impact. In planning its own
modemization, Venezuela's judiciary could emulate recent examples from Finland, Singapore, and
Canada, where the tactical use of electronic tools has increased public access to justice, improved court
administration, and brought an overall higher level of efficiency to the justice system.
The centerpiece of the Venezuelan project is the Courts website (www.tsi.Qov.ve), more accurately
called a 'portal' for its transactional abilities. It currently enjoys more than 130,000 monthly visits, mainly
by lawyers and law scholars, and at year's end won PC News & Report's coveted to mejor de. com award
for being the best government !ntemet page in Venezuela.
- 28 -



N       -
The Court's head of Information Technology, Ricardo Jlmenez, holds Venezuela's prestigious lo major de.com award
In creating the site as part of the strategy for judicial reform, the court concentrated heavily on
consultations with potential user groups, and continues to invite suggestions directly on the site through
discussion groups and survey opportunities. The result is a portal that is now in its third iterabon,
highlighted by up-to-the-minute publication of decisions, background materials, and a secure area for
parties involved in cases to file paperwork and track actions. In fact, lawyers can sign up on the site to be
notified automatically via e-mail or cell phone when developments in their cases occur.
A website is one way that the Supreme Court of Venezuela is using 'Technogy for Judiclal Excellence.'
While client orientation and high functionality are essential to the site, the resounding message in its
success is clearly that content is king. In winning the lo mejor de. com award, the Supreme Court notably
beat out Venezuela's Ministry of Science and Technology, the body that sets IT policy for the
country-basically, the judicial information being issued by the Court is of more daily importance.
Herein lies the challenge: daily importance requires daily maintenance. So, one of the most important
first steps in the automation plan was to guarantee a pragmatic approach to change management with
regards to the court's employees-the people responsible for generating and entering the information.
More than training, they required a clear and convincing message that they would be benefactors of
systemization as opposed to victims. After all, many automation projects are ultimately scuttled by poor
use in an employee community fearful that a good system leads to job cuts.
On the other side of the content coin sit the users. Venezuela, like many Latin American countries, is
privileged in this respect. Quality telephony means that the Intemet is a reliable resource. The lawyers
and scholars who represerit the bulk of the portal's users enjoy nearly 100 percent access to the Internet
between them, and the population in general has relatively high levels of connectivity. For those without
access, the Supreme Court hosts three free public information centers.
According to Ricardo Jimenez, the Supreme Court of Venezuela's head of IT, trust in the Internet was
something that had to be earned, though. "Many of our users went through a process of comparing
information from our site to printed documents for quite some time before they could build up sufficient
confidence in what we had published," he explained. "But, the battle was definitely won."
-29 -



Still, it may seem a bit unbelievable that a simple, standard approach to IT produced such exceptional
results in the Court. There are certainly numerous examples-several in Latin America-of sizable
investments in the sector that have failed to bring justice any closer to the people, notes Richard
Messick, Co-director of PREM's Legal Institutions Thematic Group.
It's clear to Lead Economist, Marcelo Giugale, that much of the project's success was derived from the
fact that the Court initiated the reform process itself and then sought the Bank's participation. "The most
effective way to achieve development impact is to catalyze and build on the reform ideas of the
counterpart. Our professional challenge is to generate client commitment, not to impose conditions,"
Giugale explains.
Bank Senior Counsel Luba Beardsley reinforced the point: "Clients often perceive the Bank's
recommendations as being forced lending conditions, and courts in particular tend to be conservative
and overly protective of existing systems. This project featured a very different approach in that the Bank
team went halfway in its policy analysis and then introduced the technology. In tum, the Supreme Court
of Venezuela completed a set of procedures to match the automated environment," she says.
Previous to beginning the project, the Supreme Court was a paper-only institution. With the exception of
30-odd computers for occasional word processing, the organization had no computing infrastructure
whatsoever. While other organizations battle with the cost and complexity of converting outdated
systems into updated ones, the Court was essentially able to build its technical environment, including a
network of more than 1,000 computers, around the scalable needs of its case handling system and the
Internet portal. "The strategy was essentially to build the capacity to transform the Supreme Court into a
knowledge institution that can respond to the needs of the public," explains Court President, Ivan Rinc6n
Urdaneta.
Now is the time for next steps. Similar projects are being developed for judicial outlets in the country's 22
states, with the Supreme Court leading by example. The Bank is eagerly involved in the effort, as well as
in similar start-up loans in Argentina, Columbia, El Salvador, Slovakia, and Guatemala.
Senior Public Sector Management Specialist, Waleed Malik, is Team Lead for the Venezuela project. "In
the case of Venezuela, the main facets of institutional development have been organizational
streamlining, professional development, and community outreach. The combined effect is what users
see as the improvements seamlessly integrated by technology," he says. "Technology is no longer just a
component of what we do in Bank projects - it's an enabling factor for success and, in the case of justice
systems, it's the support structure for significant change and promote the rule of law," Malik sums up.
Bank's World Today thanks ISG's Paul Crystal for contnbuting this article.
-30 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndIcaiorALdatrix                  Projected In last PSR        - .     ActuallLatest Estimate
A. IMPROVING COMMUNICATIONS,         None of the indicators shown in the left hand
POLICY RESEARCH AND QUALITY          column were amended.
ASSURANCE
a. Better communications with users,                                      - The Civil Society Unit opened the Court to
stakeholders and other dvic groups                                        far greater public accessibility. It also
increased contacts with civic interest groups
on judicial and legal issues.
- These actvities, along with the Courts new
Website and collaboration with the NGOs
and like civic organizatons, are reported to
have improved its reputation in tenrns of
public sector performance.
- Court management and staff are now
credited with being better infornned on, and
rnore sensitive to, citizens' concems about
the judiciary.
- The Court-encouraged umbrella "Alianza
Social Para a Justicia" NGO mobilized
public opinion to promote solutions cf
pressing legal and judicial problems. Its
members collectively consitute a better
organized, more influental public
spokesperson on proposed legislation etc.
than did individual NGOs.
- These activities have helped NGOs provide
more substantial inputs to judicial reforms.
"Alianza" members, for example, helped
advance the consttutional amendment which
assures the Court of minimum 2% of natonal
budgets.
- The Website provides Internet users data
on new decisions, other Court acfivifties and
new laws and judicial developments. The
Court's infornation center provides citizens
who lack Intemet access the same data. Its
"Oficina de Orientacion Ciudadano" provides
ci6tzens data on their legal rights. In additon,
each Court Chamber now has persons to
attend to pubric queries.
- The award-winning Website, now fully
operative, has been well received by users
and commended by IT specialists.
- The Website has been used to create a
virtual network ("IUDICIS") for Supreme
Courts and other btibunals in La6n America
and elsewhere for sharing knowiedge on
udicial matters, for which Venezuela is the
hub.
- Annual Court report is being published in a
more tmely manner.
b. Benter research on the administration of                                - A budget study provided useful input for
- 31 -



jusbice related to the Courts policy agenda                             the Courfs changes, as well as benchmarks
and formulation                                                          on Court operations. Also, caseload investory
and profiles were prepared.
B. IMPROVING CASE MANAGEMENT
a. Creation of more effient procedures for                               - The Court now is operating with more
case management and preparation of                                       effectve procedures for managing caseflow.
decisions                                                                - It now also has tools for measuring the
productivity of justices and secretaries in
case managerment, which is being rmonitored
weekly. This is enabling the Court to better
attend to its productivity and case delay
problems.
- The Court is now assigning cases for
decisions to different Chambers more
systematically and expeditiously, taking into
account their respective numbers of cases
pending and disposed of.
- These changes together with those
emanating from the new computerized
systems have provided an important
"demonstrabon effect" for judicial reform
inidatives.
- The technology for automated case
processing, now fully operative, facilitates
b. Introduction of automatzed systems for                                more effecbve, efficient and transparent
maintaining a reference database and for                                 management than did the previous manual
management                                                               methods. "TEPUY X)X( software permits
the electronic production of interactive
documents, integrabon of informaton and the
automatc capture of infomiabon once it has
been entered into the system.
- Case decisions made are posted daily to,
and are available online from, the Website.
- Case processing times have already begun
to decline. So these improvements would
appear to offer positive prospects for helping
reduce the Court's extensive case backlogs
onoe the changes are fully implemented and
integrated. However, other factors may lirit
the full realizabon of these prospects.
C. IMPROVING DISSEMINATION OF
COURT DECISIONS
a. More systematic, bmely pubcatbon of                                   - The new Court procedures and technology
Court decisions                                                           have accelerated the publicabon of its
decisions. These changes would eliminate
the botleneck under the previous procedure
of printing decisions in the "Gaceta Florence'
publication. Besides the immediate postng
of decisions made on the Website, this data
is available from the Courfs informaion
kiosks and the Courts newsletter. This
accomplishment exceeded the Projects
target of completion of a study on
improvement opbons.
b. Archiving and making the Courfs existing                              - The new technology also has enabled
-32 -



ursprudence more readily available                                       records of past decisions (some from year
1999 but fully beginning with 2000) to be
stored digitally in the Courts data system.
This exceeded the Projects target of
establishing a program for organizing
historical records. The record of past
decisions is also now more readily available
to the public.
D. UPGRADING ADMINISTRATIVE AND
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
a. Establishing more efficient procedures                                 - In contrast with previous Court
procedures, TEPUY XXI" provides more
modem administrative support systems,
particularty in the area of personnel and
financial management. The IT system
enables all professional staff to perform word
processing and communicate by e-mail.
- The intemal network enables integrated
solutions for court govemance by
administrative offices. It also connects Court
chambers for better infomation flow and
administrative operabons.
- Financial, human resource and case
management systems have been launched
successfully and obtained a high level of
users satistaction.
- These developments were accompanied by
important procedural changes, e.g., the
introduction of "cost center" budgeting.
b. Reorganizing-the administrative structure                              - New and customized organizational and
and human resource management                                             administrative manuals were prepared for
usage in various chambers.
- Guidelines were prepared for the Courts
c. Clarfying the hierarchy of positons and                                oversight functions.
their responsibilities                                                    on
d. Deployment of telecommunications, other                                - Computer and telecommunications
equieployment of telecommumcations other                                  equipment installed connect the majority of
equipffment                                                               Court judges and administrative offices.
- Judicial and administrative staff were
e. Upgrading staffs capabilities                                         trained in the new systems, as well as given
operatons and language training.
f. Building monitoring and evualuaon                                      - The Courrs new management information
capabilibes                                                               system provides a mechanism and some
performance targets for M&E activity.
Additonal training is needed in infomation
analysis and statstics.
E. OTHER
- 33 -



a. Leaming how to best involve user and vil                              - The Courts aforemenboned workshops
society groups in enhancing the judiciary's                              and Its civil society unis activibes helped to
performance.                                                            identify, publicize and disseminate valuable
examples of engaging users and public
interest groups in judicial reform issues.
These matters induded justices of peace,
public defenders and altemative dispute
resolubon mecahnisms.
- The Court spearheaded and led the
b. Leaming through information sharing.                                  implementation of the IUDICIS network for
Iberoamerican courts. This enables the
sharing of informaton useful for guiding
judicial reform efforts
- The Court also succesfuly completed the
organizaton of the First and Second
Summits of Presidents of the Supreme
Courts of Latin American countries.
- It arranged information sharing and
leaming visits to courts of Argentina, Brazil,
Costa Rica, Singapore, Spain, UK and USA.
Output Indicators:
~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   A    ?Z . 0"nc                                 alfltes    stmUt
A. COMMUNICATIONS, POLICY
RESEARCH AND QUALITY ASSURANCE
a. Reorganize the Courts information office                              - Created Civil Society Unit (CSU) and
and prepare a communications plan.                                       reorganzed the Courts Press Office and
organized mneeting with NGOs.
- Established the "Gerencia de la
Participacion de la Sociedad Civil" and
communicatons and research mechanisms.
- Produced reports on the results of public
opinion surveys regarding the performance of
Venezuela's judicial institubons.
- CSU helped initiate the 'Voices of the
Poor' study on disadvantaged groups' limited
access to justice (a "Development
Marketplace" award winner).
- Created Supreme Court units to help
citizens gain direct access to data on judicial
activibes, legal issues, legal rights, etc. The
new Website facilitates this function as well.
- Installed kiosks for public information
purposes in the Court facilities.
- The Court chartered individual studies to
investigate the subjects on the policy agenda
b. Establish and operate a policy research                               for this sub-component
group to study various judicial questions
- The group's establishment was delayed
until the Courts assumption of responsibility
c. Conduct a quality assurance group                                     for administraton of the lower courts, which
focused on improving lower courts'                                       resolved a dispute over this function.
performance.                                                             Meanwhile, an ad hoc group was formed and
-34 -



completed an inventory of pending cases,
which was published in a Court Annual
Report
B. CASE MANAGEMENT
a. Install more effective and efficient                                  - Consultants undertook a study on
procedures for case handling and its                                     improving case management It
management                                                               recommended and the Court implemented
new, more efficient procedures which were
mandated for the Chambers.
- As defined in new manuals, each Chamber
must now direct its case processing under a
uniform system for locabng case files, fixing
case numbers and other identifying details.
Each must now document case decisions
under standard formats.
- Each Chamber now has units of
management control, which produce data on
the number of cases being received, being
dedded and pending, as well as comparable
indicators. This has led to weekly monitoring
reports on different Chambers' workloads
and outputs.
- The Court also established a pool of
attomeys in each Chamber, tasked to speed
case processing by preparing decisions for
the more routine, simpler matters.
- The Court established the aforementioned
Website, public information kiosks and
b. Develop public information service on the                              individual Chamber units concemed with this
current status of case processing.                                        funcUon.
- The Court successfully conducted basic
staff training in administrative techniques and
c. Train staff in revised intemal procedures.                             use of information technology related to case
managernnt.
- Supreme Court offices spaces were
remodeled to accomodate new automated
d. Strengthen the Court justices' offices.                                work methods.
C. DISSEMINATION OF DECISIONS
a. Developing options for quicker                                         - New procedures installed, along with
disseminabon of Supreme Court decisions.                                  supporting automatized equipment, to enable
case decisions to be promptly posted on the
Website. Court public informaton facilities
provide the same infomiabon.
b. Eliminating the backlog of records of past                             - Developed system for digital storage of
Court decisions                                                           past decisions. Judicial information center
established in the Court to provide these
historical records for public use.
- 35 -



D. ADMINISTRATIVE AND MANAGEMENT
SUPPORT
a. Evaluaton of the Courts administrative                                 - Evaluatons completed. The Court
structure; design, establishment and                                      installed a modemized administrative
operation of a planning and statstical                                    structure, with the required policy and
function.                                                                 procedural support.
b. Strengthen management in areas of                                      - Chamber organization structures were
intemal organization, administraive                                       revised with the creaton of units directed to
procedures, support systems, space                                        attention to the public, services, archives, as
allocations.                                                              well as the aforementioned mnanagement
control function and administrative manuals
prepared.
c. Establishment of monitoring and evaluaton                              - Monitoring and evaluation processes and
system.                                                                   yardsicks were developed for, and installed
in, the Court's management informnabon
system. These changes were not fully caried
out, while developing the master plan. It was
instead programmed to accompany the actual
system changes.
d. Training of Superme Court staff in                                     - Training provided to the Court staff.
managerial, administrabve and technical
matters.
e. Application of advanced infomation                                     - Infomiaion and communication technology
technology equipment                                                      installed in the majority of the Court's offices.
End of project
- 36 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
A. Communications, Policy Research and Quality    1.90           1.27          66.8
Assurance
B. Caseload Administration                        2.40          2.24           93.3
C. Supreme Court Decisions' Dissemination         1.40           1.10          78.6
D. Administrative and Management Support          1.60          3.56          222.5
Total Baseline Cost                               7.30           8.17
Total Project Costs            7.30          8.17
Total Financing Required            7.30          8.17
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                    0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    1.20         0.00        0.30         0.70        2.20
(1.20)       (0.00)      (0.30)       (0.00)      (1.50)
3. Services                 0.00        2.40         0.80         1.90        5.10
(0.00)      (2.40)       (0.80)       (0.00)      (3.20)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                    1.20         2.40         1.10        2.60         7.30
.______________________  (1.20)  (2.40)      (1.10)       (0.00)       (4.70)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuaULatest Estimate US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                                0.00         000         0.00        0.00
(0.0000      ) 00        (000)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    1.43        0.00         0.00        2.16        3.59
(1.43)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (1.43)
3. Services                             0.00         2.30        0.36        2.66
(0.00)      (0.00)       (2.30)      (0.00)       (2.30)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00        0.00         0.68        1.24        1.92
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.68)      (0.00)       (0.68)
-37 -



6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        1.43          0.00           2.98          3.76         8.17
(1.43)        (0.00)         (2.98)       (0.00)        (4.41)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
_  _ X S  .                                          ;-5i^-- |t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nta ge of -Appria
A. Communications, Policy  0.60    1.30               0.70       0.57             116.7   43.8
Research and Quality
Assurance
B. Caseload              1.90      0.50                1.79      0.45              94.2   90.0
Administration
C. Supreme Court         0.90      0.50               0.50       0.60              55.6   120.0
Decisions' Dissemination
D. Administrative and    1.30      0.30                1.42      2.14              109.2  713.3
Management Support
- 38 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N.A.
- 39 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No.ofPersons an dSpecialty            Perfor'mance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                    Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
n/a
Appraisal/Negotiation
3/97                       2    Public Sector Management         S             S
Spec., Financial
Management Spec.
11/97                      6    Pub. Sect. Management Spec.,     S             S
Procurement Spec., Lawyer,
Consultants.
2/98                       3    Public Sector Management Spec.,   S            S
Consultants
Supervision
3/99                        3   Public Sector Management          S            S
Spec., Consultants.
10/99                       3   Public Sector Management Spec,   S             S
Consultants.
6/00                        2   Public Sector Management Spec.,   S            S
Consultants.
ICR
6/01                       3    Sr. Public Sector
Management Spec., Lawyer
and Consultant.
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycic                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ cooo)
Identification/Preparation             40.4                      237.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                   8.2                       22.2
Supervision                            55.0                       144.1
ICR                                     2.1                         7.4
Total                                  126.4                      411.4
-40 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                    O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Sector Policies                   O H *SUOM O N O NA
O Physical                          O H OSUOM      O N * NA
O Financial                         OH OSUOM ON * NA
Ol Institutional Development        0 H * SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Environmental                     O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
rO Poverty Reduction          O H OSUOM ON        * NA
O Gender                      OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)      OH OSUOM ON * NA
O Private sector development        0 H O SU * M 0 N 0 NA
Ol Public sector management         0 H 0      SU 0 M 0 N 0 NA
El Other (Please specify)           O H OSUOM O N * NA
-41 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
O Lending                                          *HS OS Ou OHU
O Supervision                                      OHS OS       Q U   O HU
3 Overall                                          OHS OS        Q U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
L Preparation                                      *HS OS       O U    O HU
O Government implementation performance            O HS OS      0 U    0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                0 HS O S     0 U    0 HU
FL Overall                                         OHS OS       O U    O HU
-42 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
--Letter on the Project from the Supreme Court, February 21, 2002 (Spanish text in Project files);
--Annual Reports of the Supreme Court (in Project-files);
--Modernization Plans, NGOs Reports, surveys and studies (in Project files);
--CD Rom on "Modemizacion del Poder Judicial de la Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela".
-43 -



Additional Annex 8. List of Contributors
Marcelo Giugale, Lead Economist LCC1C
Ronald Myers, Sector Manager, LCSPS
Claudia Costin, Sector Manager, LCSPS
Vicente Fretes-Cibils, Sr. Economist, LCSPE
Connie Luff, Senior Operations Officer, LCCIC
Waleed Malik, Task Manager, LCSPS
Felipe Saez, Resident Representative, LCCVE
Richard Messick, PREM (Peer Reviewer)
Lubomira Beardsley, LEGLR (Peer Reviewer)
Vinh Nguyen, Country Anchor, LCC IC
Eduardo Wallentin, Senior Country Officer, LCC1C
Nina Ohman, LCSPS
Alexandra Habershon, LCSPS
Sharon Spriggs, LCSPS
Pilar Mengod, LCCVE
Ana Pereda, LCCVE
Candido Perez Contreras, General Manager, TSJ
Laura Louza, Manager, TSJ
Alvaro Leal, Manager, TSJ
Ricardo Jimenez, Director, TSJ
Adriana Lander, Manager, TSJ
Graciela Zambrano, TSJ
Hon.Judge Peter Messitte, US District Court
Russel Wheeler, Administrative Office of Federal US Courts
Birgit Lindsnas, Danish Center for Human Rights
Lisbeth Arne Pedersen, Danish Center for Human Rights
- 44 -



MAP SECTION






_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                    6 50                     ST. VINqCENT o
L.,EnA INeh)     -'-n INI        t  '; 5 ~  .'f i1 C'           GRENADINqES
'~~                                        l \> _f) Cwmo ,.1 IxiostosRoqua loB/<7nqolUb aG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lGRENADA
, ' /' , { l b;vDell , D. B {Venl '- A -  (
f  s  *_ G '   -<'1jN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. bwOnhilb
X   /S   ,~  X  sr  '  X   -                    _.r ,igO, ,W
0  j,9; tG           *,;,Wf                            ' 'V-           't-         ^ nti
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lTio l,6L-TIB>Qvr/  ,   9   BLIEWEt A TA
+~~~~~~~~ A -;   c-  6 N         FEEA UTR E                            DADAND TOBAGO
\    ~        tW          ,   'C'ARA7 4B. 
4     eL"-        >    ti     )   )La/AR( 
b  ekA^''           /    >;                  < 
REPUBLICA BOLIVARI~~~~~S. A N i l>-  T.                  RE            2,Wd  \ \
5.   DE VENE ZUI-LA       <     v     s ~~~~~M RAX D                           At<anli
S~~~~~~~~ SAT CAtASR v,Cx !\_, :: 
-10- ~                      'APO                                                          Ocean-{9  <  \  \ 
A OT                           b  -,   aAO A  <%_j
+~~~~~~\c Ts* ,.ii;  ,  -               ki:
G~~~~.._ \ /\- o'j!.R. DELT,
KlLOfAETEr.S~~~~~~~~~~y       G U A RK I C                           - OnA,
2 Whls ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MK7 o fove yh 1pfsg nlc h ol bL<_z\<,-5t> 
c fh boudoris ooo7s onomnoeins oedonolhrinfoneho sho7 ~ ' ID nA7 __ ; NZ T E ,Uz
> o sb  mo  donofimp oneX ursol h Wrldfl nL f oip or \ p D V I (,z 7- C
^ usme:o heIglshhsa oyhrh r ron llrimn m -rw 
cz ocetnc  fsshbonoes_   _                                59*@1_                       > ~   lRA  (L 1









IMAGING
Report No.:        23907
Type:     ICR



