Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 17212 - VE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
FORA
SUPREME COURT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
DECEMBER 9,1997
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Management Unit
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of October 3, 1997)
Currency Unit        =    Venezuelan Bolivar(Bs)
US$1.00      =     497.5 Bolivar
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY AND ACRONYMS
CAS          -      Country Assistance Strategy
COPRE        -      Commission for Reform of the State
CONAPRI   -        National Council for Investment Promotion
CORDIPLAN -        Central Office of Coordination and Planning
JC           -      Judicial Council
LCHIR        -     Lawyers Committee for Human Rights
MOJ          -     Ministry of Justice
NBF          -      Not Bank-Financed
NCB          -     National Competitive Bidding
NGO          -      Non-Governmental Organization
PU           -      Project Unit
PROVEA       -      Venezuelan Program for Human Rights Education and
Action
SC           -      Supreme Court
Vice President                   Shahid Javed Burki
Director, Country Management Unit  Andres Solimano
Director, Sector ManagementUnit  Guillermo Perry
Task Manager                     Waleed H. Malik



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Venezuela
Supreme Court Modernization Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ...................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .............................2
B. Strategic Context ...................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ..................................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ...................................................                3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ....................... 12
C. Project Description Summary ..................................................                                     13
1. Project components ..................................................                                       13
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ............................. 13
3. Benefits and target population ..................................................                           13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .................................................. 13
D. Project Rationale ..................................................                                                15
1. Overall Rationale ............                            .                                                 15
2. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..................................... 15
3. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies 16
4. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .........................................     16
5. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .........................................  16
6. Value added of Bank support in this project .........................................                       17
E. Summary Project Analysis ..........................................                                                17
1. Economic .........................................                                                          17
2. Financial .........................................                                                          17
3. Technical .........................................                                                         17
4. Institutional .........................................                                                      17
5. Social .........................................                                                             18
6. Environmental assessment .........................................                                          18
7. Participatory approach .........................................                                            18
F. Sustainability and Risks                             .. .......................................... 19
1. Sustainability ............................................                                                 19
2. Critical risks ............................................                                                  19
3. Possible controversial aspects ............................................                                 20
G. Main Loan Conditions ............................................                                                  20
1. Effectiveness conditions ............................................                                       20
H. Readiness for Implementation ............................................                                          20
L Compliance with Bank Policies ............................................                                           20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 5.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 6.     Documents in Project File
Annex 7.     Status of Bank Group Operations in Venezuela
Annex 8.     Venezuela at a Glance
Map



Venezuela
Supreme Court Modernization Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela
Date: December 9, 1997                                      Task Manager: Waleed H. Malik
Country Director. Andres Solimano                           Sector Director: Guillermo Perry
Project ID: VE-PA-44325    Sector: Public Sector Management   Program Objective: Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan            Program of Targeted Intervention:    [   Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data                    [XI Loan          I1 Credit         [I Guarantee           II] Other [Specifr]
For Loars/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 4.7
Proposed terms:                             [I    Multicurrency        [x]  Single currency, specify US$
Grace period (years): 4             [    Standard Variable    []  Fixed                 [x I  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%
(Contractual rate)
Service charge:   %
Financing plan (IJS$m):
Source                                   Local                 Foreign             Total
Govermment                                                          2 6                                      2.6
Cofinanciers
IBRD                                                                2.0                  2.7                 4.7
IDA
Other (specify)
Total         4.6                   2.7                 7.3
Borrower: Republic of Venezuela
Guarantor:
Responsible agency: Supreme Court of Justice
Estimated disbursements (3ank FY/IJS$M):            1998         1999         2000        2001
Annual        1.1         1.4           1.7         0.5
Cumulative       1.1          2.5          4.2          4.7
For Guarantees:                                       [     Partial credit      [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (UJSS)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:                    [      Yes                [     No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 3.0 years. Expected effectiveness date: January 15, 1998. Closing date: June 30, 2001.



Project Appraisal Document                                               Page 2 of 20
Country: Venezuela                                     Project: Supreme Court Modemization
A.    Project Development Objective
1.    Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annexes I & 2):
The project represents an effort to capitalize on a renewed consensus within the Venezuelan civil
society, the concerned NGO community (e.g., Alianza para la Justicia, an umbrella NGO group
with about 50 members working on administration of justice matters), the Government, the
Supreme Court, the Judicial Council and other sector institutions that judicial reform is needed to
promote economic growth and social stability. Its basic premise is that the reform movement will
gain added impetus and direction with a clear demonstration by the Supreme Court that it can
manage judicial processes more efficiently, openly and predictably. It is hoped that, if
successful, such demonstration will induce the extension of the reforms and improvements more
broadly within the court system, and consequently provide the public at large with better and
more reliable access to justice. This would thus help remove the inertia and resistance of the
lower courts to improving their own performance.
The specific development objective is to begin to improve the performance of the Supreme Court
in terms of transparency, efficiency of administration and case management, and timeliness of
decisions, through development of new work methods, attitudes, and behaviors that would have
a demonstration effect in leading further judicial reform. A process objective is to learn, in the
context of Venezuela's judicial system, how best to involve user groups and civil society in
enhancing institutional performance. If the experience is successful, it should facilitate further
reforms with the Supreme Court as well as extension of the improvements to other levels.
Progress towards this objective would be measured and monitored based on the following
indicators: (a) the adequacy of communication and research mechanisms established and extent
of openness and user confidence; (b) progress in backlogs reduced, and standards established for
managing caseflow, and the distribution of workload within the justices' offices; (c) degree to
which Supreme Court decisions begin to be published on a timely basis, and historical records
archived; and (d) degree to which administrative systems are developed and become operative.
B.    Strategic Context
1.    Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see
Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16471 - VE       Date of latest CAS discussion: April 8,
1997
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) approved April 8, 1997 identified support for improving
the judicial system as an objective, and stated the Bank's intention to contribute to Government's
programs in this area. The project responds to an urgent request of the Government of Venezuela
to assist processes of reform in the judicial system of the country. Within the past year, growing
and wide public interest in addressing corruption, improving the business climate, creating a
sense of transparency and involvement of civil society in state matters, has led to the
identification of judicial reform as a major focus of attention. The project addresses the popular
demand for improving the quality of judicial services through institutional strengthening and
enhanced user participation in reform design.



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 3 of 20
Counity: Venezuela                                        Project: Supreme Court Modemization
2.    Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Introduction:
This section provides an overview of the issues facing the judicial system and its users in
Venezuela, especially as it relates to the judiciary. The discussion focuses on the institutional and
administrative framework; challenges facing the judicial system in general; and the issues and
needs of the Supreme Court. There is also a discussion of the Judicial Council and lower court
issues and needs. This is followed by the Government's overall strategy for modernizing the
court system.
Institutional and Administrative Framework. Institutions that comprise the Venezuelan judicial
sector include: the Supreme Court (Corte Suprema de Justicia), the Attorney General (Fiscalia
General de la Republica), the Ministry of Justice (Ministerio de J-usticia), and the Judicial
Council (Consejo de la Judicatura). The Supreme Court is the highest court and the head of the
judiciary. The Attorney General provides opinions to the courts regarding the prosecution of
penal cases. It also acts as public ombudsman to bring to the attention of proper authorities
misconduct of public employees (including judges), violations of the Constitutional or human
rights of prisoners, and failure of courts to comply with legal requirements regarding processing
and disposition of cases. The Ministry of Justice manages prisons, the registries, and the national
police force, which is responsible for formally filing complaints with the penal courts. The
Judicial Council is responsible for administering the system of lower courts, including selecting
and training judges, monitoring court performance and undertaking disciplinary proceedings
concerming court personnel.
Administratively the judiciary in Venezuela may be divided into two parts: the members of the
Supreme Court and those that belong to the lower court system managed by the Judicial Council.
The first part deals with the Supreme Court, which is a separate legal entity and the focus of this
project. The Judicial Council and the lower courts would not directly benefit from this project;
however, it is envisaged that there would be an expected "demonstration effect," whereby the
process of improvements in the Supreme Court would synergize positive externalities, e.g.,
improved access to published Supreme Court decisions on a timely basis. Moreover, the
participation workshops, research and consultations that the Supreme Court plans to undertake
would include the Judicial Council, lower court judges and other agencies and groups that would
promote participation and consensus building (see below). The Judicial Council is presently
assisted by Loan 3514-VE, which addresses the administrative weaknesses of the Council and
the Judicial School, and is piloting the modernization of lower court operations and
infrastructure.
Challenges Facing the Judiciary:
In Venezuela, the indicators of shortcomings of administration of justice include lengthy case
delays, extensive case backlogs, limited access to justice, a lack of transparency and
predictability in court decisions, and lack of public confidence in the judicial system. Poor
judicial sector performance is the product of many deficiencies, including those identified by
participatory workshops with judges and consultations with businesses, the Commission for the
Reform of the State (COPRE), concerned non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and other
users, as well as related studies and implementation experiences of the on-going Judicial



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 4 of 20
Country: Venezuela                                        Project: Supreme Court Modernizaton
Infrastructure Project Loan 3514-VE and a Japanese Grant directed to assist the Supreme Court.
The main deficiencies identified from these sources include:
*  Inadequate administrative capacity of the courts.
*  Limited independence of the judiciary and citizen confidence.
*  Deficient case management.
*  A shortage of specialized judges and financial and other resources.
*  Noncompetitive personnel policies and practices.
*  Expenditure control systems that lack transparency and accountability.
*  Inadequate education and training of legal professionals, public servants, and users.
*  Limited enforcement of the rules against unethical behavior or corruption.
*  A distorted system of court fees and other charges that raises the cost of public access.
*  Lack of full use of options and creation of new alternatives to formal court adjudication,
such as arbitration, mediation, and conciliation.
*  Insufficiently comprehensive and flexible procedures.
*  Weak interinstitutional coordination and participation.
The central challenge that cuts across the disparate elements of such needed reform is
strengthening the capacity and independence of the judiciary so that it can become autonomous,
transparent, impartial, and has the capacity to determine the legality of the actions of the State,
with suitable administrative systems and resources to perform its role.
To achieve a more independent and better-functioning judiciary, the Govermment has taken
several forward-looking and innovative measures (with the help of Loan 3514-VE for the
Judicial Council and a Japanese Grant for the Supreme Court). For example, in collaboration
with the Supreme Court, the Council has taken steps to instill a vision of a judiciary geared to
better serving "users". As a follow-up to these efforts, with a view to creating a demonstration
effect, the Supreme Court prepared a review of its own internal and interinstitutional issues and
identified modernization priorities to improve its services and role, in particular, to set standards
of behavior, efficiency and transparency. The participatory assessment and vision-building
exercises, both at highest and the lower courts levels, underscored the need to strengthen the
institutional capacity and independence of the judiciary through several broad measures. A brief
sketch of these participatory analyses follows.
The Supreme Court: Issues and needs.
Organization and Perception of Users. The Supreme Court is one of the key institutions in
charge of defining the foundational rules of social interaction within the lower courts in
particular and the public and private institutions in general. These basic rules are manifest in the
doctrines, jurisprudence, and decisions generated by the Court. It is an independent institution,
derived from the national Constitution and the Court's Organic Law (Ley Organica de la Corte
Suprema de Justicia). The Court is composed of 15 justices appointed by the Congress for 9 year
terms. Groups of five justices comprise each of three Court Chambers: Civil (includes
commercial and labor matters), Criminal, and Political-Administrative. Its Plenary Chamber is
made up of all the justices. The Supreme Court has a separate budget and administrative and
press offices. Overall, the Court employs about 400 professional and support staff.



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 5 of 20
Country: Venezuela                                        Project: Supreme Court Modemization
The main users of the Supreme Court services include the judicial system itself, Congress, the
Executive Branch, State-local governments, the legal profession, and civil society. As the highest
court, it receives about 5,000 cases per year and it resolves about 4,300, yielding a "clearance
rate" of about 85 percent. The Court responsibilities include the final review of judicial decision
made by lower courts. The Court rules on the legality of decisions made by other branches of
government and the constitutionality of laws issued by Congress. It also establishes the merits of
cases for prosecuting high public officials. No systematic data is kept, however, one source
estimated that there are about 10 to 15 thousand cases pending in the Supreme Court. On this
basis, at the current rate of disposition of cases, and if no further cases were added to the court
(an unlikely assumption), it would take more than 3 years to clear the backlog. By the year 2000,
if the current pattern of filing and disposition continues, the backlog is expected to increase to 30
thousand. The Court is currently undertaking a full inventory of the pending cases to develop
backlog reduction strategies.
At present, the users of Supreme Court services are facing difficulties. Assessments indicate that
there is a need for upgrading the Court to improve its effectiveness so as to provide flexible,
honest, efficient and accessible services. The Court's work is marked by considerable delay, high
costs and administrative deficiencies. There is an almost complete absence of channels of
communication of Supreme Court-related information. The Court has not published its decisions
in seven years. This is aggravated by problems in gaining access to justice, increased procedural
delays, and rising cost-per-case disposed. The Supreme Court (like other justice sector
institutions) also faces low public confidence. A recent study by the Venezuelan Investment
Promotion Agency (CONAPRI) indicated that businesses have very low confidence in the
administration of justice. There are also problems of interinstitutional coordination and
communication.
Interinstitutional Responsibilities. The Court's Plenary Chamber has the responsibilities of inter-
institutional coordination, and sector policy development, oversight and communication. These
include organizing the annual opening of the judicial calendar year; appointing three of the five
members of the Judicial Council; and appointing judges of the administrative court (Corte
Primera de lo Contencioso-Administrativo), the military court (Corte Marcial) and the public
asset safeguarding court (Tribunal Salvaguarda para el Patrimonio Publico). The Court is
responsible for organizing oath taking ceremonies for superior court judges appointed by the
Judicial Council. It is also responsible for disseminating legal information to civil society. In
addition, the Supreme Court has the authority to initiate congressional discussion of laws related
to the judiciary, to recommend proposed laws to other branches of government, and to
participate in the relevant congressional committees' consideration of possible new judicial
system laws.
The Justices (when serving as the Plenary Chamber) have their own secretariat and an Office of
Public Relations and Protocol. However, the Justices have no technical support staff (their
assistants who have been selected to draft decisions have generally no background in
administration or policy research). This lack of suitable support affects both the judicial and the
institutional policy functions of the Plenary Chamber. There is no one to brief the Justices on
technical issues to be considered when they are forrnulating policy decisions and communicating
them to the public.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 6 of 20
Countiy: Venezuela                                       Project: Supreme Court Modemization
Institutional Communications, Citizen Participation, Coordination.. The Supreme Court is a
highly visible institution. It issues decisions that shape and reflect the country's national
character. However, the Chamber's Office of Public Relations and Protocol has no
communication strategy. It has recently started workshops and consultations with user groups
and other institutions to build partnerships and raise awareness for improvements in the sector.
Also there are no effective arrangements for gauging user perceptions regarding the Supreme
Court or for inter-institutional coordination with key judicial and other public sector agencies.
There is a need to systematically build Supreme Court capacity in the area of external
communication and coordination to build consensus and leadership. There is also the need to
innovate in dealing with concerned NGOs (such as Alianza para la Justricia an umbrella NGO
group with about 50 members interested in justice reform matters) and raise internal capacity to
deal with the press and other media.
Technical Research. As head of the Judiciary, the Supreme Court has a key role in coordinating
the formulation of the country's judicial sector policy. But because Venezuela has no institution
regularly conducting research about the administration of justice, it is difficult for the Supreme
Court to formulate its proposals and make recommendations to sister agencies, such as the
Judicial Council or the Ministry of Justice. This information vacuum impedes the preparation of
a comprehensive judicial sector strategy and diminishes the chances of reaching a national
consensus on priorities and the allocation of resources. Moreover, Venezuela still needs a
national program for eliminating access barriers to the judicial system and for developing
alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. From its recent experience in legislative matters, the
Supreme Court confirmed the need for internal research support to the Plenary Chamber in legal
drafting.
Quality Assurance. Although lower courts are not bound by judicial precedents set by the
Supreme Court, the latter has the unique role in enhancing the quality of decisions issued by
these courts. The quality assurance role may be exercised in two ways: (a) Judicial revision:
when a case is brought to the Supreme Court, the Court decides whether to reverse or sustain the
decision on legal grounds. This is the constitutional role of the court as the ultimate word of law.
(b) General sentencing policy formulation: The Court, after reviewing decisions from lower
courts, might spot common misinterpretations of laws and procedures and draw certain lessons
for improving the quality of decisions. These lessons may be communicated to lower courts
(through the Superior Courts) as guidelines pursuant to the Supreme Court Organic Law. In
order to upgrade the effectiveness of the judiciary, there is a need to assess the quality of
decisions made by the lower courts, particularly those decisions reversed by the Supreme Court.
Caseload Administration. The judicial activity of the Supreme Court is divided in two main
areas:
*    Case Management. Chamber procedures vary by case types and by chamber (for example,
some cases provide an opportunity for the parties to submit evidence while others do not).
All procedures are based on the principles established by law (mainly the civil and
criminal procedure codes), supplemented by Chamber-developed rules for particular cases.
These procedural rules are not set out in an operations manual and the chambers have not
harmonized the procedures. The system produces overlaps and efficiency losses. In
addition, the chambers are not filly automated and so suffer delays in even routine
matters. Moreover, the internal organization of the chambers and their staffing



Projct Appraisal Document                                                   Page 7 of 20
Counby: Venezuela                                         Project: Supreme Court Modemnization
arrangements reflect customs and traditions, rather than a coherent organizational design.
No performance indicators or evaluation mechanisms are in place to manage effectively
the chamber or the justices to supervise the chambers' secretaries. Furthermore, the filing
system is time-consuming and not friendly to users of the court. To get an update on the
status of a case a party must petition to see the whole file.
*    Preparation of Decisions. The decision is the final phase of a case under Supreme Court
consideration. This stage is under the direct responsibility of the justices. Each justice has
an office with full time staff and external advisors including a manager (the justice
assistant). But, as noted above, these is a lack of technical staff. These offices are not
appropriately organized, and performance indicators and compensation policies are
lacking. The offices need support material (doctrine, legislation, comparative
jurisprudence, Internet), specialized training, and an organizational structure that will
permit an optimal allocation of resources. The development of an internal net with a
database of Supreme Court precedents is crucial for improving performance at this level.
Automation would allow a justice to work on-line with the other members of the chamber
and communicate better with the professional staff. Presently, to prepare a strategy for
progressively reducing its backlog, the Supreme Court has started a special exercise to
prepare an updated summary sheet for each case awaiting decision. The sheet provides the
justices with the current status of the case. In a pilot phase, this initiative is assessing the
situation in the Plenary Chamber. The justices plan to use the results of this exercise to
decide how to eliminate the backlog and initiate pilot programs to reduce further delays
ond backlogs.
Access to Information. At present, users of the Court services face an almost complete absence of
inernal and external channels of Court-related legal information and case law. In 1985 the
Supreme Court created an independent foundation to publish its decisions, "Fundacion Gaceta
Forense". The Foundation had three publications: the Gaceta Forense, which includes the full
text of all decisions issued by the Supreme Court in a quarter; the Maximario, which had their
summaries; and an automated information system (with information contained in the Maximario)
for use in the offices of the Foundation. As a result of budget shortfalls, lack of well-trained
personnel, lack of organizational-employee incentives, and a lack of institutional commitment by
the Court, the Foundation stopped publishing in 1989. Nonetheless, it still retains its staff. The
backlog of the last seven years represents more than 114,000 typewritten pages. Some of this
backlog material, however, has been already published by scholars and private infornation
databases. No chamber of the Court has neither the required infrastructure nor trained personnel
to transform and transmit decisions, jurisprudence, and doctrines in a reasonable time to the
Foundation or any other information provider.. The lack of operational and procedural manuals
for the production and transmission of information has also contributed to the current paralysis.
Moreover, there is no normative blueprint of data sources and channels of dissemination
identifying the main stages within which Court-related information is being demanded by and
supplied to the market. For this purpose, there is a need for a technical survey of digital systems
and "best practice" approaches used and their costs and benefits. To address its need to produce
accurate and timely information, an organization needs to take into account the entire chain of
producing infornation. In the Courts' case, this chain of production needs to be better defined
and should address the administrative and jurisdictional tasks within each chamber. Parallel
improvements in judicial administration are then also necessary Moreover, the effectiveness of



Pr.aject Appraisal Document                                                 Page 8 of 20
Country: Venezuela                                        Project: Supreme Court Modemization
the information dissemination system depends on the existence of automated practices. In this
respect, parallel and coordinated improvements in the operation of the Supreme Court proposed
under the other project components would be linked with improved publication of decisions and
interrelated with better user access.
Recently, the Supreme Court undertook to reorganize the Foundation and is exploring different
options. International experience demonstrates that the range of alternative arrangements may
include: (i) complete privatization of the service; (ii) partial privatization through outsourcing;
(iii) concessioning the supply of the service to the private sector supervised by administrative
offices of the court; or (iv) corporatization of the unit supplying the service. Further, in order to
recover its historic archives, which had been stored unclassified, the Court started a document
center in 1997, initially guided by the National Library. The center is currently processing and
classifying the decisions issued by the Supreme Court between 1887 and 1940. The initial target
is to build a data base with the most important precedents developed by the Supreme Court
between those dates. The court aims to learn from the experience of the document center lessons
to be applied in the restructuring (or replacement) of the Foundation.
Administration Systems. The Court enjoys full autonomy in decisions about how it organizes
itself. It is also free to prepare its budget, create and develop internal administrative offices and
positions, and set its own policies on procurement, recruitment, selection, evaluation, and
salaries of personnel. In 1990 the Court created the position of General Manager to handle all
administrative decisions. This is uncommon in Venezuelan courts, where judges must usually be
responsible for administrative matters. Further, the Court's internal administrative organization
was never properly designed. It grew from a series of isolated decisions over time.
Currently, there are about 400 staff on the Court payroll, of which about 65 percent are
professional and the rest support staff. Unlike other public sector entities, the Court is not bound
by civil service codes or procedures and has the power to develop and allocate its own budget.
While this gives the Court suitable flexibility in organizing its activities, it has not used this
capability to the greatest advantage. Budget formulation is not based on performance or
planning. There are no defined rules regarding personnel, procurement, or internal procedures.
There is also very limited use of information technologies in supporting administrative and
managerial functions. Although the Court is housed in modem facilities, space planning needs to
be improved. To address its modemization challenges, there is a need to strengthen the
administrative and managerial decision-making machinery. There is also the need to build
capacity to plan and execute improvement projects, carry out specialized procurement and
evaluate activities.
Modernization Plans. In the face of these challenges, the Supreme Court, led by its Chief Justice,
has embarked on a major initiative to improve its performance, reputation and leadership, and
contacts with the rest of civil society. It has appointed a technical committee comprising senior
officials to prepare modernization plans and proposals. The committee has prepared diagnostic
studies and outlined preliminary plans for improvements with a high degree of involvement of
staff and local and international experts. The Supreme Court is also engaged in studies,
consultations and workshops with judges in collaboration with the Judicial Council, concerned
NGOs, judges of the peace, business groups and others. This process of gradually improving the
performance of the Supreme Court--which involves internal stakeholders (justices, justices'
assistants, and other employees) and external stakeholders (e.g. citizen groups including



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 9 of 20
Country: Venezuela                                        Project: Supreme Court Modemization
concerned NGOs like PROVEA-LCHR and sector institutions)--aims to enhance openness,
transparency and user confidence and efficiency, and would be strengthened under the proposed
project. The purpose is to enhance support for the participatory process and build capacity
through institutional strengthening, learning and innovation.
Judicial Council and the Lower Court System: Issues and Needs
Profile. As noted, the Judicial Council manages the lower court system. The lower courts receive
about eight hundred thousand cases per year, of which about 42 percent are criminal, 35 percent
are civil (including commercial and others), 12 percent are family (including minors) -and 11
percent are labor related. Their distribution is: about 27 percent in Parochial Courts, 14 percent
in Municipal Courts, 43 percent in First Instance Courts and about 16 percent in Appeals or
Superior Courts. The Judicial Council employs about 1,200 employees (including judicial
inspectors) at the central and regional levels. There are 1,107 judges, 104 public defenders, and
about 11,000 support staff working in the lower court system, based on the latest data available.
Based on a preliminary census it is estimated that there are about two to three million cases
pending in the lower court system, equivalent to more than one case pending for every seven
Venezuelans. At the current rate of disposition of cases, and if no further cases were added to the
court system (an unlikely assumption), it would take more than three years to clear the backlog.
By the year 2000, if the current pattern of filing and disposition continues, the backlog is
expected to increase by another one million. The preliminary census was done taking
representative sampling based on available data. Now for the first time a full census is being
taken of all judges, including their profile and workload, which should provide a more definitive
picture of the judicial situation. The full census is expected to be published in early 1998, which
would help develop a framework for long-term improvement measures.
The Judicial Council in collaboration with the Supreme Court has taken steps to instill an
understanding of a judiciary geared to better serving "users". During the past years, over 200
judges and others have come together to develop a consensus on a vision of the future judiciary
and on ways to achieve it over the medium and long term. In the participatory assessment, about
10 percent of the members of the lower court judiciary took part in representing different
geographical regions, court levels, jurisdictions and gender profile: by gender, there were about
51 percent women; by geographic location, all 22 states were represented; by level of court,
about 32 percent were superior court judges, 42 percent were first instance court judges, about 26
percent were municipal or parochial court judges, by type of jurisdiction about 29 percent were
penal judges, about 64 percent were civil judges, and the rest were administrative or other
judges. In addition to the judges of the lower courts, most Supreme Court Justices, public
defenders, executive branch officials, lawyers, NGOs and business representatives took part in
the exercise.
The participatory assessment and vision-building exercise at the lower courts level underscored
the need to strengthen the institutional capacity and independence of the judiciary through four
broad measures:
* First, modernizing the function and operation of the Council. In this area, for example, the
Council initiated a comprehensive "reengineering exercise" to design a modem and
efficient organizational structure for its headquarters and for the regional administrative



Project Appraisal Document                                              Page 10 of 20
Country: Venezuela                                      Project: Supreme Court Modernization
centers supporting lower court judges and staff. Based on this exercise, the implementation
of some activities has begun. A general manager was appointed in June 1997 to deal with
administrative matters previously handled by the five Council members. Training of staff in
management, budgeting, audit and other areas is in progress. A technical assessment of the
physical infrastructure needs of the courts has also been completed. Two new court houses
have been constructed and many others are in the process of being built. Also a need has
been identified to develop communication plans and encourage citizen participation in the
modernization efforts. The Council, in coordination with concerned local NGOs (e.g.,
PROVEA, the Venezuelan Program for Human Rights Education and Action), has
organized training of staff on human rights and other matters.
*   Second, improving the recruitmnent. management, supervision, and training of judges. The
Council has established a separate department for career development of judges, initiated a
study on streamlining the examination, supervision and disciplining processes, begun
increasing the number of tenured (titular) judges, and developing a pilot database for the
supervision of judges. The need for upgrading training for judges, administrators, support
staff, and lawyers and other users has also been identified. Also the Council has carried out
a detailed assessment of the medium and long-term training needs of the judiciary and other
employees. Comprehensive judicial training in different parts of the country is planned in
such aspects as judicial reasoning, oral procedures, ethics, organization of work, family and
child matters, and intellectual property. Also, in collaboration with the Council the Supreme
Court is preparing a full census of the judiciary (as noted above) to assist in the
development of long term policy recommendations.
-   Third, reformulating and modernizing the organizational structure of the lower courts. The
Supreme Court, the Council and civil society in general consider the current court structure
inefficient. In collaboration with the Supreme Court, the Council established a technical
team of judges and charged them with developing newly structured pilot courts to improve
the quality and efficiency of judicial services in lower courts. These courts will serve as
pilot test laboratories. The technical commission of judges has completed the survey of
courts in three cities, namely: Barcelona (Province of Anzoategui), Barquesimeto (Province
of Lara), and Los Teques (Province of Miranda). Further planning and design work is in
progress. A need has been identified to introduce simplified and oral procedures in courts to
promote transparency and fairness. Alongside these measures, the Government is preparing
new laws to reform criminal procedures (with support from US and German Governments
and others) and introduce oral proceedings in courts.
*   Finally, improving access to justice through formal and inforrnal mechanisms and new
participatory methods to identify needs of the courts. Studies have been initiated or planned
in areas related to judicial buildings, inventory of cases involving persons in prisons
awaiting trial, inventory of corruption cases, human resource development, court delay,
litigation cost, judicial planning and statistics, access to justice by the poor and indigenous
populations. Consultations have also been carried out with judges of the peace (Jueces de
Paz) who operate as conciliators in many municipalities. Given the recent debates in this
area, the need to improve internal and inter-institutional coordination among sector
institutions is also stressed. In addition, the need to improve public access to Supreme Court
decisions was identified as a key bottleneck in the administration ofjustice in Venezuela.



Projet Appraisal Document                                               Page I I of 20
Countby: Venezuela                                      Project Supreme Court Modemization
Government Strategyfor Modernizing the Judiciy.y:
With the help of participatory methods, the Govermnent of Venezuela has taken important steps
in developing an overall strategy for improving its court system both at higher and lower court
levels. Many of these measures are interrelated and require further attention. Such measures as
on-going activities in the lower courts managed by the Judicial Council, and the proposed
Supreme Court modernization program would create the underpinning for a longer-term judicial
reform program. Its initial main lines are expected to relate to efficiency, independence and
access requirements:
*  Efficiency and Institutional Capacity. A  comprehensive sector modernization and
development program, beginning first with building up the institutional capacity of the
judiciary in lower courts. This is already underway in the segment directed by the Judicial
Council (under Loan 3514-VE) including a heavy emphasis on administrative
reorganization, reorganization and supervision of the courts, distribution of cases,
computerization, continuing education and training, court construction, and technical studies.
There were administrative and logistical difficulties at the beginning which delayed progress
in these fields but these have been overcome. The initial problems of insufficient leadership
and committment have become more manageable. The progress so far has positively
contributed to increasing awareness of the need for judicial reforrn, both internal to the
institution and outside. The parallel effort encompassing the Supreme Court would first
correct the deficient court organization and administrative framework, and then proceed on a
pilot basis to improve the quality of service through upgraded training of Court staff,
installation of case tracking and decision preparation support databases and systems,
disseminate court decisions and improve communications with concerned NGOs and
promote partnerships. The Supreme Court by modernizing itself through capacity building
and learning would set an example and add impetus to reforms for other levels. The lessons
learned may also be valuable in designing and implementing the Govenunent's broader
program of reforming the role of the state.
*  Idependence and Judicial Career. Improved methods of appointing (and disciplining) judges
in order to counter sensitive partisan political influences on their decisions. The Government
is already analyzing current judges' disciplinary practices and devising improvements in
them. Also it is working on amendments to the Organic Law of the Judicial Council (Ley
Organica del Consejo de la Judicatura) to accelerate the disciplining of lower court judges
found guilty of irregularities. (The Government prefers to pursue these sensitive legal
reforms without external assistance although it will share the outcome with the Bank). The
authorities also aim to implement a career system (including performance evaluation) for the
judges which would promote professional excellence and strengthen judicial independence
(presently only about thirty five percent of judges in lower courts have tenure). And they aim
to improve internal and inter-institutional communication and proactive cooperation to fight
judicial corruption.
*  Access and Participation. Introduction of oral procedures in the courts in order to make
judicial processes more issues-oriented, hearings-based and transparent, for which
amendments to legal codes are now being drafted (i.e., the criminal code). They also intend
to initiate innovations in increasing legal aid services, alternative methods of dispute



Project Appraisal Document                                              Page 12 of 20
Conty: Venezuela                                        Project: Supreme Court Modemization
resolution (including promotion of conciliation through the justices of the peace system), and
promote citizen participation.
A key challenge however would be continued leadership and commitment of sector institutions to
advance reforms and to develop an appropriate accountability framework. There is moreover
widespread popular demand for information about the judicial sector and whether it is improving
its performance. Therefore, for the next stage of reformn, it would be important to promote
popular participation, to promote and develop an appropriate accountability mechanism and to
encourage broader consensus-building among different actors in the judicial sector. These
include the Supreme Court, the Judicial Council, the Public Ministry, the Ministry of Justice, bar
associations, and academia, concerned NGOs, and the civil society at large.
3.    Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The emerging strategy for improving the overall court system relates to issues of efficiency,
independence, and access and requires continued leadership and commitment. Also noted is that
several interelated logistical issues are being addressed in the on-going Judicial Infrastructure
project targeted at the lower courts, which need to be expanded. Also, the ongoing improvement
activities in the sector have positively contributed to public awareness about the need for judicial
reform and to increased institutional readiness and commitment and reform momentum.
TXhe proposed project contributes in addressing efficiency and access problems of the sector and
promoting consensus-building and leadership (see pages 4-7). The project addresses initial
capacity building and learning needs of the Supreme Court. It would support the development of
new work methods, attitudes, and behaviors for improving communications (in particular with
concerned NGOs), policy research, and quality assurance, improving administration and case
management, and timeliness in the publication of decisions. It would also support the
development of monitoring and evaluation systems to facilitate learning and guide
implementation. (See Annex 2 for detailed project description.)
Given the momentum for reform, one strategic choice is to support the Supreme Court and ngt
wait for the Government's prior development of a more comprehensive policy framework. As
noted, improvements at the highest level would serve as a model for demonstration effects of
improvements throughout the sector and reinforce ongoing work at lower court levels. Because
of its prestige, successful changes in the Court would have a powerful effect in building
consensus on long-term judicial improvements. The timing in providing support to the Supreme
Court is also critical. Regarding the Supreme Court's requirements, another key choice was to
fir= establish the institutional framework for reforms under the proposed project, and second in a
subsequent project, to expand quality improvement efforts building on changes introduced in the
first project.
In view of limited experience of the Supreme Court and the Bank in dealing with justice sector
NGOs, another strategic choice was made to target selected concerned NGOs (e.g., Alianza para
la Justica) for dissemination of information about, and intervention in, Supreme Court's
modernization program. This is because they are easier to reach than the general public, and
because the Court needs greater public attention and a proactive role in policy formulation, plus
the ability to demonstrate results. Based on all these factors, the approach proposed is one of a
gradual build-up based on learning from the findings of the activities included in this project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                Page 13 of 20
Couatry: Venezuela                                       Project: Supreme Court Modemization
C      Project Description Summary
L     Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed
cost breakdown):
CQmDflMiet              Catego       Cost Incl.      f    Bank-
Contingencies   ToI   finaning   Bnk
(US$M)             (US$f  fnanchg
A. Begin to improve Communications,  Learning &      1.9      26        0.6      13
Policy Research and Quality Assurance  Capacity
Building
B. Begin to Improve Caseload     Learning &          2.4      33        1.9      40
Administration                   Capacity
Building
C. Begin to Support Supreme Court    Capacity        1.4      19        0.9      19
Decisions' Dissemination         Building
D. Begin to Improve Administrative    Capacity       1.6      22        1.3      28
and Management Support (incl.   Building, &
Monitoring & Evaluation)           M & E
Total        7.3      100       4.7    100
7      Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Strengthening the capacity of the Supreme Court to perform its role more effectively is the main
institutional reform aim supported by the project. By doing so, the project would serve an
important policy reform: strengthening the rule of law and the State's role as its guarantor and
provider.
3.    Benefits and targetpopulation:
The main project benefit would be the demonstration effect by the Supreme Court that it can
manage judicial processes more efficiently, openly and predictably, which should add impetus
and give direction to the overall judicial reform effort. A closely related benefit would be the
beginning of a process of a progressively sustainable increase in the quality of Supreme Court
services that takes into account user feedback about its institutional performance. The concerned
NGO' (and users) participation and Supreme Court decision dissemination developed from this
project would assist in launching further activities. These benefits would substantially lower the
risks associated with further development of the sector and current activities in the lower courts,
and eventually help to meet the broader CAS objectives of upgrading the overall judicial system.
The reform of the Supreme Court is also expected to induce a better interinstitutional framework
that would help ensure its ability to carry out effective communication and coordination with
others, and facilitate its further development.
4.    Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Executing agency: The project will be implemented by the Supreme Court of Justice over a three
year period (1998-2000).
Project coordination: A project unit (PU) has been constituted within the Supreme Court that
reports directly to its President through the General Manager, who would have primary
responsibility for project implementation.



Project Appraisal Document                                              Page 14of20
Country: Venezuela                                     Project: Supreme Court Modemization
Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing:  Project records and accounts would be
maintained by the PU to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources, and expenditures for each project activity. The accounts will be consolidated annually
into financial statements for the project as a whole. Supporting documentation will be made
available to Bank missions and independent auditors as required. For expenditures incurred on
the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), all records providing evidence of such
expenditures will be retained by the PU until at least one year after the Bank has received the
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdtawal from the Loan Account or payment
out of the Special Account is made, whichever is later. Project records and accounts, including
the Special Account and SOEs, will be audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by auditors acceptable to the Bank, with terms of reference for
auditors and reports approved by the Bank. The Bank's Financial Accounting, Reporting, and
Auditing Handbook (FARAH) published in January 1995 would be used by the auditors in
accordance with the Bank's auditing guidelines. Audit reports will be furnished to the Bank
within four months after the close of each Govermment fiscal year.
feiormance monitoring and evaluation: With the help of independent consultants, the Supreme
Court would monitor objective indicators of progress. These indicators would include standard
measures of sound resource management, reductions in case load backlog, and improvement in
the timeliness and public availability of Supreme Court decisions; and numbers and frequencies
of consultations with NGOs and others. Equally significant would be the monitoring of
perceptions of stakeholders of the effectiveness of improvements. Periodic evaluations of
progress are programmed as part of project implementation, and would involve the Borrower, the
Bank, and third-party evaluators as relevant and key stakeholders. The objective of annual
assessments would be to modify the substance of the work in progress on the basis of
accumulated experience and new ideas. The overall performance of the Supreme Court reform
program would provide the basis for designing the nature and scope of possible follow-on
programs. (See Annex 2 for a detailed description of the monitoring and evaluation approach and
the specific performance indicators proposed.)
Monitoring of project execution will be undertaken by the PU. Project oversight and policy
guidance will be the responsibility of the Project Technical Committee (already operating). The
Committee consists of Secretaries of each of the four SC chambers, an assistant to the justice for
three of the chambers and a representative of the Secretary of the Plenary Chamber. The General
Manager of the Supreme Court (Director General of Administration and Services) is also a
member of the Technical Committee, as well as its coordinator and representative. The Technical
Committee would make recommendations to the Court's Managing Committee (the Presidents of
the three chambers, i.e., the Directivo) on broad technical policy matters and investment
decisions. The Committee would also act to ensure effective project coordination with
representatives of relevant Government agencies, concerned NGOs, and community and private
sector groups. The Bank will participate in monitoring project implementation through periodic
supervision missions taking into account, among others, the annual work plans which the PU will
provide to the Bank starting in 1998.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 15 of 20
Country: Venezuela                                        Project: Supreme Court Modemization
D.    Project Rationale
L      Overall Rationale.
The basic project premise is that the judicial reform movement will gain added impetus and
direction with a clear demonstration by the Supreme Court that it can manage judicial processes
more efficiently, openly and predictably. It is hoped that, if successful, such demonstration will
induce extension of the reforms and improvements more broadly within the court system, and
consequently better and more reliable access to justice for the public at large. The ongoing
Judicial Infrastructure project has suffered from certain structural rigidities and lack of adequate
stakeholder participation in the design stemming from the relative inexperience of the Bank and
the Borrower in judicial sector reforns at the time. The proposed LIL incorporates lessons
learned and would help overcome the inertia and resistance of the lower courts to improving
their own performance.
A strategic choice was made to assist the Supreme Court--which enjoys judicial independence
and is at the summit of the court system--to take the initiative in setting standards of behavior,
efficiency, and transparency, which could then be applied progressively throughout the lower
courts. Subsequent reforms, to which the Bank may or may not contribute financially, would
then transfer these norms and standards to the rest of the system. The problem is to determine
what these norms and standards should be and how they should be applied in the Venezuelan
setting, so that they motivate subsequent reform efforts to the maximum extent. To this end, the
project would create credible reform models, and build incentives for their use. This will involve,
as a matter of priority the following: develop practices and norms to establish civil society
communications; improve case load management; strengthen court administration and
transparency; and to do this through consultations, validation of results, and demonstration with
key stakeholders (including watchdog NGO groups) in the judicial system.
The Learning and Innovation Loan was selected on the grounds of the Borrower's need for
support for a real-time, managed, self-learning experience. The local solutions that should
emerge would eventually find useful application more widely and at all levels of the judicial
system. Enhanced capacity and higher professional standards set at the Supreme Court level
could also promote similar reforms over time in the broader public sector in general. Similarly,
the Bank also will gain valuable learning and experience under the LIL, which could be very
useful in the design ofjudicial reform programs in other countries.
2      Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
* Incorporation of this activity under the on-going Judicial Infrastructure Project was rejected
because: (a) the latter's increased pace and enlarged scope indicate that Loan 3514 and
related Government funding commitments will be fully needed for the present range of
work; and (b) it would exacerbate the tenuous Judicial Council-Supreme Court relationships
and would cloud the already sensitive borders of judicial and institutional independence.
* A larger, more comprehensive Supreme Court program was rejected because of: (a) SC's
limited immediate capability for absorbing modernizing changes and coping with
institutional disruption; and (b) the desirability of a tightly-focused scope of work with an
untested executing agency unfamiliar with Bank operations. In addition, it was considered
important to confine the scope of the project to the learning and participatory aspects of
judicial administration involving sensitive issues of politics and sovereignty.



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 16 of 20
Country: Venezuela                                            Project: Supreme Court Modemization
* Once the Adaptable Lending tools (LIL specifically) became available, these were judged to
be inherently more suitable than the Bank's traditional lending instruments for Venezuela's
current stage ofjudicial reform and the task at hand.
3.      Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
Sector issue                     Project        Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-finand
Matters related to Judicial Council institutional    Venezuela Judicial  S          S
capacity, lower court judge training, lower court  Infrastructure
strengthening, and lower court buildings.
Matters related to central and state government    Public Sector  Planned
institutional capacity building, and private sector  Modernization and
participation in the provision of public services    Decentralization
Other development aagncies
IDB                                        Ministry of Justice   Planned
EU and UN                                  Prison System     Ongoing/Planned
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
4.     Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Experiences of different judicial reform programs (e.g., Canada, Spain, Bolivia, Costa Rica,
Ecuador, Guatemala) as well as previous experience in Venezuela have contributed to the
development of the Supreme Court project. These have underscored the needs for: (a) a high
level of ownership and commitment, (b) reaching out and collaborating with the users of the
system; (c) building consensus within the institutions; and (d) developing a good project
performance monitoring system (see Annex 2). Lessons derived from "New Development
Economics" indicate that it takes time for modernizing societies to learn and internalize new
rules of the game, and that institutional change is incremental (the project's philosophy).
Reflecting these, the project design is based on a gradual build-up of capacity and continuous
learning during the project, with reform interventions tested and evaluated before full
implementation is undertaken.
5.     Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Government commitment to the reform effort is high, as exemplified by several declarations by
the President and key members of the judiciary. The Supreme Court has secured authorization
for the project and the required external funding, and established the implementation unit, as
well as the operational guidelines to be followed. This represents a high state of readiness for
implementation. In addition, a large cross-section of stakeholders has been closely involved in
the analyses of sectoral issues leading to the strategic choices motivating the project; and who
feel an "ownership" in the reform effort. This ownership is expressed in the form of letters and
declarations in support of the project. The continued involvement of concerned NGOs in setting



Project Appraisal Document                                             Page 17 of 20
Country: Venezuela                                     Project: Supreme Court Modernization
the direction of the Supreme Court modernization effort is part of the implementation plan; this
will also help assure their role in determining the character of follow-on operations and
activities. The improvements in the performance of the Supreme Court and the consequent
demonstration effects in terms of cost and time reductions should further help solidify public
commitment and confidence.
Further indication of Borrower ownership is that SC's President became, and has continued to
be, actively involved with other justices of the SC in developing the proposal. Under her
direction and leadership, the SC has prepared the project. The Supreme Court has appointed a
special technical committee for the development and implementation of the project. The ongoing
efforts and consultations with NGOs, lower court judges and other institutions on how to
improve the performance of the Supreme Court and the overall sector also demonstrates
commitment and ownership.
6     Value added of Bank support in this project:
Although this is a comparably small project; the Government has sought our assistance (a) to
continue the partnership established under the current project, and (b) to use our resources in
areas of partnership building, and to lend credibility to the reform effort.
E.    Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in project file, see Annex 6)
1.    Economic:
While no formal analysis has been done, we believe that least costly approach to learning
in this environment has been adopted.
2.    Financial:
As regards fiscal impact, minimizing budgetary impact is part of the criteria for evaluating the
success of the proposed reforms, but it is less important than improving the effectiveness of
judicial sector expenditures and the quality of service delivery. Local funds have been allocated
by the Government to initiate reforms at the Supreme Court and other levels.
3.    Technical:
The project components have been assessed as technically viable. Communication and
participation programs are in the process of development. An informnation technology approach
has been developed. Development of appropriate options for dissemination of the Supreme Court
decisions is part of project tasks.
4.    Institutional:
Executing agency: The Supreme Court of Justice has a separate budget and receives annual
allocation from the Congress. The administrative offices are run by a General Manager with
professional staff. These are important to achieve the desired learning processes and outcomes.
Project management: The Project Unit has been established. Key administrative staff are in
place. Procurement training has already been provided. General Procurement Notice for the
project has already been published in the Development Business Magazine of the United
Nations. Request for consultant services has also been published in the NewYork Times and The
Economist. Shortlists and other procurement documentation are being prepared to initiate
implementation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 18 of 20
Country: Venezuela                                        Project: Supreme Court Modernization
5.    Social:
A review has been made of the views of stakeholders interests and their perceptions of the
performance of the Supreme Court to guide the project. Therefore, the project is in a "ready"
position to proceed with the modernization and learning efforts described below.
6.    Environmental assessment:   Environmental Category       11 A   [D B    [XI C
No environmental assessment is necessary for a category C project.
7.    Participatory approach:
The World Bank (with client countries) generally prepares projects using one of two approaches:
the traditional external-experts approach or the participatory approach. In both cases, the setting
of objectives, diagnosis, sequencing, implementation and so on are the same. In the external
experts approach, the project sponsors (government policymakers and heads of institutions) and
designers (World Bank and other experts) place themselves outside the local system they are
investigating. Other stakeholders (employees, and users of services) are viewed as sources of
information and opinion, but the conversion of this information into a development strategy or
implementation rests with the experts.
Under the participatory approach, the relationship among sponsors, designers, and other
stakeholders is collaborative. The sponsors and designers take a stance that places them inside
the local system being addressed, where they collaborate with the other key stakeholders in
setting objectives, articulating institutional responsibilities and strategies, and formulating and
overseeing project tactics, including developing specifications, budgets, and technologies to
advance the project. The collaborative nature of this approach leads to better client ownership
and readiness to work toward sustainability.
The Supreme Court Modernization project has been prepared using a collaborative participatory
approach. The decision to take the participatory route was based on the implementation
experience of the current Loan 3514-VE, the principles outlined in the Bank's Strategic
Compact, such as the emphasis on results on the ground and the client focus, and broader lessons
of institutional development activities supported by the Bank and other institutions.
As part of this process, extensive consultations were organized by the Supreme Court in 1997
with different stakeholders-internal staff and justices, concerned NGOs and user groups, judges
of the peace and other institutions including the Judicial Council and lower court judges. Also
experts were hired to prepare diagnoses of several technical areas. The output of the
consultations was the proposed design of the LIL and the committment to continue dialogue and
meetings with the concerned NGOs and user groups. Achieving consensus, analyzing reality on
the ground, and reconciling key stakeholder differences was not always easy. It entailed risks,
such as aggravating conflicts among groups with competing interests and priorities. Dealing with
such situations often required an understanding of the underlying social, political, and
governance factors inhibiting consensus and putting in place mechanisms for dispute resolution
and negotiation. It is also important to note that the participation workshops generated "positive
energy," which will quickly subside if not channeled into actual tasks and programs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 19 of 20
Country: Venezuela                                            Project. Supreme Court Modernization
F.     Sustainability and Risks
L      Sustainability:
The Sustainability issue is whether the lessons learnt are followed through. The process of
project development is collaborative and benefitted from extensive participation throughout.
Focus during implementation will be placed on: (a) the establishment of a sounder Supreme
Court institutional and administrative framework; and (b) development of a capacity for regular
evaluation of the quality and effectiveness of SC functioning, and for taking immediate remedial
actions as necessary. This would be closely monitored and evaluated by independent evaluators
(see Annex 2). In addition, the participation aspects would receive close attention from the
evaluators, since without strong beneficiaries' motivation and commitment, the viability of this
operation may be compromised.
2.     Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
Project Outputs to Development Objective
Lapses in Supreme Court commitment to   Moderate    Built-in principles of experimentation and learning in
transparency and openness with users and          situ, and participation among key stakeholders have to
other institutions                                be internalized and should continue to influence
policy. Other elements that would minimize risk
include: workshops for the media, research fellowships
at the Supreme Court, preparation of research and
studies jointly with other agencies and NGOs, and
ongoing monitoring and evaluation.
Because of difficulties in introducing new   Moderate    The project design calls for support in hands-on,
patterns of behavior in case management,          supervised self learning experience where participatory
decision preparation, dissemination of            and built-in problem solving support would permit
decisions, policy makers and staff will not       early detection of problems.
be responsive
Program for alternative publication of  Low       Alternative proposals are to be rigorously screened for
Supreme Court decisions is financially            sustainability.
unsustainable.
Introduction of information technology    Moderate    Certain design features would significantly minimize
fails due to capacity constraints                this risk, including: support for the establishment of
planning, IT and training functions
Proiect Components to Outputs
SC's ability to implement the project does  Moderate    Private firms will assist SC in the implementation of
not prove to be adequate                         tasks. Constant support for monitoring and evaluation
and assistance is built-in to the design
Procurement problems delay           Moderate     Constant follow-up, training and supervision is built in
implementation                                    to the design.
Counterpart funds will not stay adequate   Moderate    Project has strong Government and concemed-NGO
support. Government has approved foreign debt
obligations. Initial counterpart funds are available.
Constant follow up with the Ministry of Finance will
be maintained
Overall Risk Rating                  Moderate    Learning and adaptation would contribute to risk
minimization
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Project Appraisal Document                                                Page 20 of 20
Country: Venezuela                                       Project: Supreme Court Modernization
3.     Possible ControversialAspects:
In spite of considerable effort to avert the recurrence of the low public input in the first project
(Loan 3514-VE), there is still a possibility that the proposed project requires additional
stakeholder input. Continuous efforts will be made (as carried our during the project
identification and preparation phases) to meet with concerned NGOs and other stakeholders in
order to reinforce project objectives, which include, among others, to make justice more
accessible to the community at large. In addition, members of the legal profession and diverse
other interests benefiting from present Supreme Court practices may oppose the measures that
will affect them  adversely.  Continuing public education and publicity about project
accomplishments should help address these pressures.
G.    Main Loan Conditions
1.    Effectiveness Conditions:
None
IL     Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be of satisfactory quality.
1.     Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
t.h._~~~~~
Task Mana r: Waleed H. Malik
Acting Sector Director: Phi  eNouvel
Acting Country Director: Constance Corbett



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page I of 2
Country: Venezuela                                           Project. Supreme Court Moderization
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and    Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Progress in instilling reliable conflict  Project-  (Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve performance of the  resolution, greater transparency and  sponsored   Improved judicial system
judicial system through   access in the judicial system        assessments    will help enhance social
enhanced support and                                                          and economic
participation                                                                 development through
improvement in the
enabling environment for
private investment and
building confidence in
the judiciary.
Project Development       Supreme Court performance begins to  Project-       (Objective to Goal)
Objective: Begin to improve  improve, that is:                 sponsored      Process of improvements
the performance of the                                        impact          in the Supreme Court (the
Supreme Court in terms of   -the adequacy of communication and  evaluations   highest court) will
transparency, efficiency of   research mechanisms established and  with baseline    enhance user confidence
administration and case   extent of openness and user confidence    assessment and  in the judicial system, and
management, and timeliness                                     follow-up      serve as a "demonstration
of decisions, through    -progress in backlogs reduced, standards   studies (e.g.    effect" in generating
development of new work   for managing caseflow, and the       user survey,    reforms at other levels
methods, attitudes, and   distribution of workload within the  Supreme Court  and institutions in the
behavior that would have a   justices' offices                 annual report),  public sector. Also,
demonstration effect in                                        to be          lessons learned in the
leading further judicial  -degree to which Supreme Court       undertaken     Supreme Court LIL are
reforin.                  decisions begin to be published on a  annually.     applied to the overall
timely basis, and historical records               judicial system and (if
archived                                            needed) to an extended
SC project.
-degree to which administrative systems
are developed and become operative



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 2 of 2
Country: Venezuela                                      Project: Supreme Court Modernization
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Outputs:                  Increased user satisfaction with the  Supreme Court  (Outputs to Objective)
Better communications,    Supreme Court. Adequately staffed     reports, annual  Supreme Court commitrnent to
policy research and quality   communication, policy research, and  evaluations,    reform remains solid. New
assurance                 quality assurance units consistent with the  user survey  patterns of behavior are
modernization plan of the Supreme    and employee   accepted by all levels of staff.
Court.                               feedback       Incentive systems and
motivational factors are used
Improved case management  Establishment of standards for case                  during the learning and
and decision preparation  management and decision preparation.                 implementation process. Viable
technical options are selected on
Extent of progress in establishing                  time. Evaluations are done
automated case-tracking and processing              openly and on schedule.
systems.
Improved public access to    Establishment of program for organizing
Supreme Court decisions   historical records for public use.
Completion of study on developing
options for quick dissemination of
Supreme Court decisions and
implementation of recommendations.
Improved management and   Design and implementation of
administrative support    organizational, human resource
(including monitoring and    management, financial management,
evaluation capacity)      planning, and information technology.
Establishment of monitoring and
evaluation system in the PU to facilitate
learning and implementation.
Project Components: (see    Inputs: (budget for each component)  Project reviews  (Components to Outputs)
Annex 2 for detailed project                                    and quarterly    Continued Govermment resource
description) are as follows:                                    progress       support and policy backing.
(a) Communications, Policy  US$ 1.9 million                     reports.       Effective follow-up of learning
Research and Quality                                                           elements and of implementation
Assurance                                                                      activities and evaluations.
(b) Caseload Administration  US$2.4 million                                    Timely procurement of goods
(c) Supreme Court         US$1.4 million                                       and services.
Decisions' Dissemination
(d) Administrative and    US$1.6 million
Management Support                                            I               I                             I



Project Appraisal Document                                                Page I of 7
Country: Venezuela                                       Project: Supreme Court Modemization
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Introduction
The Supreme Court in Venezuela is an independent institution, derived from its Organic
Law (Ley Organica de la Corte Suprema de Justicia). The Court is composed of 15
justices. It has a separate budget and administrative and press offices. Overall the Court
receives about 5,000 cases per year. It employs about 400 professional and support staff.
Participatory and other assessments carried out in 1996/97 indicate that there is a need for
upgrading the performance of the Supreme Court. The proposed project addresses only
initial capacity building and learning needs of the Supreme Court. Overall description of
the sector, its issues and strategic priorities including challenges facing the Supreme
Court are provided in Part B of this document (see PAD pages 2-10).
|Total Project Cost - US$7.3 Million
|Total Bank Financing Through Learning and Innovation Loan - US$4.7 Million
Description of Components and Learning Elements
The development objective of the project is to start improving the performance of the Supreme
Court in terms of transparency, efficiency of administration and case management, and
timeliness of decisions. This would be done through development of new work methods,
attitudes, and behavior that would have a "demonstration effect" leading to further judicial
reform. The institutional assistance efforts would focus on components and activities that do not
require changes in the current legal framework.
To build the required learning elements necessary to initiate the change process within the
Supreme Court, a consultant firm would be contracted to prepare a master plan to orchestrate the
bulk of the project components as described below. Counterparts of the Supreme Court would
work with the consultants in the development of respective component plans. As learning occurs,
the role of consultants would diminish, and ultimately be phased out during the course of the
project. An assessment would be made by the Bank and the Borrower of progress in this regard
at a minimum every six-months, based on designated learning elements. As capacity is built and
verified, government counterparts would assume increased responsibility and accountability.
The master plan represents a series of inputs to be shaped through interaction between experts
and government counterparts. The process of assimilating the reforrns embedded in the
components will take place incrementally throughout the project. This provides the learning
framework for the justices and staff. It is expected that project consultants will hired by February
1998 to begin preparing the master plan. All component activities would be evaluated before
replication or expansion.
Some activities envisaged under the project would be independent of the master plan, as
reflected in the Project Implementation Plan (available in project files). These include training,
workshops held jointly with concerned NGOs (e.g. Alianza para la Justicia, an umbrella NGO



Project Appraisal Document                                            Page 2 of 7
Country: Venezuela                                    Project: Supreme Court Modernization
group with about 50 members working in administration of justice matters), seminars, archiving
historical records, and building project monitoring and evaluation capacity. Project monitoring
and evaluation capacity would be developed by full involvement of the counterparts in the design
of the project master plan and subsequent developmental activities. A learning-by-doing
approach will be adopted. Experts in judicial reform and institutional change targeted to
activities envisaged in the four project components, would provide guidance and serve as
mentors to the Supreme Court counterparts in design and development of performance measures
(see below).
Project Component A - Begin to Improve Communications, Policy Research and Quality
Assurance - US$ 1.9 Million
Component A aims to create organizational arrangements to support policy functions of the
Plenary Chamber of the Supreme Court. This component would begin the process and provide
support to develop a program to improve the institutional capabilities of the Supreme Court in
communication, policy research, and quality assurance through:
e  the administrative reorganization of the Office of Protocol and Public Information, and
preparation of a communication plan. A consulting firm would be hired to develop the
communication campaign, drawing on a survey designed to gauge citizens' perception about
the Supreme Court's institutional performance, and to prepare improvement strategies. The
communication campaign (including seminars, consultations with concerned NGOs, and
workshops for the media) is intended to educate people and inform institutions about the
project. Similar surveys would be conducted periodically to measure the impact of the
communication strategy of the project.
* the design, establishment and operation of a policy research group to carry out studies. In
conducting its research, the policy research group would encourage the participation of users
and consult other public offices involved in the judicial sector. The group may also work
with other institutions or universities in preparing special studies. Initial research topics
include: (i) identification of independent alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, (ii)
assessment of the economic impact of improving the performance of Supreme Court
services, and (iii) review of the scope of powers of the Court based on international
experience. This group will also be responsible for publishing the annual report of the
Supreme Court. To support this effort the component provides for the creation of a chair for
a Supreme Court guest scholar. This chair would be open to international competition, and
appointrnents would be for a six-month term. The guest scholar, hired as a consultant under
Bank rules, would be a full-time member of the policy research group and would conduct
specialized research related to the Court's policy agenda and formulation.
*  the design, establishment and operation of a quality assurance group to lend support for
improving lower courts' performance. On a pilot basis, this group would study lower court
cases that are reversed by the Supreme Court. Effort would be made to staff the quality
assurance group with highly-qualified professionals. The group should produce the draft
instructions for the Supreme Court to approve pursuant to its organic law.
In sequencing component tasks, the first task would be to prepare a master plan providing the
structure, scope, and staffing requirements of the proposed Supreme Court external
communication, policy research, and quality assurance groups. The staffing of all the above-



Project Appraisal Doctument                                             Page 3 of 7
Country: Venezuela                                     Project: Supreme Court Modemization
mentioned groups would be financed by the Government using counterpart resources to ensure
commitment. The Bank will finance consultant services for the design and establishment of the
above mentioned groups (including communication program, dissemination, and research) and
training (including workshops) and equipment for their operation. All activities under this
component would be evaluated before replication and expansion. Related workshops and
consultation seminars would be carried out once every three months.
Project Component B - Begin to Improve Caseload Administration - US$ 2.4 Million
The component would begin the process of restructuring the Court's internal organization, work
practices and behavior, as well as administrative procedures to improve case-handling and
preparation of decisions. This includes carrying out inventories of caseload, assessing ways to
expedite case adjudication, streamlining administrative practices, and providing computerized
systems and training financed by the Bank.
This project component would begin the process of improving case management and decision-
making by: (a) conducting inventories of caseloads in each chamber and subsequent
identification and implementation of delay-reduction strategies, design and dissemination of
administrative manuals and implementation plans incorporating revised administrative and
automated procedures, training of staff in new technology, production of reliable case statistics,
and design and deployment of performance standards; (b) training of judicial and administrative
staff in revised, automated procedures; (c) modernizing justices' offices; (d) training of justices'
assistants in analysis, legal drafting, and research; and (e) support for the acquisition of computer
equipment, equipment for reference database and case management, and materials for Supreme
Court chambers.
The methodology for designing the improvements is one of active participation and learning by
officials and users. Component activities would be sequenced to permit learning and to achieve
best results. Through the preparation of the master plan (to be financed by the Bank), proposals
would be developed for improving the efficiency of case management and decision preparation.
On the case management side, improvement efforts would focus on organization, administrative
procedures, staffing, support systems, and better allocation of internal space, with special
attention to notification practices, case reception and screening, filekeeping, and development of
performance indicators (see below). Priority is given to development of a public information
service that will allow users to obtain information about case developments, either on-line (via
the Internet) or through standalone information at the Supreme Court. The proposed master plan
would also be the most important input for the later design of a case-management information
system, which will allow the secretary and the justices to closely supervise the development of
cases. The infornation system would also reduce the time chamber officials need to accomplish
their duties, which are currently handled manually. As a priority the secretaries and high-level
staff should receive training in best management practices to help them implement the reforms
effectively. To promote on-the-job-learning, the component would also address the urgent need
for technical training (including word processing) for chamber officials.
On the decision preparation side, the proposed master plan would redesign the justices offices to
improve their functioning. The plan will address the internal organization, administrative
procedures, staffing, support systems and materials, and allocation of space. Following the
recommendations contained in the plan, the project will develop an internal computer net to
improve the exchange of information among justices' assistants and allow close supervision of



Project Appraisal Document                                            Page 4 of 7
Country: Venezuela                                    Project: Supreme Court Modemization
decision drafting by the justices. A database with Supreme Court precedents would be available
to justices and officials working on decision drafting and to users (linked with component C
below).
Project Component C - Begin to Disseminate Supreme Court Decisions - US$ 1.4 Million
Users of Court services now confront an almost complete absence of internal and external
channels of Court-related legal information and case law. For example, the Supreme Court has
not published its decisions in the last seven years. This component aims to develop, on a pilot
basis, the institutional structures needed to ensure the immediate dissemination of decisions
issued by the Supreme Court and to make the existing jurisprudence of the court available in
digital form.
This component would begin to provide support to ensure the timely dissemination of decisions
issued by the Court and to make the existing Court jurisprudence more readily available. The
component would provide: (a) evaluation of existing arrangements for publication of decisions,
carrying out cost-benefit analyses for in-house and outsourced publication options, assessment of
alternatives for computerized databases on cases, and assessment of the access to Supreme Court
decisions by public and private users; (b) establishment and operation of information kiosks
within the Supreme Court to provide more prompt dissemination of Court decisions; (c)
archiving of historical records; and (d) training of Court staff to develop dissemination and
publication capabilities.
In sequencing component activities, the first step would be to conduct the above review financed
by the Bank, which would seek to identify the best institutional arrangements for disseminating
Supreme Court decisions. This analysis would include a proposal for restructuring or replacing
the office currently responsible for the publication of Supreme Court decisions. For this purpose
external financing has been included to digitalize historical records, which would be done in
parallel to the above review. Also Bank financing resources have been provided to establish
information kiosks at the Supreme Court to facilitate the access to decisions once the publication
option is selected. At this stage cost of implementation of best dissemination options has not
been provided (which would be financed by the Government).
Project Component D - Begin To Upgrade Administrative and Management Support
(including Monitoring and Evaluation) - US$ 1.6 Million
The Court enjoys full autonomy in decisions about how it organizes itself. The administrative
and management support component aims to begin the process of strengthening the Court's
organizational structure and human resource management. This would be achieved through
streamlining the Department of Administration and General Services, computerizing
administrative support functions, institutionalizing strategic planning and developing
management information systems, and developing monitoring and evaluation capabilities. For
implementing the above consultant services, training and equipment will be financed by the
Bank.
This component will begin to provide support for: (a) an evaluation of the Court's administrative
structure, the design, establishment and operation of a planning and statistical function; (b)
development of management information, budget and salary systems; (c) acquisition and
deployment of telecommunications and other equipment; and (d) the training of Court staff to



Project Appraisal Document                                           Page S of 7
Country: Venezuea                                    Project Supreme Court Modernization
improve their administrative capacity. In addition, the component will also provide project
implementation support by financing the Project Unit (PU) and build up of Supreme Court
project monitoring and evaluation capabilities. The component would also finance the
development of perfornance indicators as part of the activities of the project.
In sequencing component implementation, first the master plan (financed by the Bank) would be
prepared to provide new administrative structure and designs for information technology and
other systems. Subsequently, component activities would be evaluated by stakeholders before
replication and expansion. As noted, the build-up of monitoring and evaluation capacity and
training would be carried out in parallel with the development of the master plan, but tasks
would be closely coordinated.
Implementation, Performance Monitoring and Evaluation
Implementation Period and Demonstration. The project would be implemented over three years
(1998-2000). One of the most important concepts is the "demonstration effece' that will be
induced by the four developmental project components. The incremental learning expected to
take place during project implementation will have spill-over effects as project results begin to
be institutionalized and manifest by the Supreme Court in ways demonstrable to users,
stakeholders and the public at large. This will take the form of better court administration,
rationalization of caseloads, more transparent decisionmaking, and thus clearer public
accountability. In turn, lower courts should be better able to emulate the learning framework
employed during the project, thus participating in the learning process and spreading the benefits
to the general society. In the end, the demonstration effect should engender more confidence in
the decisions of the Supreme Court and the Venezuelan judicial system in general.
Per,formance Monitoring and Evaluation (see
box). With the help of independent
consultants and the project unit (PU), the     aning and Innovation Elements
Supreme Court would monitor objective
indicators of progress.  As noted, Bank
financing for the development of monitoring
and evaluation capacity and perfonnance
indicators  would  be  provided  under                      i    ;
Component D as part of the Project Unit                  Ovempacp
(PU) operation.These  indicators  include             Process outputs
standard  measures  of sound  resource
management; reductions in caseload backlog,
and improvement in the timeliness and public
availability of Supreme Court decisions; and
more frequent consultations with NGOs and
others. Equally significant would be the
monitoring of perceptions of users about the
efficacy  of the improvements. Periodic                             monfiog
evaluations of progress are programmed as   Technical inputs        and evaluation
part of project implementation, and would
involve the Borrower, the Bank, and third-
party evaluators as key stakeholders. The objective of annual assessments is to modify the
substance of the work in progress to accommodate experience and new ideas



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 6 of 7
Country: Venezuela                                           Project: Supreme Court Modemization
Performance Indicators, consistent with the development objective explained above, and in
consonance with the intended demonstration effect, would target: (i) the adequacy of
communication and research mechanisms established, and extent of openness and user
confidence; (ii) progress in backlogs reduced, and standards for managing caseflow, and the
distribution of workload within the justices offices; (iii) degree to which Supreme Court
decisions begin to be published on a timely basis and historical records archived; and (iv) degree
to which administrative systems are developed and become operative.
MODEL INDICATORS
Component A - Communications, Policy Research and Qualty Assurance
Communications
Objective Indicator  *Adequately staffed communication unit and clear roles and responsibilities, in
harmony with the Communication Plan of the Supreme Court.
Subjective Indicator    *Bi-annual surveys of users (including NGOs and lawyers) to gauge satisfaction with
Supreme Court performance.
Policy Research
Objective Indicator  *Publication of annual report based on research activities under the component.
Subjective Indicator    *Measure the level of satisfaction through a survey of those involved in policy research
about the Supreme Court (for example, NGOs and other institutions).
Quality Assurance
Objective Indicator  *Examination of a sample of appeals cases that come before the Supreme Court to
identify inconsistencies in the use ofjurisprudence and doctrines, etc. and publication of
Supreme Court guidelines for superior courts.
Subjective Indicator    *Survey of superior court judges in the lower courts regarding findings of the quality
assurance reports prepared by the Supreme Court.
Component B - Caseload Administration
Case Management
Objective Indicator  *Number and types of cases received and distributed
Subjective Indicator    *Survey to determine the different management styles used for case management in
each chamber.
Decision Preparation
Objective Indicator  *Number of cases adjudicated as a percentage of cases filed, number of cases pending,
cases disposed of per chamber, quality- control techniques applied to administrative
procedural steps and measured over time, cost, and productivity of personnel.
Subjective Indicator    *Survey to measure proactivity ofjustices and secretaries in following up a case
(resources, time etc.)
Component C - Publication of Supreme Court Decisions
Objective Indicator  *Identify the range of users and the breadth of publication topics.
Subjective Indicator    *Survey to assess user satisfaction with the quality and adequacy of information placed
on kiosks.
Component D - Administration and Management Support
Objective Indicator  *Determine how changes in administrative and management support affect procedural
time associated with planning, budgeting, procurement, recruitment, etc.
Subjective Indicator    *Survey of staff perception of quality of human and other resources supporting their
functions in the Supreme Court



Project Appraisal Document                                                Page 7 of 7
Country: Venezuela                                       Project Supreme Court Modernization
Performance indicators generally pertain to the measurement of quality and timeliness of inputs
processing to achieve outputs and the combined impact of these efforts, both specific and
general. The project rationale and design takes into account the gauging of inpn measures by
continuous and incremental monitoring and evaluation during the preparation of the master plan
of each component. The output phase is also subject to performance measurement opportunities
provided by assessing the learning of counterparts as they begin to assume more responsibility
and accountability for their respective project components and activities.
The impact indicators in this project are a critical aspect of the expected outcomes and of the
demonstration effect. The premise is to measure demand-and-supply effects of Supreme Court
services. The impact indicators are both objective and subjetve in nature. User perception (the
subjective element) of improvements in service quality and information is a basic learning
assumption implicit in the project rationale and design. Model indicators are provided in the Box
which would serve as a basis for assessing relative success of learning and innovation features of
the project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page I of I
County: Venezuela                                             Project: Supreme Court Modernization
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                       Local             Foreign          Total
----------------------US $ million------- -------
Communications, Policy Research, and                 1.8                0.1              1.9
Quality Assurance
Caseload Administration                              0.9                1.5              2.4
Supreme Court Decisions' Dissemination               1.3                0.1              1.4
Administrative and Management Support                0.6                1.0              1.6
(including Monitoring and Evaluation)
Total                                                4.6                 2.7             7.3



Project Appraisal Document                                               Page I of 4
Country: Venezuela                                      Project: Supreme Court Modemization
Annex 4
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Goods and consulting services for IBRD- and PHRD-financed activities will be procured in
accordance with the provisions of the Bank Guidelines. In selecting consulting services, the PU
will follow the World Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers published in January 1997 and, in undertaking procurement of goods, will follow
the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and
revised in January 1996. The implementation of the project is expected to take three years. The
procurement packages for the first year implementation have been prepared. Subsequent
procurement packages would be prepared in June/July 1998 and 1999. The procurement
arrangements for the project components are described below, and are summarized in the Tables
A, Al, and B. The PU would use the Bank's standard bidding documents for ICB procurement of
goods. For consultant assignments subject to the selection methods of QCBS and fixed budget, the
Spanish version of the Bank's standard letter of invitation and formn of contract would be used.
Goods. Goods contracts are expected to amount of approximately US$2.0 million. An ICB
contract will be procured for Information Technology (IT), including training on the new hardware
and software. Another ICB contract will be procured for the Court's internal communication
system improvements. Goods packages for procurement of office supplies other supplies and
materials needed for the proper functioning of both the PU and the Court Chambers under the new
conditions of modernization; for supplies and materials for one information center, and for printing
and other services resulting from several studies to be carried out within the framework of the
project, will be procured by comparing three price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
in two different countries, when the estimated value of the packages will be US$50,000. Local
Shopping procedures will be applied to goods and services contracts with a price estimated to be
below US$20,000, by soliciting price quotations from more than a source in Venezuela. Bank
standard procurement documents (standard bid documents and other standard formats) will be used
as available.
Consultants' Services. There will be a large master plan development contract to be procured
under Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures. This contract will also include a
second phase, subject to Client's approval, in addition to periodic monitoring and evaluation, tasks
to follow-up and advise on the implementation of the recommendations contained in the final
report, and in-house discussions with the Supreme Court staff with possible participation of
representatives of relevant NGOs to analyze studies' conclusions and recommendations. The
master plan preparation study would also develop detailed bench marks for the different
components for regular monitoring and evaluation of the project. It is expected that by early 1998
the Supreme Court will be able to have selected the Consultants. Also Quality and Cost Based
Selection (QCBS) will be the method to select consultants for the remaining major consultants'
contracts. Other consultants' contracts (below US$200,000), will include preparation and
implementation of workshops and seminars with the Supreme Court staff with possible
participation of representatives of relevant NGOs to analyze studies' conclusions and
recommendations will be awarded through least-cost procedures. Also, it is expected that
individual consultants-experts will be selected and hired mainly through the evaluation of three
CVs to support the PU in various activities on as-needed basis. The Supreme Court, also within the
framework of the project, will be hosting guest-fellows to address specialized issues related to its



Project Appraisal Document                                               Page 2 of 4
Country: Venezuela                                      Project: Supreme Court Modemization
modernization. Finally, firms and individuals will be contracted to provide training, audit and
financial management services support on an as-needed basis. Proper Bank standard documents
(letter of invitation for consultants, standard contract formats and other standard documents
prepared by the Bank) will be used as available. Sole source will be followed for small
assignments, including organization of meetings and discussions with non-governmental
organizations estimated to cost less than US$50,000.
Bank Procurement Review. The procurement documents for the ICB would be subject to the
Bank's prior review and the first two contracts for goods under shopping procedures. Consultants'
contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 or more per contract (for individuals), all terms of reference
for consultants' assignments, and consultants' contracts awarded to firms on a competitive basis
estimated to cost US$100,000 and more per contract would be subject to Bank's prior review as
per the World Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers published in January 1997. In addition, all sole source contracts would be subject to the
Bank's prior acceptance and review. All other procurement documents and procedures would be
subject to the Bank's ex-post review on a random basis.
Disbursement
Expenditures for individual contracts of goods and services, for which prior review by the Bank is
not required, will be disbursed against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). For expenditures
incurred on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) all records evidencing such information
must be retained by the PU until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account is made. Full documentation
for all contracts requiring the Bank's prior review will be submitted. Disbursements, representing
mainly expenditures under short term technical assistance, will be made over a period of three
years, the average for technical assistance projects in the Latin American and Caribbean region.
Since the Government wishes to advance rapidly in the modernization of the Supreme Court, a
Project Preparation Advance of US$1,000,000 has been authorized. In addition, retroactive
financing will not exceed US$0.47 million would be applied to finance eligible expenditures made
no more than a year before loan signing.
A Special Account in US Dollars would be established at the Central Bank with an authorized
allocation of US$500,000. The amount of the initial deposit, however, would be limited to
US$0.2 million to correspond to anticipated expenditures in the first few months of project
execution until the expenditures reach an amount of US$700,000. The special account would be
replenished periodically to assure liquidity of funds, and all replenishment applications would be
accompanied by reconciled bank statements from the depository bank showing all transaction in
the special account.
The allocation of loan proceeds is provided in Table C of this section (see Table C).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 3 of 4
Country: Venezuela                                                   Project: Supreme Court Modemization
Annex 4, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                           Procurement Method                      Total Cost
(including
ICB        QCBS          Other        N.B.F        contingencies)
I. Gods
Computer Hardware                   1.0                                    0.4                1.4
(1.0)                                                    (0.1)
Communication Equipment             0.2                                                      0.2
(0.2)                                                    (0.2)
Office Equipment, Materials and                               0.3           0.3               0.6
Printing Services
(0.3)                         (0.3)
2. Services
Specialized Consulting Services                   2.6         0.1           1.3              4.0
(2.6)       (0.1)                          (2.7)
Training, Workshops and Seminars                              0.4           0.3              0.7
(0.4)                          (0.4)
Project Unit Support                                          0.3           0.1              0.4
(0.3)                          (0.3)
ITsau                              1.2         2.6          1.1           2.4              7.3
(1.2)       (2.6)       (1. 1)                         (4.7)
Note:  N.B.F. =Not Bank-financed
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in USSmillion equivalent)
Selection Method                    Total Cost
Consultant Category                                                          (including
contingencies)
QCBS          Other           N.B.F.
A. Firms                             2.6           0.5              0.3                3.4
B. Individuals                                     0.3              1.4                 1.7
Total      2.6           0.8              1.7                5.1
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 4 of 4
Country: Venezuela                                                  Project: Supreme Court Modemization
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure             Contract Value            Procurement          Contracts Subject to
Category               (Threshold)                 Method               Prior Review
US $ thousands                                     US $ millions
>50                   ICB                      All
<50                3 Quotations               None
2. Services
Firms                             >200                  QCBS                      All
Firms                             <200                 Short-list                 All
Individuals                        >50                   3 CVs                    All
Estimated percentage subject to prior review: 90 %:
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amount in USSmillion    Financing Percentage
1. Goods                                                     1.22          100% ofForeign
Expenditures; 100 of
Local Expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 90% of
Local Expenditures for
other items procured
locally
2. Consultants' Services and Training                        2.48           100%
3. Refunding of Project Preparation Advance                  1.0           Amounts due pursuant to
Section 2.02(c) of the
Loan Agreement
Total           4.7



Project Apprasial Document                                                  Page I of 1
Country: Venezuela                                         Project: Supreme Court Modemization
Anmex 5
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
60                TBD
B. Project Schedule                              Planned              Actual
First Identification                             1996                 1996
Preparation mission                             August 1997           August 1997
Appraisal mission                                End October 1997     Nov 12, 1997
Negotiations                                    November 1997         Nov 20, 1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    End December 1997   January 1998
Prepared by: Supreme Court
Bank Staff who worked on the project included:
Waleed H. Malih  LCSPR - Task Manager
Krishna Challa, Sector Leader, LCC4C
David Yuravlivker, Lead Economist, LCC4C
Geoffrey Shepherd, Lead Specialist, LCSPR
Bruce Carlson, Resident Representative, LCCVE
Rudy Van Puymbroeck, Acting Chief, LEGLA
Andrew Vorkink, LEGLR
Douglas Webb, Roberto Maclean, LEGPS
Roberto Laver, David Varela, LEGLA
Mario del Carril, LCRVP
Herman Nissenbaum, LCSPR
Jose Ramon Llovera, Ana Pereda, LCCVE
Jesse Casaus, Consultant
Edgardo Buscaglia, Consultant
H. Verm Payne, Consultant
Ana Julia Jatar-Hausmann, Consultant
Fulvio Carbonaro, Consultant
Jose Martinez, ECSRE
Nina Ohman, LCSPR
Elizabeth Greene, LCSPR
Margarita Caro, LCC4C
Kathy Strauss, GSDRD
Pilar Mengod, LCCVE
Peer Reviewers:
Katarina Mathernova, LEG
Anne Marie Leroy, EMT
Maria Dakolias, LEG
Keith Rosen, Consultant



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page I of I
Country: Venezuela                                       Project: Supreme Court Modemiation
Annex 6
Documents in the Project File
A.     Project Implerrsntation Plan
Project Implementation Plan (PIP) complete with related Annexes including those providing detailed
description and rationale, costs, project implementation schedule (gantt charts), and performance
indicators.
B.     Bank Staff Assessments and Other Reports include:
* Review of Venezuela's Supreme Court Modernization Program, Judge H. Verm Payne and Jesse
Casaus, Oct., 1997 (Consultants World Bank)
* Judicial Supervision, Roberto Maclean (Legal Department of the World Bank)
* El Proyecto de Modenizaci6n de la Corte Suprema de Justicia en Venezuela, Ana Julia Jatar-Hausman,
1997 (Consultant World Bank)
* Venezuela's Judicial Sector: Time Delay Study, Edgardo Buscaglia & Waleed Malik, 1997 (The
World Bank)
* Perspectiva de las ONGs de Venezuela, Jose Ramon Llovera, 1997 (NGO Specialist the World Bank)
* Information Technology Requirements, Fulvio Carbonaro (Consultant World Bank)
* Politica de Reforma Judicial de Venezuela - Consejo de la Judicatura 1996
* Preliminary Diagnostic Studies for the Preparation of the Supreme Court Modernization Project,
prepared by the Supreme Court for the meeting with the Vice-President for Latin America and the
Caribbean Region of the World Bank, June 1997
a Judges - Training Needs Assessment (Spanish Version), IESA
* Manual de Procedimientos de Inspectoria General de Tribunales, Chemonics International Inc., 1997
*  Communications Needs of the Supreme Court, Mario de Carril (The World Bank)
*  Dissemination of Decisions, Edgardo Buscaglia, 1997 (Consultant World Bank)
*  El Poder Judicial, Background Note prepared by the PU
* lornadas Extraordinaria por la Justicia, Corte Supreme de Justicia, 1997.
3 Manual de Organizaci6n, Chemonics International Inc., Nov. 1997
* Manual de Procedimientos de la Secretaria General, Chemonics International Inc., Nov., 1997
* Manual para la Instalacion del SAEP y Desarrollo Del F.P.P., Chemonics International Inc., Nov.
1997.
*  Manual del Usuario Modulo de N6mina y Modulo de Contabilidad, Chemonics Inc. Nov. 1997
* Manual de Procesos, Chemonics International Inc., Nov. 1997
*  Supreme Court Institutional Development Needs, Jesse Casaus (Consultant World Bank)
*  Halfway to Reform, Lawyers Committee for Human Rights (LCHR) and PROVEA
*  Punishment Before Trial - Prison Conditions in Venezuela, Human Rights Watch/Americas
*  Regimen Juridico del Poder Judicial, Consejo de la Judicatura
*  Venezuela in the Wake of Radical Reform, Joseph S. Tulchin
*  Asuntos Ingresados, Resueltos, Acumulados Resueltos y Pendientes en Tribunales de Categoria
"A,B,C y D" Segun Entidad Federal, Maria Novoa, PIU Consejo de la Judicatura
*  Estadisticas Judiciales 1985-1995, Consejo de la Judicatura
*  Jueces de Paz, Primer Justicia
*  Venezuela, Clima de Inversiones "Hacia la Reforma Judicial", CONAPRI
*  Project for the Infrastructure for the Support of the Venezuelan Judiciary, Judicial Council, Helimuth
Obata & Kassabaum, Inc., July, 1997



Projct Am"  Iocumed                                                                                                                                                 Prage  orf
Counby: Veneloa                                                                                                                          Projec: Supreme Cowl Moderni2ation Project
Annex ?
Status of Bank Group Operations in Venezmela
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in Us$ Millions                 and actual              Last AMPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                   _                            disbureements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project I)    Credit    Year                Borrower                     Purpose
No.                                                                        IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj           Imp Prog
Number of Closed toanB/creditst 19
Active Lon
VE-PS-8216    tBRD32250  1990  GcVnEunreW  OF VENEZUELa           T. A. LW                    30.00       0.00             0.00        14.30      14.30      14.30      S             S
VE-PB-8204   I8RD32700  1991  GoVERNMSN'r OF VENEZUELA           SOCIAL DEVT                100.00        0.00           15.00         39.94     54.94      39.95       S            S
VE-PE-8212   IBRD34950  1992  GOVENMUENr                         LOW-INCOME BRERIOS I        40.00        0.00            0.00         26.76     26.76      26.77       S            S
VE-PE-8226   18RD34940  1992  GOVERNamEIr                        STUDENT LOAN REFORM         58.00        0.00            0.00         29.41     29.41      29.39       a            HS
vE-PB-a214   IBRD34200  1992  REPUB OF VBNZUEBLA  A              AG SCTR INV                300.00        0.00          181.95         73.79    255.74      76.95       S            U
VE-PE-8223   I8RD35530  1993  GOVERNMENT                          NWY MGNT                  150.00        0.00           40.00        100.60    140.60    100.60        s            S
VE-PE-8227   IBRD35380  1993  HIM OF F8ALTH                      ENDEMIC DISEASE CONT        94.00        0.00           20.00         44.11     64.11      44.10       5            S
VE-PE-8233   IBRD35140  1993  GOV                                JUD.INPRA DEV               30.00        0.00            0.00         25.70     25.70      25.72      S             S
VE-PE-8210   IBRD36570  1994  GOVT OF VENSZUBLA   ELA            URBAN TRANSP.              100.00        0.00           20.00         64.58     84.58      64.56       S            S
VE-PE-8218   IBRD36560  1994                                     BASIC EDUC                  89.40        0.00           20.00         63.92     83.92      63.92       U            U
VE-PE-8237   IBRD39020  1995  GOVERNMENT                         INPARQUES                   55.00        0.00            0.00         53.16     53.16      53.17       S            S
VE-PE-8222   IBRD38620  1995  GOVERNMENT                         AG EXT                      39.00        0.00            0.00         38.05     38.05      3s.05       S            S
VE-PE-8215   IBRD38230  1995  REPUBLIC OF VEN.                   HEALTH SBRVICE REFOR        54.00        0.00            0.00         49.24     49.24      49.23       S            S
VE-FE-8224   IBRD40310  1996  GOVERNMENT                         MONAGAS WATER               39.00        0.00            0.00         35.52     35.52       0.00       S            S
Total                                                                                      1,178.40        0.00          296.95       659.08    9S6.03    626.71
ActivJeLoans         Clasa lnana           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                222.38           1,779.95            2,002.33
of which has been repaid:                 38.49             723.32             761.81
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                842.96           1,056.63            1,899.59
Amount sold                     x                0.00              27.54               27.54
of which repaid              :                0.00              27.54               27.54
Total Undisbursed               :              659.08               0.00              659.08
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS . highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U . unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Infonmation System (OTS)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    Page I of 2
Country: Venezuela                                                         Project: Supreme Court Modemization Project
ANNEX 8
Venezuela at a glance                                                                B/97
Latn   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America  middle-
Venezueea   & Caib.  Income       Development dlsmond
Populain mki-1996 (nMiAions)                          22.1       485    1,125
GNP per capiMt 1996 (USS)                            1.990     3,710    1,750               LiS Sxpectoncy
GNP 1996 (bilrlons USSJ                               440      1,799    1,967
Avwrage Tnnuawth 19-9
PopLdaflon (1)                                         2.2       1.7      1 4     GNP                               Gross
Labor brce (&J 3.0                                               2.3      1.8      W                               prnar
Moat recant estimate West Year available smce 1989)                               capta       N    V            enoment
Poveay, head=xn Idex (1 ef popuuaoiV                   31
Urban poplation ( otab poputan)                        93         74       se
Life expectancy at birdh &ears)                        71        69       67
infant mortality (per 1.000  e bihs)                   23         37       41              Aocsa to sae water.
ChId mah bitlon (4 of ditwen underil)                   6
Access to safe water ( ofpopulaion)                    88        80       78
Iriterarcy (1 of population age 15+)                    9         13       ..
Gross primary errolmrn r1 of schodage population)      S4        110      104                Venezue/a
Male                                                 93         ..      105         -         Lower-ndde4ncomne grup
Femele                                               96         ..      101
KEYECONO?C RAMOS ad LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985       1995    19m
Economic ralloas
GOP 4MVts US$                                32.5    620        78.4     67.6
rss3 domekswicinestmrntGDP                   32.8     1&S       16.5    16.7                       d
Expotsofgoodsandservices!GDP                 28.8     25.0      26.7    37.1
Gross dmestic savrb GDP                      39.7    27.7       21.7     30.9
Gro" nalonal savaGOP                         39.4    24.1       19.8     28.9
Cuaet eocou     ntt balancerO                 6.7      5.9       3.0     12.2
I&NolpeymetsGOP                               0.4      2.9      2l        3.9     SSts    'bvatmart
Total debtGDP                                 8.9    67.0       47.4    52.7
Tol de  aeviceeXpot                           59      24.2      21.5     17.1
Presen vae of deWGP                            ..       _       45.6
Presetdale d dWexpt                             ..      _      155.7       ..ebtens
197545  186.4-8 ,1 SI         1996  199745
WtAesa annual                                                                           -   Venezuda
GOP                                   O0      2.6      3.4      -1.       2.9
GNP per capia                       -.4       0.6      1.8      -3.8      1.2               LeN errw p
Expts of goods ad srv               -9       ,9    3,0           4.3      4.1                      ___
STRUCTUREof te ECONOMY_
1975    1985       1S95    1996      Govtdhest _ ofdtadAN wmr(%J
Agrluw                                        5.0      5.8       5.3      4.1     we
* duRy                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~4A,5    43.0  3S8.  42.3  a
Mantladialq                                 15.7    21.9       17.3    18.1      a
serviee                                      48.5     512       55.6    83.8       X
Pulvateconsnprh n                            48.9     81.8      68.8     65.2    .a       *
Geel gopmnm          conImnMtPM              11.S     10.4       9.7      3.9                    G
IVort d goods  ndW vi                        21.9    15.8       21.5    23.0                -           GOI GOP
197845  1846         199s    1996
_P  9                                                           h   n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~stlt ies1o expot end haot (14)
A.lcutw e annu2.1                                      1.5       0.3      0.3     so
rXatwy                                      .0.3      347 5.2            0.1              0
"s ivl                                     3.8    2l0          7.7    .4.3      3/
Seinwloe                                      0.0      1.9       1.5      .6      X  
PdlaIPto                                      4.5      1.9       1.5      .4.0     ,                         -
Geel gom i     xt;npl-                        2.1 Zt1            2.5    .0d 0n     s      at
Gros domesicInvement                         .8.7      8.1      39.0     4.6 
mprts   goods nd senrvIcs                    .1.8      82       21.1     -5.9
Cwos nrona product                           -0.4      2.5       4.2    -1.8
Nole 1996 dale ae prernwry stinateas. F s h Itlis we for years otran those spece
Tbe dImons show lur key Iniatos hi the country (hi boW) compard witn 1tems-group average. if data ae missing. th diamnd wil
be mcompile



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 2 of 2
Country: Venezuela                                                        Project: Supreme Court Modernization Project
Venezuela
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     loSS     1t95    1996
Domesfcpdcan hflation (%)
(% chng)                                                                         120
Conmwnerpices                               102       9.1       566    103.2    *co Jc
Implicit GDP deflator                        5.1     10.4       51.3     999       c
Goveinment finance 
(6 of GD)                                                                          a
Current revenuse                            30.5     32.6       24.6    35.8             S    92   93   94   95    N
Cufentbudgetbatlano                            ..    12.1       60       l1.s                  GOPdef        C
Ovwall supkus/derc                           1.4       ..       -.2       7.6
TADE
(micons US$                                1975      1088      1995     1         Expoat andImport levels (mIlL USS)
ToWa exports (fob)                             ..  14.660    18,632   23.417      25.00
Petoleum.   13,144    13,549   18.226
Alumrnm                                             400       681      805      2
Manumfacu                                    ..       ..    1,995    2,074      19.
Total imports (CO)                                  7.304    11,447   10,598
Food                                         .                823    1,595      r0I00
Fuelondenerg                                 ..       .,        ..       ..l
Capitl good                                  ..   2.464      2,41     4.025
Export price index (1987=100                  ..       ..       107      129            go  91  92  92  94  95  a9
Ipon prie indx (1987100)                      ..       ..       121      129                  nrDos        r
Termsoftrade(1987=100)                        ..       ..        88      101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1075     1998      1995    1006
*niab' usSe                                                                       Currnt account balance to GOP ralo (%
Expods of goods and sevices                9.352   15,863    20,362   25.089      c
Import of goods and ervie                  7.108    9.930    16,663   18,535
Resourc balne                              2,244    8S.33      3.799    9.54n
Natincome                                    100   -2.13?    -1,737   -1,542      '     |
N wcuTwa snrs                               4173     4120       194      233
Curent accountt balarce,
before officia  capital banefere        2.171   3S660       2.256    8,245         w  m          Lea      9S 2
Finaxin Iterm (net                           544   -1,941    -3,643   -2,402
Changes in not reaeres                    -715   -1,727        1,387   -6,843    .10
servesicd91ng od (Mg. USS)                9,968   13.998    10,244   16.087
Conen on rate (IcaJS)                        4.3      7.5      176.8   416.5
EXTERNAL DET &nd RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     19S1      1996    19906
(mI nsj                                                                          Couspeof  totl det, 1995 (mUIL US$ )
Tol debt orwst g aid dibud                 2.224   35,334    36,209   36,654
ORD                                       221       42      1,639    1,408   |I    A
IDA                                         0         a         0        o                300   1839 
Tor debt seIc                                591    4.304      4,867    4,627                                  2021
aRm                                         34       28       235      277                                    1453
IDA                                          0        0         0        0
Composidtonf rt reeourceI                                                                lI
Offo I 9g                                    0        2
GM" hedim                                 143      47        510    .421
PdvNab aSdbt,                             .3t      -481      .423     497 
Faouamidverant ht                          418       68       897    1,576
pwlbeqiO                                              O          0  0  0                24
Wiold Bwk prgm
ComtI5ltfI                                  0         0       148       39      A- OtD                     E-Bterh
Dldbusene                                   14        0        47       48      B-IDA    o-Otulttrt  FPT-F             |
Pi1nc    pynet                              16       22       116      160      C-IMF                      G-slon4m |
Nme Ilw                                     -4      -22         9     .121     _                   _
berstpwmnt                                  16        3       120      108
Net rnsfer                                .20       -26      .189     -229
O neeomt Eanolc                                                                                                  8WSf97






MAP SECTION






jb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ~~~~~' ~                                                      'IBRD 26501
ANIIL6RT      '~~~4TKL)   e  o            9                                               et4o
Peooeitlnde~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONAA
-1 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0it~i J                                                                                                                            
'wf ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t Y~~~~~LGVT$AT                                                                                   Tt.
M6   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ThriA
NUeA~~~~~~~~~EN
-~~  ~ ti  ~~4i~f~  .   ,,~~,    TRINIAGD
to                      0#~~                                                                                                                                 N                                       o
TIll tA                                                                                       ,.  MONA-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fd~  I d/A~,
6'
onthis  -og  do  o
-500                                                                                                               =dg-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ipy0  t- oto
nyu                                                                                                           The~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Word.--kfrup
Major Roads ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r  n'oorems
" '   Rivers
v Selected Cities and Towns                                                                                                           W~,t~A:1i,                           GT
76 Stote Or Federal Territory Capitals                                                                           
-2'                       National Capitols
Stale or Federal Territory Boundaries              2,.
-   -International Boundaries
72'  70                    68'                      66                         64~~~~~~~~~~~B     ACJOZR'7IBRZL
DECEMBER 1994



