Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4270- VE
Loan Agreement
(Supreme Court Modernization Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 30, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4270-VE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF 
VENEZUELA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing 
of the Project; and
(B)
the Borrower’s Supreme Court of Justice (the Supreme 
Court) is the highest tribunal in the territory of the Borrower and 
exercises its jurisdiction pursuant to the Ley Orgánica del Poder 
Judicial (the Judicial Power Organic Law) dated September 11, 1969 
(as amended), and the Ley Orgánica de la Corte Suprema de Justicia 
(the Supreme Court Organic Law) dated January 1, 1977;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions, Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated 
May 30, 1995, with the modification set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If 
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank 
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary 
of the Loan during the procurement or the execution 
of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at 
any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of 
any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the 
Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, 
or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from the 
Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount 
of the Loan shall be canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the 
several terms defined in the General Conditions and the preamble to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and 
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Annual Work Plan” means any of the plans referred to 
in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement;
(b)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower's fiscal year which 
begins on January 1 and ends on December 31 of each year;
(c)
“Implementation Plan” means the Supreme Court’s plan, 
dated December 1997, that sets forth the guidelines for Project 
implementation, including the administrative, budgetary, 
procurement and disbursement procedures to be followed by the 
Supreme Court; 
(d)
“Monitoring Indicators” means the Project’s 
Page  3
performance monitoring indicators included as Chapter 3 of the 
Implementation Plan;
(e)
“Project Unit” means the unit referred to in Section 
3.03 (a) (ii) of this Agreement; and
(f)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement, an amount equal to four million seven hundred thousand 
Dollars ($4,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, 
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its 
Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or 
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a 
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn 
from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate 
plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from 
and including the date of this Agreement to, 
but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial 
period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest 
Period, the London interbank offered rate for 
six-month deposits in single currency for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in 
the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or 
next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
Page  4
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest 
Period: (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, 
in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings 
or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to 
fund single currency loans or portions thereof 
made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate 
and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice 
affecting the determination of the interest rates referred to in 
this Section 2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest 
of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less 
than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply 
to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount 
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to 
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through 
the Supreme Court, with due diligence and efficiency, and 
appropriate managerial, administrative, financial and judicial 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) 
of this Section and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Plan and the applicable Annual Work Plan, with due 
regard to the Monitoring Indicators.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed 
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, at all times 
until completion of the Project:
(i)
a Project steering committee, within the Supreme 
Page  5
Court, with membership structure and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank, such responsibilities to 
include oversight of the execution of the Project, 
provision of policy guidance, and coordination with 
other agencies of the Borrower, non-governmental 
organizations, community and private sector groups; 
and
(ii)
a Project unit, within the Supreme Court, with the 
following functions and responsibilities:
(A)
supporting and monitoring Project 
implementation;
(B)
preparing the reports and plans referred to in 
Sections 3.05 through 3.07 of this Agreement; 
and
(C)
processing the withdrawals of the proceeds of 
the Loan and ensuring appropriate record 
keeping, accounting and auditing,
all pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, the 
Implementation Plan and the applicable Annual Work Plan.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Unit is, 
at all times during the execution of the Project, headed by a 
Project coordinator assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with 
qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of carrying out periodic 
reviews of Project implementation, the Borrower shall hire 
consultants with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Bank, under terms of reference and terms of employment satisfactory 
to the Bank, as follows:
(a)
by not later than June 30, 1998, to develop specific 
benchmarks designed to assess users’ perception of the efficiency 
of the Supreme Court’s procedures; and
(b)
by not later than June 30, 1999, to assess the 
achievement of the Project’s objectives in accordance with the 
benchmarks developed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section and 
the Monitoring Indicators.
Section 3.05.  Without limitation to the provisions of 
Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, not 
later than December 31 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request on the progress 
achieved in the execution of the Project during the preceding 
calendar year.
Section 3.06. (a) In conjunction with the progress report to 
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for its review 
and approval, an annual work plan for the following calendar year, 
in a format satisfactory to the Bank, such plan to include:
(i)
a description of the Project’s annual specific 
Page  6
targets;
(ii)
the schedule of the tasks associated with each 
such target;
(iii)
terms of reference for all the tasks so 
scheduled;
(iv)
the resources required to complete such tasks;
(v)
key Project execution benchmarks; and
(vi)
quality and impact indicators of the Project’s 
outputs.
(b)
Upon the Bank’s approval, the Borrower shall carry 
out such Annual Work Plan in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures of the Supreme Court in respect of the 
Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section including those 
for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than four months after 
the end of each such Year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the 
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of 
Page  7
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in 
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank 
has received the audit report for the Fiscal 
Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are 
included in the annual audit referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, 
that the Judicial Power Organic Law or the Supreme Court Organic 
Law shall have been amended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the 
ability of the Supreme Court to execute the Project or the 
performance of any of the Borrower’s obligations under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, 
that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date March 30, 1998 is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  8
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Dirección General Sectorial
de Finanzas Públicas
Edificio Norte, Piso 5
Centro Simón Bolívar
Caracas 1010, Venezuela
Telex: 
24215 HDACP
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their 
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be 
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, 
United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
By /s/ Pedro Luis Echeverría
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods 
1,215,000
100 % of foreign
Page  9
expenditures,
100 % of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 90% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)
Consultants'
2,485,000
100%
services and 
Training
(3)
Unallocated
1,000,000
________
     TOTAL
4,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in 
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other 
than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in 
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than 
for consultants’ services) incurred for: (i) training materials; 
(ii) rental of training facilities; (iii) transportation expenses 
of trainees; (iv) subsistence expenses for trainees; (v) 
scholarships and fellowships for training courses locally or 
abroad; and (vi) study tours and internships locally or abroad.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of 
$470,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after December 30, 1996.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower, 
for expenditures under:
(a)
contracts for goods costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each (other than the contracts set forth in Part D.2 (b) 
of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement); 
(b)
contracts for services with consulting firms costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each; 
(c)
contracts for services with individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and
(d)
Training activities.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist in the 
institutional strengthening of the Supreme Court through actions 
aimed at: (a) improving the Supreme Court’s capabilities in the 
Page  10
areas of communications, policy research and quality assurance; (b) 
improving the Supreme Court’s case management capacity; (c) 
increasing the access of the public to Supreme Court’s decisions; 
and (d) strengthening the Supreme Court’s managerial, 
administrative and support resources.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Communications, Policy Research and Quality Assurance 
1.
Reorganization of the Supreme Court’s office of protocol and 
public information, including preparation of a communications plan.
2.
Design, establishment and operation of two special units 
within the Supreme Court to be responsible for: 
(i) 
lower courts performance improvement support, through 
the issuance of the instructives allowed under the Supreme Court 
Organic Law; and
(ii)
(A) 
conducting policy research studies (with 
participation of civil society organizations and in consultation 
with other agencies of the Borrower involved in the judicial 
sector) in the areas of: (1) independent alternative dispute 
resolution mechanisms; (2) improvement of the performance of the 
Supreme Court services; and (3) scope of the powers of the Supreme 
Court; and (B) publishing the Supreme Court annual report.
Part B:
Case Management
Carrying out of a program to improve the Supreme Court case 
management, including:
1.
Establishment of inventories of caseloads; identification 
and implementation of delay reduction strategies; preparation and 
utilization of administrative manuals and implementation plans for 
revised administrative and automated procedures; provision of 
training for new case management technology; production of reliable 
case statistics; and design and utilization of performance 
standards.
2.
Management strengthening in the areas of: internal 
organization; administrative procedures (including notifications, 
reception and screening of cases, file keeping and performance 
indicators); staffing and support systems; and allocation of 
internal space.
3.
Development of a public information service on current 
status of case processing and of an internal network to facilitate 
exchange of information for decision drafting purposes.
4.
Training of judicial and administrative staff in revised 
internal procedures, other than case management procedures.
5.
Operational strengthening of the Supreme Court justices’ 
offices, including training of their assistants in legal analysis, 
drafting and research.
6.
Acquisition and utilization of computer equipment, equipment 
for reference databases and case management, and legal materials.
Part C:
Dissemination of Supreme Court Decisions
1.
Evaluation of existing arrangements for publication of 
Page  11
Supreme Court decisions; development of alternatives for 
publication of such decisions; carrying out of a cost/benefit 
analysis for in-house and out-sourced publication options; 
assessment of alternatives for computerized databases on 
legislation and case-law; assessment of the access to Supreme Court 
decisions by users; and implementation of the options or 
alternatives selected on the basis of the above studies.
2.
Acquisition and utilization of equipment to provide prompt 
dissemination of Supreme Court decisions through the establishment 
and operation of information kiosks at the Supreme Court.
3.
Training of Supreme Court staff in the areas of 
dissemination and publication of Supreme Court decisions.
Part D:
Upgrading of Administrative and Management Support
Carrying out of a program to improve the organizational 
structure and human resource management capabilities of the Supreme 
Court, such program to comprise:
1.
Evaluation of its administrative structure; design, 
establishment and operation of a planning and statistical function; 
development and implementation of a human resource development 
plan; development and operation of a communications network; and 
development and utilization of personnel, financial, building and 
equipment inventory data bases.
2.
Carrying out of studies on the development of performance 
indicators, management information systems, and budgeting and 
salary norms.
3.
Acquisition and utilization of telecommunications equipment.
4.
Training of Supreme Court staff in managerial, 
administrative and technical matters. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 
2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of 
Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in 
Dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 2003
through May 15, 2014
195,000
On November 15, 2014
215,000
Page  12
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollars to be repaid, 
except 
as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or 
more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically-manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines 
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 but more than 
$20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $60,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  13
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods procured 
under Part B of this Section the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods 
under Parts C.1 and C.2 of this Section, the following procedures 
shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under 
international shopping procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured 
under international shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 
(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of 
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the 
“Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, 
and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Page  14
Services for training, seminars and workshops under the 
Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for small assignments, including organization of 
meetings and discussions with non-governmental organizations which 
are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under 
the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of more than 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of more 
than $50,000, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference 
and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to 
the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after such approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of 
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) 
and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
Page  15
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation”, means the amount of 
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $200,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the amount of $700,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the 
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do 
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this 
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits 
Page  16
into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article 
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the 
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan 
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an 
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; 
or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required 
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to 
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
Page  17
