Docum,rn of
The World Bank
FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. :P- 5826 MOZ   Type: (PtM)
Title:  CAPACITY BUIILDING PROJECT
Auithor: HECHT, R                                         3iputN. P-5826-NOZ
Ext. :33341 Room:J11083 Dept. :AF6PH
IlEMORANDM AND RECOMMDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
ITERATIOAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
T1 THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 34.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF OZMIQUE
FOR A
CAPACITY BUILDING: HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OCTOBER 29, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ased by recipients only in the performance of
thir official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World B    authoriation.



RENCY EQUIVNA11M
(July 23, 1992)
Currency Unit = Metical (p1. Meticais)
1000 Metic is = One Conto
USD 1.00      =   MZM 2,809 (Secondary Market Exchange Rate)
MAL WAR
Government Fiscal Year:    January 1 - December 31
School Year:               February 1 - December 31
University Year:           August 1 - June 30
ABBREVLATI AND ACRONYMS
ADB        African Development Bank
BOM        Bank of Mozambique
CFA        Center for Agricultural Trining
CFI        Center for Industial Training
CG         Consultative Group
CIUEM      University Center for Information Science
DAF        Department of Administration and Finance
DANIDA   Danish International/*/ Development Agency
EEC        European Economic Community
EPU        Pre-University Education/Pre-University School
ESRP       Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program
FUNDAP   Foundation for the Development of Public Administration
GEPE       Educational Projects Management Unit
GIU        University Buildings Office
IC         Inter-Ministerial Committee
ISP        Pedagogical Training Institute
MAE        Ministry of State Admisration
MINED      Ministry of Education
MINPIN    Ministry of Finance
MOQ        Ministry of Justice
NDSE       National Directorate of Secondary Education
NORAD    Norwegian Agency for International Development
PTG        Project Technical Group, Ministry of Education
SAREC      Swedish Agency for Research Cooperation with Developing
Countries
SIDA       Swedish Agency for International Development
UEM        Eduardo Mondlane University
UNDP       United Nations Development Project
UNICEF    United Nations Children's Fund



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUIBLI OF MOZAItBIOUIR
CAPfCI1 BUL : HUfMA RE$QURCES DEVEBLOPMETrs
CRDfA ERQJECr,SUMMARY
Republic of Mozambique
Beneficiaries:              Eduardo Mondlane University, Ministry cf Education
Am=unt:                     SDR 34.1 million (US$48.6 million equivalent)
Terma                       Standard, with 40 years maturity
FinancinghPm:M/I             Government          US$10.1 million
Beneficiaries        US$1.6 million
IDA                  US$48.6 million
TOTAL                US$60.3 mlUliQ
Economic Rate of Return:    Not applicable
Staff ApjEal Repot:         Report no. 10731-MOZ
Map:                        IBRD No. 23687
i/ nludes taxes and duties of US$6.3 million.
2/ Cotributions from the local community, mainly of uses fews for building operation and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only mi the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worbo Bank tuthorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO MOZAMBIQUE
FOR A CAPACITY BUILDING: HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
1.    The following memorandum and recommendation of a proposed credit to Mozambique for
SDR 34.1 million, the equivalent of US$48.6 million, is submitted for approval. The proposed credit
would be on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years and would help finance a capacity
building: human resources development project. Part I of the document gives the country policies and
the Bank Group's assistance strategy for Mozambique. Part n of the document describes the
proposed credit.
PART I: COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISANCE SIRATEGY
A. Resn Economic Performance
2.    Iaokgjqnd. Despite good economic potential, Mozambique is one of the poorest countries
in the world, with an annual per capita income of only US$80. Literacy rates, infant mortality rates,
levels of malnutrition and life expectancy are among the worst in Sub-Saharan Africa. The main
reasons for Mozambique's failure to realize its potential relate to structural weakness inherited from
the colonial period, severe shortages of high-level manpower to plan and manage policies and
programs, the civil war, and over a decade of economic mismanagement since Independence in 1975.
Perhaps most debilitating has been the civil war which, since the early 1980s, has devastated much of
Mozambique's countryside. In order to overcome its extreme poverty and aid dependency,
Mozambique needs to continue the process of economic adjustment and resolve its internal conflict.
3.    In response to the serious economic and financial difficulties, the Govermnent launched a
comprehensive adjustment program in 1987, the Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP)-
subsequendy renamed, the Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program (ESRP), to higlight the
importance given to poverty issues. The ESRP is currently being supported by a fourth IDA
adjustment credit, the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC), an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
(ESAF) from the IMF, and assistance from multilateral and bilateral donors. The sixth Policy
Framework paper (PFP) for the 1992-94 period has been recently negotiated together with the third
year ESAF program.
4.    A major achievement of the ERP has been to restore economic growth, averaging over 5
percent per annum during the 1987-89 period, despite the security situation. Much of this growth
came from light industrial activity which responded to the increased availability of foreign donor
financing to import raw materials. A significant recovery was also apparent in the agriculturd sector,
reflecting the adjustment in prices and the increased availability of incentive goods in ral areas. In
1990-91, growth slowed down to less than 2 percent on average, mainly as a consequence of bad
weather, renewed attacks by RENAMO, and lower levels of external financing. Furthermore,
because of the severe drought affecting the Southern Africa region, and a significant decline in non-
emergency external assistance, GDP growth is expected to be negative in 1992; As a result of the
drought, food aid requirements are estimued at 1.2 million tons, more than double the amount
received the previous year.



-2-
5.     lSsalpole. Significant instiional changes have been implemented to transform the
government budget into a key policy instrument for prioritizing public expenditures. In 1990, off-
budget expenditures amounting to about 10 percent of GDP were included in the budget and an
accoueting system for monitoring budgetary expendiures was put in place with technical assistance.
These improvements were accompanied by the itroduction of rolling three-year investment and
financial plans, and substantial revisions to the investment program. Large white elephant projects in
irrigation were cut, and the investment program wds redesigned to beter reflect povert reductior
priorities. In particular, support to smallholder production in agriculture ana social expenditures were
increased substantially.3/
TABLE 1: KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS, 19%6691 /
12|fl    1987  1.2     198 1 !f2 .290   1991
Real Growth (% pa.)
GDP Growth Rate                              2.3    4.6    5.5      5.4    1.3   2.7
Consumption per Capita                      -3.3  40.7   2.0        3.7   -4.1  -2.0
Grss InvestnatGDP V                          9.2    2.0  33.4   35.5   38.1  42.1
Domesc SavinpuGDP                            -1.1   -12.0  -16.5   -16.6  -11.7  *11.6
Budgetary Data (% of GDP)
Budgetary Revenues                           12.9   16.2  19.9   23.4   22.3  23.5
Governmet Expendiures                       30.9   37.5  45.2   49.0   51.7  30.3
Overall Defict before Ganus                  17.6   21.1   25.3   25.5   29.5  26.9
Overal Defict after Gants                    15.3   11.8  11.3    8.9    12.6   6.1
Sbwreof GDP (%)
Export (G&NMSI(GDP                           3.5    12.1  15.1   15.4   15.9  24.3
Epot Growth Rate (G&NFS) a'                  -1.4    8.3    4.4     8.4   10.6  31.3
Cu2re Account DetitA(X&S)
Before Grats                      314     289   253      281    263   214
Ajer Grants                      27       159   108      138    114   78
Reld Effct. Exch Rate (depre.=-)            22.7  -77.3  -18.3      0.8     1.2  -17.7
Infla*on (average, % p.a.)                  38.7   163.3  50.1   42.1    49.2  33.3
/   Due to dfiues in measuing national aocounts, estmates on nvestmnt and savings are distorltd. The increase in
ratios to GDP reflect the afecs of major exchange rate adjusunt on the emt  component of investmt
reative to a less faster increase in domeatic inflation, and therefore, GDP.
Z    Invesent exenditur include some recurrent expenditures (about 20 peoren of investment).
A/   In real tam.
6.     M    ta PoUcies have aimed at reducing excess liquidity and improving the efficiency of
credit utlization. Monetary expansion has been restrained by elimint  domestic bank financing of
the budgetary deficit from a level of about 12 percent of GDP in 1986, and in 1991, the budget made
repayments to the banking sector equivalent to 1.7 percent of GDP. Overall, the ratio of money to
GDP fell from 63 percent in 1986 to 36.5 percent in 1991, and inflation declined from 163 perct in
1987 to 33 percent in 1991. In 1992, however, inflation is expected to increase, partly as a result of
3I In constant 1980 prices, per capita budgeay expenditures an education feil from MZM 409 in
1980 to MZM 128 in 1987, and rose to MZM 215 by 1990; per capita budgty expenditures an
health declined ftom MZM 132 in 1980 to MZM 53 in 1987, and increased to MZM 61 by 1990.



-3-
drought related food shortages and faster than programmed monetary expansion during the first half
of the year. 'Me Government Is taking corrective measures to control monetary expansion and
therefore to contain inflationary pressures.
7.    Since Independence the bking sector was dominated by the Bank of Mozambique (BM),
which acted both as the central bank and as a commercial bank. In December 1991, a new central
banking law and a general banking law were enacted by Government. In early 1992, the BM
Mozambique (BM) was separaed into Banco Comercial de Mozambique (BCM) and BM, the centra
bank. Presendy, emphasis is being given to strengthening the central bank- in the areas of monetary
control, supervision and foreign exchange management- and to increasing competion filitating the
entry of new fiancial institutions. Interest rates are positive in real terms and the differentiation in
lending rates among sectors has been eliminated.
8.    Significant progress has been made in reforming prices and restoring ficia insntives at
the producer level. Price controls are now limited to essential products, including food aid, sold
through the ration system ht urban areas, utilty and transport services. These prices are being
adjusted to reflect international parity levels. In the agricultural sector, prices have been freed and
minimum (floor) prices apply to nine crops. Fixed prices for manufactured products were replaced
by a system of ex post review ("conditioned prices"), which gave enteprises flexibility in increasing
prices. Overall, the share of products subject to price control fell to about 17 percent of totai
production in 1991, a substantial decline from the pre-ESRP level of 69 percent (Table 2).
TABLE 2: PRODUCTS WrIT    D   PRICES
1986  1988  1989  1990  1991
She of poductioa
(besining of period)       69%   39%   30%   24%   17%
9.    In order to improve the foreign exchang, location system, the Govermnent introduced in
1990 the secondary market for foreign exchange. The objective was to establish a market In which
economic agents could trade foreign exchange without administrative restrictions. Although iaitialy
limited in scope, it helped to determine a market-related exchange rate, which was used as the basis
to adjust the official rate. The gap between these two rates has been narrowed to less than 10
peent, and tha between the secondary and parallel rate to about 20 percent.
10.   Following the significant reduction in the overvaluation of the official exchange rate, the
Government announced in April 1992 a subsantial expansion of the market-based foreign exchange
system. This has involved the unification of the foreign exchange windows applying to untied aid and
to traditional exports within the secondary market. To develop that market, commercial bans are
now ailowed to access foreign exchange, including untied aid, and to open lettes of credit. A
"special" exchange rate at an 8 percent discount applies to tied aid funds to reflect their higher
finncial cost. Because Mozambique's tied aid is large relative to export erings, the unification of
exchange rates requires the effective support of donors in untying external aid both in terms of the
countries from which goods can be procured and in terms of the use of fimds.
11.   Cw   Accouat Defct. With an external debt of US$4.9 biUlion in 1991, and a debt
sevice ratio (before debt rescheduling) amounting to 146.5 percent of exports of goods and services
in 1991, Mozambique is one of the world's most indebted countries. In response to the reform



-4-
program, wobly exchange rate adjustments, the rate of growth of exports of goods and non-factor
services accelerated to 31.3 percent if, 1991 in real terms with the result that the share of exports in
GDP has doubled since 1987 (Table 1) Nevertheless, external imbalances remained substantial,
reflectng Mozambique's low levels of productlon. Large volumes of imports would be required, at
least in the medium-term, to provide incentive goods for the agricultural and industrial sectors as well
as the capital goods for the rehabilitation of key economic and socW infrastrucatre. This straiegy
was reflected in the widening of the current account deficit before grants from 47.8 percent of GDP
in 1987 to 61.2 percent in 1991. Becausepf strong donor support for the ESRP (see below), the
current account deficit after grants fell from 26.8 percent of GDP in 1987 to 22.1 percent of GDP in
1991.
12.   Following two traditional debt rescheduling with ihe Paris Club in 1984 and 1987,
Miozambique concluded a new rescheduling on Toront terms in June 1990 covering the period 1990-
92. A number of donors have already converted their outstanding loans into grants or have canceled
their loans, thus bringing closer the prospect for balance of paymets viability. In addition, about
64 percent of Mozambique's commercial debt was retired at a discount in December 1991, utilizing
finds from the IDA Special Debt Reduction Facility and donor financial support. The overall effect
was to reduce the debt service ratio (before debt reliet) to 42 percent in 1991.
S. Medin-Tm Macrecononiec and Structura Poliees
13. Despite the progress made so far, Mozambique continues to face severe constraints to realize
t economic potential including (i) the security siuaion; (ii) continuing institutional deficiencies and
management capacity; (iii) severely underdeveloped human resources; (iv) widespread poverty and
food inserity; (v) poorly developed economic and finamcial infastructure. IThe magnitude of these
problems is so great that adjustment will be a long term process that will continue to necessitate
substatal levels of external assistance, including debt relief.
14.   The Govenunent's medium-term macroeconomic framework and strucuril policies are
contained in a series of PFPs prepared joindy by the Government, the Bank and the IMP. The
negotiations for the sixth PFP, which was recenty completed, were carried out under very difficult
conditions fr Mozambique. The adverse impact of the drought and a substantl short-fall in non-
drought external assistance, contributed to a slippage in the macroeconomic program during the fist
half of 1992. Nevertheless, the Government is taking the necessary measures to put the program
back on track and is committed to meet the fiscal and monetary targets, excluding the impact of the
drought, as programmed. In addition, the policy dialogue on structural reform has moved forward
notably in the following areas:
(a)    oreign Exchange Sm. Emphasis is being given to establishing appropriate
institutional mechanisms for the effective operation of the recently created market-
based system, which since April 1992 includes untied aid funds and traditional
exports. In particular, measures will be taken to enhance the effioiency of the
banking system, including adequate reserve management and aid monitoring by the
central bank.
(b)    Enerise S%=. It is expected that in 1992-93 some ten large enterprises will be
privatized and an action plan to improve the performance and accountability of public
parastatals will be prepared in the course of 1.993. In terms of economic incentives



-5-
for private sector development particular attention will be given to export promotion.
To this end a study will be carried out by IDA in 1993.
(c)    Financial St. Priority is being given to strengthening the central bank- in the
areas of supervision, monetary control and foreign exchange management- and to
increasing competition. In addition, a plan to deal with the non-performing loans of
the banking system will be prepared by mid-1993, including further assumption of
enterprise debt by Government. Interest rates will be liberalized subject to maximum
and minimum rates before the end of 1993, and full liberalization will be implemented
if market conditions permit.
(dO    &&dgricWtu    Sector. A sector review will be started in 1993 with the objective of
reassessing sectoral policies and the investment program for the post-war period. This
would include defining a strategy for land use and tenure to protect family farms.
(e) ert Alleviatin. In addition to increasing recurrent expenditures in the social
sectors, the Government is taking steps to improve the targeting of the "safety net" In
the urban areas. These include (i) increasing the coverage of cash transfers and Cl)
re-orienting price subsidies to a single commodity mostly consumed by the poor. In
the rural areas, the need to expand emergency aid distribution as a result of the
drought, is being addrssed through the increased participation of NGOs.
15.   The success of the Government's policies, will depend to a large extent on the effective
implementation of the peace accord signed on October 4, 1992. Under a peace scenario, the
Government wil need to meet the costs of reconstruction, including demobilization, elections and
resettlement of millions of refugees. In the short term, this will raise budgetary pressures that would
require additional external financing. Some of these requirements, have been included in the 1993
projections, as "extraordinary expenditures", but futher work will be needed in coming months to
establish the magnitude of the additional fimancing. Such a framework will be presented to donors at
the next Consultative Group (CG) meeting scheduled for early December, 1992.
16.                                                              MoMQ C Pmplt and Extenal FBRan    g   ulrmts Mozambique is well
placed for attaining economic growth rates of about 5-6 percent during the second-half of the 1990s.
A major source of growth would be the agricultural sector which is projected to grow at around 5-
6 percent per annum, as millions of currently displaced persons are gradually rerated into the
rural economy following improvement in the security sitation. A major boost to industrial growth
would come from an enlarged role for the private sector coupled with the privadzation of most state
enterprisesj/ improvement in Mozambique's bilatal relations with South Africa, and strong
foreign investors' interest in the on-going privatization of the Mozambican economy.
:1  Contrct signed with foreign firms reached US$135 million in 1990 compared to USS58 million
in 1989 and US$17 amiaon in 1987.



-6-
TABLE 3: SUMMARY OF KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
1=        993    122A
?ereait In real tr p.a.
GDP Growth                            -1.4       3.0    5.9
Peaa of GDP
Cetr Oovmem DefioitIGDPI/
Befr Grans                      33.7     34.4    28.0
After rants                     7.2       5.2    1.5
Cunt Aowunt Defiit/XGS
Before Grants                  192.9    206.6   179.6
After Grants                    58.6     73.6   62.6
J/ Inludes the impact of special factors; drought in 1992 and eletdonsdemobilization in 1993.
2,/ As a perctage of expors of goods and services.
17.   The suslnability of the Mozambican reform agenda is critically dependent on adequate
exten  financing, including debt cwncellation. The program envisages rapid increases in non-
tradonal exports and wansport services receipts, nevertheless by 1994 they will still account for less
than 40 percent of imports of goods and services. Thus, Mozambique will require substantial extea
ausisace to maintain import levels compatible with a growth target of 5.0 percent per annum in the
medium term. I/ Without such imports, per capita consumption would fall below its already low
level with severe consequences on poverty.
18.   Taking into account scheduled debt service, reduction of arrears, and reserve build-up, total
externa financing requirements are projected to remain at about JS$1.2 billion per year. It is
assumed that disbursemns from grants and loans, including emergency aid for the drought, would
amount to US$720 million in 1992, lower than the pledges made by donors at the last Consultaive
Group Meeing for Mozambique held in December 1991. Financing gaps (bfore debt rescheduling)
would average US$390 million per year in 1992-94. However, assuming that Mozambique's extern
debt would be rescheduled on Trinidad terms after 1992, the financing gaps would be covretd.
19.   While favorable debt rescheduling on Trinidad terns represents a potental source for
financing the gaps, a long-term solutsn to Mozambique's extnal debt problem will require actions
on a number of fronts. As about 42 percent of Mozambique's debt are due to OECD bilaterals and
30 percen to Eastern European countries, the Government has initated a debt restucturing strategy
aimd  at reducing the extemal debt. Debt cancellation agreements have been reached with several of
Mozambique's OECD creditors. Regarding the debt owed to the former Soviet Union, agreement had
been -eched that it would be reduced through a debt-equity swap. The Government has requested
I)A assistance in developing such a strategy, as well as wih other Eastern European creditors.
S/  As expors amount to 18 percent of imports, expos would have to grow at least 5.5 times faster
than imports to achieve a balanced tde account. In the shot-term, this would imply a growth
rate of about 40-50 perceat for exports. Over the medium-twerm, impots could grow slower than
GDP following the reintegration of the displsced and dircly sffected popuation (about oe-
third of total populaton) in rural areas, which would lead to rpid agricultr growth and reduced
food impors.



-7-
C. aunk Count ANssp    5rangy
Objectves and Strategy
20.   The objectives of the Bank's assistance strategy for Mozambique are to support the
rehabiitation of key economic and social infrasttuctume and establish an economic eavironment
conducive to sustained economic growth and poverty alleviation. The overall approacb is to
stengte key institutions, policies and funcions so as to promote increased productivity of public
resources, enhanced private sector growth and poverty reduction.
21.   The principal elements of the Bank's strategy are to support efforts to:
*     Prioritize public expenditures, in particular towards the social sectors, agriculture and
infastructure, while maintaining macroeconomic stability through credit restraint and
repayment of govenment debt to the banking sector;
*     Reduce poverty and food insecurity, in particular by increasing agricultural output,
expanding employment and incomegenerating opportunities, and improving delivery
of basic social services;
*     Enhance private sector-based growth through deregulation, privatization and
restructuring of state enterprises, re-establishment of basic banking services, and
rehabilitation of the country's basic infrastructure;
3     Strengthen Government's capacity to plan and manage policies and program;
*     Improve external aid mobilization, coordination and utilization.
Lending Program and Economic and Sector Work
22.   Bank Gru Operations. Since Mozambique joined the Bank in 1984, 17 projects involving
IDA Credits of about US$870 million have been approved. About 46 percent of Bank assistamce has
been provided through four adjustment operations in support of the Government's ERP/ESRP (Table
4). The main focus of Bank investment projects has been on rehabilitation of essential economic and
social infrastructure, principally in urban areas due to the insecurity in the countryside. In response
to an increase in investor interest in Mozambique, IFC plans to expand its activities in Mozambique.
IFC activities continue to be limited to foreign exchange earnings operations with offshore accounts to
ensure foreign exchange is available for debt service. In FY87, IPC approved a loan for the
rehabilitation and privatization of a major agricitural company, LOMACO, and in FY88, an
investment for an oil exploration project. In FY91, IFC approved a loan for a hotel project, which
included the first public share issue in Mozambique since independence. IFC is considering
investments in an agricultural project and a hotel project Schedule D coting a summary statement
of IDA credits and IFC investments.
23.   hnDroement In PlrojetnlmJlwftI1on. As our project portfolio has increased in size and
complexity, a number of generic institutional bottlenecks have emerged, including delays in hiring
project staff/consultants and in processing disbursements applications. Many of these problems stem
from the rapid growth in our portfolio, with the result that many local staff are not yet conversan
with Bank procedures and requirements. Other problems stem from capacity deficiencies in the
implementng institutions. In addition, poor compensation adversely affects the motivation and



perfobano of civil sevants. Our pwposed wuntry irtegy Is to adress these problems through a
variety of means, icluding incmsing resources allocated to project supervision and improving
Implmenton capacity.
24.   Su        . During FY91, we placed a Senior Operations Officer in the Resident Mission
whose prncipal task is to imptove proje  it   and we are pposig to recruit a loca
staff person to strengthen impl ion support in the field. A Project Cycle Seminar (covering
Bank prcus  for procrmentz, disbuments, acouating and audhtg) and a Country
Implementaion Review (CIt) were held in Mozambique in PY91. A second CIR took place on
October 1992. In addition, midtrm revie  were carried out for the Urtan Rehabilitation and the
Economic and financial Tecnical Assistae Project. The rviews, which dealt mainly with
implementtion issues, were found to be very usefl by Government and Bank stuff.
25.               C      . Problems in implemenaion, resulting from weak instion and
very few qualified Individuals, were aggravatd by the fact that many officials have left Goverment
to pursue more lucrative careers in the private sector. It is expected, however, that tne salary fund to
be established under the proposed Capacity Bulding project and supported by donors TO increase
salaties of civil sea, will improve prospects for recruitment and retention of government
employees in the short un.
26.   Disbu. Project disbursements have been slower than expected. Two main causes
have been identifed: the fact that the Bank of Mozambique centrally manages the accounts of the
projects implemented by various miniAtries; and the cuxmersome clearance procedures for contcs
and payments by the Ministry of Finance. During negotiations of the ERC, a Financial Management
Action Plan was agreed with the objective of deceralizing the financial management of the sectoa
project accoun  and streamlini  contact and payment approvals by the Ministry of Finace. These
agreement were followed up by a disbursemen  miion that reviewed the situation of each and every
one of the project accounts to detmine which could be decentralized and when.



- 9.
TAILE 4: IDA LENDING OPERATIONS: FYW592
Board       Credit
Approval    AmOut           of
Dot      (USSmuiw         TDl
First Import Rehabilitation                 10/85       45.0           5.2
Second Import Rehabilitation               08187        70.0           8.0
Second Imp. Rehab (Afric. Fac.)            08/87        18.6           2.1
Third Import Rehabilitation                05/89        90.0          10.3
Ecomic Recovery Credit                     05/92       180.0          20.7
Energy TA/Rehabilitation                   05/87        20.0           2.3
Utban Household Energy                     06/89        22.0           2.5
Urban Rehabilitation                       08/88        60.eP          6.9
Education & Manpower Dev.                  05/88        1S.9           1.8
Health and Nutrition                       03/89        27.0           3.1
Education If                               12/90        53.7           6.2
Beira Coridor Transport                    09/89        40.0           4.6
Roads & Coastal Shipping                   06192        74.3           8.5
Inisev andFiac
luWsbi  Eot Rstruchin*                     12/89        50.1           5.8
SmalMedium Sca4- Ent. Dev.                 12/89        32.0           3.7
PbUic &       Miment
EconomicFinancial Mgt. TA                   10/89       21.0           2.4
Agric. Rebab./Development                  09190        15.4           1.8
Agric. Serv. Rehab./Devel.                 01192        35.0           4.0
870.0        100.0
27.                       lWgaee_c Mm elit ana. Over the next tr  yea, tho
Bank's lending operations will be used to Implement the strategy adculated above. The fir8t
objective, incorporated in the BtC (FY92), is to support further improvemens in public epnditr
management, poverty alleviton, reform of the foreign exchsnge and trade regime, fancial secor
reform, ad privatizaon of large sta  ntpries. In view of the need to deepen firther the policy



- 10-
and instibutional reforms In the financial and enterprise sectors, the ERC will be followed by sector
adjustment operations in FY93 and FY94.
28.   boet Atleviatio. As part of our ESW we have worked closely with Govement and
donors to develop a multi-ficeted strategy for poverty reduction reflected in the Poverty Reduction
Framework Paper, which was presented at the 1990 Consultative Group Meeting. The main message
of the Poverty Reduction Framework Paper is that while economic growth is crucial for poverty
reduction, the focus must be on implemeing a growth strategy which enhances the income of the
poor. Therefore, the Bank strategy is focused on ways to increase the productivity of the poor and
expand their employment and income-generating opportunities, and on improving the delivery of basic
social services in order to build up their human capital. A "safety-net" is also in place to assist those
households with especially low incomes or large number of dependents.
29.   As the bulk of the population derives its livelihood from small farms, increasing the
productivity of family farmers who make up the majority of the poor is central to the reduction of the
poverty at the household level. Therefore, our operations in the agricultural sector would aim to
support increased production and incomes in the family sector through provision of basic services and
rehabilitation of agricultural marketing and rural infastructure. Following upon the FY91
Agriculture Rehabilitation an-d Development Credit focused on the rehabilitation of the cashew
subsector, the development of agricultural services and recovery of food crop and cotton production
would be supported through the FY92 Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development Project
The FY93 Rural Rehabilitation Project will support, on pilot basis, decentralized rural economic
development in two selected provinces. Development of agricultural research and extension acivities
would be further supported through a FY95 Research and Extension Project.
30.   Expanding access to basic social services is a critical element in Mozambique's poverty
reduction straegy. Our lending program includes projects geared towards rehabilitating, Improving
quality, and eventually expanding the coverage of primary health and education services and water
and sanitation facilities. Health I (FY94) will contime afforts to strengthen basic health services,
including pre-maternal health care; Education m will prcvide support for expanding the coverage of
education into the rural areas; and Urban Rehabilitation 11 (FY95) will support infrastructure
rehabilitation of small and medium towns.
31.   In the short-term, many households, including labor-scarce households (female or disabled-
headed households with large number of dependents), will remain beyond the scope of growth
strategies. For those households, "safety-net" measures supported under the ERC ;nclude the
provision of indirect income transfers through a subsidy on a nutritionally valuable but less-preferred
commodity such as maize; and provision of limited income transfers targeted to poor households,
which would replace the existing system of food rations. In rural areas, the Emergency Program is
the main asafety-net* to protect the war-affected poor. To date, its primary concern has been to help
ensure the survival of those displaced or affected by the war through the free distribution of food aid.
A Food Security Project (FY93) will assist Government in the development of national institutional
capacity for the formulation and implementation of food security pe'icies and programs.
32.   PBivate &NOLOr d Growth. Establishing a dynamic source of growth is essenti for
Mozambique's long-term growth. Our operations would therefore support the rehabilitation of key
infastructure, restructuring and privatizaion of state enterprises, and developing basic commercial
banking services and exports. The FY92 First Roads and Coastal Shipping (ROCS) Project would
support the development of gcvernment institutional capacity to maitain the roads and small coastal
ports, and the implementation of policy reforms in the trucking and coastal shipping sub-sectors to



- 11 -
suppott agicultr deve;opment. Where feasible, the project construcdon and rehabilitaion acvities
will utilize labor intensive activities to reduce rural poverty. Improved management of the Maputo
Railway would be achieved through the Maputo Corridor Revitalization Project. Rhabilitation of the
energy sector would be supported through a PY94 Energy Project. Building on the policy reforms
supported under the ERC, the FY93 Financial Sector Adjustment Credit would provide technical
assistance to Improve the efficiency and solvency of financial institutions, and support policy reforns
to improve credit and monetary policy. The FY94 Enterprise Restructuring and Privatization Credit
would deepen the implementation of the parastatal reform initiated under the ERC, provide technical
assistance for privatization and support policy reforms for promoting an enabling business
environment. Expansion of the country's exports would be supported through a FY96 Natural Gas
Exports Project.
33.     1apcy Building. Even among low income countries, Mozambique stands out as suffering
from an especially acute shortage of skilled manpower, with only a few thousand university-trained
persons. Capacity creation through education and training is clearly an essential element in the
overall strategy for capacity building. Through a FY89 Economic and Financial Management
Technical Assistance Project, IDA is strengthening the administrative and institutional capacity of the
key ministries responsible for implementing the rehabilitation program. In addition to the technical
istance included in investment projects to develop project management capacity, the proposed
Capacity Building project would strengthen management capacity by increasing the quantity and
quality of university graduates, improving learning achievements in upper secondary education;
strenthening legal institutions and professional capability; and developing public administration and
management ssills and enhancing civil service personnel systems.
34. MW= in JLiDlnMmnt. Women in Mozambique play vital roles as farmers, managers,
decision makers and farm laborers. It is estimated that more than 60 percent of family farmers are
women. Under the FY92 Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development Project, women
famers will have equal access to extension, training and credit. Steps will also be taken to increase
the number of female extension staff and women's participation in farmers' groups. Women's access
to credit in urban areas is being improved through the FY89 Urban Rehabilitation Project, which
includes a small credit line targeted to micro-enterprises (80 percent of the beneficiaries are women)
and technical assistance provided through the Office for the Promotion of Employment of the Ministry
of Labor. While the FY89 Health and Nutrition Project is helping rehabilitate health facilities, the
FY94 Health II Project will include specific components targeted to pre-matern  health care.
35.   Finally, enviromnental issues have been covered as part of our ESW and in connection to
agricultural and urban development projects. The FY92 Agricultura Services Rehabilitation and
Development Project contains components specifically targeted to soil conservaion, and the FY88
Urban Rehabilitation includes a component to improve solid waste management. The next step is to
assist m the preparation of a National Environmental Management Plan (NEMP) which will provide
the basis for the design of an environmental project by FY95.
FY9295 Supp 
36.   For the four-year period FY92-95, planned IDA lending would average around
US$160 million per annum, with approximately 40 percent in the form of adjustment lending. In the
event of serious policy slippage, lending for adjustment and for directly productive activities would be
reduced sharply and operations with significant policy contents would be put on hold. However,
lending for basic social services and capacity building would be maied as long as adequte
implementation capacity exists. Likely indicators of policy slippage would include:



2- 12-
*     failure to meet fiscal and monetary targets under the macroeconomic program;
*     deterioration in the composition of expenditures, manifested in expenditures on 'white
elephants" and underfimding of priority sectors such as health and education.
*     inadequate adjustment of fixed prices, leading to an erosion of incentives for
production and marketing;
*     inappropriate auditing and accounting procedures for existing credits;
37. If security improves as a result of the peace agreement signed on October 4, 1992, an
increase in lending would be considered, assuming overall economic management remains
satifactory. This would permit expansion of the size and coverage of several projects to reach more
-of the rural population. In addition, it would allow the Bank to assist the Government in the massive
task of resettling several million of displaced persons and returning refugees, and providing them with
essentia social services and factors of production to enable them to begin productive lives again.
38.  _momI andQraorkP. Our ESW activities over the last few years have assisted the
Government in developing specific policy and institutional reform measures at both the
macroeconomic and sectoral levels. ESW has also provided the analytical basis for preparation of
Bank projects and has conributed significandy to aid coordination by establishing a frmework for
other donors. We intend to continue this process in the future, focusin,g our efforts on areas where
f1rter policy and institutional reforms are necessary to support financially viable and equiable
growth. In line with the need to deepen the reform program so as to maintain an appropriate
economic policy eavironment, three main sets of activities included in our ESW program are: (a)
Improvement in the system of incentives for exports through a FY93 Review of Export Incentives and
Trade Restrictions; (b) development of a strategy for restructuring and privatization of state
enterprise; and (c) agricultural sector review. We also propose to begin a number of studies under
the ESW program to assist Government in plannig for the post-war period, including devising
strategies for expanding the provision of basic health/nutrition, education, water supply and housing
services, preparing an environmental plan, and carrying out a review of the development potenal of
the mining sector.
39.   Since 1987, the Bank has successfully assisted the Government in mobilizing the necesary
eerna assistance through annual CG meetings. The CG meetings have become an effective
mechanism for donor coordination and consultation on a mnmber of substantive issues. Major
.progress has beet achieved in untying foreign aid, providing aid in the form of grants rather than
loans, slmplifing and harmonizing donor procedures for procurement, developing common donor
procedures with respect to management of food aid counterpart funds, and developing a strategy for
reduction of povert and food security. Further improvements will be necessary in a number of
areas, including improving the composition of extermal aid to increase investment producivity and
develop a commc2 counterpart fund for the proceeds of all commodity aid. The Residen Mission
plays a central role in aid coordination and in setting up joint Governmentldonor working groups to
develop strategies and core expendue programs in the key sectors.



-13-
Rdathns wiffh tht Dff
40.   IDA and the IMF have worked closely with Government in the design and monitoing of
Mozambique's adjustment program. Since 1987, the Bank and IMF have carried out joint missions
annually to develop with Government the three-yea PFPs. The ESRP is being supported by a fourth
adjustment IDA credit, the ERC, approved in June 1992. The IMP has also provided assisace in
the form of a SAP covering the period 1987-89 followed by an three-year ESAF. The third year
ESAF for the 1992/93 program will be presented to the IMP Board in early December 1992. Bank
and Fund staff have been in permanent consultation with the macroeconomic program which provides
the underpinning for structural reforms.
D. $ua  Assnsent
41.   Since 1987, the Bank has assisted the Government in designing and implementing a major
economic reform program, providing both adjustment and investment credits and coordinating overall
external aid in support of the program. In general, performance in carrying out the reforms has been
sasfy, reflecting the Goverimen's high level of political commitment to the program and the
broad agreement between the Government and ourselves on the policy agenda. The main
achievements were to reduce financial distortions (prices, custom tariffs, and exchange rate),
strengthen the role of the budget in the prioritization of government resources and address the most
important causes of external and internal imbalances (decline in output, high rate of credit expansion
and inadequate tax revenue system).
42.   Despite the gains achieved since the initiation of the ESRP, Mozambique faces major
challenges. The inflationary pressures need to be reduced further. Structural reforms in the financial
and enterprise sectors are required to consolidate stabilization. Further progress in public expenditure
mnanagement is needed for improving the productivity of government expenditures and reducing
poverty while strengthened mobilization of countepart funds is needed to provide budgetary raources
for cticdal economic and social services. At the same time, civil service reform is required to stem
the drain of skilled civil servaots and increase government's ability to attract new graduates. These
chalenges are reflected in the Government's recent PFPs as well as in the Ba's assistance strategy.
However, the magnitude of the challenges faced by Mozambique is so great that economic adjustment
and achievement of Mozambique's full potential will be a long-term process. Substantial foreign
assistance, including debt relief, will continue to be required to provide essentaW inputs and consumer
goods that cannot be competitively produced domestically, develop the nation's human resources and
restore the basic infrastructure.
43.   The main risks to continued successfil implementation of the programs stem from two
factors-the extremely weak local capacity and the uncertain political situation in the county.
Capacity building will be a major focus of our ESW and lending activities. However, conclusion of a
peace agreement is a fundamental step towards bringing about sustainable growth and poverty
reduction in Mozambique. The country is currently in a period of political transition that is both very
complex and fragile. For so long as a peace agreement seems to have a reasonable chance of success
and Mozambique continues to carry out reforms in both the economic and political spheres, we should
see our support as an important component of the process. As the security situation improves, IDA
wfll consider increased assistance for the resettlement of displaced population, returning refugees and
ex-military personnel. Conversely, if security conditions do not impove, Mozambique could enter a
difficult period whereby the capacity of the Government to make policy choices and to cary them out
may become even more limited. If the pace of adjustment becomes signlflcaty slower and more
uneven, coupled with continued or intensified insecurity in the rural areas, we would consider scaling



- 14-
down our operations, focusing our assistance on enhancing the provision of basic social services and
on developing the professional and technical skills which will be needed in the future.
PART UI: THE PR)I
44.       IadsUw dL  Economic and social development in Mozambique are Impeded by severe
shortages of high-level manpower to plan and manage policies and programs. These shortages result
from a combination of weaknesses in education and training and in the public sector institutions that
seek to recruit, retain, and utilize middle and higher-level personnel. There are only 3,000
university-level graduates in the entire country of 16 million persons, and less than half of these
graduates possess the required skills (e.g., in finance, economics, law, business management, public
administraion, etc.) to oversee the ongoing Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program. At
Eduardo Mondlane University (UEM), both quality and efficiency of learning are being seriously
hampered by attrition and demoralization of the local teaching staff, lack of texooks and library
materis, poor study and living conditions for students, and deficiencies in university management.
Because of these factors, the drop-out rate is unacceptably high (half the entering students never finish
their degree), and many graduates lack the skills needed by employers. Due to poor working
conditions and staff attrition, the University is unable to realize its potential as a fulcrum for policy
research and analysis. In upper secondary education, weaknesses in teaching and availability of
textbooks and learning materials are resulting in poor student learning achievements; repetition rates
are high (25-30 percent annually), and graduates are unprepared for university study or to eater the
labor force as productive workers.
45.       Many top civil servants are fleeing the public sector to join the private sector and
intrnational agencies, because of low pay and poor conditions of service in government. Nearly
4,000 foreign technical assistance personnel have been recruited to cover this critical manpower
shortage: such expatriae personnel is costly (about US$200 million annually), is often badly-
managed, and fails to transfer knowledge and skills to local countrparts. A large share of
Mozambicans who remain in the Government have inadequate educational qualifications and skills.
Less than a fift of the top 3,000 officials have a university degree, a surprising 16 percent have no
fomal schooling at all, and few senior civil servants have received pre-service or in-seice training
in public administration, financial or personnel management, etc. In both public and private sectors,
the situation of the legal profession is especially critical: there are only 90 lawyers in Mozambique,
and shortages of judges, law clerks, and other legal workers are equally severe. The basic court
system is barely functioning, and many Important legal institutions (e.g., Bar Association,
Administrative Tribunal) are either embryonic or non-existent.
46.       The proposed project is based on the analysis and recommendations contained in the
Bank's 1991 Capaciy Building Framework Pper and Sector . p . It also utilizes the findings of
recent studies on public pay and employment and local government; work done by the Government
(under the auspices of the UNDP NatCAP Program) on improving the utilization of technical
assistance; and the UEM's 1991 institutional stabilization plan. The project has been designed to
complement and reinforce a companion IDA project, focussing on Public Sector and Legal Instiutions
Development designed to strengthen legal institutions, develop public administration and management
skills, and enance civil service personnel systems, and a number of other donor-financed initiatives,
including SIDA support for public administration and a salary incentive fund for top-level civil
servants.



- 15-
47.       hJS OWeetl;. 7Te project's main objective is to build and maintain capacity in key
public instutons and skill areas by expanding the supply of well-trained senior planners, policy
analysts, managers, and technicians, and by enhancing pay and other incentives and conditions of
employment for senior civil servants. Specific objectives include: (a) increasing the quantity and
improving the quality of university graduates and strengthening UEM's role as a participant in
development policy dialogue; and (b) improving leaning achievement in upper secondary education
so as to eliminate the need for remedial training at the University or in the workplace.
48.      Ttjed Desdton. lhe proposed project will contribute to building capacity in
Mozambique through the following two components: (a) Univet Stabil   - systems
development and training in university administration, financial management, and maintenance;
provision of textbooks, computers, and library materials; construction and upgrading of staff housing,
libraries, student dormitories, and other campus facilities; and staff development scholarships (63
percent of project costs); (b) Ouality Improvements in Upper Secondary Education - development of a
new teacher training program; support to curriculum and examination reform; provision of textbooks
and learning materials; training for school managers and administrative staff, rehabilitation of pre-
university schools and construction of dormitories and staff housing in the provinces; and special
measures to increase female enrollment (37 percent of project costs). The Project costs and financing
plan are presened in Schedule A. Schedule B provides the procurement methods and disbursements,
as well as the estmated disbursements by fiscal year for the Projet. A timetable of key project
processing events and the status of bank group operations are given in Schedule C and D respectively.
49.        .oect Impusntaton  Managers have been identified for each of the main
components, and are located within the University Rectorate and Directorate of Secondary Education,
respectively. These managers will assign direct implementation responsibility to existing
administrative units (e.g., UEM faculties, individual secondary schools, trainig facilities) and will
assist with day-to-day activities and monitor results. An inter-minisrial committee, presided over by
the Minster of State Administration, with the Vice-Minister of Planning and the Minister of Finance
acting as co-presidents, will be responsible for ensuring consistency and strengthening linkages among
the two components of the project and for reinforcing ties with the companion Capacity Building:
Public Sector and Legal bnsutions Development Project.
50.        .oct Sustainabiltv  Within the project, virtually no new Government posts will be
created, and most civil works will entail renovation of existing facilities rather than new constuction,
in order to minimize incremental recurrent costs. Where recurrent spending is expected to increase
(especially for the operation and maint ce of teachers' housing and student dormitories), there is
provision for cost recovery from users in the form of boarding charges and rental and maintenance
fees. In addition to being intnally sustainable, the goal of the project itself is to improve the
instutional and financial sustainability of other development activities in Mozambique. The
thousands of trained Mozambicans who will benefit from the project, and the more effective public
and private institutions that will emerge, will help to sustain future uevelopment.
51.       Lessons Leamned from Previous IDA Involvement. While no PCR/PPAR has been
carried out on IDA assistance to education or public administration in Mozambique, a joint
IDA-Country bnplementation Review held in February 1991 revealed a number of generic lessons for
the future. Some of the most important are that: (a) dynamic local involvement is fundamental to
achieving project objectives; (b) strong donor coordination during project preparation helps to avoid
duplication/gaps in effort and reduces the management and reporting burden on local institutions; (c)
streamlining Government procedures for contracting TA and civil works can facilitate project
Implementation, as can the use of standard bidding documents; and (d) project coordination and



- 16-
management systems need to be firmly established at the outset and strengthened continuously through
approiate staffing, in-service training, and use of local consultants. These lessons and others have
been filly incorporated in the design of the proposed project, which was formulated by the
Mozambican instutions which will be responsible for implementation. Standard contracts for civil
works, goods, and serves have all been prepared in advance of project effectiveness.
52.       Raffonale for VDA Involvement. The proposed project springs from the core of our
Mozambique country strategy, which emhasizes the development of institutions and skills for
sustained growth. The continued restructuring and liberalization of the economy, the achievement of
durable peace and interWal security, and impiementation of effective resettlement/rura development
and poverty alleviation progruns will all require greatly enhaced indigenous capacity. The
seriousness of the current "crisis of capacity" demands bold and imaginative solutions backed by
substantial resources from the donor community. Given IDA's current position in Mozambique as the
major lender for- strucural reforms, and its heavy involvement in economic and sector analyses of
capacity issues, IDft is well-placed to take the lead in this area.
53.        o ns.  During neggtiations, the Government has given assurances that: (a) the
Government's budget allocation for UEM maintenance will be increased from 0.5 percent of
estimated buildings' replacement value in 1993 to 2 percent in 1997; (b) by June 30, 1993, the
Government will present a detailed action plan for the operation and maintenance of UEM housing to
IDA for review and comments and a detailed action plan and timetable for privatization of the
management of EPU dormitories and decentralization of the collection and utilization of school fees;
(c) cay out the resettlement plan of tenants of apartment buildings selected for rehabilitation, as
agreed with IDA; (d) by November 30 of each year of project implementation, together with IDA,
conduct an annual Project implementation review, with annual progress reports furnished to IDA by
October 31 of each year; (e) by no later than November 30 of 1995 carry out with IDA a mid-term
Project implementation review to update the Capacity Building Strategy and Capacity Building Action
Plan and review the Project objectives taking into account the updated Strategy and Action Plan.
There are two conditions of effectivye: (i) Key project implementation staff are employed and (ii)
that Government furnishes documentary evidence satisfactory to the Association, certifying
Government's formal approval of its Capacity Building Action Plan. Conditions of disbursements are
(a) for training will be the completion and approval by IDA of training programs for the first year of
the Project, which shall include, inter alia, the following: (i) type and number of trainees; (iH)
location and institution where training will be received; (iii) objectives and length of training activity;
and (iv) estmaed budget; (b) for the book fund, to satisftorily complete the study on UE8s
bookstore; (c) for civil works, certification of ownership of selected sites.
54.       Evironnuftal Rat  . The project is rated Category C.
55.        Pt_ Objec0ves. Capacity building in Mozambique will expand significantly the
supply of higher level human resources which is a necessary condition for the achievement of all
IDA program objectives. The proposed project also contains special measures to further the process
of public sector reform, and to increase women's educational opportunities.
56.        enefits. The proposed project will make a substantial contribution to social and
economic development in Mozambique, by enhancing critical skills, systems, and local institutions.
The immediate beneficiaries will be pre-university and university students (about 10,000 persons in
total) and mid and top-level public and private sector employees (roughly 5,000 persons) who will
acquire additional skills and increase their earnings potential. Development policy analysis by local



- 17-
institutions, including the University and government policy units, will improve substantially. In a
larger sense, the country as a whole will benefit from stronger public and private sector performance.
57.       RiUsk. The main risk facing the project is that the capacity to plan and manage
implementati( - of the various project components will not materialize or will deteriorate over time.
This risk will be mitigated through project design that emphasizes the same capacity building and
sustaining measures that the project aims to spread throughout the economy: namely, creating an
effective work environment (through appropriate staffing, availability of office technology, etc.) and
offering stimulating and relevant training (pre-service, in-service, on-the-job) to key project
personnel. Swift adoption of measures to improve incentives for senior officials will help to bolster
implementation capacity. The capacity of local training institutions will also be increased through the
use of "link" arrangements with external training programs.
58.       R1mM       dt    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors apptove the proposed
loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 29, 1992



- 18-
SCHEDULE A
CAPACITY BUILDING: HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS, 196-194
1986   1987    1986   1989    l990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Red Growih Ratw
GDP                      2.3    5.3     S.5     5.4      1.3    0.9      3.0     5.0     5.5
GDP pot capita           0.8    2.0     2.9     2.7    .1.1   .0.7      0.4      24      2.4
Cosmaic per capit       -3.3   .0.7     0.9     3.2    -2.8   .4.8    -1.9      2.4      1.S
Debt & Ddbt Seve
Toel DOD (US$1) 1/    3156.7 3998.0  4200.0  4401.0  4317.5  4995.0  5236.0  5465.0  5648.0
DOD / GDP                76.4  27S.9   337.7   339.3   299.7   392.0   420.9   399.7   377.7
Dbdt Servie (US$M)      490.2  532.2   494.9   484.4  59.0   534.7   510.1   520.2   474.4
Debt SevicdeEpozts 21    247.5  227.S   190.$   178.9   170.1   146.5   12S.4   110.7    88.7
DeScSArdIe/ GDP          11.7   36.7.  39.6    37.3    35.3    42.0    41.0    38.1    31.7
lats to GD? 31
Gros Invwdoa              9.2   24.0    33.4    3S.S    38.1    42.7    41.9    39.9    38.6
Puv  Invwestoe"           4.1    8.0    10.8    12.0    14.0    17.9    15.S    14.8    13.6
Public Ihwva "            S.1   16.0   22.6    23.5    24.1    24.8    26.4    25.1   .25.0
Natial Saings            -S.9  -23.8   -19.5   -23.4   -16.6   -18.S   -18.4   -20.2   -18.7
Pbl*ic Saving           -12.1   -5.2    -2.1    -2.0    -3.4   .0.6   -3.6    -.S5    -2.6
Pevt. Sawings             6.2  -18.6   -16.7   -21.4   -13.2   -17.9   -14.8   -14.7   -16.1
30  Cirmt must
Ebpo t(G4N     I GODP     3.6   12.1    15.1    15.4    15.9   24.3   28.2    30.3    32.0
Expoat (GNPS (% p.)      -1.4    8.3     4.4     8.4    10.6    31.3    10.3    13.8    11.7
Imposes (GNFS) I (MP     14.3   48.2    65.0   67.5    65.7    78.6    81.7    83.4    83.9
lImped (GNFS) (IS p.)    32.9    9.5     6.2    8L3      2.3     S.3    -1.3     7.3     S.7
DeSiit (     mio) 41    622.0  676.0   657.0   763.0   788.0   783.0   750.0   822.0   8SS.0
De"icitde OGDP    IS.1   47.8    52.9    S8.9    S4.7    61.2    60.3    60.1    57.3
Def ici sar GransGP       9.9   26.8    22.6    29.0    23.6    21.8    17.6   20.1    19.6
GoowsNW_RavaM            12.9   16.2    19.9    23.4    222    23.9    25.9    26.0    25.0
Goverme Naeditue         22.4   37.5   45.2    49.0    51.7    51.2    57.2    56.6    53.0
DWii* befoGat            17.6   21.3   -25.3   -25.5   -29.5    27.3   -31.3   -30.6   -28.0
Deficit     Giants       1S.3   11.8    11.4    9.0    12.6    6.1       4.8     4.3     4.0
CPI(5 gowth)             3.   163.3    50.1    42.1    49.2    35.0    25.0    14.0    10.0
Ral EcbmgeRnt3/         438.5  100.0    99.     95.0    94.0    72.4
Oanm Rewi
(mont impor)             1.2    2.9     3.1     3.0     3.0     3.7     3.7     4.3     4.2
1. Deft obding sod d_
2. Debt snvico  bef A e .chedoln.
3. Due to iadequcieis athe aton acart dat, setson anv-to and savi u_ died.% lh io_n
in rIos t GDDP  eft  o imact of major oacb_ We adjustns at ed ata oompont of iwmt
r delatve to aI    t im  in domestio inlt  and ftror GDP. b aditn iaet figur nclab
a elpficet prprti oframat expenditures.
4. de    Gnts.
3. ndofped(1967-100).



- 19-
MOZA      hI
CAPACIlrY BUILDING: HSUMANl RESOURC:E DM=B=M3iTPQIS
Estmated Costs and tlnandgg Plan
Project Components                              Local        Foreign      Total
L.   University Stabilization and Expansior
A. Educational Quality Improvements         1.25         4.01         5.26
B. Staff Housing                            2.17         4.37         6.54
C. Staff Development                        0.18         3.42         3.60
D. Management Development                   0.60         1.60         2.20
E. Student Residences                       1.25         2.64         3.89
P. Building Rehabilitation                   I            2          W
Subtotal                                         8.33        21.98        30.31
11.  Upper Secondary Education
A. Educational Quality Improvements         0.86         2.51         3.37
B. Facilities Upgrading                     3.70         8.79        12.49
C. Management Development                   0.34         1.08         1.42
D. Female Education                                      Q,           a
Subtotal                                         5.57        12.55        18.12
Total Base Cost                                 13.90        34.53        48.44
Total Proiec  ot1 2                                                        02
al Includes about US$6.3 million equivalent in taxes and duties.
Local     Porei       oa
-US$ million3~
Government g/                    8.49       1.58     10.07
Beneficiaries h/                  1.04      0.48      1.52
IDA                              7.70      40.89     48.59
Tod1                             10.93     43f05     ilL28
a/ Government's contribution includes about US$6.3 million equivalent in taxes and duties.
bl Contributions from local communities, mainy users fees for building operation and
maintenance.



-20-
SCHEQUu C
Page 1 of 2
MOZAMMIOU
CAPAIT BUILDNGI: -HUMAN RQBOIRE DEVELPMENT PROJCT
Poremnm Method and Disbursemer
Procuemet Medfid al
(US$ ailon)
Project                       ICB            LCB           Other        Total
lement                                                                  Cost
1. Civil Works                  26.7           1.2          0.0          27.9
(23.9)         (1.1)        (0.0)       (25.0)
2. Vehicles, Furiture,           4.0           0.0           1.4          5.2
Equipnent, and Supplies        (3-8)         (0-0)        (1.3)        (5.1)
3. Cosultt Services                                         12.5         12.5
(9-9)       (9-9)
4. Train                                                     7.8          7.8
(7.8)        (7.8)
S. Incremental Operating Costs                               5.9          5.9
(0.0)       (0-0)
6. Miscellaneus kl                                           0.8          0.8
(0.8)       (0.8)
TOTAL                     34.7           1.2         28.5         60.3
(27.7)         (1.1)       (19.8)       (48.6)
a  Pigurp In patheses indicate the amounts to be financed by IDA.
b/ Project Preparation Facility



-21 -
Page 2 of 2
Ulocation agd Disbursanent of MA CrdiAt
Dibursement Category               IDA                % of Expenditure to
Allocation        Be Financed
(US$ million)
Par A. Univrity Stabiization
1. Civil Works                                       80% of total expendures;
(a) BRU, Campus Rehab. &
Student Residences              8.5
(b) Rehabilitation/Resettlement    2.5
2. Technical Assistance, Studies,
and Audits                         5.6              100% of total expenditures;
3. Vehicles, Equipment, Supplies,
and Materials                       1.3             100% of foreign expenditures;
4. University Book Fund              0.9              100% of total expenditures;
5. Trainig                           4.5              100% of total expendiures;
Part B: hnprovement of Upper Secondary Education
6. Civil Works                       6.7              80% of total expenditurs;
7. Technical Assistance, Studies,
and Audits                         3.8              100% of total expenditures;
S. Vehicles, Equipment, Supplies,
and Materials                      2.0              100% of tota expendiures;
9. Training                          2.5              100% of total expenditures;
10. Rending of Project
Preparation Advance                0.8
11. Unallocated                      9.5
TOTAL                               48.6
Ofi_t Dsbue_t
IDAFiscal Year           2X      29        2E      26      97       21     22
Annual                   2.1      5.3    10.7    11.4      8.8      6.0    4.4
Cumulative               2.1      7.4    18.1    29.5    38.3      44.2   48.6



-22 -
MOZAMEIOUE
CAPACIT-Y BUILDING: HUMN MM=MUCE D-EVELJOPMdEWT PROJEC:T
Timetable and Key  oeesldng Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare:                   12 months
(b)    Prepared by:                             IDA (AF6PH) &I
(c)    First IDA mission:                       April 1991
(d)    Appraisal Mission                        April 1992
(e)    Negotiations:                            July 1992
Mt    Planned Date of Effectiveness             February 1993
(g)    List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs:         None
a/ Jacomina de Regt and Robert M. Hecht, Task Managers; Ruthanme Deutsch, Economist;
William Saint, Educator



-23 -
Page 1 of 2
SOiZMIBOUE
C&PAM 1Y B UlLN:)tHUMAN RESURCE  EYEVI PROIENCI
Status of Bank Group Opersffons In Moaamhlgue
A. Statement of MA Cneits
(as of July 30, 1992)
Amount In US$ miliIln
(loss carccl lat laws)
Loan or      Fiscal                                                                    Uh1dis- Closing
Credit No.     Year  Borrower           Prpos                      Baut         IUA    brsed  gate
Credits
2 Credits(s) closed                                                          114.55
C18060-OMZ     1987      IW E           ENERM  TA 8 REHIB.                    20.00       9.37  12/31/92
CA0330410Z(S) 1988   UOZAM31QUE         REHAB. II                             18.60        .17 06/30/91(R)
C19070-l Z     1988   MOZAISIGE         EDJC. I                               15.90       7.95  1V31/95
C149Q4 DZ    1989   MOZAIOE            URBAN REHAB                           60.00      30.50  1231/95
C198904i Z    1989   MOZAIiUE           HEALTH &     ITION                    27.00      25.52  12/31/94
C20210IZ(S) 1989   MOZAMBIQUE           REHAB.111                             90.00       3.18  04W30/93(R)
C20330-1Z     1989   MIZA1SIUE          HSEHOLD E6Y CRMDIT                    22.00      19.05  1V31/98
C206504M      1990   MOZAABIWE          TRNS.REH.(BEIRA MOR                   40.00      33.67 05/30/98
C206604-iZ     1990   MOZAhIiUE        1ECON. & FIN. INT.                     21.00      20.96  1V31/97
C2810-oZ       1990     M    IQUE       INDOSTIAL ENTEIRIS                    50.10      54.08  12/31/97
C20820-DZ     1990   MOZABIDIE          SlLL AND MEIU-CA                      32.00      32.37  1V231/9
C21750-4Z     1991   MOZAIIW.           AERI.REHAB.W1EV                       15.40      15.16  06/30/99
C220=-MZ      1991   I SIQOUE           EDUCATlON II                          53.70      53.52  04/30/97
C270-MOZ      1992   MIZAkBiOUE         AGR.SER. REONB.                       35.00      37.48
*  C237404Z       1992   MOZAMBIQUE         FIRST ROAD & COASTAL                  74.30      78.24  0D8
*  C2384041OZ(S)  1992   MOZAWE            ECOi. RECO1    CR.                    180.00     190.90 08/30/95
TOTAL rubr Credits -  16                                                       755.00     61 .07
TOTAL*"                                                       869.55
of Mich repald
TOTAL held by Bak  IA                                         89.55
AUnt sold
of which repaid
TOTAL undisbursed                                                        612.07
Notes;
Not yet effective
"  Not yet slgd
"'Total Approved, RePayments, and Gztstarding balae represent both actlwe and inactive Loamn md Credits.
(R) indicates formally revised Closing Date.
(S) Indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Aproved and oant  Repayments are historicaI value, aII others are market value.
The dsbunt lgsp being expedened em dh rult of t Bank of Mambiqu cetally maging the accous for pjgecsb Implmented by
vaeio  min;is, and   Mfinisy of Flancos cumbeome dek_ ao proceue. Ca sea action we takea in FY92 with n
ageme by the Government to decenadize GnAncid mnagment of seetoul pjt accou  and stueamln  Minsry of Fil_e procedur.
These two upect also fomed the main focus of the C4uy Implem_o Rviwwhich washeld in O r1992. Woshops wi be held
dufing FY93 covern prjec aouns, audi rposing procue t, an disbursmns



-24 -
SCHEDULE
Page 2 of 2
MOZAMBIOUE
CAPACITY BUILDING: HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
B. Statement of WCInvestinents
(as of July 31, 1992)
bnvestment      Fiscal               Type of                        LoWn      Equity    Total
Number          YX       ObliBorsiness                                      US$ million
864-MOZ         1987    LOMACO    Food/Food Processing              2.5                  2.5
978-MOZ         1988    Xai Xai Oil  Chemical/Pelochemical                    7.8        7.8
Total Gros Commitmets                              2.5       7.8        10.3
Less: Canceions, terminations,
exc        a4justments, repayents,
writeoffs and sales                                1.5       7.8        9.3
Total Commitments held by IFC                      1.0       0.0        1.0
Tota Undisbursd                                    0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Disbursed                                    1.0       0.0        1.0



N  NfA
1 TAN         OCAN
-  TANZANIA  OCMT                                   N ZA NI
\J*                        ,-'       I v\ 
ZAMS.A1     ~     \    <
r<~sAwL                     02           t,,    -                           ,$i' 
i-     '           Ma S   I)wD PRAIA
Z AM BI A             M A LA WI    \                      -EG; A-A -''. 
*4                                                                                                                    14( !-  a ,   '  \      -    0
>  _ A ( (                                   r                                       t! '         0,z
A~~~~S
318  -                                                      I ,
ZIMAMBIEAAN
Z IM   A   WE      ANtA  >      v DM  A L AW I"    s    -
j9(GONDOLO LA,O
-20-                 j  _   l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0T   1 s 
.    N{A             E 48'5   < &MZMIU
-22-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' /                1: '  u   ..I
2411
ZIMBABW  ELN                                                                                       0 F A   LA
3C                                                                BSUILACAI /    PROJECT
S O U T H <, t W j -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prfiony indetr 
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~froa airport, M 
|~~~~                                  ~      ~   ~  ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~ A _     VI  1ma .  D'  6 ' .r_:



