Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23553
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-24360)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 34.1 MILLION (US $48.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR A
CAPACITY BUILDING: HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
03/29/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2001)
Currency Unit - Metical (Plual Meticais): Mt
Mt. 1000 = USS 0.04
USS 1.00 - .Mt. 22,960
FISCAL YEAR
January I  Decemnber 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BM           Bank of Mozambique
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CDP          Capacity Building Project
CIDA          Canadian Intemational Developinent Agency
CSP          Country Strategy Paper
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
DAF          Directorate of Administration and Finance
EMUNet       Eduardo Mondlane University Network
EPU          Pre-University Education (Upper Secondary Education)
ERC          Econormic Recovery Credit
ERP          Economic Rehabilitation Program
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Program
ESG          General Secondary Education
ESSP         Education Sector Strategic Program
ESW           Economic Sector Work
FMU          Financial Management Unit
FMS          Financial Management System
FRR          Financial Rate of Return
GEPE          Educational Projects Management Unit (Gabinete Tecnico de Gestao de Projectos
Educacionais)
GIU          University Building Office (Gabinete de Instalacoes Universitarias)
HEI          Higher Education Institution
HEP          Higher Education Project
IC           Inter-Ministerial Committee (Comissao Inter Ministerial)
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          Intemational Development Association
ISP          Superior Institute of Pedagogy (current Pedagogical University)
MAE          Ministry of State Administration
MESCT        Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology
MINED        Ministry of Education
MPF          Ministry of Planning and Finance
NDSE         National Directorate of Secondary Education
NPV          Net Present Value
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PPAR         Project Performance Audit Review
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
PSR          Project Status Report
SAF          Structural Adjustment Facility
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
S[DA         Swedish Intenational Development Agency
UEM          Eduardo Mondlane University
UP           Pedagogical University
Vice President   Callisto E. Madavo (AFRVP)
Country Director   Darius Mans (AFC02)
Sector Manager:   Dzingai B. Mutumbuka (AFTHI)
Task Team Leader:   Soren Nellemann (AFTHI)



FOR OFFICIAL USE: ONLY
MOZAMBIQUE
CAPACITY BUILDING: HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              12
6. Sustainability                                                                  14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 18
9. Partner Cormnents                                                               19
10. Additional Information                                                         21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frarne Matrix                              22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Comnponents              31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              33
Annex 8. The Borrower's Evaluation Report: Eduardo Mondlane University             34
Annex 9. The Borrower's Evaluation Report: Ministry of Education                   42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






MOZAMBIQUE
CAPACITY BUILDING: HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Mozambique Capacity Building: Human
Resources Development Project for which Credit 2436-MOZ in the amount of SDR 34.1 million equivalent
was approved on November 19, 1992 and made effective on December 1, 1993.
The credit closed on September 30, 2001 after a two year and three months extension from the original
closing date of June 30, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by Keiichi Ogawa (Education Economist) and Noel Kulemeka (Senior Economist),
under the supervision of Soren Nellemann (Task Team Leader), with administrative support from Brigida
Arriaza (Program Assistant). It was reviewed by Dzingai B. Mutumbuka (Sector Manager), Johannes C.
M. Zutt (Country Program Coordinator), and the staff in AFTH 1 Unit and the Mozambique country team.
The ICR team particularly acknowledges the contribution provided by Bruce Jones (Senior Economist),
Alexandria Valerio (Education Specialist), and William Saint (Lead Education Specialist).
The implementation completion mission took place from December 10 to 21, 2001. The report is based on
materials in the project file, the Borrowers' Evaluation Reports, site visits, findings from survey
questionnaires and discussion during the completion mission, including attendance at two workshops - for
UEM and MINED, respectively.






Project ID: P00 1797                                     Project Name: CAPACITY BUILDING HUMAN
DEV. PROJECT
Team Leader: Soren Nellemann                             TL Unit: AFTHH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: March 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: CAPACITY BUILDING HUMAN DEV. PROJECT LICITF Mzmber: IDA-24360
Country/Department: MOZAMBIQUE                                         Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: EV - Vocational/Technical Education & Training
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   11/14/1990                            Effective: 05/29/1993        12/01/1993
Appraisal:  04/18/1992                              MTR: 12/30/1995           12/30/1996
Approval:  11/19/1992                             Closing: 06/30/1999         09/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementingAgency: GOM/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION; GOM/EDUARDO MONDLANE
UNIVERSITY
Other Partners:  SIDA
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                       Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Darius Mans                              David Cook
Sector Manager:      Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                     David de Feranti
Team Leader at ICR:  Soren Nellemann                          Jacomina P. de Regt
ICR Primary Author:  Keiichi Ogawa; Noel Kulemeka;
Soren Nellemann
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Overview/Background
The Capacity Building, Human Resources Development Project, was designed in 1991-1992, when
Mozambique faced a severe crisis of institutional and managerial capacity. The project was implemented



during a period of tremendous political changes and the transformation of the economy from a centrally
administrated structure to one that embodies a market system and rapid economic growth. Throughout the
life of the project, Mozambique's severe capacity constraint presented a critical barrier to the successful
implementation of post-war national reconstruction and the Government's Economic and Social
Rehabilitation Program supported by the World Bank. In 2000, the implementation was further affected by
the floods and cyclones that hit the southern provinces of the country.
In 1990, Mozambique had fewer than 3,000 university-trained people. Less than 15 percent of civil service
personnel had a university degree and more than one-third of civil servants had less than 7 years of primary
education. The limited number of highly trained and professionally experienced Mozambicans who could
provide leadership and could assist in the planning and management of both public and private sector
activities which were vital to the country's progress in the economic and social spheres, were usually
siphoned off to emerging private institutions which offered better conditions of service and a more
attractive work environment.
In response to these circumstances, in 1991, the Government, with support from the World Bank and the
Swedish Agency for International Development (SIDA) prepared two reports: the Capacity Building Policy
Framework Paper and Capacity Building Sector Study. These reports laid out the critical elements of a
strategy to build national capacity in the post-war period. The Capacity Building Strategy was one of the
main pillars around which the Country Strategy Paper (CSP) was built. On this basis the Government and
the World Bank developed a capacity building project which was subsequently divided into two projects at
negotiation in July 1992. These were the Capacity Building Human Resources Development Project and
the Capacity Building: Public Sector and Legal Institutions Development Project. While the two projects
were separated into two distinct investment projects, the overall coordination remained under an
Inter-Ministerial Committee (IC), which was established by the Prime Minister and presided over by the
Minister of State Administration who was responsible for national capacity building programs. During the
subsequent economic changes and the move from a one-party rule to a post-conflict democratic society, a
number of political and institutional bottlenecks, which impeded effective implementation during the early
years of the project leading to an early disbursement lag, were created (These developments were largely
outside the control of the implementing agencies as well as the government).
During the latter years of the project, the implementation accelerated significantly. In fact, the improved
capacity at the UEM and the preparation of an evaluation of the implementation of the Eduardo Mondlane
University (UEM) component in the year 2000, led to the development of a national strategy for higher
education in 2000. Moreover, the evaluation of the UEM components played a key role in the design of the
Higher Education Project which was approved on March 7, 2002 by the Board of the World Bank.
Original Objectives
The Capacity Building: Human Resources Development Project (CBP) supported two closely linked
objectives to improve the number and quality of secondary school graduates and higher education
professionals. The project was implemented through two distinct institutions, namely by the Eduardo
Mondlane University (UEM) and the Ministry of Education's project implementation unit (GEPE -
Gabinete de Gestao de Projetos Educacionais) under the overall coordination of the IC. Thus, in reality the
project consisted of and was implemented as two distinct projects.
The project objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report were to:
(a) expand the quantity and improve the quality of university graduates, by stabilizing and motivating the
Mozambican teaching faculty; enriching the leaming environment; upgrading and maintaining the UEM
physical facilities; and improving organization and managerial practices; and
- 2 -



(b) enhance significantly the quality of upper secondary education [Ensino Pre-Universtario (EPU):
Pre-University Education] by taking important positive steps in the areas of teacher training; provision of
books and other teaching/learning materials; school management and community involvement; and school
facility rehabilitation.
As the components were implemented by distinct institutions with separate objectives and outputs, the ICR
provides separate assessments for each component in the two parts, namely the UEM component and EPU
component.
Assessment of Development Objectives and Design
The project was well founded in detailed studies and economic sector work and closely linked to the
Country Strategy Paper (CSP) and the Social and Economic Rehabilitation Program. In line with the
overall country circumstances, the Bank's CSP identified capacity building as a major focus of future
economic and sector work as well as policy reform and project investment.
The focus on expanding the quality and quantity of university graduates and the strategy to stabilize the
teaching force and improving the quality of existing secondary schools before an expansion of the upper
secondary system were prudent and pragmatic. The approach was confirmed by the Council of Ministers
in 1992. The objectives remained valid throughout the project implementation period.
The subsequent paradigm shift by the government after the elections in 1994 had its own consequences.
The decision to provide universal access to primary education and increasing the intake at the secondary
level, resulted in an increased pressure on both teachers and administrative staff, dispersing the limited
capacity available at the time in the MINED and GEPE.
The separation of the original project into two projects was taken as a step to lower the complexity.
Furthermore, the implementation of the EPU components through GEPE, which was well-established and
functioning at the time, raised more concerns over the lack of experience at UEM. However, in the end the
Government refocused priority on providing primary education combined with internal organizational and
staffing issues in MINED's National Directorate of Secondary Education (NDSE), and shifted much of the
project focus toward UEM with less attention being paid to the EPU component
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised during the project implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The project financed the following two components:
(a) University Stabilization (UEM): (Appraisal Estimate: US$ 30.3 million; 63% of project costs):
The component aimed at expanding the quantity and improving the quality of university graduates by: (1)
improving education quality through textbook/study materials acquisitions, local textbook publishing,
focusing institutional linkages, additional library space, curriculum studies and a university-wide computer
training program; (2) reducing staff losses by aiming at the completion of 92 partially constructed
university apartments and renovation of 108 existing housing units; (3) training academic and
administrative staff through graduate training abroad; (4) ensuring adequate regional and gender
representation through the construction of two additional student residences; (5) restoring the physical plant
with the building rehabilitation and establishment of a regular maintenance program; and (6) increasing
accountability and strengthening management training by providing technical assistance and planning
studies.
-3-



(b) Quality Improvements in Pre-University Education (EPU) (Appraisal Estimate: US$18.1 million; 37%
of project costs):
This component was aimed at enhancing the quality of pre-university education by: (1) improving the
quality of pre-university education by supporting the development of a new curriculum and examination
system, increasing the availability of textbooks and other learning materials, providing teachers with
pedagogical support in the form of teaching materials and supervisory visits, and improving the system of
in-service teacher training; (2) stabilizing the EPU network by rehabilitating the existing schools,
constructing dormitories and staff housing, and decentralizing the materials budget and maintenance
activities; (3) strengthening management and maintenance capacities at the school level by in-service
training for school directors and administrators; and (4) raising girls' enrollment rates by providing
scholarships for girls, supporting community awareness programs, and increasing the number of female
teachers.
Assessment of Project Components
Overall, the components were suited to achieving the development objectives. However, the project could
probably have captured other key development aspects more clearly (if a log frame methodology had been
used, for example). For instance, some of the sub-components addressed the issue of equity even though
the development objectives only mentioned quality and expansion.
When the project was prepared in 1991-92, the design of the project was innovative in a number of ways.
It sought to improve the quality of education (graduates) by establishing twinning arrangements between
UEM and other institutions abroad, providing needs-based scholarships for EPU female students, providing
training to school directors and teaching/administrative staff (UEM/EPU), and decentralizing the budget
management system (EPU). The project paid special attention to women's educational opportunities.
Furthermore, when the project was prepared, there was a risk that the UEM would have difficulty
attracting and retaining staff when they returned from graduate studies abroad. To minimize this risk, the
project was designed to expand staff access to housing, as a meaningful staff retention incentive. This new
policy was an effective way for recruiting and retaining qualified academic and administrative staff. This
was particularly significant given the tight housing situation in Mozarnbique and more so in Maputo city.
In addition, other measures, including external institutional linkages, availability of computers and
reference books, opportunities to attend professional meetings, and campus renovation, also played a role
towards creating an even more positive work environment and an enticement for staff to remain at UEM.
3.4 Revised Components:
The scope and focus of the project was revised in three instances: (i) under the UEM component, the
planned construction and equipping of two students' on-campus residences and a student social hall was
altered to simply rehabilitating the existing facilities to make them more amenable for student living; (ii)
under the EPU component, the project sought to rehabilitate 6 EPU schools but one of them was
rehabilitated under the Second Education Project (Cr. 2200-MOZ, 1992 to 1998); and (iii) finally,
following the devastating floods and cyclones that hit the southem provinces in the first quarter of 2000
resources were allocated to the emergency rehabilitation, including the repair of access roads and buildings
of lower secondary schools and UEM. None of these revisions required the amendment of the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA) since they were permissible within the original DCA.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality of the preparation may be rated retroactively as "satisfactory" although the complexity and
delays that arose by having the project coordinated through the IC should have been anticipated given the
already fragmented government with limited capacity. The subsequent, intemal bureaucratic disputes as
- 4 -



well as the government's focus on the first free democratic elections could not have been anticipated at the
time. The project design reflected lessons learned from the implementation of a previous operation
(Education and Manpower Development Project) and was complemented by the Second Education Project.
Experience in Mozambique identified the risk of weak capacity in project implementation as well as lack of
local commitment to implement the project. For the EPU component, however, the implementation unit
GEPE was considered one of the best Project Implementation Units (PIUs) at the time. Later on, the
detached role of GEPE from MINED created a different set of problems during the implementation of
education activities.
In order to deal with the lack of experience at UEM, the project had included the appointment of key local
implementation staff as one of the two conditions for effectiveness. For instance, the key staff for the UEM
component that were mentioned in the DCA included Director, Senior Procurement Officer, Senior
Accountant, Engineer and Architect. Although the director, engineer and architect had been hired and the
other positions advertised, the selection of the other implementation staff were not on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. This led to an eventual delay in the effectiveness of the Credit, and the project
became effective without having pre-selected all the key staff. Thus, full staffing for implementation at
project entry was not completed for the UEM component.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of objectives and outputs under the project was "satisfactory", considering the events
that Mozambique had endured since the project preparation, such as emerging from the civil war, political
and economic transformation, as well as severe natural disasters.
UEM Component: The development objective of UEM was "to expand the quantity and improve the
quality of university graduates". The achievement is rated "highly satisfactory". While serious
challenges exist, UEM has been strengthened academically and is of higher quality compared to what it was
in 1992. The most recent data show that the number of students graduating annually from UEM has
increased five times during the project implementation period between 1994 and 2001, from 148 in 1994 to
695 in 2000. At the same time, the internal efficiency of the UEM system has also improved considerably.
For instance, the percentage of graduates who complete all degree requirements within the official
prescribed time has increased from 5 percent in 1997 to 15 percent in 2000. Moreover, the quality of
education, measured by the students' average examination scores, has improved. The overall average
examination pass rate has improved from 39 percent in 1994 to 53 percent in 2000. Additionally, the
quality of teaching and administrative staff has improved through training and effective staff retention
mechanisms. In 1992, there were only 17 percent of full-time Mozambican teaching staff who held
doctoral or master degrees; this has now increased to 46 percent as of 1999 (largely exceeding the target of
32 percent as stipulated in the SAR).
- 5-



EPU ComDonent: The development objective of EPU which was "to enhance the quality of pre-university
education" is rated (marginally) "satisfactory". In addition to the implementation of most planned
activities (textbooks, training etc.), the internal efficiency as a measurement of enhanced quality in teaching
at EPU improved during the project implementation. The repetition rate in EPU has declined from 17
percent in 1994 to 10 percent in 2000. The drop-out rate has also declined from 7 percent in 1994 to 3
percent in 2000. At the same time, the graduation rate has improved 14 percentage points: from 40 percent
in 1994 to 54 percent in 2000. Regrettably, the graduation rate for female students does not change much:
50.6 percent in 1994 compared with 51.4 percent in 2000. The quality of education has also improved as
measured by student performance at the national examinations. The average pass rate at examinations
increased from 59 percent in 1994 to 66 percent in 2000, in alignment with an improved pass rate for
female students from 54 percent in 1994 to 64 percent in 2000. Nevertheless, this component experienced
significant delays and the issues of low quality still persist.
These achievements and problems should be viewed against the backdrop of the Government's decision to
expand and open-up education to its people, thus, shifting its resources and efforts towards this expansion.
During the implementation of the project, enrollment at public EPU schools increased rapidly from 3,654
students in 1994 to 12,000 in 2001. This achievement was about 50 percent higher than the target of 8,300
students in EPU by 2000 as set by MINED. When the project was appraised in 1992, there were only 5
public EPU schools in the country (information for private EPU is not available at MINED); this number
has now grown to 23 as of 2001. The number of graduates from public EPU has also increased three-fold
from 637 in 1994 to 2,221 in 2000. In addition, the enrollment number of female students has increased
from 1,271 in 1994 to 4,301 in 2001, while the number of female graduates has tripled from 258 in 1994 to
823 in 2000. This growth was supported by the project's scholarship program in which more than 800
female students were provided with school fees, supplies, and dormitory fees. Despite the rapid expansion,
the enrollment share of female students has remained constant during the implementation period at 26
percent from 1994 to 2001.
4.2 Outputs by components:
UEM ComDonent (Part A)
UEM component is rated "highly satisfactory".
Subcomponent A.1: Educational Quality Improvements.
This subcomponent, which aimed to upgrade educational quality and improve graduate output through
textbook acquisitions, local textbook publishing, focused institutional linkages, additional library space,
curriculum studies, and a university-wide computer training program, has met with considerable success.
Under the project, 4,350 book titles were imported and 159 textbooks titles were produced locally. A
combination of imported and locally produced texts was provided for most of the introductory courses,
which covered 20 percent of all courses offered. The targeted number of books distributed to each student
was 5, but the ICR team's survey questionnaires to a sample of economics and engineering students found
that each student has a range of 7 to 10 books, which exceeds the original target of 5. Moreover, the
project supported critical capacity-building needs in the UEM Faculties of Economics and Engineering that
were addressed through a strengthening strategy based on linkage agreements with selected universities
located outside the country. The Faculty of Economics has greatly benefited from provision of equipment
and research work but to a lesser extent from foreign teaching staff. The majority of the foreign teaching
staff stayed in Maputo between two and four weeks, but a handful stayed one semester or longer. By some
staff this was perceived as too little time to transfer capacity. On the other hand, the Faculty of
Engineering has benefited from foreign teaching staff who taught from one semester to a year although the
Faculty was not able to purchase all the equipment they had originally planned due to the late
- 6 -



implementation and closure of the project.
As originally planned, libraries and reading space serving the faculties of agriculture, architecture,
economics, veterinary and medicine were expanded during the period of the project. In addition, studies on
curriculum and distance education were undertaken and are currently being incorporated into the process of
the on-going curriculum reform and new distance education program. They make up integral parts of the
newly approved first Higher Education Project for Mozambique. Moreover, the project supported the
acquisition of computer equipment with the assumption that the program was designed to integrate with the
expansion of the information and technology network within the UEM. Training in information technology
was locally organized for the departmental staff charged with teaching responsibilities. Computer training
was expanded as a requirement course in all university departments. One outcome is the establishment of
an 'Internet Cafe' at the UEM, providing students with access to the internet on a cost-recovery basis.
Currently, the UEM's Information Center offers computer-training courses not only to its students and staff
but also to non-matriculated people as a source of generating revenue. Moreover, additional activities
achieved included the satellite system (Vsat), the financing of the e-mail system, and the planned EMUNet
- LAN infrastructure, which will form the structure to improving administration and learning.
Subcomponent A.2: Housing for Staff Retention.
All civil works in this subcomponent were completed and their targets were met with the construction of
189 new staff apartments and the rehabilitation of an additional 108 staff apartments. However, the lack of
affordable housing in Maputo continues to be a problem. The ICR mission confirmed that staff housing is
a very important subcomponent to promote the quality of education since it has helped to attract and retain
skilled academic and administrative staff by providing immediate access to housing as a short-term
recruiting and retention incentive, and ensuring staffing stability over the long-term by offering the
possibility of home ownership linked to the length of services.
Subcomponent A.3: Staff Development.
The implementation of this subcomponent was smooth and the level of achievement was remarkable. A
fellowships management plan was carried out with the stipulation to train an initial 19 Ph.D. students, 25
Masters students, with various other short-term training courses within and outside Mozambique. The
target was exceeded by threefold and a total of 128 fellowships for professional training of academic and
administrative staff were granted during the project implementation. Of these, 41 were for PhD programs,
51 Masters degrees, 24 Licenciatura (honors degree) and 12 Bachelor's degrees. Out of this total number,
97 staff members have completed their studies and retumed to UEM. The remaining 31 staff members are
still pursuing their studies, which may last up to the 2002 academic year. As a result, the proportion of
UEM's Mozambican teaching staff with graduate degrees has increased from 17 percent in 1994 to 46
percent (the target at the appraisal was 32 percent).
Subcomponent A.4: Ensuring Regional and Gender Representation.
The planned construction and equipping of two students' on-campus residences and a student social hall
was altered to simply rehabilitating the existing facilities to make them more amenable for student living
due to the necessity of the rehabilitation of existing buildings. The rehabilitation of 6 student residence
buildings was completed and the work improved accommodation for a total of 717 students, out of which
180 were new bed spaces with other social facilities. As a result, during the implementation period, the
number of students who lived in on-campus residences increased by 53 percent from 696 in 1994 to 1,063
in 2001, while the number for female students increased 32 percent from 107 to 141. Moreover, the project
had envisaged to achieve the provision of adequate space for female students and students comingfrom the
provinces. This goal was partially achieved by converting the 'Colmeia' Hostel to a girls' hostel with an
allotment of 176 beds. In spite of this, there was still insufficient space for girls and no attempt was made
- 7-



to supply accommodation for other students coming from the provinces. According to the Director of the
Social Services (who manages the student dormitory), the priority of selection is given to female students in
general and currently, there is no female students on the waiting list. All the students who are eligible to
apply for dormitory space are from the provinces (students from Maputo City are not eligible). In addition,
the ICR team confirmed that the provision of students' residence is crucial in raising student enrollment
from the provinces especially since the housing situation in Maputo is such a severe problem.
Subcomponent A.5: Rehabilitation of the UEM Physical Plant.
The rehabilitation of the UEM Physical Plant was achieved and in the process, critical capacity has been
built. Rehabilitation of the physical plan presented an opportunity to rectify over 20 years of neglect and
restore the university's current buildings to an acceptable state of repair. Besides the additional library and
reading space in the 5 faculties as well as the new bookshops, the faculties of architecture, veterinary,
medicine, engineering were all rehabilitated and upgraded. One new student residence was created (Karl
Marx) and the existing student cafeteria renovated. Overall about 50% of the university infrastructure (or
25,000m2) was rehabilitated as planned. In addition, a "design and implementation of building maintenance
program" was carried out, which included the procedures and training activities for staff responsible for the
maintenance of the buildings. As part of the training, staff attended short-term courses outside
Mozambique, including participation in conferences and study tours to South Africa. Systematic
government budget allocation for maintenance continues to be a problem despite the inclusion of a covenant
in 1998 to address this issue [it had been stipulated that "the Borrower shall cause UEM to: (i) open a
maintenance budget line and allocate for 1995 an amount representing 0.19% of the replacement value (per
square meter) of the University physical plant (517,000 Mz); (ii) increase the budget line for 1996 to
765,000 meticais representing 0.26%; and (iii) increase the maintenance budget line gradually to 0.5% by
not later than December 31, 1999"].
Subcomponent A.6: Strengthening of Management and Accountability Capabilities.
Significant capacity has been built at UEM in the area of administration, management and financial
management. In order to strengthen management capacity, management training for key academic and
administrative staff was conducted through short-term courses and seminars locally and abroad. Over 24
different courses (e.g., project management, management of data information, and procurement courses)
were attended by 1,883 participants including academic and administrative staff. Moreover, the
strengthening of the GIU's technical and administrative capabilities was accomplished through the
participation in physical infrastructure management courses in South Africa and study visits to South
African Universities.
During the appraisal, the UEM proposed to strengthen its accountability to the government, its donors, and
society in general by: (a) publishing an annual report which not only analyzes its institutional performance
and provides key indicators and statistics, but also includes a financial statement; (b) organizing annual
meetings for representatives of government donors and the private sector in which the annual report and
coming year's work plan are discussed; and (c) producing semestral activity reports at the Faculty level for
yearly discussion with representatives of relevant govermnents, donor and private sector institutions.
Annual reports and semestral activity reports were produced but annual meetings had not been held since
1995.
Another important outcome of this is the implementation of the financial management plan. With the
assistance of an external consulting firm, new financial procedures, training of staff and decentralized
operation of bookkeeping to each faculty were completed. For the new Financial Management System
(FMS), information technology training was offered to the relevant staff, and various procedures manuals
-8 -



and handbooks for accounts and management staff were prepared. Moreover, an Internal Audit Office was
created with one of the two professional auditors on board. With the new FMS, regular internal audits
were instituted for both donor and internally generated funds. Regular external audits were introduced and
covered all UEM funds in the External Audit for the financial year ending 1999 and 2000, while an
Audited Financial Report for the year ending 2000 was approved. As a result of this work, in 2000 UEM
was able to increase its financial autonomy from the Ministry of Planning and Finance, thus, moving to a
quarterly budget allocation formula.
Overall, as a result of this capacity building effort, UEM was able to finance and direct the development of
a national strategy for higher education, which led to the preparation of the new higher education project.
Finally, UEM has put in place a new and more decentralized implementation structure for the new project.
EPU Component (Part B)
EPU component is rated partially "satisfactory" as follow:
Subcomponent B.1: Improvement of Educational Quality.
This subcomponent was partially achieved. Despite the improvement in the intemal efficiency, the political
decision to expand rapidly the intake of students meant that the project had limited impact on improving the
overall quality of the upper secondary level. For instance, although the number of qualified teachers (who
possess either a bachelor's degree/Licenciatura or a higher degree) has increased from 140 in 1996 to 368
in 2001, the overall share of qualified teachers has declined from 90 percent to 76 percent during the same
period because of this rapid expansion. Another important feature is a general lack of interest to pursue
teaching by university graduates due to the high salary incentives in the private sector. On the other hand,
the proportion of qualified teachers among the 5 existing schools at project appraisal has remained the
same during this period (92 percent). Moreover, one of the major factors affecting the quality of secondary
education has to do with teaching and learning materials. Under the project, 8,140 textbooks and 130
encyclopedia were purchased and delivered to EPU school libraries. Textbooks were delivered to schools
as planned but due to the rapid increase in student numbers, teachers were given very little reference or
instruction materials to the extent that in some cases, teachers had to revert to the notes that they took when
they themselves were students.
The project supported the development of a new curriculum and examination system. The new curriculum
was implemented in 1995 after staff and teachers from the MINED, UEM and UP participated in a series
of intensive discussion seminars. The process of preparing examination questions involved proposals made
by school subject specialists, and evidence gathered indicates that questions have been consistent with the
course materials. On the whole, it was felt that examination questions have improved. Moreover, teachers'
guides for all the subjects at the secondary level were prepared and distributed to schools, and studies on
textbook production and distribution were carried out. While recommendations for book production were
made, production costs were deemed prohibitive and as a result, the plan did not proceed. Overall, book
utilization has been and continues to be very poor in most schools.
The Ministry carried out pedagogical seminars and periodic training at national and provincial levels,
which covered both management and pedagogical issues. The training programs have tended to be
unsystematic and irregular. Coverage has generally been too little to achieve substantial impact. On the
other hand, the design and implementation of a training strategy by ISP (now Pedagogical University - UP)
was realized with the introduction of new courses in technical drawing and philosophy. In cases where UP
has satellite campuses, it has been possible for tutors of UP to assist with pedagogical support to secondary
school teachers. A staff development program for NDSE was implemented, and 25 school directors and
-9-



head teachers of pedagogy attended a three-month training course in Portugal. Several staff at NDSE have
benefited from English language courses in Zimbabwe, while others have gone for distance leaming
seminars in Botswana. On the other hand, the implementation of measures to increase the supply of EPU
teachers met with limited success because of the lack of attractive incentive packages in the public sector.
Very few UP graduates opt for teaching and as a result, many schools are staffed by under-qualified
teachers.
Subcomponent B.2: Stabilzation of the EPU Network - Civil Works Program.
This subcomponent was largely achieved. The original plan in the civil works in EPU component was the
rehabilitation, equipping and physical expansion of 6 EPU schools, the rehabilitation of one dormitory and
construction of 4 new students' dormitories, and construction of 43 new staff houses. The project
supported the rehabilitation of 4 EPU schools and the construction of one new school. Since the Bank's
Second Education Project supported one of the planned school rehabilitation, the target of sustaining 6
EPU schools was fully met. However, the ICR mission identified that the quality of rehabilitation in two
EPU schools in Maputo and Beira was not adequate because the buildings appear to be back to
pre-rehabilitation condition. This raises serious questions about the quality of supervision and inspections
by GEPE. Two new dormitories, which would provide accommodation for 455 and 256 students in
Quelimanne and Xai-Xai, respectively, were successfully completed. Conversely, the construction of new
dormitories in Beira and Maputo was cancelled due to the high costs vis-A-vis available funds. The
rehabilitation of the dormitory in Nampula was not carried out due to the ownership issue of the property.
Construction of teacher residences was accomplished as originally planned although in some instances not
all houses were put to teachers' use as they were still used by education personnel. In one particular
instance, only 50 percent of the houses built in Nampula are occupied by the EPU teachers, while the
others are occupied by UP and technical/vocational school teachers as well as a ESG administrator. The
Director of the school expressed concern as this resulted in jeopardizing his ability to attract qualified
mathematics teachers.
Subcomponent B.3: Building Management and Administrative Capacity.
This subcomponent was partially achieved. The preparation and dissemination of materials on financial
management, school regulations and planning was partially accomplished. General regulations for school
administration were produced and disseminated; however, materials for financial management were not
prepared. The problem encountered was a general lack of guidance on whether or not the management of
school finances would be decentralized. The provision of short-term overseas training in planning, school
administration, and educational technology for NDSE and EPU administrators was partially carried out in
that some staff members were sent for training in Portugal. In addition, the strengthening of GEPE's
staffing and office support was carried out to the extent that GEPE was able to hire legal services and to
recruit a civil engineer/manager, a procurement officer and project accountant. On the other hand, the
strengthening of Management and Coordination Capabilities of the Project Technical Unit of NDSE was
marginally accomplished. The project was only able to support the coordinator of the Girls' Scholarship
program.
Subcomponent B.4: Improvement of Enrollment of Female Students.
This subcomponent, despite administrative problems, exceeded its target four-fold. The project was able to
support a large number of female students through scholarships although it had less impact on students'
achievement. Only 280 scholarships were envisaged at the design stage to cover all school fees, school
supplies and textbooks, housing, and transportation in primarily 4 EPUs from Beira, Natnpula, Quelimane
and Xai-Xai. Each scholarship was initially estimated at US$50 per month. This amount was, however,
reduced to US$15 to allow for an expanded coverage to all female students at both levels of secondary
education. In addition, the Government saw it prudent to include needy boys, albeit in a selective manner,
- 10 -



into the program. As a result 1,158 students benefited from the program.
The implementation of this sub-component not only experienced significant delays in the disbursement of
money and the selection of candidates but also bureaucratic bottlenecks at many levels. Moreover, while
the emphasis of the criteria was clearly on supporting needy girls preferably from rural areas, evidence
shows that the guidelines were not fully adhered to by the provincial staff. While no systematic impact
assessment to evaluate the performance of the program toward achieving its objectives was ever conducted,
there is evidence that its existence played a major role in motivating girls to remain in school. The program
could have benefited from deliberate interventions that would have increased the supply of female teachers.
The Staff Appraisal Report identified female teachers as one of the key factors that could increase the
enrollment rate of female students, but no direct interventions were put in place to deal with the problem.
On the contrary, the share of female teachers declined significantly from 16 percent in 1994 to 6 percent in
2001.
4.3 Net Present Valute/Economic rate of return:
No attempt was made at appraisal to estimate the net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return
(ERR), thus there is no baseline against which to judge a re-estimate for evaluation purposes.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No attempt was made at appraisal to estimate the financial rate of return (FRR) and therefore there is no
baseline against which to judge a re-estimate for evaluation purposes.
4.5 Institutional developmient impact:
The ICR team rated the institutional development impact as "high" for the UEM component, "modest" for
the EPU component, and "substantial" for the overall rating.
UEM: The project significantly contributed to the institutional development impact in promoting the
quality of teaching/administrative staff through the provision of graduate fellowships and short-term
training to staff. In addition, a large number of staff houses was constructed and rehabilitated. Almost all
of the trained staff are still being retained at UEM. Moreover, various aspects of institutional development
included the establishment of EMUNet, local book production, bookstores, and the rehabilitation of
libraries. The GIU and Project Implementation Unit (PIU) gained experience in managing civil works and
financial management/procurement matters, respectively. The experiences acquired from the project has
also enabled UEM to come up with its new strategic plan, which became the basis for the higher education
strategic plan in Mozambique and the new higher education operation. The new ministry (MESCT) and
UEM recognize the importance of continued effort in strengthening institutional capacity to deal with the
constraints and challenges the sector is currently facing. For instance, the following include increased
graduation rates; improved general policy coordination; and increased monitoring of sector performance.
- 11 -



EPU: Overall the institutional impact under the EPU component has been modest. Although limited
institutional capacity has been created at the MINED (NDSE) level, some positive capacity has been built.
As a result of teaching at EPU schools or university, a majority of the technical staff in the NDSE
department has become more familiar with educational planning and administration. School directors and
heads of pedagogy attended seminars in Portugal, while teachers attended pedagogical seminars that were
organized by the NDSE. NDSE staff were able to make supervisory visits to secondary schools. In
addition, NDSE staff participated in the preparation and review of the new curriculum, examination
questions setting and reading materials. At least 6 subject specific seminars were organized over the period
between 1996 and 1999.
When the project was first prepared, the Provincial Directorates of Education were not functioning well due
to the civil war. However, as the Directorates evolved into playing an important role in the administration
of the girls' scholarship program, they have also provided overall supervisory services to the EPUs in
general.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside thle control oJfgovernment or implementing agency:
Positive factors: In the period after 1995, the excellent relationship between the World Bank and UEM
contributed positively to the implementation of the UEM component and the early inclusions of lessons
learned into the follow-on operation. The Bank's flexibility and responsiveness to needs, such as those
following the floods, is stated by the Government as one of the key positive factors affecting the
implementation.
While the move from war to peace and the Government focus on the development of the country are
positive factors, they inevitably pose a negative influence on the attention given to the project.
Negative factors: Floods and cyclones affected the rehabilitation, equipping and physical expansion of
pre-university schools in 1998, 1999, and in particular 2000. Moreover, during the implementation of the
UEM component there was a serious shortage of funds to cover both operating costs and counterpart
investment costs, which threatened to halt implementation, particularly the planned rehabilitation and
construction work (UEM did not have the revenue to support its negotiated share of 20 percent). The issue
of the counterpart fund was resolved during the mid-term review (MTR) in 1996, when the counterpart
share was reduced from 20 to 15 percent. Despite this reduction, the lack of counterpart funding persisted
throughout the remaining period. The issue was continuously addressed during supervision missions and
listed as one of the major problems for the delay of civil works; this concern was also presented in the
larger context of the Bank's Mozambique portfolio reviews in 2001. Due to these as well as other negative
factors listed below, the project closing date was initially extended by 12 months largely to complete the
civil works activities. Following the floods, the project was further extended for another 15 month to
provide the government with the financial resources for the emergency rehabilitation work.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Negative factors: Overall the project suffered from political impasses and internal disputes at the level of
the Inter-Ministerial Committee (IC), in which the World Bank was also involved. For example, the IC
was responsible for the confirmation of the appointment of the project coordinators which delayed the
effectiveness of the Credit. Much of the Bank's effort was focused on resolving these issues and
maintaining the relationship with such key players as the Ministers of Justice, State Administration and
Planning and Finance. Eventually, and after the elections in 1994, these issues were resolved when the
committee was dissolved.
- 12 -



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Positive factors: After the MTR, the positive and open attitude of the UEM staff towards addressing
problems and issues greatly assisted in accelerating the implementation and disbursements.
Negative factors: Under the UEM component, the slow implementation before the MTR in 1996 were
mainly due to delays in the establishment of the PIU, the appointment of a project coordinator and a lack of
institutional capacity in GIU to implement activities agreed to for the first year. Later on, the project
coordinator left the position and this affected project knowledge, continuity in the handling of certain
matters as well as management style. After 1996, despite an accelerated disbursement rate, two of the
constraints - lack of dedicated full-time staff and unfamiliarity with the Bank's procurement procedures -
were also identified as primary causes of delays in project implementation. This related particularly to the
quality of tenders and evaluations, and the absence of a Bank procurement officer in the Country Office
from whom quick advise could have been sought.
EPU component: In the period before the MTR in 1996, project performance was negatively affected by the
lack of coordination between NDSE, MINED and GEPE which resulted in a lack of general coordination;
this in tum led to low levels of outputs in the quality of education. With a limited number of staff and poor
knowledge of Bank procedures, the NDSE was not able to prepare lists of activities to be carried out or
goods to be purchased. Other reasons for the delayed civil works include: a) construction time was
underestimated by the client in the bidding document; b) there was a problem in the supply of materials as
many building materials were imported, even from Portugal; c) transportation problems and unexpected
changes in customs regulations and import facilities. In addition, bidding documents for the rehabilitation
were prepared by inexperienced junior technicians instead of fully qualified professionals and as a result
many important problems, such as the estimation of costs, were overlooked. Moreover, the MTR mission
identified the reasons for the slow implementation in that the NDSE was unprepared for the responsibilities
that were being assigned to it. For instance, at the top, senior officials were not able to manage project
funds efficiently, and for a while, there was simply no director for the sub-sector; there was also very little
executive vocation found among the staff. Conversely, since the new DNES Director was appointed in
1996, activity preparation procedures and project performance have improved.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total estimated cost of the project at the time of appraisal was US $60.3 million. The IDA credit was
estimated to cover 81 percent of the total project cost at US $48.6 million. The govemment counterpart
financing was estimated at US $10 million, while the anticipated financing from the beneficiaries amounted
to about US $1.6 million. The total latest estimated costs of the project at completion (US $ 54 million), as
obtained from the implementing agency records, do not include contribution from the beneficiaries.
As of February 15th, 2002 the Capacity Building Project has disbursed US $54 million of the total project
costs, which is equivalent to a sum of US$44 million or 94 percent of the IDA credit. It has an undisbursed
IDA credit balance of US $2.6 million which will be cancelled. Under the UEM component, 103 percent of
credit funds were disbursed with substantial outputs, while most rehabilitation of EPU schools under the
EPU component was completed at the acceptable cost levels. However, due to delays from the seasonal
floods and high costs of transportation and imported materials, some of the rehabilitation works exceeded
their planned costs. This included the costs of the new EPU school in Xai-Xai as well as student
dormitories in Xai-Xai and Quelimane.
- 13-



The lack of counterpart funding, which was early on a cause for the delays of civil works, remained an
issue throughout the project period until the share of counterpart funding was reduced for civil works from
20 percent to 15 percent at the MTR. During the project implementation, the Bank approved the transfer
of funds as follows: under the UEM component US $1 million was moved from civil works to operation
costs in 1994; in 1998, UEM and EPU each received 50 percent of the funds from the Unallocated
Category. UEM used the money for consultancy services (mainly for additional training and financial
strengthening of the university) and equipment (especially transportation for students and computers), while
EPU proposed to use its share on civil works and furniture. Moreover, an amount of US $850,000 was
transferred from the EPU component to UEM in 2001 in order for UEM to implement the EMUNet
sub-component provision for the LAN infrastructure.
Depreciation of SDR: The Governnent lamented the fact that about US $2 million was lost due to the
appreciation of the US dollar against the SDR.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as "likely".
UEM: The overall improvements in UEM that the project supported are considered to be sustainable (
highly likely) for the following reasons:
Government Ownerships: There is very strong commitment and ownership within UEM and the
Government. Overall the current policy environment is excellent and conducive for the continuance of
implementation. This commitment is further manifested by the establishment of the new Ministry of Higher
Education, Science and Technology (MESCT) in 2000 and the development of a system-wide higher
education project approved by the Council of Ministers. UEM has prepared its own strategic plan for the
next 10 years from the experience gained in the Capacity Building Project. This became a base for the
Bank's new Mozambique Higher Education Project, which is expected to be effective by June, 2002. This
project will present continued support to UEM through the year 2007.
Technical Aspects: The increased number of trained teaching and administrative staff is likely to be
retained within UEM but at the same time, they are threatened by continued excess demand for qualified
staff elsewhere in the economy.
Economic/Financial Aspects: The economic and financial sustainability of UEM is very probable although
it has had difficulty allocating and maintaining resources, and will continue to be dependent on donor
contributions. In the past three years, the share of donor contribution (including both credit and donation)
ranged from 30 to 50 percent of the university's total expenditure while its intemal revenue accounted for
less than 1 percent. Consequently, the Government (Ministry of Planning and Finance) agreed to increase
the share of the higher education sub-sector as a percentage of the whole education sector from 23 percent
in 2001 to 25 percent in the next three years. This amount will be spent on improving the efficiency of the
higher education sub-sector. UEM has embarked on a policy of increasing cost-recovery beginning 2002
among which is increased tuition fees. In addition, a new Higher Education Project will support the UEM's
revenue generation from the services that will be provided, which includes catering, the opening of the
library to the public, computer and internet services, hospital services and consultancies on research and
development with various organizations. If the internal efficiency of the higher education system were to be
improved (i.e. an annual increase of 5 percent in graduation rates) through the implementation of the new
Higher Education Project, the efficiency gains from this measure at UEM will be around US$ 10 million by
- 14 -



the end of 2006.
EPU: The sustainability of the EPU component is considered to be "likely".
Government Ownership/Other Stake Holders Involvement: MINED has adopted the sector-wide approach
with primary education as the priority sub-sector within and outside of MINED. Through the ESSP and
the new Higher Education Project, the Bank will continue to support upper secondary education (EPU)
through the construction of ESG schools, teacher housing, and provision of study materials. At the time of
appraisal in 1992, no donor agency was supporting EPUs; however, the British (DFID) is presently
supporting the development of the strategic plan for secondary education.
Technical Aspects: The increased number of trained teaching staff is likely to be retained but at the same
time, it is threatened by continued excess demand for qualified staff elsewhere in the economy. As a result,
many of the graduates from the Pedagogical University (UP) do not choose teaching careers at EPU.
Moreover, nearly 25 percent of the teaching staff in EPU schools are academically unqualified (e.g., at the
Joaquim Chissano EPU). The new Higher Education Project (HEP) has already identified that an adequate
supply of well trained secondary school graduates is central to MINED's efforts to improve the quality and
efficiency of secondary education. The UP plays a key role in this regard as the institution responsible for
the training of secondary school teachers and the training of trainers for primary school teachers. The HEP
will support UP with the implementation of its plan to improve the quality of its programs and to broaden
their scope. A critical element will be to upgrade current EPU teachers through distance education
modalities. The Minister of Education and the Minister of Higher Education has already agreed to develop
a joint strategy for distance education. Finally, MINED has decided to absorb a significant number of
GEPE staff into the ministry structure and has integrated the implementation of the ESSP into its regular
structures.
Economic/Financial Aspects: The overall government expenditure to the MINED has declined but in the
meantime, the share for pre-university education has increased. The total expenditure on MINED as a
percentage of GDP has declined from 4.4 percent in 1996 to 4.0 percent in 1999, while the recurrent
expenditure share of EPU (upper secondary education) has increased from 2.9 percent to 4.5 percent during
the same period. According to the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF) proposal, about 10 donor
agencies, including the World Bank, will be lending support to the MINED and the total expenditure on
MINED (as a percentage of the total education expenditure) will decline slightly from 77 percent in 2001 to
75 percent in the next three years.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As mentioned above, since the new Bank's Higher Education Project will be in continuous support of
UEM, and with ESSP currently supporting the EPU (upper secondary education), the transition to regular
operations will take place smoothly. This transition is also supported by key technical staff who were
previously involved in the implementation of the Capacity Building Project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance at identification and appraisal is rated as "satisfactory". The Bank's performance
during identification and appraisal is very adequate, considering the state at which the country was in
1991/92. Due to security reasons, it was very difficult to conduct a thorough assessment of project
- 15 -



components (except for those within the city boundary). The project was well documented and designed
with the integration of the government strategy, CAS and ESW. It also identified key risks and ways to
mitigate them.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervisions were done through regular supervision missions and continuous assistance from Bank staff in
the country office where the task manager resided until 1994. However, the Bank's supervision needs to be
evaluated in two distinct phases: the period before the mid-term review (MTR) which was held in 1996,
and the period after.
Between July, 1993 and May, 1995, there were numerous missions, but only one formal supervision
mission was documented per year. Also, three out of the four formal supervision missions (excluding the
project launch mission) before the MTR were conducted by only one person, the task manager. Partially as
a result of a lack of skills mix, the supervision mission's response to the immediate concerns in the project
implementation was slow. This was reflected in several key issues related to the establishment of the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) at UEM, full staffing of Project Implementation Units (both GEPE and
GIU), and borrowers' unfamiliarity with Bank's procurement procedures. By May 1995, only 5 percent of
the credit had been disbursed. The project was down-graded to "unsatisfactory" on the implementing
progress before the MTR, but it should probably have been down-graded earlier. However, it should be
recognized that at the time both the Bank (and task manager) and the Government were heavily engaged in
and preoccupied with the election process. This, combined with changes in the leadership at UEM and
MINED just after the elections not only affected the policy dialog with the Bank, but also the Government's
response to pending issues. Concurrently, the Bank's supervision was not getting adequate support as
identified by a significant decline in the supervision expenditure: from US $77,000 in 1994 to US $47,000
in 1995 and US $57,000 in 1996.
However, after clarity and a level of political stability had returned, the Bank's MTR supervision in 1996
provided far-sighted and constructive intervention to move the project up from an "unsatisfactory" to a
"satisfactory" status. After the MTR, the Bank became more proactive and flexible in resolving problems
related to the reduction of counterpart funds for civil works and to the reallocation of funds from the
unallocated categories in the DCA amendment. The Bank's supervision was also proactive in the
day-to-day management of the project, which contributed to the project's satisfactory status, resulting in
extensive supervision mission aide-memoires. As a result, disbursements accelerated after 1996.
Moreover, the Bank provided intensive support to the clients during the year 2000 flood emergency by
extending the project's closing date and allowing for a reallocation of resources. One of the most
successful collaborative efforts was the development of a national strategic plan for higher education,
financed by the project, and the subsequent development and preparation of the new Higher Education
Project approved by the Board on March 7, 2002 (this allowed for the inclusion of lessons learned from the
implementation of the UEM component). On the other hand, the Bank supervision did not report on D.O.
indicators throughout the project implementation.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank's performance is rated "satisfactory". The most positive aspect was the Bank's
pro-activeness and flexibility in providing clear and adequate guidance to the Borrower on various elements
and platforms of project implementation through an ongoing dialogue and the preparation of the new
Higher Education Project. The satisfactory accomplishment of development objectives and output of
components should be credited to both the Bank and the Borrower.
Borrower
- 16 -



7.4 Preparation:
The government preparation performance is rated as "satisfactory" - "satisfactory" for the UEM
component and "marginally satisfactory" for the EPU component. During the preparation of the project,
there was a relatively high degree of government ownership and stakeholders' involvement, particularly at
the level of the Inter-ministerial Committee (IC), which has been providing the leadership and direction for
the project. While levels of commitment were very high at UEM compared with the National Directorate of
Secondary Education (NDSE) at MINED, GEPE was nevertheless considered one of the best
implementation units at the time. Concurrently, MINED was in general understaffed and overburdened,
drawing on support from the outside. The project design for the UEM component was prepared by a
committee of five senior UEM staff members who worked under the Rector's direct supervision.
Representatives of the university department were also involved in working groups, which developed
specific sub-components of the proposal. On the other hand, on many aspects, the Bank took on a
leadership role in the preparation of the EPU component given the low level of commitment at MINED and
NDSE. The school Directors, however, participated in the workshops in which the project components
were discussed and reviewed.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The overall Government implementation performance is rated "satisfactory". Although many aspects
could be criticized, like the inability to make timely decisions or dissolve the Inter-ministerial Committee in
which members were preoccupied by the election process, the leadership and members' attention to the
post-war period and first democratic elections were both desirable and critical for the continuation of the
post-war construction period. These factors were largely outside the control of the Government and beyond
their resources at the time.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall performance of the implementing agency is rated as "satisfactory" - "satisfactory" for UEM
and "partially satisfactory" for EPU. Before the MTR, UEM encountered difficulties in allocating
counterpart funds, which caused delays in the implementation of civil works, while MINED/NDSE lacked
leadership and ownership of the project, leading to heavy dependence on GEPE to initiate almost every
action. After the MTR, the Borrowers' implementation performance gradually improved over the life of
the project.
At UEM, the performance improved remarkably after a new Project Coordinator was appointed in 1995
and almost all of the activities were completed at the satisfactory level. All the planned civil works were
also completed although most of them were implemented only in the final 3 years of project
implementation. Whereas under the EPU comronent, despite the improvement in implementation during
the second half of the project, the supervision of rehabilitation and construction was not adequate. The
ICR mission identified that rehabilitation of some school buildings has not been successful and that the
buildings are back to pre-rehabilitation condition. For instance, there is serious rainwater infiltration on the
roof and the low-lying changing rooms are perrnanently under water. This, as previously stated, relates
partly to the low quality of civil works supervision by GEPE. Even though GEPE (the implementing
agency) specialized in civil works, its lack of experience gave rise to such outcomes. Furthermnore, as
GEPE had no experience in the delivery of education services it eventually resulted in a dysfunctional
relationship with MINED.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrowers performance is rated as "Satisfactory".
- 17 -



8. Lessons Learned
The Higher Education Project benefited and future projects may benefit from the following lessons learned:
*   Coordination and authorization through an Inter-Ministerial Committee (refer to 3.1; 7.4): Cross
conditionalities and invested decision making to an Inter-Ministerial Committee e.g. for the
appointment of project coordinators, are difficult to manage and can create unnecessary complications
leading to delays. Committees at this level should be involved in the overall progress evaluation,
strategic directions and policy guidance.
*   Implementation through external PIU (3.1): To ensure effective learning outcomes and adequate
ownership, project activities should be implemented through Ministry structures. This will also ensure
closer collaboration with end-users in the procurement decision process and adequate alignment with
government recurrent budget allocations. Finally, where necessary, project staff should have clear
terms of reference and clarity in their report inside the Ministry/university structures.
*   Bank's responsiveness to change/flexibility in design and allocations offunds (7.1; 7.2) are
increasingly becoming the critical features of successful projects. Both social and economic context, of
a project or country can change so rapidly and dramatically. Only projects where the design alongside
Bank's flexibility would be able to accommodate these changes, will the project be aligned with
Government priorities and therefore enjoy full political support and ownership.
*   Knowledge of Bank procedures, procurement andfinancial management (5.3; 5.4): Good project
progress and accelerated disbursements are closely related to the Borrowers' experience and knowledge
of Bank procedures, and not just capacity per se. Forward planning, continuous training in Bank
procedures, and high quality in the procurement processing and cash flow management are
determinants of an effective implementation. The support of international or national consultants early
on in the project phase can be critical for determining the time before adequate capacity and experience
is in place.
*   Ownership, continuity and trust (7.2): Clear ownership by the people involved in the implementation
of the project and long term continuity in the Bank team builds trust and insight easing implementation
and maintaining a common focus on entailing strategy.
*   Rehabilitation vs. new construction (4.2): The Bank's experience in civil works has predominantly
been in construction of new structures. Rehabilitation is also becoming an important area for Bank
financing as more countries wean themselves out of civil strife and experience natural disasters.
Rehabilitation is not only complicated but it is also specialized work. An important lesson though is
that sufficient detail needs to be put into the design work through adequate elaboration of consulting
engineers TORs to avoid unnecessary addenda during implementation. In addition, it is important to
exercise tight supervision and monitoring of costs by both the client and the Bank.
*   Capacity Building (4.2): To promote capacity building within institutions, project activities should not
only be limited to staff development, such as training, but they should also look at the broader issues of
staff retention and non-salary incentives. One of the main successes of the project has been its high
staff retention rates due to staff incentives and staff motivation policies. While staff incentives
included the allocation of time to academic staff to provide part-time services to the p ivate sector
(part-time teaching in private institutions), staff motivation policies supported a home ownership
scheme where staff benefited from the house construction and rehabilitation program under the project.
- 18 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Eduardo Mondlane University (see details in Annex 8):
Execution of Activities:
The project activities, in general, were satisfactory. There was flexibility in the inclusion of some
activities, which were not previously planned to be executed by the project. Until the project closing date in
June 30, 2001, the project registered a financial execution of 100.3 percent out of SDR 19,695, the amount
allocated to the UEM. The additional execution of 0.3 percent represents the disbursement of US $7,590
corresponding to SDR 6,500 drawn from the global amount of SDR 661,000 requested during the final
project supervision mission, to be reallocated from Part B (MINED) to Part A (UEM) of the project, for
the financing of some activities which had been previously cancelled because of the exhaustion of funds
available.
Scope of the Objectives:
Overall, the project objectives were attained and contributed toward the following: a) improvement of the
quality of the teaching and learning process; b) improvement of the accommodation conditions for the
teaching and administrative staff; c) improvement of the academic qualifications of the personnel; d)
improvement of the accommodation conditions for students; e) rehabilitation of the partial physical plant of
the UEM; f) beginning of the strengthening of the financial management system; and g) improvement of the
access to internet.
Sustainability and Future Operation:
The project activities are sustainable and will be continued in the scope of UEM Strategic Plan (PEUEM),
with emphasis on: a) administrative efficiency; b) excellence and quality; c) development and financial
sustainability; d) development of physical plant; e) stabilization and human resources development; f)
increasing the number of enrollments; g) improvement of social conditions; h) assurance/iznprovement of
the equity of gender; i) development of institutional twinning arrangement; j) simulation of the academic
environment; and k) divulging the image of the UEM. These activities will be funded continuously by the
Govermment of Mozambique, the World Bank's new Higher Education Project, and other donors.
Drawing Lessons for the Future Operation:
* The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) needs to be established before the initiation of implementation
activities by the project, preferably during the phase of appraisal.
*   The procurement function (analysis of the bidding document, analysis of the evaluation report and
attribution of the respective "No Objections") should be decentralized in order to be handled by the
World Bank's country office.
* The process of contracts awarding opens a room for equity in both quality and price, not only giving
emphasis to the lowest price.
* In the implementation of the new project, the depreciation of SDR through an exchange rate mechanism
should be followed in such a way that funds of the credit will be maximized in favor of the beneficiary.
Ministry of Education (see Annex 9)
- 19 -



Quality of Pre-university Education:
As a result of seminars and studies carried out under the project, a new curriculum frame for the
pre-university education (EPU) was designed in 1994, establishing three fields of specialization, A, B and
C, according to students' perspectives for higher education. Implementation of the new curricular frame
started in 1995. A seminar for the review of the country's curriculum for upper secondary education and a
review of its examination system was conducted in June 1996, resulting in the introduction of a new subject
- philosophy - and the split of the then single subject "physics and chemistry" into two individual subjects.
Moreover, as a result of studies and seminars realized under the project, a new exam system was designed
and its implementation started in 1996.
Twenty-five EPU school directors and pedagogic directors benefited from training courses in Portugal and
a number of technicians at NDSE attended English language courses and seminars in Zimbabwe and
Botswana. With regards to EPU teachers' training, eleven national and three regional seminars on specific
subjects related to teaching methodologies were conducted. In addition, out of the project proceeds,
technicians from NDSE carried out several pedagogic supervision visits to all EPU schools from 1994 till
1999.
Altogether 8140 textbooks and 130 encyclopedia as well as various materials and supplies were purchased
for school libraries. Didactic materials for sports, physical education and audio vision materials were also
purchased for the EPU schools. Six punching and binding machines, 6 paper cutters, 18 projectors (and
accessories), 13 photocopying machines, 8 multi-copying machines and, 24 typing machines, 18
computers, 12 printers were also purchased for EPU schools. Moreover, laboratory equipment for
chemistry and didactic material for drawing were purchased for 6 upper secondary schools. Technical
specifications for laboratory materials for chemistry and biology were prepared.
Stabilizing the EPU networkl
All the six EPU schools proposed for rehabilitation or construction from grassroots under the project were
completed although one school (Josina Machel EPU school) in Maputo was omitted from the project
because it had already been covered under the Bank's Second Education Project. The same cannot be said
for the construction/rehabilitation of dormitories as only two of the proposed five dormitories were built.
The construction of the other three donnitories had to be abandoned due to price overruns. The reason why
the project allocation for construction/rehabilitation of student dormitories was not enough to cover all five
proposed dormitories was the high standard of the adopted design. A more modest design would cost less
and still meet the minimum comfort and functionality requirements generally accepted for secondary
schools student dormitories in Mozambique. The same is true for the design of the Xai-Xai EPU secondary
school. A better understanding of the local climate and construction practice would have helped the
designer to use a more appropriate and less expensive design. It is also obvious that the designer did not
take into consideration the budgetary limits for his design.
The quality of construction works can be considered good although most construction contracts spanned
longer than the contractual deadlines. This may be due to the unrealistic time spans stipulated by GEPE,
and the inefficient network of supply of construction materials. In the case of rehabilitation works, the
quality may be rated as regular, since some problems encountered before the rehabilitation were not
resolved by the rehabilitation exercise. This may be attributable to the inexperience of the engaged
consultants in designing efficient rehabilitation remedies. It should be mentioned that this was the first
large scale rehabilitation exercise ever undertaken in the country at that time after an absence of more than
twenty years of building maintenance/rehabilitation activities in the country.
Building Management Capacity of EPUs and the National Directorate of Secondary Education:
- 20 -



A national meeting of the secondary school directors was held in Maputo in October 1995 to discuss school
management techniques and problems encountered by school managers. In 1997, twenty-five school
directors were trained in Portugal in the fields of school administration and management.
Raising girls' Enrollment Rates at the EPUs:
A number of female upper secondary school students throughout the country, except for Maputo, benefited
from scholarships (US $15 per student per month). The program started with 70 girls in 1994 and ended in
2000 with 355 female students. The program could have reached more girls if it were not for the
bureaucratic problems faced during the implementation of the program and the low geographical coverage
of the banking network in the country, which made it difficult or impossible to channel these scholarships.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.
10. Additional Information
N.A.
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix  -              Projected In last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
A 1: Increase the number of graduates  PSR did not indicate development outcomes. Number of graduates increased from 151 in
1992 to 695 in 2000.
A.2: Improve graduation rates       PSR did not indicate development outcomes. Graduation rate increased from 23 percent in
1992 to 49 percent In 1999. Percentage of
graduates who complete all degree
requirements within the official prescription
tme increased from 4.8 in 1997 to 12.9
percent in 2000 (infomnation is not available
between 1992 and 1996).
A.3: Improve examination scores     PSR did not indicate development outcomes. Pass rate on the finial examination improved
from 38.6 percent in 1994 to 53.2 percent in
2000 (information is not available between
1992 and 1993).
A.4: Improve drop-out and repetition rates  PSR did not indicate development outcomes. Information Is not available.
A.5: Improve quality of teaching staff  The number of the Mozambican full-time  The proportion of the Mozambican full-time
teaching staff who held doctoral or master  teaching staff who held doctoral or master
degrees Increased from 46 In 1992 to 204 in degrees has also increased from 17 percent
1999.                              in 1992 to 46 percent 1999.
A.6: Increase student/teacher ratio  Last PSR did not indicate development  The student/full-time teacher ratio increased
outcomes.                           from 6.9 in 1992 to 9.3 in 1999
B.1. Improve average examination scores as Last PSR did not indicate development  The average examination pass rate in EPU
well as graduation rates            outcomes.                           improved from 58.5 percent In 1994 to 66.0
percent in 2000. Graduation (completion)
rate also improved from 40.0 percent in 1994
to 54.2 percent in 2000.
B.2. Reduce drop-out and repetition rates  Last PSR did not indicate development  Drop-out rate declined from 6.8 percent in
outcomes.                           1994 to 2.8 percent in 2000. Repetition rate
also declined from 16.9 percent in 1994 to
9.7 percent in 2000.
B.3. Improve quality of teaching staff  Last PSR did not indicate development  The number of qualified teachers increased
outcomes.                           from 140 in 1994 to 368 in 2001. However,
the proportion of qualified teachers declined
from 90 percent In 1994 to 76 percent in
2000.
B.4. Increase the girs' enrollment rates  Last PSR did not indicate development  The girls enrollment in public EPU increased
outcomes.                           from 1,271 In 1994 to 4,301 in 2001 and the
share of girls enrollment also increased from
25.8 percent in 1994 to 26.4 percent in 2001.
B.6. Increase student/teacher ratio  Last PSR did not indicate development  The ratio slightly increased from 25 in 1994
outcomes.                           to 26 in 2000. The student/qualified teacher
ratio also increased from 32 in 1994 to 36 in
2000.
A: Eduardo Mondlane University (expand the quantity and improve the quality of university graduates)
B: Pre-University Education (enhance the quality of pre-university education)
Output Indicators:
fl     h ; Indlcator/Matrix        .     Projected In last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
A.1. Expand students access to textbooks  4,350 titles of books were Imported by the  On average 7 to 8 books has been provided
and study materials (pmrvide at least 5 books project. Local production of textbooks  to each student.
to each student), and increase local textbook commenced and 30 original books were
production (complete 124 texts)     ed,ted by the UEM staff and published a
series of study manuals.
A.2. Expand computerization of UEM  60 computers, printers, software, and  Computer training was expanded as a
department                          supporting equipment was acquired and  requirement courses In all university
computer training was expanded as a  departments.
requirement courses in all university
- 22 -



department.
A.3. Establish linkage agreements    Two twining arrangements with intemational Twinning arrangements were partially
(economics, engineering)             academic Institutions were achieved: (i) the  achieved and the arrangement of Economic
Faculty of Economics was linked to   Faculty has an impact on the students (see
Universidade de Roma Tor Vergata for a  details on 4.2)
period of 3 years; and (ii) the Faculty of
Engineering was linked with Instituto Superior
Tecnico de Usboa for 15 months.
A.4. Increase housing stocks for staff  The project constructed 92 on-campus  Same as the last PSR
retenUon                             apartment, renovated 108 on-campus
apartments, and rehabilitated 100 off-campus
apartments.
A.5. Ensure the development of the   128 fellowships were granted during the  Same as the last PSR
Mozambican academic and administrative  project: 41 doctoral program; 51 Masters
staff (complete 3 doctoral and 35 Masters  degrees; 24 Licenciatura (honors degree);
degrees and staff retumed)           and 12 Bachelor's degrees.
A. 6. Strengthen management and      1,883 participants attended over 24 different Same as the last PSR
accountability                       courses (e.g., project management,
management of data information, and
procurement courses).
A. 7. Expand students' residences    Accommodation for a total of 717 students  Same as the last PSR
was rehabilitated: out of which, 180 were new
bed spaces.
A.8. Establish effective maintenance  Last PSR did not indicate it.       No budget was allocated for the maintenance
program (GIU functioning; maintenance
training; budget increase from 0.5% to 2.0%)
B.1. Develop new curriculum and      A review of the existing examination system  Same as the last PSR
examination system                   was conducted resulting in the creation of
three broad categories of student
specializations: arts; sciences; and technical
courses.
B.2. Provide books/Leaming materials and  Physics labs were equipped in 6 EPU  8,140 textbooks and 130 encydopedia were
teaching kits                        schools and usage training for teachers was purchased and delivered to EPU school
conducted. Books were provided in 12 EPU  libraries
schools but books utlization was poor in
most schools.
B.3. Provide training to teaching and  25 school directors and teachers went for a  Same as the last PSR
administrabve staff                 three months training in Portugal. Several
staff members benefited from English
language courses in Zimbabwe and others
went for distance leaming seminars in
Botswana.
B.4. Rehabilitaton, equipping and physical  6 EPUs was completed.         Same as the last PSR
expansion of EPUs
B.5. Increase dormitories and teachers  One existing dormitory was rehabIlitated and Same as the last PSR
houses                               4 dormitories were constructed. 43 teacher
houses were constructed.
B.6. Build management and administraUve  General regulation for school administration  Same as the last PSR
capacity                             was produced and disseminated; however,
materials for financial management were not
done. 25 NDSE staff members and EPU
administrators were sent to Portugal for
training in planning, school administration,
education technology.
B.7. Support EPU's decentralized activities
B.8. Increase giris' particpation; %  804 scholarships were provided to female  1158 scholarships were provided to female
scholarships offered.                students                            student.
End of project
A: Eduardo Mondlane University (expand the quantity and improve the quality of university graduates)
- 23 -



B: Pre-University Education (enhance the quality of pre-university education)
-24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuaULatest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million   US$ million
A.l. Educational Quality Improvement                  5.26           5.58            106
A.2. Staff Housing                                   6.54            7.73            118
A.3. Staff Development                                3.60           4.82            134
A.4. Management Development                           2.20           2.35            107
A.5. Student Residence                                3.89           4.62            119
A.6. Building Rehabilitation                          8.83          10.68            121
B.l. Education Quality Improvement                    3.36           1.17             35
B.2. Facilities Upgrading                            12.49          14.12            113
B.3. Management Development                           1.42           0.81             57
B.4. Female Education                                 0.85           0.28             33
Total Baseline Cost                                 48.44           52.16
Physical Contingencies                              4.64
Price Contingencies                                  7.20           2.00
Total Project Costs             60.28
Total Financing Required              60.28          54.16    __     _   _
A: Eduardo Mondlane University (expand the quantity and improve the quality of university graduates)
B: Pre-University Education (enhance the quality of pre-university education)
(i) US $2 million is listed under price contingencies as loss through teh depreciation of the SDR; (ii) Not all
counterpart funding and beneficiary contributions are included, thus actual expenditure are underestimated.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.  .  ~ Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category      ICB           NC                        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     26.70          1.20         0.00         0.00         27.90
(23.90)       (1.10)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (25.00)
2. Goods                      4.00         0.00          1.40         0.00         5.40
(3.80)       (0.00)        (1.30)        (0.00)      (5.10)
3. Services                   0.00         0.00         12.50         0.00         12.50
(Consultant Services)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (9.90)        (0.00)      (9.90)
4. Training                   0.00         0.00          7.80         0.00         7.80
(0.00)       (0.00)        (7.80)        (0.00)      (7.80)
5. Incremental Operating      0.00         0.00          5.90         0.00         5.90
Costs                        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.80         0.00         0.80
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.80)        (0.00)      (0.80)
Total                     30.70          1.20         28.40         0.00        60.30
(27.70)       (1.10)       (19.80)       (0.00)       (48.60)
- 25 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure ,at.go.r            Procurement Method
Expenditure C:ategory       ICB           NCB           Other'        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                        9.45          0.00          0.06          0.00          9.51
(8.46)        (0.00)        (0.05)        (0.00)        (8.51)
2. Goods                        15.24         0.00          4.12          0.00          19.36
(13.64)        (0.00)        (3.69)        (0.00)       (17.33)
3. Services                     3.81          0.93          5.55          0.00          10.29
(Consultant Services)          (3.41)         (0.85)       (4.97)        (0.00)        (9.23)
4. Training                     0.00          0.00           8.67          0.00         8.67
(0.00)        (0.00)         (8.67)       (0.00)        (8.67)
5. Incremental Operating        0.00          0.00           5.90          0.00         5.90
Costs                          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.30          0.00          0.30
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.30)       (0.00)        (0.30)
Total                        28.50          0.93         24.60          0.00         54.03
(25.51)        (0.85)        (17.68)       (0.00)       (44.04)
Miscellaneous includes PPF.
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component      -       Appraisal Estimate         ActuallLatest'Estimate
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Go,,|     CoF..   Bank   Govt.  CoF.
UEM (A)
A.1. Civil Works        10.50      2.60      0.00     8.63       1.29     0.00     82.2   49.6   0.0
A.2. Technical Assistance,  5.60   0.00      0.00      6.79      0.00     0.00    121.3   0.0    0.0
Studies & Audits
Expenditures
A.3. Vehicles, Equipment,  1.30    0.00      0.00      3.29      0.00     0.00    253.1   0.0    0.0
Supplies and Materials
Expenditures
A.4. University Book Fund  0.90    0.00      0.00     0.88       0.00     0.00     97.8   0.0    0.0
Expenditures
A.5. Training Expenditures  4.50   0.00      0.00      8.04      0.00     0.00     178.7  0.0    0.0
EPU (B)                                                          0.00
B.I. Civil Works         6.70      1.70      0.00      8.67      2.17     0.00     129.4  127.6  0.0
B.2. Technical Assistance,  3.80   0.00      0.00      2.50      0.00     0.00     65.8   0.0     0.0
Studies & Audits
Expenditures
B3. Vehicles, Equipment,  2.00     0.00      0.00     4.56       0.53     0.00    228.0   0.0    0.0
Supplies and Materials
Expenditures
B.4. Training Expenditure  2.50    0.00      0.00     0.65       0.00     0.00     26.0   0.0    0.0
- 26 -



Refunding of Project   0.80      0.00     0.00     0.22     0.00     0.00    27.5   0.0    0.0
Preparation Advance
Unallocated            9.50     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.0   0.0    0.0
Total                  48.10     4.30     0.00    44.23     3.99     0.00    92.0   92.8   0.0
- 27 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
No attempt was made at appraisal to estimate n Net Present Value (NPV) or an economic rate of return,
and therefore there is no baseline. The objectivies of the ICR mission did not include attempting to apply
NPV/rate-of-retum methodology to a project of theis type, focusing mainly on quality improvement.
- 28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
April/ May, 1991           13    SEC, EC, two HES, two SES,
two PSRS; three ETS; two PAS
(6 of them are WB consultants
and 4 are from SIDA)
September, 1991             5   SPO, EC, ED, HES, PAS
February/ March,            I   SCES
1992
Appraisal/Negotiation
March/ April,              12    SPO, EC, COU, ED, two
1992                            HES, SEP. LA, LE, LS,
PAS, AR
July, 1992                  8   CO, SPO, SEC, EC, HES, COU,
DO, SCES
Supervision
June/July, 1993             6    SPO, EC, COU, HES, FMS,
(Project launch)                LS,
March, 1994                 1   ETC                                S            S
May, 1995                   3   ETS, HES, AR                       S            S
December, 1995              1   ETS                                U            S
February/ March,            I   ETS                                U            S
1996
November/                   5    SEC, SES, ETS, AR, ES             U            U
December, 1996
(Mid-Term
Review)
September, 1997             3   SES, AR, ES                        S            S
February, 1998              2   SES, AR                            S            S
October/                    2   SES, AR                            S            S
November, 1998
April/May, 1999             2   PES, AR                            S            S
September/                  4   EE, EC, AR, DO                     S            S
October, 1999
May/ June, 2000             4   EE, SEC, AR, ES                    S             S
March, 2001                 4    SEC, GS, DA, AR                   S             S
- 29 -



ICR
December, 2001              2    EE, SEC
Specializations:
SPO: Sr. Program Officer; EC: Economist; Educator: ED; HES: Higher Education Specialist; COU: Counsel; PAS:
Public Administration Specialist; SCES: Secondary Education Specialist; PSRS: Public Sector Reform Specialist;
PAS: Public Administration Specialist; LA: Lawyer; .LS: Legal Specialist; AR: Architect; ETS: Education Training
Specialist; SES: Senior Education Specialist; ETS: Education Training Specialist; ES: Education Specialist; TS:
Textbook Specialist; EE: Education Economist; EP: Education Planner; MS: Management Specislist; TTS:
Teacher Training Specialist; PES: Principal Education Specialist; 00: Operation Officer, DO: Disbursement
Officer; SEC: Senior Economist; GS: Gender Specialist; DA: Disbursement Analyst; DO Disbursement Officer;
CO: Country Officer; PO: Program Officer
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation              37.2                        91.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                   68.0                       167.4
Supervision                            204.2                       642.3
ICR                                     10.0                        25.0
Total                                  319.4                       925.9
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                       O H OSUOM      O N * NA
OSector Policies                      OH *SUOM       ON O NA
F Physical                            O H O SU * M   O N O NA
? Financial                           O H OSU*M O N O NA
Z Institutional Development           O H  * SU O M  0 N 0 NA
Z Environmental                       O H OSUOM      O N * NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction             OH OSU*M       ON O NA
I Gender                        OH   OSU *M    O N O NA
O Other (Please specify)        O H OSUOM O N * NA
Private sector development           0 H O SU O M   0 N * NA
O Public sector management            O H    SU O M  0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM O N * NA
- 31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
61 Bank performance                               Rating
F Lending                                          OHS*S       Oiu   OHU
F Supervision                                      OHS OS      O U    O HU
F Overall                                          OHS OS      O u    O HU
62 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
F Preparation                                      OHS OS      O u    O HU
Z Government implementation performance            O HS OS     0 U    0 HU
0 Implementation agency performance                OHS OS      Ou     O HU
F Overall                                          OHS OS      OU     O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Aide-memoire. World Bank, 1993-2001.
Annual Report 1996-1997. Eduardo Mondlane University, March 1998
Annual Report: 1995-1996. Eduardo Mondlane University, November 1996
Annual Report 1994-1995. Eduardo Mondlane University, March 1996
Annual Report: 1993-1994. Eduardo Mondlane University, 1991
Annual Report 1992-1993. Eduardo Mondlane University, October 1991
Annual Report: 1991-1992. Eduardo Mondlane University, October 1991
Capacity Building Project UEM Component: Evaluation of Civil Works. by Pieter Smoor (Architect
Consultant), 2001
Capacity Building Project EPU Component: Evaluation of Civil Works. by Pieter Smoor (Architect
Consultant), 2001.
Eduardo Mondlane University: Review of Governance, Planning and Management. Commonwealth
Secretariat, May 1992.
Present and Perspectives. Eduardo Mondlane University, 1991
Project Appraisal Report: Capacity Building: Human Resources Development Project. World Bank,
October 1992.
Project Evaluation Report (Component A). Eduardo Mondlane University, 2001
Project Evaluation Report (Component B). Ministry of Education, 2002
Project Status Reports. World Bank, 1993-2001.
- 33 -



Additional Annex 8. The Borrower's Evaluation Report: Eduardo Mondlane University
-34 -



A<)UNIVERSIDADE FPUARP.0 MQNDLA,
Gabinete do Reitor'
SCANNED FILE COPY
. ~ cesgIon No.   Box NO. 
Dear Sir                      N
Soren Nellemann            .             =
Task Manager
World Bank                                   -. f-;ep|C
Washington-USA                 Ref RT/158/01 (05/07/2001)
Subject: UEM-ICR of the Capacity Building Project
Dear Soren Nellemann,
In the terms of the Credit Agreement 2436 as after the implementation of the
project activities, during periodfrom January 1, 1994 to June 30, 2001, the
UEMprepared an evaluation report to be included in the formal document
of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
After the final project supervision mission, held during the period
comprehendedfrom 20th to 30'h, of March of 2001, it was handover to the
Task Team Leader, Dr. Noel Kulemeka, one project Implementation Report
until June 30, 2001, in an effort to speed the preparation of ICR, printed in
April 3, 2001.
The present report has been continuously improved and will be made
available before the end of July. It is of paramount importance that the
current evaluation report, be crossed with the final Implementation Report,
that presents more detailed elements of the project implementation.
Find attached to this letter the evaluation report.
The Rector of UEM
1a



REPjPBLICA DE MOCAMBIQUE
UNIVERSIDADE EDUARDO MONDLANE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
(CREDIT 2436)
INTRODUCTION
This document comprises the Implementation Completion Report (ICR-
UEM) of the Capacity Building Project Credit 2436) approved in January
29, 1993. The project came into effect on the date of January 1, 1994 and
the respective closing date on June 30, 2001. The project started with a
total amount of SDR 34.100.000, being the part allocated to the UEM in
SDR 19.650.000. (58Y), corresponding approximately USD 28.360.800,
according to an average medium exchange rate mechanism of ] SDR equal
to 1,44 USD.
The ICR was prepared taking into account the following elements:
1. THE EXECUTION OF ACTIVITIES
2. THE SCOPE OF THE OBJECTIVES
3. SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
4.   DRAWING LESSONS FOR THE FUTURE
2



1. THE EXECUTION OFACTIVITIES
The project activities, in general, were realized satisfactorily, there were
flexibility in the inclusion of some activities, which were not previously
planned to be executed by the project.
Until June 30, 2001, the project closing date, the project registered a
financial execution of 100,26% ouit ofSDR 19.695.000, the amount allocated
to the UEM The additional execution of 0,26% represents the disbursement
of USD 7.590,54, corresponding to SDR 6.500, drawn from the global
amount of SDR 661.000 requested during the final project supervision
mission, to be reallocated from the "part B (MJNED)" to the "part A
(UEM) " of the project, for the financing of some attivities which had been
previously cancelled, because of the exhaustion offunds available.
The global amount SDR 661.000, were already fully committed up to June
30, 2001, with some disbursement to be executed during the grace period.
comprehendedfrom July 1, 2001 to October 31, 2001.
2. THE SCOPE OF THE OBJECTIVES
In overall the project objectives were attained and having contributed
for. i) improvement of the quality of the teaching and learning process, ii)
improvement of the accommodation conditions for the teaching staff and the
administrative staff; iii) improvement of the academic qualifications of the
personnel; iv) improvement of the accommodation conditions for the
students; v) rehabilitation of the partial physical plant of the UEM; vi)
beginning of the strengthening of the financial management system, and vii)
for the access to internet.



3. SUSTAINABILITYAND FUTURE OPERATIONS
The project activities are sustainable and will be continued in the scope
of UEMStrategic Plan (PEUEM), with emphasis to:
i)   the administrative efficiency;
ii)  the excellence and quality;
iii)  development andfinancial sustainability;
iv)  development of the physical plant;
v)   stabilization and Human Resources Development;
vi)  increasing the number of enrolments;
vii) improvement of the social conditidns;
viii) assure/improve the equity of gender;
ix)  development of institutional twinning arrangement;
x)   stimulation of the academic environment;
xi)  divulge the image of the UEM;
The activities above indicated will be funded by the World Bank, the
Government of Mozambique and by other donors.
4. DRA WING LESSONS FOR THE FUTURE
a)   in the extent of the project management
The project, initiated the implementation of activities without any
"Project Implementation Unit" (PIU), what between other issues, caused a
great delay determined in the implementation of the project activities (in the
first year with 0,4% level of disbarsement and an aggregate of 4% in the
first 2 years).
As a lesson for the future, it is suggested that the PIU must stablished
before the initiation of implementation activities by the project. preferablv
during the phase of 'appraisal', in an effort to assure:
4



i)      that the implementation of new project doesn't initiatedfrom
Zero stage, taking into consideration the experience
accumUlated from the current Implementation, making sure
that there is a continuity;
ii)     improve better execution of the activities of the next project;
iii)    better articulation between the phase of project preparation
and the phase for its implementation;
Therefore. it is also recommended, that the PIU-Central. including GIU-
Gabinete de Instalacjes Universitdrias, be maintained as the next units for
the implementation of the forthcoming project. with some  corrective
mechanism being introduced, in a way to safeguard the best efficiency in its
functionality.
b)   The scope of the Procurement Function
The procurement of (goods,works and services ) observes a very long
cycle, this issue doesn't contribute effectively for the best execution of the
project activities. It is suggested as a lesson for the future, that the
procurement function (analysis of the bidding document, analysis of the
evaluation report and attribution of the respective No Objections), be
decentralized in order to be handled by the World Bank Resident Mission,
so- that the procurement function becomes more efficient, streamlining the
implementation of the planned activities.
In an effort to streamline the procurement function, it is suggested that the
process of awarding of contracts opens a room for an equitv both qualitv
and price, not only given emphasis to the lowest price as it is the procedure
presently, regarding the quality for the second place, in the perspective to
avoid the experience gatheredfrom the Faculty of Science in the first phase
of construction preventing being repeated. Although this activity had been
financed by other credit not by 2436, it very important to refer this lesson,
because it had occurred during the implementation of the 2436 credit.



c)   The disbursments concerned to training
In the case of UEM, given to the reason that the Post-Graduation
training abroad will continue, there is a need to lay down a set of rules that
will allow the equitable andfair attribution of scholarships by the different
organs of the UEM, with inclusion of other critical aspects.
The World Bank disbursement system must be revised, in an effort to
attend and assist efficiently the needs of the credit beneficiary.
(Disbursement during the course . of the project execution for funding the
training needs that will continue after the period of the closure of the
project).
d) Other aspects
d.1. In the component of the rehabilitation of the physical plant:
Taking into account that the component for the rehabilitation, it is new in
activities being financed by the World Bank, in the wake of the difficulties
experimented in the course of the credit 2436 implementation, given to the
fact that the component for rehabilitation will continue in the next credit, it
is suggested be executed through an autonomous flexible function, to be
considered and approved for execution in the framework that would allow
more dynamic implementation procedures.
d.2. In the component off inancial management
Bearing in mind that, the original currency of the credit were SDR and,
when executed are converted automatically into USD, according to the
calculations previously done by the PIU, it is estimated that the depreciation
of SDR against to the USD, had caused a lost of around USD 1.200. 000 in
the credit 2436.
In a nut shell. it is suggested that in the implementation of the new project.
the depreciation of gD? through the exchange rate mechanism  be
followed, in way that funds of the credit being maximized in favour of the
beneficiary.
6



Final Observation-
As was referred in the above cover letter, the UEM prepared the final
implementation project report, that contains more detailed information,
having only to be considered as a source of reference complemented to the
ICR.
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Additional Annex 9. The Borrower's Evaluation Report: Ministry of Education
-42 -



REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE                                                            Z
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION                                                5          m
IMPLEMETANTION COMPLETION REPORT
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT                                                       0
(CREDIT 2436-MOZ)                                             , B
1. SUMMARY
This document represents the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), for part B - Upper
Secondary Education Improvement component of the Capacity Building Project (CBP) in
Mozambique. The Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Mozambique and the
International Development Association was signed on March 28, 1991, and was declared effective on
. The Credit was in the amount of SRD 34,1 million to be used in the implementation of
part A - University Stabilization  (aprox. US$ 30.3 million), and part B - Upper Secondary
Education Improvement. (approx. US$ 18.1 million).
The final closing date was June 31, 2001.
2. INTRODUCTION
The present ICR covers only part B (MINED) of the credit an was prepared by a team comprising of:
Mr. Zefanias Muhate (MINED Permanent Secretary, MINED), Mr. Herminio Malate (General
Director, GEPE/MINED), Mr. Daniel Bomba (MINED senior official), Mr. Oaldo Tarmamade (Head,
Construction Depart., GEPE/MINED), Mr. Antonio Nhampossa (Head Finance Department,
GEPE/MINED), and, Mr. Baiane ( MINED/NDSE senior official), Mr. Cossa (MINED/NDSE senior
official). Valuable inputs were also received from Mr. Pieter Smoor, consultant and from the World
Bank.
3.THE REPORT
With the present report the Borrower intends to: (a) assess the project outcomes as compared to the
stated project goals; (b) evaluate the performance of the Borrower and IDA during project preparation
and implementation; and (c) draw lessons which could be used to improve the implementation of future
education projects.
Other issues to be discussed are the achievement of stated Project Objectives, the implementation
Record, and the Project sustainability.
4. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The broad project objectives, as spelt out in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), are to:
(a) expand the quantity and improve the quality of university graduates, by stabilizing and
motivating the Mozambican teaching faculty, enriching the learning environment,
upgrading and maintaining the UEM physical facilities, and improving organization and
management practices; and
(b) enhance significantly the quality of upper secondary education, by taking important
positive steps in the areas of teacher training, provision of books and other
teaching/learning materials, school management and community involvement, and
schoolfacilities rehabilitation.
To facilitate implementation, the main project objectives to were grouped into the following
components:
I



(a) University Stabilizationz: upgrading and construction of faculty apartments; staff
development; institutional linkages to bolster key departments; supply of library
materials, textbooks, computers and other teaching materials; enhanced management and
accountability; expansion of students dormitories; and general upgrading of university
physicalfacilities and development of a maintenance program.
(b) Upper Secondary Education Improvement: accelerated teacher training; curriculum
reform; supply of textbooks and teaching aids, school management training;
establishment of a scholarship fund for girls; rehabilitation of six existing pre-university
secondary schools (EPUs); construction of staff housing and students residences.
The Upper Secondary Education Improvement component, was to be implemented by MINED and
consists of the following sub-components:
(i)     Improvements in the quality of vre-universitv education by increasing the supply
of teachers, supporting the development of a new curricullum and examination
system; increasing the availability of textbooks and other learning materials;
providing teachers with pedagogical support in the form of teaching materials; and
supervisory visit; strengthening the strategic planing capacity of the NDSE; and
improvements in the system of in-service teacher training. (US$ 3.4 million)
(ii)    Stabilizing the EPU  network by rehabilitating the existing  schools, and
constructing dormitories and staff housing.(US$ 12.5 million)
(iii)  Building management cayacity of the EPUs and the National Directorate of
Secondary Education, and strengthening school maintenance capacity by in-service
training for school directors and administrators in planing and financial management;
decentralizing the materials budget and maintenance activities; strengthening project
management; and introducing efficient information management systems at school
level and between MINED and individual schools (US$ 1.4 million).
(iv)    Raising girls' enrollment rates at the EPU's, by providing scholarships for girls,
supporting communities awareness programs, and increasing the number of female
teachers (US$ 680,000)
5. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOMES
The above indicated project objectives were to be achieved through stabilization of the existing EPU
network; improvements in the quality of pre-university education nation-wide; and strengthening of
management capacity and maintenance capabilities at the school level.
5.1 -Ouality of ore-university education sub-component
5.1.1 Original Project Outcomes
5.1.2 Actual Project outcomes
Development of new curriculum
As a result of seminars and studies carried out under the project, a new curriculum frame for the upper
secondary education was designed in 1994, esfablishing three fields of specialization, A, B and C,
according to the students prespective for higher education. Implementation of the new curricular frame
started in 1995. A seminar for the review of the country 's curriculum for upper secondary education
and review its exam system was conducted in June 1996, resulting in the introduction of a new subjects
- philosophy - and the split of the then single subject "Physics and chemistry" into two individual
subjects.
Review of exam system
Also as a result of studies and seminars realized under the project, a new exam system was designed
and, its implementation started in1996.
2



Staff development
25 upper secondary school directors and pedagogic directors benefited from training courses in
Portugal and a number of technicians at NDSE attended English language courses and seminars in
Zimbabwe and Botswana.
Regarding supper secondary education teachers' training, eleven (11) national and three (3) regional
seminars on specific subjects teaching methodology were conducted.
Also out of project proceeds, technicians from NDSE carried out several pedagogic supervision visits
to all upper secondary education schools from 1994 till 1999.
Equipment and suppliesfor the NDSE
8140 textbooks and 130 encyclopedia were purchasedfor school libraries as well as, various materials
and supplies. Didatic materials for sports, physical education and, audio vision materials were also
purchased for Upper secondary schools. 6 punching and binding machines, 6 paper cutters, 18
projectors (and accessories), 13 photocopying machines, 8 multi-copying machines and, 24 typing
machines, 18 computers, 12 printers were also purchasedfor EPU schools.
Laboratory equipment for chemistry and didatic material fordrawing was purchased for 6 upper
secondary schools. Technical specifications for laboratory materials fpr chemistry and biology were
prepapered.
5.2- Stabilizine the EPU network sub-component
5.2.1 Original Proiect Outcomes
The stabilization of the EPU network was to be achieved through the rehabilitation of 6 (six) existing
EPU's and construction of student dormitories and staff houses as per the following schedule:
Table 1- List of EPU schools to be rehabilitated
Location            EPU School              Dormitories        Staff houses
Maputo          Josina Machel             Not envisaged          Not envisaged
Maputo          Francisco Manyanga        Rehabilitation of I dorm. Not envisaged
Xai-Xai         Xai-Xai                   New dorm 200 students  07 2-bdr units
Beira           Samora Machel             New dorm. 300 students  10 2-bdr units
Quelimane       25 de Setembro            New dorm. 200 students  10 2-bdr units
Nampula         1 de Maio                New dorm. 300 students  06 2-bdr units
The project allowed for possible construction of a new EPU school in Xai-Xai (see schedule of
physical facilities in Annex Il-I 1 of the SAR), should it be determined that security was not adequate
in the existing school site. The SAR indicated that the scope of the rehabilitation works was to be
limited to the existing budget, meaning that not all rehabilitation needs would necessarily be met,
depending on the results of the final surveys and corresponding cost estimates.
The project further provided for new furniture and equipment for all new facilities and, for 50%
replacement with new furniture for all rehabilitation areas, including laboratories.
5.2.2 Modification of Proiect Activities
In the course of project implementation some mddification were made to the project activities
identified at appraisal. For instance,
* the rehabilitation of Josina Machel EPU school was omitted from the project activities because it
had already be carried out with proceeds from the Education 1I project; this included the supply of
new furniture and reconditioning of damaged furniture;
* the rehabilitation of the existing EPU facilities in Xai-Xai was abandoned in favor of the
construction of a new EPU school at a better and more central location. The existing EPU
facilities would need extensive reconstruction and expansion and, were located far away from the
town center.
* The construction of students dormitories at Beira and Nampula were also abandoned since the
remaining funds after commitment with the rehabilitation contracts for Francisco Manyanga,
Samora Machel, 25 de Setembro and, Nampula EPU's as well as the contracts for construction of
3



new EPU school and students dormitories at Xai-Xai and, new students dormitories at Quelimane
were not enough to cover the construction (and supply of furniture) of even one of the above two
dormitories.
*   Furniture and laboratory benches, including provision of water, electricity and gas networks, were
purchased for the Basic Seiences Faculty at UEM, built under the Education II project.
*   And, finally, part of the balance of the project proceeds were, during the winding up phase of the
project, used to buy furniture for _ secondary schools countrywide.
5.2.3 Actual Proiect Outcomes
The construction and rehabilitation works actually executed under the project, including associated
consultants services and related furniture and equipment, are listed in table 2 bellow.
Table 2 List of Civil Works and Related activities
ACTIVITIES                             COST             CONTRACTOR
CONSULTANT SERVICES
Lot MMX-Design & supervision           1,174,850        SBT JUUL/PROJECTA
EPU Maputo, Xai-Xai
Design of Prototype Dormitories
Lot BQN-Design & supervision           542,100          EGC/WHELAN
EPU Beira, Nampula, Quelimane
SUB-TOTAL                              1,716,950
STAFF HOUSING
Construction of 43 teacher houses      1,943,432        OGA
SUB-TOTAL            1,943,432
PRE-UNIVERSITY SCHOOLS_
EPU Francisco Manyanga-Maputo          711,275          CONSENG
Rhab iiaton of scoo
Epu-Samora Machel-Beira                474,468          OGA
Rehabilitation of school
EPU 25 de Setembro-Quelimane           507,558          CONSENG
Rehabilitation of school
EPU 25 de Setembro-Quelimane           1,891,350        OGA
Construction of New Dormitory
EPU Secondary School-Nampula           76,048           FASE, SARL
Rehabilitation of school (paid on I" bid)
EPU Secondary School-Nampula           426,046          OGA
Rehabilitation of School (2n bid)
EPU Sec. School & Dormitory-Xai-Xai    4,731,946        OPCA
SUB-TOTAL            8,818,691
FURNITURE
EPU F. Manyanga-Maputo (school)        41,956           PANDORA
EPU Samora Machel-Beira (school)/Lot-l  48,789          MOBILADORA CENTRAL
EPU Samora Machel-Beira (school)/Lot-2  129,715         L. DUARTE SANTOS
EPU 25 de Setembro-Quelimane (school)
EPU 25 de Setembro-Quelimane (dormit.)  68,957          MECANO-DIESEL
EPU Secondary School-Nampula (school)  125,480          SOMANOL
EPU Sec. School-Xai-Xai (school)       98,586           COMPROMET
EPU Sec. School-Xai-Xai (dormitory)    59,508           ORGANIZACOES SIDAT
UEM Basic Sciences Faculty             750,000          FALKE & HENRIQUES
SUB-TOTAL             1,322,991
EQUIPMENT
EPU-Physics Laboratories               146,812          SHERWOOD EXPORTS
EPU-Xai-Xai dormitory                  45,349           GTS
EPU-Quelimane dormitory                54,231           GTS
EPU-Xai-Xai computer equipment         43,299           STENAKS
UEM-Basic Sciences Faculty             50,998           TECNEL
SUB-TOTAL              340,689
4



TOTAL |         12,425,803 l
The above table shows that all six EPU schools proposed for rehabilitation or construction from
grassroots under the project, were in fact or rehabilitated or built, although, one school - Josina Machel
EPU school, in Maputo - was omitted from the project because it had already been covered under the
Education 11 Project. The same cannot be said for construction/rehabilitation of dormitories, for only
two (2)of the proposed five (5) dormitories were built. The construction of other three dormitories had
to be abandoned due to price overruns.
The reason why the project allocation for construction/rehabilitation of student dormitories was not
enough to cover all five proposed dormitories was the high standard of the adopted design. A more
modest design would cost less and still meet the minimum comfort and functionality requirements
generally accepted for secondary schools student dormitories in Mozambique. The same is true for the
design of the Xai-Xai EPU secondary school. A better understanding of local climate and local
construction practice, would have helped the designer to use a more appropriate and less expensive
design. It is also obvious that the designer did not take due consideration of the budgetary limits in
which he had to encase his design.
Failure by GEPE to spot the design shortfalls, may be attributed to limited engineering /architectural
capacity for design review, inexperience of GEPE young professionals in supervision of such a
multidisciplinary and complex design, and the pressure from the World Bank to have the design
completed and construction works started in a relatively short time frame.
The quality of construction works can be considered good, though most construction contracts spanned
longer than the contractual deadlines. This may be due to unrealistic time spans stipulated by GEPE,
and inefficient network of supply of construction materials.
For the case of rehabilitation works, the quality may be rated as regular, since some problems
encountered before the rehabilitation, were not resolved by the rehabilitation exercise. This may be
attributable to inexperience of the engaged consultants in designing efficient rebabilitation remedies, It
should be mentioned that this was the firs large scale rehabilitation exercise ever undertaken in the
country, by that time, after a period of more than twenty years of absence of building
maintenance/rehabilitation activities in the country.
5.3-Buildine management caDacitv of EPUs and the National Directorate
of Secondary Education
A national meeting of the secondary school directors was held in Maputo, in October 1995 to discuss
school management techniques and, problems encountered by school managers.
25 school directors were, in 1997, trained in Portugal in the fields of school administration and
management
5.4-Raisine eirls' enrollment rates at the EPU's
A number of female upper secondary school students throughout the country, except for Maputo,
benefited from scholarships (US$ 15 per student per month). The program started with 70 girls in 1994
and ended in 2000 with 355 female students. The program could have reached more girls if it were not
for the bureaucratic problems faced during the implementation of the program, and also due to the low
geographical coverage of the banking network in the country, which made it difficult or impossible to
channel the girls scholarships to them.






| . , . - .. . { , T H ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N _ N |a1 
~~~~~~I                 _TM; N --/A     NIA L r1' 
f 2 ~~~~~~~~~~,                  (,  N.r'
/          L;;i'-      ---'-'   -   -  - - 
14'  \F  .>i F   T       T
Z A M I A     L AI
-1~ ~ ~ 4                           1v
N ~  IA  -              M.  1 -  f  fi - 'e k-;..-
)    \  O  VST L t  L.
IA,~~~~~~ K_,{ T 6 F  F.     ',-  ,     '
20O~~~~~         ~~~~              1. '  'J MCGO'OOJLAL '
6'~~~~~~ N<;~ t'" '-                     M- MBQ       -
CHANI: ~ ~ ~   ~    I:- 
j MARCHZ  IMEC  MOtA  INETMN  IN PR AlAVRT  EDlJCAIC!
/) T   CAMB UR'
I                -~~~~~~ 
/MZAS I M A W       I E
-20'               J   h -*
I ., G g  \  l.|1."-! '.'  \ s   t  l"rn.mOZAAiBIOUE
MAACAE   MN          INVESTMENT IN PRE-UNIVERSITY EDUCATION
s~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CIo..~., :1 .nit F,.x.L"-e.<)  r na :lL.
t  R  \   P  1  ~ ~~AiAP -  4.  Ine.snon.o 2.p.t,'I
A                      O  UTH 1 t  -- ih.irfes t   E
~~G        A   FRICA-
H         II          4.  H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,-.ab-r d
,  .  /ABRAlNE                        Flsi.
-2A-     />                                                . . 4 .
g SWAZIIAND > ~~~~~~..4 M AIUIINE,;'i<  @   'ne   c o ta
24 S              GUUA T24
S O U T H  ,               -     .-     _ -  I' e.-,-.o.a.  bo...... ....
A FRICF R- 'I C      I 
tEMP 2 'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0APJ
-26' j-.          
SWAZILAND  'MABRjBRBWE           :., -    . -
30.  -f~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CA                           >~~~~~~~~



