Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:10731-MC)Z    Type: (SAR)                          Report No.  10731-MOZ
Title:   CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Auithor: HECHT, R
Ext.:33341 Room:J11083 Dept.:AF6PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
CAPACITY BUILDING: HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OCTOBER 29, 1992
Population and Human Resouces Division
Southern Africa Department
African Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offici'al duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(July 23. 1992)
Currency Unit = Metical (pl. Meticais)
1000 Meticais = One Conto
US$1.00        = MZM 2,809 (Secondary Market Exchange Rate)
FISCAL YEAR
Government Fiscal Year:   January 1 - December 31
School Year:              February 1 - December 31
University Year:          August 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BM            Banco de Mocambique
EPU           Pre-University School
ERC           Economic Recovery Credit
ERP           Economic Rehabilitation Program
ESAF          Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESRP          Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program
IDA           International Development Association
MAE           Ministry of State Administration
PCR           Projec. Completion Report
PPAR          Project Performance Audit Review
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
ROCS          Roads and Coastal Shipping Project
SAF           Structural Adjustment Facility
SIDA          Swedish Agency for International Development
SNAAD         System for the Non-Administrative Allocation
of Foreign Exchange
UEM           Eduardo Mondlane University
UNDP          United Nations Development Project



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
Tablg of Qntens
Credit and ProJect Summary  ........................................ I
Estimated Costs, Financing Plan and Esimaed Disbursements   .................... II
I.     INTRODUCTION  .................................... 1
U.    LOW  CAPACITY- CAUSES AND ISSUES ..........                   ................ 2
A. Higher Education .................................... 3
B. Upper Seondary Educatdon ...................................  11
MI. TFHEPROJECT.                                                                        20
A. General .................................  20
B. Dtaed Descripdon ................................. 20
IV.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING  ............................. 31
A. Project Costs ................................  31
B. Financing ................................  34
C. Procurement .................................  35
D. Disbursements ................................  38
E. Accounts and Audit . ................................ 39
V.    PROJECT IMPLEAENTATION ................................ 39
A. Organization and Management  ................................ 39
B. Status of Project  ...                                                        41
C. Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluaion .42
VI.   PROJECT BENEFIS, JUSIMCATION, AND RISKS   .....                       ........... 43
A. Benefits and Justificaton  .   ................................... 43
B.Risks    .                                .                                    44
C. Impact on Areas of Spieci Attention ........................    ........... 45
Vn.   ASSURANCES AND RECOMbMENDATIONS  ....................... 46
This repoct is based aon the findings of an apprWil msion which vited Mombiqu in Apil 1992,
comising MsMoasd  3. do Rogt (miion leader), R. Deucb (oomIst), W. Saint (ducato),
T. Genta-Fons ayer), P. Snoor (conultant, Arhict), J. Negoo (consultant, Higher Educaon
Specialit), M. dos Santos (consutnt, Sondy Education Speoist), J. Huddart (- nsulttnt, Public
Administraton Specialist), and B.    (consultant, Legl Specialist). Mr. R. Hecht (Sr. Economist)
coordined the drfting of this report. Mr. R. Sullivan is the lead advisor. Muss. H. Phillips,
D. Bichar and R. Mendontm aosd in the editig and presing of this rport, while Mr. D. Tnjillo
provided additional secretarial support. Mr. R. amwe and Mr. S. Donning ae the managi  Dividon
Chief and Deatment Director, rwsectivdy, for the oprtion
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authoriztion.



1.1       Government's Capacity Bu'ilding Strategy
.I.1      UEM - Student Enrollment by Course of Study, 1975 - 1991
11I.2     UEM - National and Foreign Faculty by Department
Il.3      UEM - 1990 Budget, (LISS)
II.4      UEM - Estimated Budget for 1992 (USS)
11.5      UEM - FacultylStudent Ratios by Department, May 1991
1n.6      UEM - Regional Distribution of Student Body
11.7      UEM - Indicative List of External Assistance Activities, 1992
11.8      National Education System
Il.9      EPU Estimated Teaching Needs by Discipline, 1992
11.10     Teacher Training for Pre-University Education
11.11     Physical Conditions of PreUniversity Schools
H1.12     EPU Revised Curriculum, 1992
11.13     Staffing and Organizadon of NDSE
H1.14     Students Residing in EPU Housing, 1992
1.15      Overview of Educational Policy
11.16     External Assistance to Pre-University Education, 1992
1.1       UEM - Cost Estimates for Local Study Manual Production
M.2       UEM - Indicative List of Possible Institudonal Linkage Partners
m.3       UEM - Housing Demand Projections
111.4     UEM - Cost Estimates: Completion of 92 Units in Bairro Universitario
m.5       UEM - Rehabilitation of 60 Units in ISATEX Building
I11.6     UEM - Rehabilitation of 18 Units/Av. Vladimir Lenin
M.7       UEM - Estimated Annual Costs of Graduate Study Fellowships
m.8       EPU - List of Proposed Topics for Pedagogical Seminars
III.9     EPU - Teacher Training Progam, ISP TOR
IV. 1     Project Costs by Expenditure Category
IV.2      Taxes and Duties
IV.3      Taxes and Duties to be paid by Mozambican Government
IV.4      Procurement Arrangements
IV.5      Technical Assistance: UEM, EPU
IV.6      Disbursement Schedule
V.1       Project Implementation Structe
V.2       Component Implementation Schedules
V.3       Lessons Learned from Previous Implementation Experience
V.4       Project Preparatory Activities
V.5       Table of Contents of Implementation Manuals
V.6       UEM and EPU Performance Indicators
V.7       Supervision Plan
V.8       Documents in the Project File
Map: IBRD No.23687



(i)
BELaOF._ZA MOZA
CAArr INaN: HUMA  EOREDVEOMN  RJ
CE AND              RSt
HUA RL%ffC= DEVEO4PMEN E&Q=
Borrower:          Republic of Mozambique
Npefidartes:       Eduardo Mondlane University and Ministry of Educ'tion
Amount:             SDR 34.1 million (US$48.6 million equivalent)
Tem:                Standard, with 40 years maturity.
fbect OWieetve
The project's main objectives are to build and maintain capacity in key public
institutions and skill areas by expanding the supply of well-trained senior planners, policy
analysts, managers, and technicians, and improving incentives and working conditions for senior
civil servants. Specific objectives include: (a) increasing the quantity and improving the quality
of university graduates and (b) improving learning achievement in upper secondary education.
3Project esaligdton:
The proposed project will contribute to building capacity in Mozambique through
the following two components: (a) Unvri Stabilizao - systems development and training in
university administration, financial management, and maintenance; provision of textbooks,
computers, and library materials; construction and upgrading of staff housing, libraries, student
dormitories, and other campus facilities; and staff development scholarships (63% of project
oosts) and (b) Ouality InRWrovement in U;per Second=r Education - development of a new
teacher training program; support to curriculum and examination reform; provision of textbooks
and learning materials; training for school managers and administrative staff; rehabilitation of pre-
university schools and construction of dormitories and staff housing in the provinces; and special
measures to increase female enrollment (37% of project costs).
Benefits and Risks:
The project's main benefit is that it will make a substantial contribution to social
and economic development in Mozambique, by enhancing critical skills, systems, and local
institons. The immediate beneficiaries will be preuniversity and university students (about
10,000 persons in total).
The principal ikk facing the project is that the capacity to plan and manage
implementation of the various project components will not materialize or will deteriorate over
time. This r;sk will be mitigated troug project design that emphasizes the same capacity
building and sustaining measures that the project aims to spread throughout the economy: namely,



(ii)
creating an effective work environment (through appropriate staffing, availability of office
technology, etc.) and offering stimulating and relevant training (pre-service, in-service, on-the-
Job) to key project personnel. Swift adoption of measures to improve incentives for senior
officials will help to bolster implementation capacity. The capacity of local training instiutions
wIll also be increased through the use of 'link' arrangements with external training programs.
................S~676 
2 17...  .    .      .....  ........ ..



~~~~~~~~':.'':.,,i:N.''',,'"'I Vt
_   S   S<;.  .  'v&?^N<+  0 i 0 0 i ] i X XX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............ ..
..  U            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...  ..
II        .".' ,,'' I'wt  ls '.: v
lg   ~~~U'



1. IN RODUE
1.1          Mozambique hs fcing a severe crisis of capacity. There is an extremely serious
shortage of well-educated and experienced Mozambicans who can assist in the planning and
management of both public and private sector activities vital to the country's progress In the
economic and social spheres. The handful of Mozambicans who are capable of providing
leadership in these are  are being siphoned off to the private sector, because the civil service is
increasingly unable to compete with private institutions in terms of pay, conditions of
employment, and work environment. The Government i8 relying more and more on costly
expatriate technical assistants (TA), who are frequently poorly-managed, less productive, and
relatively ineffective in building up local skills and institutons. All of these trends undermine
severely the ability of Mozambican institutions, especially in the public sector, to carry out the
Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program (ESRP), effect the transformation of the economy
from a centrally-administered to a market system, design and implement key development projects
- and ultimately, improve the lives of Mozambique's 16 million people, many of whom are living
in abject poverty.
1.2          To deal systematically with this crisi of capacity and elicit new policy and
progra tic responses to the problem, the Government requested the VYorld Bank (in
conjunction with the Swedish Agency for International Development (SIDA)) in December 1990
to collaborate in carrying out a study on capacity building. Two documents emerged from this
collaboradon: (a) a shorter wagi11BuIdingFrework Ew,  discussed extensively with the
Government and donor commnity and presented to the Mozambique Consultative Group (CG) in
December 1991; and (b) a longer, more in-depth  gag4 Bui      Stdy, completed in
October 1991 and widely ds      within Mozambique and to the donors. During the CG,
the Government proposed to f&nrher refine the framework paper into a Capacity Buiiding Strategy
and Action Plan and present these in a met with donors. An &atline of the strategy was
completed prior to negotiations, the complete strategy an a letter from Government dated August
1, 1992 declaring its commimet to said strategy was presed to IDA before Board approval.
It is expected that the donor meetng would take place in November 1992, and formal approval of
the Capacity Building Action Plan would be a condition of effectiveness. Annex 1. 1 describes the
draft strategy.
1.3         In both domments, five main causes for weak development capacity were
documemted and analyzed: lack of incentives and productive institutional struetures, procedures,
and practices, especially in the public sector; insufficient quantity and quality of university
graduates, research, and other contract aervices; poor quality of upper secondary education; low
quality, relevance, and costeffectiveness of various types of vital professional training for
Mozambique's fture development (such as ecowmics, finance, law, accountancy, and public
administraion); and the sub-optimal use of technical assistance to build indigenous long-term
capacity.
1.4         In the second half of 1991, the Goverment also requested the Bank to work
closely with it in preparing proposals, eligible for IDA financing, which would respond to some
of the weanesses idendfied In the two capacity-building studies. The proposals would be part of



-2-
a wider capacity building wprogram" consisting of a large number of donor-assisted projects in the
areas of education, training, civil service reform and public administration, and private sector
man.~gement strengthening. 'these efforts include a major SIDA-financed public administration
reform project; a salary incentive fund for senior civil servants to be supported by Switzerland,
Norway, and others; USAID and DANIDA support to the legal sector; EC financed training
programs in public administration; and UNDP-led efforts to improve the management of foreign
technical assistance. The proposed project, as well as the proposed IDA financed companion
project, focussing on Pubic Sector and Legal Institutions Development is therefore part of a much
broader effort to maintain aed expand local capacity to plan and manage Mozambique's
development. It is expected tnat, as a result of the two projects, thousands of additional
Mozambicans will be trained in key professional domains, and that concurrent actions in the aregs
of public pay and employment and the reform of public institutions and in the management of
technical assistance will encourage these Mozambican professionals to join and remain in civil
service careers.
H. LOW CAPACITY - CAUSES AND ISSUES
2.1          As mentioned above in Chapter 1, the Government and donor community have
come to see the crisis of weak capacity as having five main dimensions: incentives and conditions
of employment; management of technical assistance; university education; upper secondary
education; and professional training, both pre-service and in-service. The proposed project will
attempt to respond directly to two of these dimensions, by supporting Government and donor
efforts to increase significandy the "supply" of trained and qualified policy analysts, planners,
managers, and technical specialists for the public and private sectors of the economy. The
companion project (Public Sector and Legal Instiuons Development) responds to the need to
improve the 'demand' side: incentives and conditions of employment and professional training,
both pre- and in-service.
2.2          Concumntly, a series of other actions being undertaken by the Gcvernmentr, with
support from the Bank and the donor community, are contributing to building effective capacity.
In the area of public sector pay and incentives, a joint Government-donor task force (with major
support from Norway and Switzerland) has developed options for increasing pay for senior civil
servants and for offering them other incentives (e.g., housing, enriched pensions, etc.), as a way
of retaining and attracting high-level officials. At the same time, a wide-ranging SIDA-funded
program for strengthening public administration in Mozambique will continue its work in job-
grading, developing new career structures, improving personnel administration, etc.. UNDP and
UNICEF are leading a broad effort to improve the effectiveness of technical assistance, by
tightening up the programming of such TA and adopting new procedures and practices for
defining TA needs and for recruiting and supervising expatriate technical personnel. The
Government and a number of donors (including Sweden, Norway, and Netherlands) are also
examining ways tO improve the use of the existing Personnel Fund (funk do pessoal), which
provides the Goverment with untied donor funds for TA.
2.3          In the sections that follow, the current state of university and upper secondary
education, corresponding to the proposed project are examined. A similar analysis of institution
building/training in law ad public adminison, corresponding to the Capacity Building Legal
and Public Adm     on Development Projewt is contained in the MOP Report No. 5866-MOZ.
Their links to capacity-building, key outstanding issues, strateW considerations, and othez
ongoing iniatives to improve the supply of high-level manpower, are also discussed.



-3-
A.        Mcf
Basic Characteristics
2.4          Long term developn:sft prospects for Mozambique will depend in significant
measure upon the quality and output of skilled human resources produced by the country's single
university. Named for a leader of Mozambique's struggle for independence, Eduardo Mondlane
University (UEM) was initially established under Portuguese colonial rule in 1962 as an adjunct
of the Portuguese university system, and became an autonomous national university when
independence was achieved in 1975. Following the mass exodus of Portuguese staff and students
prompted by independence, UEM has grown from 777 to 3,016 stuuntf between 1977 and 1991
(Annex 11-1), and from five to 323 Mozambican teaching staff. Additionally, 146 expatriates
comprise 31% of the faculty (Annex II-2). Mozambique's higher education system is completed
by the newly established Higher Pedagogical Institute (whose functions were formerly carried out
by the UEM Faculty of Education) with a 1990 enrollment of 813 students, and the Institute of
International Relations with 220 students in the same year.
2.5          Since independence, UEM has contributed only 2,000 graduates to the national
development effort. However, a notable 23% of these graduates earned their degrees in
engineering, science or mathematics. Together with another 1,000 university graduates produced
before independence or abroad, this small group of 3,000 constitutes the entire pool of skilled
professional resources in a country of 16 million citizens. Due to this limitation, an equal number
of foreign technical assistance personnel assist the planning and implementation of government
activities at an annual cost of US$211 million.
2.6          Throughout its brief history, UEM has demonstrated creativity and discretion in
managing its own development. Several examples are illustrative. First, it initially chose to close
a number of university faculties following the post-independence loss of many staff and studews.
These faculties were later re-opened as expanding staff, student demand and budgetary resources
permitted. Today the university boasts 22 academic departments organized under 11 faculties,
along with a multidisciplinary research unit (the Center for African Studies) and a computer
center. Second, the important principle of student cost-sharing was early introduced and has been
maintained. This includes significant tuition fees (currently about US$500 a year) the limitation
of government scholarships to roughly 35% of the student body, and modest charges for student
accommodation. Third, an extensive curriculum reform was undertaken in 1985 that sought to
define subject matter in relation to prevailing professional and occupational profDes for university
graduates. These and other achievemnents, such as impressive success in in ational fund-ralsing
and the recent well-conceived UEM instivtional needs assessment and strategic development plan,
are testimony to the vision and judgemnr- that have guided the university under three different
rectors.
2.7          Financing for the university follows an atypical pattern. Unlike most other
African countries, the government contributes just 28% of the UEM recurrent budget (Annex
Il-3). Donors provide the remaining 72%, of which 93% underwrites the salaries and benefits of
expatriate teaching staff. When these sizeable forein asistance costs are excluded, the unit cost
of university education to the government is US$1,360. This amount, which is Jlightly below the
current norm for the continent, still appears rather high in a country where wages are very low-
thereby refiecting the scarcity of qualified staff and a heavy dependency on importeJ equipment



-4 -
and consumable materials. Similarly, donors provide 53% of UEM's investment budget. The
estimated UEM budget for 1992 appearm in Annex n-4.
2.8          Because the university is one of the l&'ger and better functioning institutions in the
country, it has been able to paitially protect its governmental allocations as overall public
expenditures declined as a consequence of a prolonged internal war and earlier misguided
economic policies. In 1990, UEM received 19% of the total recurrent budget, and 28% of the
total investment budget, allocated by govermnent to the education sector.
Fdgrlt Issues
2.9          In spite of its considerable achievements, Eduardo Mondlane University currently
finds itself in a precarious situation. Its graduate output efficiency-burdened by a drop-out rate
of roughly 50%-is much lower than it should be, thereby depriving the country of desperately
needed human resources. It faces severe problems of staff retention, particularly in some'
discipliaes, which are undermining its ability to offer an acceptable education within a predictable
time period. An extreme example is its Department of Economics, which is close to becoming
non-functional. The university's success in attracting donor funding has placed it in an unstable
and unsustainable position, dependent upon continuing foreign assistance for the bulk of its
recurrent and investment budgets. Employers have begun to question the relevance of its training
in some disciplinary areas, and its research output has fallen far short of national needs. Recent
years have seen an increasing tendency for a disproportionate itumber of students to be drawn
from the southern part of the country as a debilitating internal war has disrupted education in
provincial areas. A continuation of this trend could contribute to unequal regional development
and eventual political instability. These factors combine to erode university capacity to fulfill its
institutional mandate of providing the nation with trained professionals, applied research and
skilled service. Capacity preservation must therefore take precedence over capacity-building.
2.10         OutMut Effidem:  The university offers a five-year course leading to a
licendaba degree (with the exceptions of medicine and architecture. which take seven and six
years, respecdvely.). Its efficiency in producing graduates under this program-currenty just 150
per year-could be improved. Drop-out rates have consistently averaged 11% a year, meaning
that only one out of every two incoming students reaches graduation. Additionally, just 40% of
graduating students obtain their degree within the normal five-year period, the remainder
requiring a sixth or seventh year of study for completion. Significant potential therefore exists for
improving UEM's output efficiency. This is important because, with just 26 university students
per 100,000 inhabitants (compared to 167 per 100,000 for Sub-Saharan Africa as a whole),
Mozambique clearly needs more graduates. How to achieve this goal without lowering standards
of quality remains a formidable challenge.
2.11         A principal cause Cer uese high drop-out and repetition rates is inadequate
secondary school preparadon. This requires urgent and sustained attention, and is the subject of
Section B. Contributing causes may also include excessively restrictive University requirements
for class attendance and course progression, a prior system of assigning students to coursts of
study rather than allowing individual choice, and a frequent tendency of st'idents to accept jobs
after completing coursework, but not the thesis required for degree conferral. Some of these
practices have recently been eliminated and others are under review. It is still too soon, however,
to determine how these changes will effect drop-out and repetition rates.



-5-
2.12         A second caise of poor academic performance is the difficult conditions in which
students live and study. Three-quarters of students live with families, relatives or friends. The
rest, largely from the provinces, are crowded four or six tO a roon in poorly maintained
university dormitories that do not offer adequate study areas. In additlin, textbooks, laboratory
equipment and reference books are scarce. Consequently, classes-often taught by rotating foreign
professors who are not always fluent in Portuguese-tend to be heavily theoretical, with students
relying almost exclusively on their hand-written notes for learning. Students try to cut their
expenses by preparing meals in thei; rooms and reducing use of public transportation. But they
express concern with their growing inability to eat adequately, cover medical expenses, and
acquire basic study materials. These constraints impact negatively on students' academic
performance, and were the cause of the university's sole student strike in 1989.
2.13         Staff Retention and Development The university currently confronts a serious
problem of staff retention. as its salary and benefit package has become increasingly
uncoimpetitive. It has lost 34 Mozambican faculty members--13% of the 255 Mozambican staff
presently in residence--over the past three years. Losses have been concentrated in the high-
demand disciplines of economics and engineering. In addiNon, the number of staff on formal
part-time contracts increased from 64 in 1986 to 94 in 1990, suggesting that the university faces
growing difficulty in winning a full-time commitment from its staff. It was repeatedly stated that
current salary levels are insufficient tc meet family subsistence needs. A systematic survey of
department heads conducted in May, 1991 suggests that fully 74% of the full time Mozambican
staff are engaged in outside income-supplementing activities. This spreading practice undermines
the quality of university endeavors by sharply reducing the amount of faculty time available for
course preparation, student advising, research, departmental planning, and administration.
Although significant staff losses have not yet occurred among senior management and
administrative staff, this can be anticipated. Even a few losses in this specialized area would be
catastrophic.
2.14         The university is hard pressed to compete with the labor market in areas of
current high demand. The Bank's recent Public Pay and Employmnt Review for Mozambique
notes a tremendous demand for highly skilled Mozambicans, registers pay differentials of 5:1 or
more between the non-public sector and the civil service and concludes that wages for higher
grades of public employment are grossly inadequate. For example, salary and benefit packages in
parastatals and the private sector (including donor agencies) frequently range from US$700 to
US$2,000 a month and include numerous in-kind benefits.
2.15         The government recently recognized the distinctive nature of university
contrit -uns in May 1991 by approving a special 100% salary supplement for academic staff
wbile giving only 50% to the rest of the civil service. This brings moanthly earnings for an
assistant professor/senior lecturer to about US$450. Given the extreme scarcity of skilled talent
in the country, however, such measures can only have a short term imp?-ct. Competing
employers outside the public sector will always be able to outbid the University as long as the
promise of profit justifies this investment. To retain its staff in key areas of high labor demand,
the University will need to exploit its comparative advantage in other areas, e.g., access to
housing and opportunities for professional development.
2.16         Accountabilt    UEM accountability to government and donors, in both financial
and institutional terms, could be improved. To date, the budget development and negotiation
process has been conducted on an ad hoc basis. Estimates of university financial needs are
forwarded to the Ministry of Finance and National Planning Commission without a strategic plan



-6-
or projected work program to justify them. In turn, government's allocation decisions are largely
uninformed by sector priorities and associated decision-making criteria for higher education. In
these circumstances, government is not certain what it will receive in return for its investment,
and the university is unable to anticipate the levels of financial commitment from government
necess y for it to undertake systematic forward planning. Encouragingly, Mozambique's
parliament recognized these difficulties in April 19% when it revised the legislation governing the
country's education sector. The new laws affirm the autonomy of tertiary institutions while
strengthening mechanisms of accountability. One change is the creation of a small council,
composed of Ministry of Education and tertiary institution leadership, which will provide a forum
for coordinating intra-sectoral policy and budget allocations.
2.17          ht the same time, the responsiveness of UEM teaching and research to local labor
markets and national needs is open to question. Employers note that UEM graduates are
currently deficient in practical or applied skills, and in analytical or problem-solving capacities.
Thoy also point out shortcomings in professional abilities such as setting priorities, organizing
time, maintaining standards of quality, and other management skills. Because neither government
nor the private sector is represented in any of the university's policymaking bodies, they posses
few means for holding the university accountable to society's needs. Given the sweeping
economic and political changes currently underway in Southern Africa, a more responsive
curriculum is required.
2.18          In spite of recent efforts to increase its research output, the university is not yet
able to effectively fulfill its research mandate. Much research is the result of individual initiative
linked to thesis or dissertation requirements for Mozambican staff pursuing graduate studies
abroad. Institutionalized research capacity is limited. The Faculty of Economics, for example,
has yet to develop research activities-even though the current process of economic rehabilitation
might well benefit from research-based guidance. Similarly, the Faculty of Medicine (with its
largely part-time staff) and the newly established Faculty of Law have not been able to contribute
meaningfil research results in their respeetive professional areas.
2.19          The reasons for insufficient research performance are readily understood. The
Mozambican teaching staff is largely young and inexperienced. One-third of them possess less
than five years of teaching experience. With just 10 Mozambican PhD's on campus, young staff
have few role models to guide them. Contracted foreign staff rotate too quickly (their average
stay is two years or less) to initiate meaningful research, and their work contracts are normally
restricted to teaching assignments. In addition, staff promotions are based more on length of
service than on scientific output (this practice is currently under review), and research provides
few material incentives which might compete with 'moon-lighting' economic survival activities.
Additional constraints exist in the form of limited library holdings, outmoded or non-functioning
scientific equipment, weak support facilities (e.g. photocopiers) and difficulties in acquiring the
foreign exchange necessary to obtain many consumable supplies.
2.20           m    ent The university's recent growth in enrollments, accompanying
support services, and donor assistance has proceeded more quicldy than the capacity of its
management systems to adjust to these changes. Consequently, an excessive concentration of
decision-makdng has occurred, with some 33 different units now reporting directly to the
university rector. The present organizational structure is inefficient to the extent that it absorbs
senior management staff time in the review of numerous minor administrative processs,
frequently removes decision-making from its departmental context, and limits the amount of time
university leadership has available for important institutional activities such as strategic planning



and external relations. Common responsibilities (e.g. financial administration, donor relations,
student affairs) are sometimes spread across several different units and this creates management
difficulties. Staff/student ratios vary widely from one department to another, suggesting room for
efficiency improvements (Annex II-5). Finally, thq physical distance (several kilometers) that
separates senior management offices from the two main university locations also contributes to
communication costs and decision-making delays.
2.21         lonal and Gende Rementtion For historical reasons, adequate regional
representation among the UEM student body will be important for the long run stability of the
new political system established under Mozambique's 1990 constitution. Yet students from the
southern part of the country made up an increasing portion of UEM enrollments during the 1980's
as rural conflict and deteriorating economic conditions inhibited the flow of secondary school
graduates from the provinces (Annex 11-6). Commendably, government and the university have
reserved one-third of UEM places for provincial students, and given them priority in awarding
government scholarships. However, maintaining this policy as efficiency gains permit gradual
enrollment growth (to a planned 5,500 students by the end of the decade) will require
commitment and carefil planning.
2.22         The university's gender representadon is consistent with the prevailing low)
levels for African universities, with women comprising 25% of the students. This proportion has
varied little over the last five years. However, the preservation of women's share over this
period must be seen as a notable accomplishment. The lack of dormitory space for women
(current capacity is 140 beds) has posed a formidable constraint on the university's ability to
recive female students from the provinces during the recent period of student enrollment
expansion. At the same time, a notable 22% of the present Mozambican faculty are women, a
share which is nearly double the prevailing 13% average on the continent.
2.23         Building R. bilitatilon and Maintenance It has now been twenty years since
UEM has given systematic attention to building maintenance on campus. During the final years
of the liberation struggle, the Portuguese colonial administration refrained from such investment.
Foliowing independence, poor economic performance and the rising costs of an insidious internal
war precluded all non-esetal expenditures. As a result, the UEM physical plant has suffered
severe deterioration. Sanitary facilities do not function in many buildings. Roofs leak, windows
and doors are warped by lack of care, and structural problems have begun to emerge. For
example, the overburdened second floor library at the Faculty of Agriculture has begun to sag.
Most buildings desperately need a coat of paint. A recent architect's survey suggests that the
problem is serious, but still manageable. If left unattended, however, the future cost of remedial
action will be much higher.
UniversityStratepfor Stabilization
2.24         During 1990-91, Eduardo Mondlane University undertook a self-managed needs
assessment which identified and analyzed many of the problems noted above. On this basis, it
developed a strategic plan for institutional stabilization. The plan proposes a series of actions to
halt the negative trends in staff losses, educational quality, management capacity, student living
conditions, relations of accountability, regional representation and building conditions. It gives
priority to general institutional needs and to greater efficiency in the use of existing financial,
human and physical resources. Strategy over the near term is to consolidate recent gains so as to
increase graduate output, and to create more stable operating conditions for gradual enrollment
expansion later in the decade.



- 8 -
2.25         Safl ,etenton Although UIEM recently (May 1991) we - bpecial salary
supplements for its staff from government in the effort to slow staff losses, it realizes that it
cannot outbid the private sector in the long run. Accordingly, it is developing a staff retention
strategy based on its comparative advantage In providing access to attractive in-kind benefits such
as staff housing, graduate study fellowships, professional meetings attendance and research
support. Housing is viewed as a particularly powerful incentive. Little housing construction has
occurred since independence, and housing demand is high. UEM plans to expand its current
stock of staff housing, and to explore the feasibility of establishing a staff savings incentive
program. The latter seeks to forge a mechanism for enabling individual staff to achieve home
ownership as government policy creates the necessary elements for a private housing market to
emerge from the former system of collectively owned national assets. The University has also
established a research fund, underwritten by SAREC, SIDA and NORAD, to support interested
staff throughout the university. For critically affected faculties such as economics, engineering
and medicine, UEM proposes to establish several capacity-building linkage programs with peer
departments in foreign universities.
2.26         Educational Oulity A number of institutional policies have recently been
changed in the effort to improve educational quality and output. In 1991, the university instituted
an admissions examination to improve student selection. It also expects that this competitive
exam will increase academic motivation-and consequently achievement-at the secondary level.
Concurrently, UEM management has introduced partial or total exemptions of tuition fee payment
based on academic performance and financial need, and conditioned student scholarships in the
same way. Various inhibiting regulations have been discontinued, including obligatory classes in
political ideology and physical education, required class attendance, the need for a student to
repeat an entire year of study if he or she fails two or more courses, and the former practice of
assigning students to areas of disciplinary study rather than allowing them to make personal
choices.  Additionally, several university buildings have recently been opened to students for
study use in the evenings. A major curriculum review will also be undertaken in the near future.
This will be complemented by a needs assessment and program design for the teaching of english
within the university, which is currently underway with British Council assistance. Follow-on
funding from ODA for the implementation of these recommendations seems likely. Finally, the
university plans to expand educational inputs by importing textbooks and basic references from
Portugal and Brazil, and by contracting qualified staff to write study manuals which will be
published by the uiiversity press. Both imported and locally produced materials will be sold at
full cost-recovery prices through a small university bookstore.
2.27         Mumet Candit  The university's recent stabilization plan proposes to
address a series of management issues that demand urgent attention. To this end, eight studies of
specific management issues are planned during 1992 with assistance from UNDP and the World
Bank's Education 11 project. They are:
- information systems for management decision-making.
- organization and computerization of student records.
- management of student residences, food service and financial aid.
- organization, staff development and computerization of the libraries.
- maintenance of scientific and office equipment.
- rehabilitation and maintenance of buildings.
- staff and student transpo.tation problems.
- university computerization policy.



-9 -
In addition, the university has felt the need to review its overall management and governance
structure. UEM realizes that its recent and projected growth, together with the process of rapid
political and economic changes now underway in the country, challenge it to be more efficient
and flexible in the management of both its internal and external affairs. This review was carried
out in March 1992 with financial support from the Commonwealth Secretariat and the Ford
Foundation. The exercise was assisted by two experienced chief executives from a British and an
African university, plus an expert in higher education financial administration. It produced a
thoughtfil set of management recommendations which clearly indicate priorities and suggest a
strategy of phased implementation. Principal proposals call for organizational restructuring
(particularly in financial administration), increased representation within the university council,
and improved internal communications.
2.28         Student Conditions UEM has put together an action plan for improving the
conditions for student life and study. Efforts are underway to increase library and study space, to
improve campus sanitary facilities, and to expand student dormitories. The problem of student
transportation is being studied. The student restaurant and several dormitories were recently
given limited renovation, and will be better managed-through either privatization or
administrative reorganization-as an outcome of the student services management study noted
above. Student scholarships, which had lost half of their purchasing power over the past several
years, were recently adjusted upwards with funding from SIDA, NORAD and Australia.
2.29         Accoontability The university proposes to strengthen its accountability to
government, its donors, and society in general by (a) publishing an annual report which analyzes
its institutional performance and includes a financial statement; (b) organizing annual meetings for
representves of government, donors and the private sector at which the annual report and
coming year's work plan are discussed; (c) producing semestral activity reports at the faculty level
for yearly discussion with representatives of interested government, private sector and donor
institutions; (d) contracting an annual external audit by a reputable firm for inclusion in UEM's
anmnal report; and (e) restructuring and modernizing its financial administration systems with the
help of a professional management consultancy firm. Development of an initial prototype for the
annual report is currently underway with assistance from SAREC.
2.30         Rgional and Gender Representation In order to ensure that the present policy
of reserving one-third of UEM places for provincial students and relieve currently over-crowded
dormitory conditions without exacerbating gender imbalances, the university has initiated
construction of additional student residences. This is an immediate need as some 250 dormitory
beds were recendy lost through a government agreement to return to the Catholic Church a
building, originally a seminary but later appropriated by the socialist government, being used as a
university residence. SIDA is presently financing the construction of two dormitories, and
USAID will underwrite an additional three buildings. However, two more dormitories are
required in order to meet the anticipated accommodation needs of provincial and women students
later in the decade.
2.31         Bldiding Rehabilitation The university estimates that about US$10.6 million will
be needed to rehabilitate and maintain its physical plant. It will make a major effort to bring its
buildings back up to standard, and institute a regular maintenance program, including budgetary
provision for this and the creation of an ovei'sight unit to manage it, to insure that similar
deterioration does not re-occur. One of the management studies noted above will inform this
process.



- 10-
Exterl AsSls4nc to the University
2.32         A wide range of bi-lateral, multi-lateral and private assistance programs support
the university. The Netherlands provides some 30 visiting professors and underwrites several
different linkage programs with Dutch universities. The Government of Italy also contributes
considerable technical assistance, particularly to Economics, Architecture and Agronomy. SIDA
recently approved a three-year package of general institutional support totalling US$6 million.
Numerous donors focus their effbrts on specific faculties, e.g. Ford Foundation on social science,
EEC on basic sciences, UNDP on forestry, DANIDA on law, etc. Recently, SAREC, NORAD
and SIDA joined in contributing nearly US$2 million to a general UEM fund for research and
research-related training and dissemination targeting both staff and students. Annex n-7
summarize confirmed donor support to the university in early 1992, categorized in accordance
with the objectives of the proposed IDA project.
2.33         To date, IDA lending for human resources has comprised two projects in
education which contain limited assistance to Eduardo Mondlane University. These provided
US$2.8 million and US$10.3 million respectively, for the university to construct and equip a
basic sciences building and several engineering laboratories, train its staff in economics and
engineering, and provide visiting professors while its own staff were studying abroad.
2.34         Although these two projects have addressed specific needs at the university, they
did not take a comprehensive approach to its institutional development needs. The Capacity
Building Sector Study carried out in mid-1991 has now filled this gap. Together with the
university's own strategic plan for institutional stabilization, these analyses provide a firm basis
for craftg the content of the Bank's future support for the university.
2.35         Lessons from Bank project experience in Mozambique suggest that management
and implementation capacity are chronic constraints. Accordingly, this project has given careful
attention to UEM carabilities for administering each component, and sought to strengthen areas
that were judged deficient. In line with the intent of capacity-building, however, the university
has been encouraged to assume implemention responsibility for most project activities, including
procurement, rather than using a project implementation unit or contracted expertise for this
purpose.
2.36         Given the extent of donor involvement at the university, some mechanism for
donor consultation and coordination is urgently needed. Tentative efforts to this end have not yet
proved fruitful. The university sought to form a donor support group in May 1991, but donor
response has yet to coalesce. While donor coordination within several other sectors has recently
improved in Maputo, the lack of a willing lead agency has impeded progress in the education
area. However, two informal donor coordination meetings have taken place during the past year,
and it is clear that interest exists. The university's proposed activities for increased accountability
are expected to prompt better donor coordination as one outcome, and may enable UEM itself to
assume the 'lead agency' role in'this area.



B.~~~ 11 =-
B. IgI Sewnd= Educadonl
Problems and Issue
2.37         Secondary education is included in this project because of its importance in
producing qualified candidates for university education and its vital role in developing critical and
constructive citizens for Mozambique. The pre-university schools prepare students explicitly to
enter UEM; graduates of other forms of intermedate education can also have access to higher
education in fields related to their specialization (e.g., technical school graduates in the
Engineering Faculty at UEM, teacher trainees at Instituto Superior Pedagogica (ISP), etc.).j/
Access to higher education for adults and others who work part or full-time is also limited by
current legislation which requires that worker-students, before embarking on studies in higher
education, must work for at least three years in an assigned Government agency or enterprise.
2.38         Given these constraints, admission to university is facilitated only for graduates of
pre-university education. Indeed, quite recently, those concluding pre-university secondary
education were guaanteed places at UEM: a university entrance exam was only introduced in
1991. This is consistent with the law on the National Education System (SNE), which states that
the objective of pre-university education is to 'encourage the student to take on the role of
someone who changes the world, society and thought", while the ain of the intermediate technical
and vocational courses is to "train mid-level technicians for the economic and social sectors
involved in production and service activities".
Tablg 2.1" Enrollments In PE-Unlversltv EduAtIon. 1991
233    24.1%              233     ~~~~24.%
2.39         Withi the new thrust toward progressive consolidation of a market economy, the
introduction of multi-party democray, and the opening of the educational arena to the private
sector, it is lilcely that there will be pressures for a significant expansion of secondary and pre-
university education. A comparison between the official statistics and the actual practice
.LI see Annex II-8 for a desptipon of the various levels of the SNE.



- 12 -
Ulustrates this expansionary trend. In MINED documents, it is said that there are only five pre-
university schools, but in reality there are more institutions offering this type of education.
According to the avaitabl data, enrollments in pre-university schools already cover six provinces
plus Maputo City C(able 2.1). Furthermore, disoussions with Ministry officials have revealed that
at present, only one of the 10 provinces in Mozambique does not have some form of EPU
operating (Niassa). In many provinces, such as Tete, Manica, and Cabo Delgado, unofficial EPU
classes have started in the past year. MINED does not officially recognize these courses since the
level of teachers' training is below standards set for EPUs. Although students from these schools
are atlowed to sit the university entrance exams, preparation levels are poor, and in 1990 less than
10% of the students were able to pass the examinations and receive the pre-university diploma.
Recently, with the opening of the education sector to private participation, private schools have
also begun to provide pre-university classes, and the Catholic Church is likely to enter this arena
in the near future.
2.40         Gender Distributton of, Student Bod  Girls make up a little less than one-third
of the students at the EPU level. Maputo City, with the largest number of total enrollments, also
has the highest pereentage of female students. In the provinces, the situation is considerably
worse, with female enrollments averaging around 20% in both day and evening sessions. The
share of female enrollments in upper secondary education in Mozambique is consistent with the
prevailing low) regional averages for Sub-saharan Africa.2/ Given the demonstrated high
scWial returns to female education, efforts should be made to increase the access of girls to pre-
university education. Greater numbers of female EPU graduates would also contribute to raising
the low percentages of women currently enrolled at the University (25%), or holding management
positions in the public sector (7%).
2.41         Tewcer Ayalblit   One limiting factor for the expansion of the EPU network
is tha availability of teachers. A comparison of the actual distribution of teachers in 1991 with
the ideal number of teachers required to handle the entire curriculum shows that the EPUs are
grossly understaffed. There are especily acute shortages of teachers in the key disciplines of
English (50%), Geography (53%), and History (41%). In some areas to be introduced as part of
the new curriculum, such as French and Computer science, no teachers were employed (see
Annex 11-9).
2.42         An analysis of projections for output from the Instituto Superior Pedagogico (ISP),
the sole institution charged with the training of pre-university teachers in Mozambique, suggests
that ISP graduates will not fill the pre-university teaching gap, much less expansion needs, in the
years to come. An opdmistic scenario is that some 20 of the hundred odd ISP graduates per year
might actually end up teaching classes at the EPU level (see Annex 11-10). Low salary levels,
lack of housing, and poor working conditions in the EPUs all contribute to make altrnative
employment options more attractive. In short, therefore, the Government faces an imminent
crisis in the supply of teachers for pre-university education, and there is an urgent need to define
a strategy to resolve the situation.
2.43         Techn Oualtv While most EPU teachers have at least some university-level
training, only 19% has master degrees, and the majority of the teaching force has hau .-.tle or no
skills upgrading. For example, in Francisco Manyanga EPU, despite expressed interest by staff,
2I Accordin# to World Bank estioas, for a grap of 32 low-income countries in Sub-sabarsn Africa,
f6nl stents mede up 32 peormt of toa seconday mnmllmnmts in 1986.



- 13 -
no upgrading activities are taking place, due to lack of funds. In all the EPUs, laboratory
equipment lies gathering dust because teaching staff have not been trained in its use. Teachers'
competencies stagnate year by year, as support is non-existent for even independently initiated
skills-development, in the form of self-help reading, materials.
2.44         Gender Structure of Teaching Force Women are poorly represented among
EPU teachers, comprising only 16% of the total teaching force. As has been documented in a
number of studies, the lack of women teachers often has a detrimental effect on girls' educational
achievements. It has also been shown that increasing the percentage of female teachers can be
part of a successful strategy for raising girls' enrollments.3/
2.45         Sool Infrstructr  On the whole, the physical fabric of the EPUs is in bad
condition. Although in some cases well-designed and solidly built, buildings have suffered from
total lack of maintenance which results in steady deterioration which is accelerating as the years
go by. At Francisco Manyanga EPU in Maputo, for example, water leaks through expansion
joints are causing serious problems, and nearly all the electrical outlets and switches are broken or
missing. At Samora Machel ESG/EPU in Beira, the bathrooms are not working and fixtures are
broken; overhead lights are missip"; and the auditorium is virtually unusable. Annex 11. 11
provides a brief description of the state of each of the schools.
2.46         LeaningchingWn Materials While most of the ESGs and all the EPUs have
laboratories for physics, chemistry and biology, these are not functioning, either because of lack
of equipment and supplies or because the teachers lack time (due to an excessive teaching load)
and/or adequate training in laboratory use. On the few occasion when labs are used, it is much
more a result of the individual initiative of the teacher than any part of accepted school practice.
Previous attempts at equipping secondary school laboratories have failed to produce the desired
results as the possess neither the ancillary services (water, electricity, gas) nor the teaching staff
to utilize the labs effectively.
2.47         Among learning/teaching resources, the EPUs generally lack even basic teaching
tools, such as a globe or an atlas for geography lessons, rulers and compasses for mathematics
and drawing, and grammars and dictionaries for languages and literature. But the most serious
problem is the shortage of textbooks. Pre-university students have no books for many subjects.
In their absence, the teacher dictates the material or copies hand-held notes onto the blackboard.
Ihis wastes much valuable time which could be used for discussing and deepening the content of
the lesson. Some schools have libraries, but these lack modern collections and suitable conditions
for study.
2.48         Suppl of Texbooks At present, the supply of textbooks to the EPUs is
inadequate. Furthermore, an increase in the availability of textbooks to EPU students is
dependent upon the finalization of the new curriculum by the National Directorate of Secondary
Education (NDSE), and the subsequent contracting of a publishing house (either local or foreign)
to produce the relevant texts or to modify existing upper secondary texts so that they conform to
the Mozambican curriculum. At present, sample lines of textbooks are being requested from
various publishers to be considered in conjunction with the development of the new EPU
I/ See, for example, World Bank Discussion Paper No. 133, Lettin Girls LeaM: Promising Aproachz
in Prma  and Sf     ndm, by Barbam Herz, et.aL, The World Bank, 1991.



- 14 -
curriculum. The final line of textbooks chosen will be modified by the curriculum teams
managed by the NDSE so that the Mozambican reality is adequately reflected.
2.49         Textbol FSnncig Government policy on the financing of textbooks is that
parents are filly responsible for covering the full cost of textbooks, with no Government subsidy.
However, given the high costs of textbooks, and the low income levels of many families (more
than 2/3 of Mozambicans reside in absolute poverty), the government has established a
subsidizattion mechanism called the Caixa Escolar. While the Caixa Escolar is somewhat effective
at the primary level, this mechanism does not operate at the pre-university level. Individual
school administrations take the initiative in identifying poor students and subsidizing the provision
of their learning materials from Acao Social funds and other school monies. In effect, targeted
subsidies have become decentralized to the school level.
2.50         Teaching Methods Since practical classes are in general nonexistent (aboratories
are not working or have been abandoned, etc.), the instruction process is basically theoretical or
verbal. Inadequate supplies of teaching and learning materials force teachers to rely upon
dictation as a means of providing information. This learning from dictation and by heart
interferes with one of the major objectives of secondary education, which is to develop the
student's ability to think for himself and take into account and exploit his/her own real life
experience. Instead, the school becomes an instrument of narrow thinking and stereotyped
approaches.
2.51         Class Size Another serious obstacle to effective and creative learning in
secondary schools in Mozambique is excessive class size and related overcrowding of school
facilities. The average class size is 39 students, which is already well above the recommended
norm of 30, but there are cases in which it reaches 70 students per class. As a result, in many
schools students do not have tneir own desks, but must share with one or two others.
2.52         Curriculum Design Curriculum design has been highly centralized in the
Ministry of Education. In the past, curricula prepared by the Ministry were excessively detailed,
covering for each unit the methodological approach, the week in which each subject is to be
taught, the number of classes to be devoted to each chapter, etc. This substantially reduced
teacher/school participation by preventing teachers from devising a teaching plan that takes into
account the features and conditions of each school. Examinations have also been excessively
centralized, with teachers under pressure to complete the entire program. Teaching has thus been
linear and mechanical, with a mandatory program and a system of examinations to verify
compliance.
2.53          Capacity at NDSE Curricula for the 1 Ith and 12th grade are currently being
revised (with many disciplines being revised for the first time since Independence).4/ Curricula
are prepared by staff from the Departments of Science and Letters of the NDSE, meant to be
composed of two to three person teams for each discipline. Certain disciplines, such as
Introduction to Computer Science, are not represented whatsoever. For other disciplines, official
posts exist, but many remain vacant - more than one-third of the posts are unfilled and members
of curriculum teams double in other capacities in the Directorate. (See Annex 11-13 for details of
A/ The future study plans for pre-university education are shown in Annex 11-12; certain subjects (French,
Latin, Philosophy, Introduction to Computers, German) will be introduced gradually in line with the
adequacy of teacher supply.



- 15 -
the organization and staffing of the NDSE). The curriculum experts within NDSE, in turn, are in
theory supposed to work with outside specialists such as faculty from the University, ISP staff,
and other relevant experts in the design and crafting of new study programs. However, the
absence of additional financial resources to pay for the services of outside staff has prevented the
realization of this process.
2.54         NDSE is poorly equipped to carry out its functions of curriculum design and
pedagogical support for the EPUs. More than 50% of its listed posts remain vacant, and output
of teaching materials is limited by lack of equipment and an insufficient recurrent budget to
operate and maintain the few pieces cf equipment they have. Although staff are eager to engage
in greater dialogue with the EPUs - by increasing the frequency of school visits, providing on-
site training in certain disciplines, and hosting yearly seminars in Maputo for all EPU teaching
staff - the funding is at present unavailable to support such activities. Furthermore, the staff lack
needed training in educational planning and administration is well as the teaching experience and
qualifications necessary to design curricula.
2.55         Examination Desiuln and Student Evaluation Examination design has also been
centralized within MINED. Although teachers are asked to prepare examination questions, the
extra work is performed begrudgingly, and the quality of submissions received is low. The
grading of exams is done at the school level, again with no extra compensation for teachers, in
accordance to guidelines established by the NDSE. Teachers are charged with grading the
examinations not only of their own students, but also those of students from near-by private
schools who must sit their exams at credentialed public schools. Cases have been reported of
unfair grading practices, with teachers being unduly harsh on private school students. This is not
surprising since private school students are known to pay fees as much as 100 times greater than
public school fees and yet public school teachers receive no extra compensation for grading their
written exams or administering oral examinations.
2.56                            Presently the repetition rate in this level of education is 25%-
30%. High repetition rates are a reflection not only of poor student performance but also of the
harshness and punitive nature of the existing evaluation system. It is an error to suppose that
failing large numbers of students helps to improve the education process. Rather, what improves
education is the availability of good quality textbooks and teaching/learning aids, the continuing
education of teachers, and the creation of conditions for individualized student attention. From
this standpoint, revision of the current assessment system is essential. The MINED has taken
some important steps forward this past year, through the introduction of a credit system at the
EPU level. Now, when a student fails to pass one subject, he or she no longer has to repeat the
entire year, as was the case previously, but instead only has to repeat the failed subject.
2.57         Student Housu On t*- whole, while students appear motivated to study and
even make considerable sacrifices, housing and transport present serious obstacles. Conditions in
student hostels for those coming from the provinces to study are often in a deplorable state.
There are at least 12 students to a room and in sometimes more than 20. There is no medical
care, sanitary facilities are poorly maintained, and the premises are not cleaned. Areas reserved
for study and relaxation are inadequate, and student meals are of poor quality. Information on the
number of students currently residing in EPU dormitories and the average costs of student
housing presented in Annex II-14.
2.58         Shl                 Secondary and pre-university schoois are managed by a
director, aided by pedagogical assistants who supervise instruction, and a secretariat to oversee



- 16 -
and administer school activities. The administration of a school in which more than 5,000
students are enrolled is very difficult, and the problems are compounded by the lack of
administrative, educational and financial autonomy. While one should not expect the same degree
of autonomy in a secondary school as In a university, it is both desirable and necessary to
increase the present level of autonomy, which is virtually nil. It is also impossible to manage a
secondary or pre-university school if the administration lacks certain essential educational and
financial resources to ensure normal operation.
2.59         The school administration reports to the provincial directorate of education, which
in turn answers both to the provincial governor and the Ministry of Education. Since
communication between the school and the MINED is weak and the provinces in Mozambique
have very little autonomy, it is difficult to reach appropriate decisions on school management.
Furthermore, the central government budget allocation to the schools is grossly insufficient, and
the gap cannot be completely bridged by matriculation charges, which go into a Social Action
Fund. The students also pay a monthly fee (propina) of Mt 2,000-3,000, but this goes to the
central government treasury and is not returned to the school. As these fees can add up to a
considerable sum (in 1990, for example, Francisco Manyanga Secondary School collected
Mt 22 million, or about US$10,500 on the parallel market), their non-retention by the school,
combined with delays in services caused by an excessively centralized bureaucracy, is a serious
disincentive for staff and students.
2.60         Community Pardlcigsn Decentralization of school management wIll only be
truly effective if it is accompanied by increased community participation in school affairs. The
current administrative structure of the school makes no provision for such participation. The
establishment of a parents' council or community council, for examnple, could be a positive step in
improving attendance and student academtc performance, increasing local fmancial contribution to
the school, and enhancing the relevance of the curriculum to local needs and prioritiesj/
*}overment Mmufor Eaniversity Eduafi
2.61         Prior to the preparation of the project, MINED was guided by a written strategy,
which calls for the development and expansion of upper secondary education, with the
establishment of a pre-university school in every province by 1995. In light of the serious
challenges faced by this tier of the education system, the Government's priority is now to stabilize
the teaching force and improve the quality of existing secondary schools, before investing in an
expansion of the upper secondary system. Prior to negotiations, MINED revised its policy to
reflect this reality. An overview is provided in Annex II-15.
2.62         Physical upgrading of the existing EPU facilities is a straightforward necessity if
Mozambique is to provide an adequate learning environment for pre-university education. Other
measures which are needed to improve the quality of pre-university education - increasing the
supply of teachers and upgrading the skills of the existing teaching staff, curriculum and
examination reform, increasing the availability of textbooks, and improved management at the
school level - are all included in MINED's policy document, but will require implementation.
The following discussion presents proposed policy options and strategy for each of these
0I In Josina Machel Secondry School, for example, a Parents' Council has bee established, which in the
pad year has succeeded n mug some $25,000 towards basc repaits m the school's infratucure.



- 17 -
measures. Another issue which will also require policy development and strategic thinking in the
longer term - post-secondary alternatives for EPU graduates - is also addressed below.
2.63         Inreasing Teacher SPnniY Higher salaries are an obvious method of attracting
new recruits to EPUs, and for retaining e-disting teachers. When the proposed salary incentive
fond becomes operational, this will benefit all teachers at EPU level. In addition, as in the case
of the University, provision of housing is a sought after and appealing option for the attraction
and retention of teachers, particularly in the provinces. MINED is prepared to explore
altematives for increasing the supply of housing held by the EPUs, which would be provided to
teachers in line with rental fees determined under the proposed salary incentive fund.
2.64         Another option for increasing teacher supply which was raised during a planning
seminar for members of the NDSE and various EPU Directors held in December 1991 is the
introduction of more rapid and efficient types of teacher training. At present, the one option
offered by ISP is a 5 year licenciatura degree, which seems costly and inefficient given budget
and labor market conditions in Mozambique. The pool of available teachers for EPUs could
increase significantly if MINED were to consider more flexible and shorter-term possibilities for
teacher training. MINED's policy document mentions specifically reviewing the option to provide
in-service training up to master's level to secondary school teachers.
2.65         Expatriate volunteers, such as teachers provided through the UN Volunteer
Program or the Zimbabwe-Mozambique Friendship Association, can provide a cost-effective
temporary solution to the teaching crisis in pre-university education. Bilateral assistance can also
help fill the EPU teac:ig  gap. At present, tachers are being provided through British
Cooperation, the Portug. -e, and the French, and the Catholic Church is discussing with MINED
the possibility of providing Latin teachers (see Annex 11-16). While bilateral assistance can serve
to fill the teaching gap is some disciplines, shortages will still remain in crucial areas such as
Mathematics, Sciences, and Computer Sciences. Furthermore, whatever measures that the
Government takes to improve the attractiveness of EPU teaching, or to increase the domestic
supply of teachers are certain to take some time to produce results. Thus, in the short-term
serious lacunae will remain in the number of teachers available to give classes to the existing
student body. Volunteer teachers, to be provided in areas specified as priority areas by the
Government, could be one way of filling these gaps.
2.66         hngroIng  eam WngU  allut  At present, no strategy exists for upgrading the
skills of the existing EPU teaching staff, either in the form of on-site teacher training, or
workshops and seminars in which teachers from different schools convene for training in specific
areas. MINED strategy for curriculum and examination reform entails expanding the role of
teacher participation in the design of new systems. Seminars for discussion of eurriculum
proposals can serve dual roles, therefore, and provide fora for short-term intewive upgrading
courses. Furthermore, preservice training courses, to be developed under the proposed new
three year Bachelor's course, can be prepared on a modular basis. In this way, currently
employed teachers can, during school vacations, attend courses and work their way gradually
towards completing the degree. Finally, improving the pedagogical management capacity at the
individual schools and at the NDSE will enable school administrators to identify teacher training
needs, and solicit the needed pedagogical materials for self-sdy and informal courses to be given
at individual schools from the NDSE, and the NDSE's ability to respond to such demands.
2.67         Currlculauum   d Evaluation. lgt   The current procedures for curriculum
development are inadequate. The NDSE is grossly understaffed, and the staff working at



- 18-
preparing curriculum are underqualifled and overburdened with other tasks. Curriculum
preparation is neglected as regular activities such as monitoring of examinations and the opening
and closing of the school year require immediate attention of the few existing staff members.
Subsequently, work on designing curriculum is squeezed Into three months between March and
May. More time needs to be given to curriculum preparation, and more staff. The staff at
BUSCEP, the remedial education program offered at the Universit, co compensate for poor
quality pre-university training, have expressed their interest in helping to design the new EPU
curriculum. Under the PPF for the proposed project, funds for technical assistance in the drafting
of the new curriculum have been provided. In addition to the short-term (and urgent) need to
prepare and disseminate the curriculum for 1992, there is a langer term need to give more careful
thought to the proposed future contents of the curriculum for upper secondary education in
Mozambique. It is unclear whether it is cost effective for pre-university schools in Mozambique
to offer courses in Philosophy, Latin, or German, as are contained in the current proposed
curriculum, given the shortage of teachers in these areas and the fact that many pre-university
graduates wIll not obtain spots in the University.
2.68         Equally deserving of more study is the current examination system in
Mozambique. Teachers have little leeway to vary from the curriculum if exams are overly-
centralized. The challenge lies in developing a curriculum/evaluathin system which is flexible
enough to leave room for receptiveness to individual initiatives, yet also achieves consistency in
achievement levels and materials studies across schools and regions. MINED is committed to
reviewing and acting on these issues in the years to come. The first step in the process will be
the active involvement of EPU teachers in the process of drafting the new 11th grade curriculum
next year, and in the preparation of the exams. Similarly, teachers will be involved in the
preparation of the new curriculum for the 12th grade and exam preparation in the following year.
And, members of the NDSE, jointly with representatives from the BUSCEP program and school
representatives, will form a review committee to analyze the new curricula, and prepare the
gound for further reform.
2.69        aIn                       SchooMlnag menmL..lkhmI     In 1990 the directors of four pre-
university schools proposed to MINED that a limited amount of the investment budget be
earmarked for the schools, to be spent according to the wishes of the school officials themselves.
They also suggested that fees be increased for atudents attending evening courses, since many of
them working in business or for the Government and can afford to pay more. These fees would
also remain with the school and help to cover needed maintenance. The directors' letter
highlights the seriousness of the current situation in which excessive centalization and
bureaucracy hampers effective school management. An important policy issue for MINED is how
to decentralize cetain aspects of school management, while maintining accountability for the
pedagogical and financial results obtained. There is also the issue of how to support experiments
in community participation in school management.
2.70         Discussions with Ministry of Education officials during project preparation
revealed support on the part of the Ministry for the increased decentralization of ;inancial ano
administrative functions to the sc-hoc' level, contingent upon the adequate training of school
officials and the clear definition of noans and staundards for personnel and financial management.
At present, the Directorate of Administration and Finance, joindy with a FUNDAP team, is
working in these areas.
2.71         Bn_dzyA              mm  EPU students are in general strongly committed to
going on to higher studies. However, given the rising trend in enrollments in pre-university



- 19 -
education and the policy to hold down the size of the university, the Issue arises: what options can
be offered to the EPU graduate who does not succeed in getting into the university? At present,
there are few other post-secondary forms of education for these persons. In this context, It would
seem appropriate to examine, in terms of labor market requirements and the preparation of mid-
level personnel for government service and the private sector, to explore possibilities of
developing other types of post-secondary training, such as para-legal and accountancy training.
2.72         Secondary education in general, and pre-university education ip particular, has
been relatively neglected in terms of external support to the education sector. In 1990, external
assistance accounted for about 40% of total education expenditures. Of this, only 4 percent is
allocated to secondary education, with about one-half of these funds going to the pre-university
schools. In other words, less than two percent of total external assistance to the education sector
went to the pre-university schools. And yet, this funding accounted for nearly 50% of total
reported spending on pre-university education, reflecting the low domestic budget allocations to
this tier of the education system.
2.73         The principal donors active in suppordng upper secondary education in
Mozambique are the Ford Foundation, the British Council, the Portuguese Government, and the
French (see Annex 1. 16). Unlike support to primary education or to the University, there has
been no consolidated program of support to secondary education in Mozambique. Donor
assistance has taken place on a piecemeal and fragmented basis, reflecting both the low levels of
financial contributions involved, and the lack of development of a clear strategy for pre-university
education. While the priorities for the education sector in Mozambique clearly lie in primary
educatiOn, and, in maintining the capacity of the University, it makes little sense to repair
several rungs of a ladder and leave a gaping hole in the middle. A certain critical amount of
investment is needed in secondary and pre-university education to ensure the progression of
students on to the University and to managerial positions within the public and private sectors.
2.74         Like other donors, IDA's lending strategy to the education sector has until
recently neglected secondary education. The proposed credit will fill this gap by stabilizing the
existing pre-univeraity system, as well as supporting longer term improvements to the system.
Furthermore, investments in pre-university education will support previous and future investments
in higher education, by improving the quality of University entrants, thus reducing the need for
remedial training and contributing to declining drop-out and repetition rates.



-20 -
m. THE F2O^CT
A. Genra
3.1          The bQ   jbectiv  of the proposed Capacity Building Human Resource
Development Project are to:
(a)   expand the quantity and improve the quality of university graduates, by stabilizing
and motivating the Mozambican teaching faculty, enriching the learning
anvironment, upgrading and maintaining the UEM physical facilities, and
improving organization and management practices; and
(b)   enhance significantly the quality of upper secondary education, by taking
important positive steps in the areas of teacher training, provision of books and
other teaching/learning materials, school management and community
involvement, and school facility rehabilitation.
3.2          In outline, the main proect cogonents, to be implemented during 1993-97, are:
(a)    Unlversitv Stabilzadin: upgrading and construction of faculty apartments; staff
development; institutional linkages to bolster key departments; supply of library
materials, textbooks, computers and other teaching materials; enhanced
management and accountability; expansion of student dormitories; and general
upgrading of university physical facilities and development of a maintenance
program.
(b)   UIJ.    Seaqngb.  Education mnpr.oemsnt: accelerated teacher training;
curriculum reform; supply of textbooks and teaching aids; school management
training; establishment of a scholarship fund for girls; rehabilitation of six existing
pre-university secondary schools (EPUs); construction of staff housing and student
residences.
B. Detai e DestDtion
UnIveiity Stabilization (base cost US$30.3 million)
3.3          The specific objectives of this component are to support the university's
institudonal stabilization program by improving educational quality; reducing staff losses;
increasing accountability; strengthening management; ensuring adequate regional and gender
representation; and restoring the physical plant. It consists of the following subcomponents:
(a)    Textbook acquisitions, local textbook publishing, focused insdiutional linkages,
additional library space, curriculum studies and a university-wide computer
training program to upgrade educational quality and improve graduate output
(US$5.3 million).
(b)    Completion of 92 partially constructed university apartments, renovation of 108
existing units located on campus, acquisition and rehabilitation of several
apartment buildings to furnish an additional 100 units, and an eventual savings



- 21 -
incentive scheme for academic and senior administrative personnel intended as
staff retention and recruitment measures (US$6.5 million).
(c)    Staff development and retention through graduate training abroad (US$3.6
million).
(d)    Annual audits, work plans, reports, training, technical assistance and planning
studies designed to increase universihy accountability and management capacity
(US$2.2 million).
(e)    Construction of two additional student residences to insure regional and gender
representation as the student population grows (US$3.9 million).
(f)    Building rehabilitation and establishment of a regular maintenance program
(US$8.8 million).
3.4          IprAved Educational Quaity A collection of complementary activities seek to
improve the quality of teaching and idcrease graduate output. Principal among them is a sharply
increased provision of textbooks and study materials. The university will import portuguese
;anguage texts and also contract its own staff to prepare and publish a series of study manuals to
insure that study references are available for all principal courses. This combination of imported
and locally produced texts will provide for most of the introductory courses and eventually cover
20% of all courses offered. These books will be sold at cost to students and the general public
through a small university bookstore which will be established for this purpose. Whenever
portuguese language textbooks can be identified in international markets at relatively reasonable
cost, while maintaining qiuality and relevance to the Mozambican curriculum (the unit cost of
imported textbooks normally exceeds the unit cost of locally produced materials), they will be
used in the effort to rapidly expand textbook availability to students.
3.5          In order to maintain management flexibility as experience in book provision is
gained, an IDA contribution of US$935,000 will constitute a book fund that can be used either to
import texts from lusophone countries or to produce them locally. Unit costs for local production
are estimated at US$10 per book, as opposed to roughly US$30 for each imported book
(including shipping and customs clearance). (See Annex III.1) The value of the book fund was
estimated on the basis of calculating the initial capital necessary to import roughly 9(i  textbooks
and locally produce 138 study manuals. Additional monies are provided for the importation of
3,700 basic reference books that students will be encouraged to acquire as the basis for personal
professional libraries. Also included are limited funds which will complement Ford Foundation
funding for the University Press by providing essential equipment replacement and training
necessary to support local text production. Other pertinent donor contributions in this area
include US$0.5 million from SIDA and SAREC for library acquisitions, US$46,500 from SIDA
for textbooks, and a Dutch program of pedagogical training which includes textbook preparation.
The IDA credit will underwrite a detailed operational study of how the bookstore might best be
organized and administered on a cost-efficient, cost-recovery basis and guarantee the skilled
managerial expertise necessary to launch this new endeavor (see Annex IV.5a). This study will
also determine the relative cost-effectiveness of the three options for increasing the supply of
teotbooks: importation, on-site printing at the University, and contracting out of printing to the
local private market. Although US$175,000 will be available to initiate the book program during
the project's first year, completion of this study. and its acceptance by IDA. will be a
disbursement condition for the remainder of the book find.



-22 -
3.6          Second, computer training will be expanded as a required course in all university
departments. Giver the scarcity of skilled professionals in Mozambique, this decision is a cost-
effective way of increasing their productivity as graduates, and of giving them skills that are
increasingly required in the workplace. Credit funds will cover the acquisition of computers,
printers, software and supporting equipment, and also provide for the training of departmental
staff charged with these teaching responsibilities.
3.7           Third, library and reading space will be expanded in a number of departmental
libraries that have reached capacity, and associated sanitary facilities will be repaired or
augmented. This will allow for improved organization, access and use of these reference
resources. Libraries serving the departments of agriculture, economics, architecture, veterinary
medicine, and social sciences have been targeted for upgrading under the current project.
3.8          Fourth, critical capacity-building needs in the UEM departments of economics and
engineering will be addressed through a strengthening strategy based on linkage agreements with
selected universities located outside the country. A flexible fund of about US$3 million will be
used for this purpose. Funds will cover contact travel, communications, research, training,
visiting faculty, library acquisitions, and equipment purchase associated with these linkages. The
university will develop terms of reference which outline its linkage needs, invite an identified
group of universities abroad to bid on this basis (see Annex M.2), and negotiate a ffal agreement
with the most attractive bidder. Concrete contributions from the collaborating partner in this
linkagl will be an important consideration in making this choice. And to insure effective
management within the staff-depleted department of economics during this critical re-building
period, the Credit will finance 72 person months of consultancies. Terms of reference for these
contracts are in the implementation manual.
3.9          Finally, two studies will be undertaken to infbrm the university's longer term
academic plarning. One will analyze the causes of poor academic performance (including among
women sients), review the relevance of the present curriculum and its equivalency with other
university programs in the region, and explore the feasibility of moving towards a system based
on academic credits. The other will assess the viability of initiating a distance education program
to attend the high demand in certain disciplines, e.g. economics, law. Terms of reference for
these studies are included in the implementation manual.
3.10         H,mI.gforJSaff1gMdor, The university has defined a two-part housing
strategy for atrang and retaining skilled academic and administrative staff. ITe first is to
provide immediate access to housing as a short term recruiting and retention incentive. This will
be done by increasing the current UEM housing stock from 251 to 443 units. These additional
192 apartments will accommodate the 103 staff who are currendy on the university waiting list, as
well as the expected growth in staff by 1996 (Annex M.2), based on a Bank-recommended
staff/student ratio of 1:10 (the current ratio is 1:8.2). Ninety-two of these units will be provided
by completing the construction of on-campus faculty apartments that was begun with East German
assistance, but left unfinshed when German unification interrupted project implementation.
Detailed cosftig for rehabilitation, including unit cost esimats, is oudined in Annex m.3.
3.11         The remaining need for 100 units wDi met by rehabiitaing several off-campus
apartment buildings. Cost analysis indicates that this option, which includes resettlement of the
current tenants, is more cost-efficient (esdmated US$40,470 per unit) than the construction of new
units (estimated US$52,400 per unit). A ettm   plan acebe to the Bank hase
prmentd     =nagoia ons. Implementation of this plan will be monitored throughout the



-23 -
resettlement process by IDA. These activities will be carried out in collaboration with the Bank-
supported Urban Rehabilitation Program organized within the Ministry of Public Works. The
Ministry has already identified two suitable buildings that contain 78 apartments, and has core
housing available in which to rosetde the building occupants. (See Annexes III4 and M.5).
3.12         in addition, as part of this project, 108 existing on-campus units constructed under
the East German project will be renovated at an average cost of US$2, 100. Even though they are
relatively new, they have suffered notable deterioration due to the lack of a regular maintenance
program. The Netherlands have expressed interest in co-financing this activity.
3.13         Access to this housing will be governed by existing UEM regulations. These
employ a point system, based on a staff member's responsibilities, academic degree, length of
service and performance, to prioritize staff housing requests.
3.14         During credit negotiations, the Government agreed on two issues connected with
ipersit housiaLng. First, occupants of UEM housing units should be charged a monthly amount
equal to the estimated costs of property maintenance, repair and management in order to make
this a self-financing operation. This amount is calculated to be approximately US$100 per month
(Annex 1.6!). It is essential that the improved housing stock be maintained in order to protect
this housing investment and extend the life of this asset. Second, the university must identify an
appropriate management agency, located outside of the university administration, to be given
responsibility for the maintenance and repair of university housing. UEM should not get into the
business of property management. Terms of reference to request proposals have been prepared.
By June 30. 1993. UEM will Dresent the deied troosals for tis operation and a neftgae
contract with a mangmetfirm .
3.15         The second part of the proposed UEM strategy is to insure staffing stability over
the long term by offering the possibility of home ownership linked to length of service. A study
contracted by UEM in February/March 1992 developed an interesting model for how staff savings
might be encouraged and eventual purchase of housing achieved. In essence, the model combines
features of a no-down-payment mortgage scheme with a joint employee/employer savings program
similar to a U.S. thrift plan or U.K. provident fund. Using matching contributions from
government as a savings incentive and employing a vesting formula to link accumulated benefits
with length of service, the initial model is instructive but requires additional development.
3.16         In the long run, this model addresses the principal barrier to home ownership:
the current inability of individuals to accumulate capital through savings. For this reason, and
because the model could be equally applicable to the larger sector of civil service, the borrower
has agreed that the feasibility of implemeting such a scheme will be formally reviewed on an
anumal basis.
3.17         During appraiEal, the option of a monetized staff retention incentive was explored
and still found ineffective under present circumstances. Under the incentive structure of tie
proposed salary incentive fund, most UEM employees would see their salary doubled, which
would not enable UEM staff to obtain access to housing. The government's national housing
administrtion (APIE) currently has a waiting list of 90,000 persons for whom it is unable to
provide rental housing. This number is roughly doubh the total number of housing units
contained in the city of Maputo. As a result, expatriates regularly pay US$2,000 to $3,000 a
month for housing rental. UEM's proposed salary increase under the incendve fwd would not go



-24 -
to such levels. In short, a fully monetized beneft presently holds little promise of providing a
lasting solution to the UEM staff retention problem.
3.18         Staff Development A general staff development fund will be created to support
professional training of both academic and administrative staff. This investment in staff training
is expected to (a) improve the quality of university teaching and research; (b) enable the
progressive substitution of expensive foreign teaching staff with qualified nationals, thereby
contributing to institutional stability and development; (c) provide staff retention incentives
through the promise of additional professional training; and (d) encourage more balanced
institutional development by creating training opportunities for staff in disciplinary or
administrative areas not normally of interest to other donors. The fund will allow resourees to be
used in conjunction with, or as a complement to, other donor contributions, e.g. airfares, research
awards, tuition waivers. At present, the university receives from donors almost US$1 million
annually earmarked for graduate training of staff from specific departments, often restricted for
use only in the donor country.
3.19         The staff development fund is budgeted at US$3.6 million. This amount will
provide an estimated 50 MA and 4 PhD fellowships, covering about 140 person-years of study
abroad at an average annual cost of US$25,200 (see Annex I.7). These are expected to cover
25 percent of the university's staff development needs over the coming five years, and to increase
the proportion of UEM staff with graduate degrees from 16% to 32%. Fellowship awards will be
proposed by university departments in accordance with their staff development plans, and
approved by the UEM Scientific Council on the basis of established criteria. Through its support
for staff access to housing (outlined above), the IDA credit seeks to ensure that the benefits of this
extensive staff development program are captured by the University.
3.20         The university will manage this fellowship program directly, rather than to
contract it to an institution which specializes in this activity. Direct UEM management has the
advantage of reducing administrative overheads by at least 30%, of maintaining a direct link with
the awardee, and of building UEM capacity in this area which might be used as a basis for
seeking other donor contributions to the staff development fund. The Office for Studies and
Projects (Gabinete de Estudos e Projectos) will assume this responsibility, and will hire two
additional staff for this purpose. It has already drafted a fellowship management plan which was
favorably reviewed by IDA at appraisal, and will prepare a reference handbook for fellowship
recipients on their entitlements and administrative procedures.
3.21         Esuring leonal and Gender Rerentation The university needs to
construct seven student residences on campus to alleviate current problems of severe crowding in
dormitories, to make up for the return of one major dormitory to the Catholic Church, and to
insure housing for provincial students that the government hopes will make up at least one-third
of enrollments. Two of these buildings are currently under construction with US$1.6 million
from SIDA, and are scheduled for completion in 1993. An additional three dormitories, together
with supporting infrastructure for the entire complex, will be erected with US$5 million
committed by USAID. IDA credit funds underwrite the final two buildings, a student social hall,
and support services office. Building design and university policy will permit this new residence
space to be allocated to women students in proportion to their numbers. Technical documentation
for this construction is available.
3.22         Rehabiltation of the UE  Physical Plant This action represents a one-time
only intervention to rectify over 20 years of neglect and restore the university's current buildings



- 25 -
to an acceptable state of repair. With assistance from the Faculty of Architecture, UEM has
conducted a needs assessment, identified priorities and costed them out, and elaborated a work
program for the first year of the project (Cost estimates and implementation schedule presented in
Annex IV.4). Because of financial constraints in government and policy constraints among
donors, IDA assistance offers the only possibility of addressing this urgent infrastructural need.
3.23         Any investment in building rehabilitation will have little value unless an effective
UEM maintenance program is put in place to safeguard these improvements. The UNDP
financed study of this subject during 1992 will define maintenance systems, procedures and
possible training requirements for putting this program into place. Responsibility for program
supervision will rest with the University Buildings Office (see para. 3.27). Accordingly,
agreement has been reached with the Government during negotiations to gradually increase the
annual provision for building maintenance up to 2% of replacement value in the ULM 1997
recuffent budget.
3.24         Imnrogjng MnagnnLt and Accountability The university proposes to
strengthen its accountability to government, its donors, and society in general by (a) publishing an
annual report which analyzes its institutional performance, provides key indicators and statistics,
and includes a financial statement; (b) organizing annual meetings for representatives of
government, donors and the private sector at which the annual report and coming year's work
plan are discussed; (c) producing semestral activity reports at the Faculty level for yearly
disussion with representatives of relevant government, donor and private sector institutions; and
(d) contracting an annual external audit by a reputable firm for inclusion in the annual report. An
initial consultative meeting was held in May 1991 to discuss the UEM stabilization plan. A
second annual meeting, along the lines indicated above, is planned for November 1992.
3.25         In addition, management capacity will be reinforced. Short-term management
training will enable key administrative staff to improve their performance and create a staff
retendon incentive for this often neglected but important group. Training opportunities will be
linked to a staff development plan, recently developed by the UEM personnel department, that
seeks to anticipate the university's changing needs for management, administrative and technical
sklls as it becomes a larger and more complex educational institution in the course of the 1990s.
3.26         These activities will also be informed by a general review of university
management and governance that was undertaken with assistance from the Ford Foundation and
the Commonwealth Secretariat in March 1992. Part of this assessment focused on re-structuring
UEM financial administration, which is currently spread across three thinly staffed offices. In
light of the critical importance that sound financial management will have for the successful
implementation of the UEM project, the University plans to bolster this sector by recruiting four
additional staff. A senior accountant and a procurement officer will be hired under the project.
In addition, the University will itself hire a junior accountant and a second procurement officer.
These staff will be trained by a procurement specialist, who will spend four months at the
University and assist in the preparation of initial tender documents. Moreover, the project
includes a fund of US$300,000 which will be used for training, equipment and expert advice
needed to carry out the UEM fiancial restrucuring plan, and to begin to put into practice some
of the recommendations that will be generated by the various management studies (see para.
2.27).
3.27         To manage the wide range of construction and rehabilitation activities contained in
the project, and to insure that a regular maintenance program services the improved physical



-26-
plant, the university has created a University Buildings Office (GIU - Gabinete de Instalacoes
Universitarias) to carry out these responsibilities. The GIU will be headed by an experienced
architect or civil engineer with physical planning experience who will be recruited from outside
the university and paid for under the project. He or she will be assisted by two less experienced
persons-an architect and a civil engineer-who have already been hired by the university. The
university has also provided space for this office, while the project will contribute equipment and
furnishings. To insure effective coordination, the GIU will work with an advisory committee
composed of knowledgeable individuals from both within and outside the University.
3.28         Finally, two technical studies will contribute to longer term improvements in
university governance and management. One will explore the legal and political possibilities of
changing the university statutes to increase its autonomy from government, thereby providing
UEM with greater flexibility in its financial and p"ersonnel management. This study is expected to
inform parliamentary legislation on higher education anticipated later this year. A second, later
study will conduct a cost/benefit assessment of transferring the university's central offices from
their current downtown location to the main eampus several miles away, and elaborate a
preliminary budget for this purpose. The move is expected to improve communication with
students and faculty, speed decision-making, and reduce transportation expenses between the two
sites. Terms of reference for ehese studies are included in the implementation manual.
USer Secondary Educadon Improvement base cost USS18.1 million)
3.29         The overall objective of this component is to improve the quality of entrants to the
University, thus reducing unit costs at the University through cutting down failure rates and
eliminating the need for remedial education programs. This objective will be achieved through
stabilization of the existing EPU network; improvements in the quality of pre-university education
nation-wide; and strengthening of management capacity and maintenance capabilities at the school
level. The component consists of the following:
(a)   Improvements in the uanUly of prenlvXedty education by increasing the supply
of teachers, supporting the development of a new curriculum and examination
system; increasing the availability of textbooks and other learning materials;
providing teachers with pedagogical support in the form of teaching materials and
supervisory visits; strengthening the strategic planning capacity of the NDSE; and
improvements in the system of in-service teacher training. (US$3.4 million).
(b)    StablUz he E    ndwtork by rehabilitating the existing schools, and
constructing dormitories and staff housing (US$12.5 million).
(c)    Building man_d             of the EPUs and the National Directorate of
Secondary Education, and strengthening school maintenance capability by in-
service training for school directors and administrators in planning and financial
management; decentralizing the materials budget and maintenance activities;
strengthening project management; and introducing efficient information
management systems at the school level aid between MINED and individual
schools. (US$1.4 million).
(d)     aS  gI enrollment CUE at the EPUs, by providing scholarships for girls,
supporting community awareness programs, and increasing the number of female
teachers (U.S.$860,000).



- 27 -
3.30         hunroine Eucatonal uaLy A set of activities was designed to improve the
quality of upper secondary education. Principal among them are improvements in curriculum and
student evaluation; studies on the current system of textbook supply and distribution and support
for the provision/production of teaching and learning materials; planned increases in the supply of
teachers; and improvements in administrative training systems and in-service teacher training.
3.31         The project will support the development of a new curriculum, study plans and
examination system for the EPUs, supervised by the NDSE; the preparation of training materials;
the design and Implementation of pedagogical seminars to disseminate curriculum activities, new
educational technologies and methodologies; the payment of honoraria to EPU teachers in the
preparation of study guides and examination questions; and supervision visits to EPUs. The
credit will also finance a study on options for increasing the relevance of the EPU curriculum. A
team of foreign curriculum specialists, financed by the Credit, will work directly with NDSE staff
and local experts in the preparation of the new curriculum and study plans (09 person months of
foreign consultants, 24 person months of local consultants). The credit will also finance
equipment and supplies for the NDSE to support curriculum development activities and the
dissemination of produced learning materials.
3.32         Concomitant with the development of new curricula, the technical committee
would review the long-term feasibility of including the disciplines as currently elaborated by
MINED. Study funds would also be included for evaluation of the current examination system for
EPUs (3 person months of foreign consultants, 12 months of local consultants); the preparation of
training materials ( 6 person months of foreign consultants, 12 months of local consultants) for
use in the evaluation of examination results as an aid in improving teacher quality; and to d -velop
recommendations for the preparation of a new system of examinations for the EPUs.
3.33         The funds for payment of honoraria to EPU teachers in the preparation of study
guides and examination questions will be managed by the school directors in accordance with the
existing budget procedures during the first two years of the project. In the subsequent years,
decentralized budget procedures will be implemented. Selection criteria for the payment of
honoraria are described in the component in4plementation manual.
3.34         Credit funds will also support the reinstitution of annual pedagogical seminars to
be held in Maputo and periodic technical meetings to take place on site at the EPUs, which have
fallen out of practice due to lack of funding. Annual pedagogical seminars, to take place in July
during school holidays, will be held to upgrade the skills of teachers in the development of the
new curriculum, and teaching/learning and evaluation methodologies. A seminar was also held in
1992, financed under the PPF. In 1992 and 1993, these seminars would serve to introduce the
proposed curriculum, while in later years the seminars would provide fora for skills-upgrading
covering pedagogical methodologies in specific disciplines or general pedagogical topics. Funds
for annual seminars, covering per diems for participants, will be provided to the individual
schools, while the NDSE will be provided with a travel budget to cover costs of staff visits to the
schools. Teachers' participationt in these seminars will factor into their performance evaluations
and career progression. A list of proposed future topics is included in annex mI.8.
3.35         A training strategy will be designed and implemented by ISP to support (i)
upgrading of the pedagogical and subject content skills of the existing body of EPU teachers; (ii)
providing opportunities for bachelor-level EPU teachers who are located outside of Maputo to
obtain further education; and (iii) funding a study to analyze options and make recommendations
for the introduction of alternative forms of pre-service teacher training. Credit funds will also



- 28 -
finance a staff development program to prepare EPU administrators and NDSE staff members for
their increased managerial responsibilities under a more decentralized system for pre-university
education.
3.36         The training strategy to be designed and implemented by ISP should explore
alternatives methodologies, combining distance education and/or other training methodologies
aiming at avoiding replacement of teachers during the school year. Under terms of reference
(Annex m.9) ISP staff and members of the NDSE will develop a detailed proposal for the
training program, combining distance education and/or other training methodologies to provide a
licenciado to EPU teachers currently holding a bachelor degree and to implement skills-upgrading
courses in specific disciplines or pedagogical topics. This proposal will include the terms of
reference for any local or foreign technical assistance to be contracted. A proposal. satisfactory
to the Association. for the training program of the first year will be presented by ISP and
MID INDSE as a condition of disbursements. This proposal will include type and number of
trainees and trainers; objectives and length of training activity; and estimated budget. Credit
funds will finance the study of pre-service options; the distance education upgrade program; and
scholarships for EPU teachers already in the field; travel costs and per diems for course
participants; salaries of trainers; and production and distribution of training materials. A technical
agreement will be signed between MINED and ISP prior to implementation of the training
program.
3.37         The NDSE will be responsible for coordinating training for school administrators.
The credit will finance in-service training and/or courses in pedagogy and educational planning
for NDSE staff and EPU administrators as well as technical assistance, both local and foreign, to
asist NDSE in the design of seminar topics and appropriate materials. These activities will begin
only after completion of the studies on school budgeting and the drafting of school regulations, as
described in paragraph 3.42. Details of the training program, including selection criteria for
participants and course objectives, are provided in the component implementation manual.
3.38         The credit will finance a study to be managed by NDSE which will explore
options for the production and distribution of textbooks for the EPUs. The Government will
allocate funds to pay teachers for the preparation of workbooks and learning materials. Details on
the criteria for selection, schemes of payment, and calculation of fee levels are available in the
component implementation volume. As in the case of honoraria for the production of examination
materials, the borrower has agreed during negotiations that the Government will assume full
responsibiliq for the financing of this fund.
3.39         The credit would also finance equipment for the production of the workbooks and
learning materials at the school level; and the provision of a fax machine to each school and to
the NDSE, so that communication between schools would be facilitated and that materials
prepared in one school could be swiftly transmitted to other schools. This sub-component will
also furnis laboratory equipment, library books (200 new books per year per EPU ) and the
provision of a kit of teaching materials by discipline or group of disciplines to support
improvement on teaching and students' learning abilities. Deailed descriptions of equipment and
teaching materials are provided in the component implementation manual.
3.40         Increasing the supply of teachers is a fundamental element in improving the
quality of pre-university education. As discussed in Chapter 2, at present, EPUs are grossly
understaffed. Shortages of teachers are particularly acute in the areas of Math/Physics, Computer
Science, Portguese, and English. Analysis of the future supply of ISP graduates indicates that



- 29 -
these areas will continue to be grossly understaffed during years to come. The project proposes
to support an increased supply of teachers to EPUs through the following activities: (i)
undertaking a study during 1992, to identify priority areas for expatriate teachers to be contracted;
and (ii) refining proposals for the gradual contracting of UN or other volunteers, the project
proposes to finance, on a decreasing basis, a total of 45 volunteers. Additionally, funds for
project preparation under the Second Education Project (Cr.2200) will finance an inventory of the
existing housing stock of the EPUs, estimating unit costs for housing construction, and the
development of a proposal for building housing stock to serve half of the EPU teaching body
some share of which would be constructed under the project civil works component.
3.41         Stabilization of EPU Network The project proposes the rehabilitation, re-
equipment and in some cases physical expansion of 6 existing EPU's, the rehabilitation of one and
construction of 4 student dormitories and the construction of 43 staff houses. The objectives of
the rehabilitation programme are that (i) all EPU's meet the minimum space and curriculum needs
dictated by the curriculum; (ii) opportunities are created for male and female students from
throughout the provinces to attend pre-university schools; and (iii) teachers can be retained by
provincial institutions through the provision of housing. Final designs for the rehabilitation and
the new facilities will be prepared by consultants during the first year of the project and will be
submitted to IDA for comments and approval. Due to financial constraints the entire
rehabilitation needs of each school may not be met by the project. Cost estimates are based on
preliminary surveys and further investigations may reveal problems which have not been foreseen.
Where necessary, priorities will be set in accordance with the basic objectives of this component.
The final decision regarding implementation of the proposed rehab.litation program for Xai-Xai in
a zone which was recently attacked or construction of a new school will depend on the situation at
the time of the first project implementation seminar. Designs for both options would be prepared.
Prior to negotiations, all sites for construction of new facilities and houses were allocated to the
MINED by firm title or "Direito de Uso".
3.42         Building manaement and administrative canaitX at the school and central
levels will be supported through preparation of materials on financial management, school
regulations, budgeting, and planning followed by the dissemination of these materials at a seminar
to be held for EPU directors and administrative staff. Credit funds to be provided under this sub-
component will also finance short-term overseas training in planning, school administration,
educational technology and pedagogy for both NDSE staff and EPU administrators.
3.43         To ensure effective project management, the credit will finance the hiring of
additional staff within GEPE (one lawyer, one civil engineer, one accountant, and one
procurement officer, and an administrator) and provide funds for office support. Considering also
that the NDSE is a new unit within MINED, and does not have the experience of developing
international projects, the credit will also finance 24 person/months of local consultants' services
to support the NDSE/PTG (Project Technical Group) in the implementation of a management
system for the technical sub-components and in the coordination of arrangements between NDSE
and GEPE, during the first two years of project implementation (see paras. 5.4-5.5).
3.44         Ienproving girls' enrollments The credit will finance about 280 scholarships in
the EPUs over the life of the project. Scholarships are primarily intended for girls enrolled in the
EPUs in Xai-Xai, Quilimane, Nampula and Beira, and will be gradually introduced. Criteria for
selection would include ESG performance, family income, family size, and place of residence
(with preference given to girls from rural areas). Scholarships, equal to no more than 20% of the
total number offered, can be extended to all low-income students, under the established criteria



- 30-
for girls. The unit cost for a scholarship covering all sc,ool fees, the purchase of school stpplies
and textbooks, and the costs of housing and transport is roughly US$3000 equivalent per
scholarship.
3.45         In addition, the physical works components of the credit would provide special
attention to the needs of female students. Dormitory construction would ensure sufficient, and
separated, dormitory space for girls, increasing the number of spaces for girls currently available.
School rehabilitation would include the provision of adequate bathroom facilities. Teacher training
and school management components would each include seminars directed towards increasing
fem.ie participation and enrollment. Pedagogical seminars will address teaching methodologies
for encouraging the participation of girls in the classroom. School management seminars will
train school directors in community outreach and awareness campaigns to increase female
enrollments. Finally, seminars would offered to the principals of lower secondary schools, to
train them in methods to encourage the continuing education of their female students.



-31 -
IV.        WTC rANAA.
A. proJeet Costs
4.1          The total cost of the project is estimated at MT152 billion or US$60.3 million
equivalent. Base costs are estimated at US$48.4 million equivalent and contingencies at
US$11.8 million equivalent (24.5% of base costs). Foreign exchange costs are estimated at
US$35.4 million or 73% of base costs. Taxes and duties included in project costs account for
approximately 10% of total project costs, or US$6.3 million equivalent. All costs are based
on April 1992 prices. Project costs by component are summarized in Table 4.1.
4.2          Project costs by expenditure category are shown in Annex IV-1. Capital costs
for civil works account for 52% of base costs; furniture, equipment, vehicles and supplies and
materials for 10%; training for 12%; technical assistance for 18%; and incremental recurrent
costs (salaries and allowances, utilities and supplies, and operation and maintenance of
buildings, equipment and vehicles) for 8%.
4.3          Civil works costs have been estimated on the basis of the value of current
contracts for comparable buildings. For UEM, construction costs are based on the rates of
US$400 per sq.m. for new staff housing and dormitories; an average cost of US$220-280 per
sq.m. for housing rehabilitation and US$56 per sq. m. for upgrading other University
buldings. For secondary education, construction costs are based on a rate of US$20-50 per
sq.m. for rehabilitation of EPUs (US$100 per sq.m. for Josina Machel); US$350400 per
sq.m. for extension work and construction of dormitories; and US$400 per sq.m. for new
teachers' housing. The cost of furniture, equipment, and supplies is based on contracts for
similar items recently awarded by MINED and the University or calculated as a percentLge of
construction costs in the case of new facilities. Average unit costs for overseas degree study
are taken to be approximately US$25,000 per year, with short courses and study tours costed
on the basis of actual comparable training programs. Technical assistance costs include
airfares, fees, allowances and taxes to be paid by the borrower. Incremental salaries are
based on current Government scales, and local training costs and operational and maintenance
expwenses are based on actual recent experience in Mozambique.
4.4           The total project costs include an allowance of US$11.8 million equivalent for
contingencies. Physical contingencies are 10% for civil works; 10% for vehicles, equipment,
and furniture; 5% for supplies and materials; and 20% for technical assistance and training
comprising US$4.6 million equivalent or 10% of base costs. Price contingencies have been
esimated using Bank projections of international and domestic inflation, and assume the
annual rates of increase set out below. lhe exchange rate used during appraisal was M12000
= US$S.The nominal exchange rate is assumed to adjust during the life of the project so as to
maintain a constant real exchange rate, given these projeted inflation differentials.
12932     i9         195        1                     1921
Foreign          3.9        3.9         3.8        3.8        3.8        3.8
Local           20.0        15.0       10.0       10.0       10.0       10.0



- 32 -
Table 4.i
(US$ Million)
iTp.R R . R: r: s:.   o ".ie.    1.25  4.01  .26     76         11
|}:;,Rm ,.i ..... ,, f, II~i.Ig' 2.17    4.37       6.54      67         13
"'''V.' Dove $'o    -       "    8     -34          3.60      95          7
1>. Muae t R    pi           . 0.60      1.60       2.20      73         S
R ^ ;j:'''' :,'."'1~esi4 s  '"1,.2$ '    2."64        89      68             .
btots:             e: .............                                 ;        -:; - . - :            ;.8.33   -   21.9.8  30. : 31  73 6.
T~Jr~~vemente   0,86       2.13.36              75 
: > BR. PA0iltti R   :,~m4l B.16 , '12.40                     7          2
C. ~4~aa.inent DvIopmsnt 0.330               -1.42     77 27
., "5' . 12.55       18.12       '   ' 3
121  i.43       464   ~41
.: ......................  .    ;                 .,Z."0 .... :2.v79 . I3 3 .: ^.
4.5           Project costs include an estimated US$6.3 million in indirect taxes on locally
procured civil works and goods, and on technical assistance fees. In addition to these taxes
and duties embedded in project costs, the Government imposes a series of taxes and duties
primarily on the importation of goods and equipment which have to be paiW by the buyer
separaty, even if the buyer is a government agency. Therefore, in addition to its
contribution to the project costs, the Government would have to set aside a total amount of
US$6.7 million in dutes and taxes, or about US$1.1 miion a year which it has to make
available to the implementing ministries in order to be paid back into general revenues.
These duties and taxes have not been included in total project costs as they are not usually



-33 -
embedded in the prices of goods and services. To include these taxes and duties in project
pricing would artificially inflate the project costs, as they are in essence a transfer payment
from one branch of Government to the other. Given the Mozambican legislative context, it is
necessary calculate the tax burden as the Ministry of Finance will have to allocate funds to the
appropriate line Ministries so that the indicated levies to release imported goods from
customs, etc. will be paid. Annex IV-2 provides a schedule illustrating both types of taxes
and duties, those included in project costs, and those which enter as additional payments by
Government. Annex IV-3 provides estimates of the tax burden generated by the project due
to this second group of taxes and duties.
4.6          The foreign exchange component of US$34.5 million was Lalculated on the
following basis: (a) civil works 70%; (b) furniture 91%; (c) vehicles and equipment 95%; (d)
supplies and materials 95%; (e) technical assistance 77%; (f) training and workshops 70%; (g)
overseas training and study tours 95%. For incremental recurrent costs, the foreign exchange
components were estimated to be 95% for vehicle operating and maintenance costs and 20%
for building maintenance.
4.7          The proposed project will require incremental recurrent expenditures for local
salaries for additional staff and operation and maintenance costs for buildings, equipment and
vehicles. Total incremental spending during the life of the project will amount to about
US$4.8 million equivalent, or 8% of project costs. Annual incremental expenditures to be
added to GOM will average about US$670,000 equivalent, US$440,000 for UEM and
US$230,000 for upper secondary education. This contribution on the part of Government
accounts for less than one percent of total recurrent expenditures made by Government in
1991. Estimated incremental costs generated by the proposed project will account for
approximately 1.5% per annum of the recurrent budget for the education sector.
4.8          During project preparation and appraisal, every effort has been made to
minimize the incremental recurrent costs associated with the project, by limiting the numbers
of additional staff required, rehabilitating existing buildings instead of constructing new ones,
etc.. However, a certain level of additional recurrent spending is seen as unavoidable, if
project objectives are to be achieved. In order to ensure the financial sustainability of the
project, a strategy for recurrent cost financing has been developed for each of the main
components:
(a)    For the University, all staff occupying housing will be asked to make a
monthly 'user payment" wbich is estimated to be about $100. These monies
will be used to cover routine maintenance, and to contract private management
of the university housing stock so that this burden does not fall on university
inistration. By June 30. 1993 a detailed action plan to operate and
maintain UEM's housing including a syster for the collection of user's
maintenance and management fees and a drafi ne ated contract with a
mnanement firm will be presented to IDA for review. All textbooks
produced or imported under the project will be sold at cost, and this price
calculation will include labor and overheads associated with the new university
bookstore as well as full unit costs at the university print shop. Maintenance
and servicing of computers to be purchased under the project will be carried
out by the university center for information science (CIUEM) by means of a
university service contract. Notably, CIUEM has become largely self-
financing in recent years as the result of extensive consulting, training and



-34 -
repair services It sells to finms outside the university. Dormitory construction
and rehabilitation of campus buidings will be linked to the establishment of a
university-wide maintenance program, the costs of which will be underwritten
by revenues from student accommodation charges, the recent large flexible
grant from SIDA (which includes a maintenance provision) and the
govemment's recurrent allocation. Inclusion of a maintenance line item in the
UEM budget for 1992 was earlier proposed by mission staff, and was
subsequendy acted upon by university management. Finally, the university
instituted in 1992 significant tuition charges (roughly $500 a year) that,
although they can be partially or totally waived on the basis of a student's
favorable academic perfbrmance or demonstrated financial need, shoul: still
generate some additional revenue for government that could be used to offset
recurrent cost increases.
(b)   For the EPUs, the outline of a recurrent cost financing plan was agreed with
Government at appraisal, covering maintenance costs for buildings,
equipment, and vehicles, as well as the costs of in-service teacher training and
teachers' bonuses. A combination of increased cost recovery and
Government budgetary contributions will meet all recurrent cost requirements
by the end of the project period. The Borrower has piven assurances that not
later than June 30. 1993. a deaild action Dlan and timetable on the transfer
to the Driva ser of the     eat of EPU dormitories be presented to
IDA for review and comments. toggeter with a 1uroosal for the decentralized
svstem of fee collection and utiliztion for school maintenance. Furthermore,
the Borrower shall. starting FY93. and roEgssively. throughout Projc
implementation increase its annual budgetary allocation to UEM to finance
maintenance of its existing hysical plant. from 0.5 percent of estimated
relacement value in FY93. to 2 percent by FY97. and tO me maintained at
accUnxle levels thereafter,
B. =EWamig
4.9   Ihe total project cost of US$60.3                       w 1cl
million equivalent, minus taxes and duties,
will be financed by the Government, cost               __                --S
recovery from project beneficiaries, and _
IDA (the financing plan is shown in Table
4-2). Ihe IDA credit of US$48.6 million   4vv;.o        3        1 IO;       7
equivalent wIll cover 81% of total project    1 eld     1.0    v   41
cost and the equivalent ofl100% of the                  7,0      40J       3
foreg excainge cost and 50.7% of local  -      m               . M
costs. The Government contribudon of                   .         -.
MT25 billion (US$10.1 million equivalent)
or 16.7% of the total, wIll finance 34.5% of             e
local costs, and 100% of the estimated   .
US$6.3 million of taxes included in project     Ug md._          i
costs. Beneficiary contributions, made up  B         =
mainly of users fees for building operation                            _ i 
and minteance, total US$1.6 mUilion and
wil cover the remaining 14.8% of local



-35 -
C.  P r
4.10           Procurement packages have been compiled with the aim of obtaining the most
economically efficient costs. When contracts are made up of more thaiA one lot, the slice and
package approach will be used.
4.11           Project-related procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4-3. Items
financed by IDA will be procured according to World Bank guidelines as elaborated in paras.
4.12 through 4.21 below. Where similar items are to be procured at different times during
the project life or are financed from different sources, the implementing agencies will ensure
reasonable standardization. Standard bidding documents for civil works and goods which
have been approved by IDA during past project negotiations will be used in the procurement
of these items. Standard contracts for consultants' services have been cleared for approval by
the Ministry of Finance and will be sent to iDA for approval prior to project effectiveness.
O          -,                                                                         otail
.,,.. .......                                    V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. ...
: :E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~::i~
...'.'....                                                             .
Sc I.i,- .  N, e,netal.  . . . . . ..........59.... ;
-VA.                                                         t~~~~~~~~~~~(0
q icUnoi  1~*



- 36 -
4.12         Procurement of dvil works. Estimated civil works contracts and the
associated procurement schedule are shown in Table 4-3. IDA's estimated financing of civil
works amounts to US$25 million equivalent, of which US$23.9 million will be awarded
according to International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures acceptable to IDA (all
contracts greater than US$530,000 equivalent), as set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May, 1992. In
the procurement of works, in accordance with the procedures described above, domestic
contractors are granted a margin of preference in accordance with and subject to the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the "Guidelines". All other civil works contracts,
up to a total value of US$1.1 million equivalent to be financed by IDA, may be awarded by
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA, and in accordance with the
"Guidelines", which will include local advertising, pre-qualification, public bid opening,
specific criteria for bid evaluation and award to the lowest evaluated bidder; foreign firms, if
interested, would not be precluded from bidding. LCB is justified in these cases as these
contracts are in widely dispersed locations and will be implemented by different organizations
according to differing timescales.
4.13         Pr                   To the extent possible, bid packages for the
procuremeat of furniture, equipment, vehicles, supplies and materials required under the
project would be grouped into homogenous packages in quantities that would achieve
economies of scale and timely and efficient delivery (and installation). ICB procedures in
accordance with 'Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and Credits" published by
the Bank in May 1992 would be applied for bid packages estimated to cost more than
US$200,)00 equivalent each, to an aggregate of US$3.8 million equivalent to be financed by
IDA. Library books for the pre-university schools and goods contracts valuing less than
US$100,000 equivalent, up o an aggregate of US$1.3 million equivalent will be procured
through local or international shopping (with a minimum of three quotations). Goods shall be
exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a third-party inspection firm. In comparison
of bids for goods to be procured through ICB, domestic manufacturers wo' Il be allowed a
preferential margin of 15 percent, or the existing customs duty, whichever is lower, over the
c.i.f. prices of competing imports.
4.14         A special arrangement has been proposed for the book fund at the University
(US$897,000 equivalent). As a condition of disbursement, detailed guidelines for the exact
functioning of such a fimd will be submitted to and approved by IDA. Items financed by the
fund are likely to include a mixture of imported reference works and textbooks, and the
printing of manuals produced by local faculty members (see para. 3.5). When books are
inpkorted, international shopping would prevail. Equipment for the printshop would be
bought by international comparative shopping as well.
.4.15         Consultants' services to be financed by IDA, including consultants for
t3chnical and managerial assistance, studies and architectural fees for design and supervision
(U1S$ 9.9 million), will be procured in accordance with "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowvers and the World Bank as an Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981. Details for the technical assistance and outline terms of reference are
included in the implementation manual. The use of standard technical assistance contracts
(see para. 4. 11) should reduce the delays of up to three months now being experienced in
contract clearance by the Ministry of Finance. The local consultancy market will be
strengthened as the project will provide a number of opportunities for local consultants.



- 37 -
4.16         Training to be financed by IDA, including local training courses, seminars,
workshops, study tours, and fellowships (US$7.8 million equivalent) would be procured using
regular Government procedures, subject to prior IDA review and approval.
4.17         IDA Review of Bid Packanes and Contract Awards Bidding awards for
civil works and goods valued at over US$250,000 equivalent will be subject to prior review
by IDA, as will all consultant contracts and training proposals and the first LCB contract
regardless of size. This represents about 97% of IDA financing for the project. Smaller
packages will be subject to random post-award review by IDA. All project units will
therefore be required to keep full procurement documentation on file for access by IDA as
requested.
4.18.        Major procurement of civil works and goods as well as consultants' services
and training, will be done by GIU for the University and by GEPE for the pre-university
component. The University and GEPE have already demonstrated competence in IDA
procurement procedures in the first two Education Projects and, further training in
procurement, in-country and abroad, is foreseen for new staff, with follow-up sessions offered
as required in the case of staff turnover.
4.19         To encourage prompt action on the part of the Borrower, tender documents
for the first year's civil works will be prepared prior to project effectiveness.
4.20         Since the first country implementation review, during which delays in
procurement decisions were brought forward as one of the mnjor obstacles to efficient country
implementation, the following activities have been initiated:
(a)    The Roads and Coastal Shipping project carried out a country procurement
assessment, co-financed by SIDA and staffed by ITC. The complete report is
expected by the end of FY93.
(b)    A review of contract approval thresholds and procedures was carried out
during 1991/92. This review and standard contracts are to be submitted to
IDA under the agreed financial management plan of the Economic
Rehabilitation Credit.
(c)    During the mid-term review of the Economic and Financial Technical
Assistance Project (Credit No. 2066.MOZ) in July 1992, a proposal to
strengthen the department reviewing draft contracts in MINFIN would be
considered.
(d)    Upon effectiveness of the Agricultural Services Project, scheduled to occur by
September 21, 1992, the Ministry of Finance will be obligated to reduce the
clearance period for draft contracts to a maximum of thirty days.



- 38 -
D.
*  4.21          Disbursements from the IDA credits will cover the percentage of total
expenditures as indicated in Table 4.4.
4.22         The IDA credits will be disbursed over a perod of about seven years (Annex
IV-6).and major Investments have been programmed for a period of five years. The project
comoletion date is December 31. 1998, and the closing date June 30. 1999. All applications
to withdraw proceeds from the IDA credits will be fiklly documented, except for (a) contracts,
purchase orders for goods and services or overseas training programs valued at less than
US$25,000 equivalent, (b) local training programs; and, (c) operating costs. For these
expenditures, disbursements will be made against certified statements of expenditure (SOE).
*.~~~~~~.    ~  ~  ~  ~    . *.*. ...     ........          -
..........                                             ..   ....   .   .   ... .T... ..
,  #ME fmUUo7RA



-39 -
E. Accounts and Audi
4.23    al Acounh. in order to ensure that funds for the projects will be available as
needed, two Special Project Accounts, one for each component, will be established by
Government with a commercial bank acceptable to the Association. Decentralization from the
Bank of Mozambique and by component will forestaWl unnecessary delays in disbursement of
funds. Component special accounts will receive deposits from the credit for financing eligible
project expenditures (for items described in the aoove section D). Maximum values for each
account have been estimated on the basis of three months of expenditures during the highest,
disbursing semester, and amount to US$1 million each for UEM and EPU. However,
experience shows that such high values are unnecessary during the first year of the project.
Therefore, initial amounts of US$0.5 million for each component will be deposited by IDA
after receipt and approval of withdrawal applicadons; these amounts are equal to one-half the
maximum value allowed in each account. Replenishment applications for the Special
Accounts will be submitted monthly or as required by each implementing agency and will be
accompanied by the fill documentation except for items eligible for disbursement on the basis
of certified statements of expenditure (SOE). Supporting documentation will be retained by
project executing agencies and will be available for review as requested by the IDA
supervision missions and project auditors. GEPE has ample experience with operation of
special accounts, and UEM would participate in a disbursement training course to be given in
October 1992.
4.24  Audit Ibe Government's performance in auditing project accounts in practically all
IDA projects has not been generally satisfactory. Completed audits of the First Education
sector project have been satisfactory. Delays in carrying out audits that were experienced in
the previous years of the projects are now being overcome as part of a larger effort to
eliminate the backlog for all IDA projects in Mozambique. Assurances have been obtained
from Government that all project and mpecial accounts will be audited by independent auditors
cceptable to IMA and that all audited accounts. togeher with the auditors' repor. will be
submitted to the IDA not later than nine months after the end of each Government fiscal year.
In auditing project accounts, the auditors will provide a separate opinion on SOEs and on the
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation. Project special accounts will
also be audited. As part of the UEM's efforts to improve accountability, UEM will carry out
one audit, in accordance with IDA criteria, for its total program for inclusion in its annual
report (para. 3.24).
V. P JIrEPEMKNTATION
A.  zmltionjdniMmagaMmt
5.1          An bIter-Ministerial Committee (IC), established by the Prime Minister,
presided over by the Minister of State Administration, will be responsible for the coordination
of the Capacity Building Program in Mozambique, of which the proposed projects make up
two elements. Co-presidents of the Committee will be the Minister of Planning and the
Minister of Finance. Its members will be the Ministers of Education, Justice, and Labor. The
Rector of UEM and the Attorney General can be asked to join the IC. The IC will be
responsible for formulation and coordination of the Capacity Building Strategy and for
ensuring consistency and strengthening linkages among the four components of the two
companion projects. Furthermore, the Committee will ensure that the projects adequately



-40 -
reflect and respond to the emerging policy changes In support of the capacity buiiding process
in Mozambique, particularly in the areas of incentives and housing. The planning unit in
hIAE will act as the technical secretariat for the Committee, which should report to the Prime
Minister on a monthly basis.
5.2          In the spirit of building management capacity among the various institutions
involved in project implementation, responsibility for implementation will be devolved as
much as possible, with the locus of management effort being close to the direct beneficiaries.
In practice, therefore, the UEM Rectorate and the individual faculties will be responsible for
implementation of the University component and the Department of Secondary Education in
MINED and the individual EPU school administrations will handle implementation of the
upper secondary component.
5.3          At UEM, overall responsibility for project management and implementation
will rest with the Office of the Rector. Much of this oversight authority is likely to be
delegated, however, to the new Deputy kector, who was appointed in April 1992. In
addition, direct responsibilities for building construction and rehabilitation will rest with the
recently established University Buildings Office, together with its advisory committee. The
staff development fund and fellowship administration will be handled by the UEM Office for
Studies and Projects. Textbook importation and publication decisions will be made by faculty
committees in each department using criteria of comparative quality and relevance, with
quality control delegated to the university's Pedagogy Division. The bookstore manager will
be responsible for the actual contracting of book imports and local study manual production,
consulting as necessary with the university librarian and head of the university press.
Computer specifications and training will be handled by the University Center for Information
Science (CIUEM). Administrative staff training will be managed by the UEM personnel
office. General financial administration and procurement will be handled by a re-structured
financial department, which will also hire two additional accountants and two procurement
officers to service the project. As a condition of effectiveness, staff should have been hired.
with qualifications and conditions acceptable to IDA. for the following posts: GIU Director.
Senior Procurement Officer. Senior Accountant. UEM has already hired the GIU Civil
Eneineer and Architect and advertised for the other positions.
5.4          The overall responsibility for management of the EPU component will rest
with GEPE, (Gabinete de Gestao de Projectos Educacionais - Educational Projects
Management Unit), within the Ministry of Education. It is proposed that GEPE be
responsible for project implementation, including procurement of goods, disbursement of
funds, and overall component accounting and auditing. Direct responsibility for the technical
sub-components of EPUs would rest in a technical group -Project Technical Group (PrG) to
be created in the NDSE under the coordination of NDSE Director. NDSE will be responsible
for implementation of the technical sub-components of EPUs in coordination with GEPE who
should provide the technical and financial support to NDSE.
5.5          GEPE is already effectively implementing the first and second IDA Education
Projects, one African Development Bank (AdB) project, and will be responsible for the
recently approved second education project of AdB. A recent mission by LOAAF staff to
Mozambique rated GEPE as the best organized project implementation unit with respect to
procurement and accounting monitoring. In order to preserve the quality of implementation
in light of increased demands, the credit will finance the hiring of additional staff (one civil
engineer, a part-time lawyer, one accountant, and one procurement officer, and a



- 41 -
administrator) to support the management of this new project and provide funds for office
support. Prior to negotiations, CEPE presented the tender documents for hiring the
consultants to design and supervise the rehabilitation of the EPUs, and detailed terms of
reference for new staff to be contracted under the project.
5.6          Considering also that the NDSE is a new directorate within MINED, and does
not have the experience of developing international projects, the credit will also finance 24
person/months of local consultants' services to support the NDSE/PTG in the implementation
of a management system for the technical sub-components and in the coordination of
arrangements between NDSE and GEPE, during the first two years of project implementation.
As a condition of effectiveness for the proiect, the two staff in the technical group in the
NDSE and the five staff in GEPE would have been contracted.
5.7          Organizational charts summarizing management structures and implementation
schedules for each component can be found in Annexes V. 1 and V.2.
A. Status of ProJect
5.8          ior the two components, local project preparation teams were formed in mid-
1991 to develop proposals consonant with previous implementation experience and realistic
implementation capability. Project design has reflected lessons learned from previous
implementation experience in Mozambique, as outlined in Annex V.3. This approach to
preparation was also a learning experience for the local teams and helped to build a sense of
ownership and motivation, which is expected to carry on into the implementation phase.
Consequently, the various implementing agencies are in a strong state of readiness to start up
the project, with a number of activities expected to go forward during the pre-effectiveness
period, utilizing PPF financing.
5.9          IDA has granted a PPF advance of US$750,000, in February 1992, for
project preparatory activities for this project as well as its companion project. Annex V.4
provides a proposed summary of these activities. As indicated below, preparation is well-
advanced for the first year of project activities.
5.10         The proposal for the UEM component was prepared by a committee of five
senior UEM staff members who worked under the Rector's direct supervision.
Representatives of the university departments were also involved in work groups which
developed specific sub-components of the proposal. AncRAer senior UEM staff member, who
was on study leave during this period, served as a consaltant and liaison between the
university and the IDA team.
5.11         The University revised its proposals following appraisal and published them in
two implementation volumes, which include all terms of reference for technical assistance and
studies, procurement and implementation schedules, monitoring indicators, costs by
subcomponents, IDA categories and GOM budget categories (a copy of the table of contents is
incluCed in annex V.5). UEM established the GIU, has already hired staff to be paid by
GOM, advertized for other positions and is actively managing the preparatory activities. A
draft contract with Habitar, to manage the resettlement and rehabilitation process has also
been cleared by IDA and it is expected that the first building will be free of occupants before
the end of 1992. Usufruct rights have been transferred to UEM for all buildings to be



-42 -
rehabilitated. However, thw usufruct rights (30 years) ned to be increased. UEM also needs
to provide evidence of ownership to a terrain available for eventual construction of core
houses to replace those which are already built and being made available. These ar
conditions of disbursement for the civil worxs. UEM is using a major portion of the PPF to
refine cost estimates and finalize the first year's work plan for campus rehabilitation, complete
an Initial group of 40 staff housing units that are nearly ready for occupancy, and carry out
important studies on university autonomy, university linkages, an operational plan for the
bookstore, management of the UEM housing stock, and the feasibility of creating a staff
savings fund. One study has been completed, others are ongoing. First yar programs for
the professional tralinig of academic and administrative staff program apd the management
training program are conditions of disbursement.
5.12         Similarly, a detailed implementation manual is available for the EPU
component, including all terms of reference for consultants and studies, implementation
arrangements and detailed time tables and responsibilities. (Annex V.5 contains the table of
contents). MINED is using PPF funds to hire technical assistance to prepare curriculum
proposals and to participate in the training seminar for EPU teachers, held in July 1992.
Detailed terms of reference and invitations for consultants to prepare detailed drawings and
tender documents for upgrading the EPUs are ready for publication, so that TA contracts can
be awarded shortly after project effectiveness. Since the preparation of new training
programs for school managers and other administrative staff will need to take place during the
first year of the project, this training is not expected to get under way until the second year.
C. Monitoing, R     dng, aLd Evalualon
5.13         As mentioned in para. 5.2 above, each component lead agency has designated
a person and a small group to serve a component manager, with responsibility for monitoring
implementation. As part of the project launch exercise in late 1992, these component
managers/management teams will develop clear indicators for monitoring progress (input,
process, output, and impact indicators) on a six-monthly basis and will prepare trial formats
for reporting semi-annual implementation progress. These indicators should be closely linked
to the quantitative targets established for each component (e.g., university and EPU
enrollment levels, student pass rates, student faculty ratios, numbers of management trainee
graduates, etc.). The university and the NDSE have already defined a number of
performance indicators (Annex V.6), some of which will be incorporated into the annual
reports to be supported by this project. Progress reports will also include comprehensive
financial statements covering actual and planned expenditures, and the status of IDA
payments/reimbursements.
5.14         Annual project implementation reviews will be conducted by November 30 of
eac year in order to faciitate effective coordination of the project components and allow for
flexible responses to changing circumstances in Mozambique. The Borrower agreed during
neWgoiaton that not late than Ocober 31 from 1993 on, each CgMpoent will preare a
anu  evaluation of proiect implementation and inmact to be discussed during the annual
UgjJect ipementation rview. Evaluation will take into account indicators and criteria
defined during the project launch workshop. During each annual review, to be held by
November 30 of each year, each component will refine detailed work plans for activities
programmed for the subsequent year. Particular attention will be given to the implementation
of the resettlement plan for University housing, including beneficiary assessment of relocated



-43 -
tenants and to evaluating the impact of the salary incentive find's impact on civil service
staffing and peformance.
5.15         To ensure that a complete stock-takg of project implementation performance
and expected developmet impact is carried out during the project lifetime, the Government
and IDA (with likely participation of other associated donors) will conduct a mid-term
evaluation of the project in the second semester of 1995. The results of suc an in-depth
review will help to make mid-course improvements in implementation. lhe Bo a
during n   aio  that not later than Novemb  3. 1995. an in dt-evaluatlon of ri
JMlementation and inpact will be preDared b1y eah comnent as inpUt for discussion during
the mid-term pro3ect review. Those reports, in addition to evaluating the indicators and
criteria as defined above, should include any proposals for reallocation of credit funds.
5.16         A supervision plan, including mission scheduling and staffing needs, for IMA
supervision missions, is provided in Annex V.7.
5.17         The Government will prepare a project completion report within six months of
the completion date, based upon a format to be agreed with the IDA.
VI. 
A. Boflts &gd
6.1          Proceeding with the project as proposed by the Government is clearly
justified, to the extent that the project will tackle many of the key constraints to building
capacity in Mozambique, and will thus enable the country to deal better with the monumental
tasks of reconstruction and growth, rural development, and poverty alleviation. These
constraints being addressed by the project include: (a) inadequate staff incentives and training,
insufficient bools, and substandard facilities at the University; and (b) shortages of teachers
and learning materials and excessive administrative centralization of upper secondary
education. The companion project (Public Sector and Legal Institutions Development Project)
would address: (a) outdated or non-existent training programs for lawyers and other legal
workers, and gravely inadequate numbers of Mozambicans being trained for legal careers; and
(b) lack of, and often distorted, incentive structures for civil s-rvants, combined with serious
weaknesses in individual skill levels among senior planners, managers, and technicians.
6.2          The Government and IDA forged a strong partnership in the area of capacity
building, through the analysis of the main capacity issues as laid out in the 1991 Capaciy
Buildng Emewor Pagr and Capa   Jaildigg Secr Reot. The proposed project is a
logical extension of this analysis into the realm of action.
6.3          To better appreciate the anticipated benefits of the project, it is useful to
consider briefly the capacity status of Mozambican public and private instiutions, in the
absence of such a project. Without the project, it is highly likely that UEM teaching faculty
will contiue to leave the University in increasing numbers and that student drop-out rates will
remain high. These conditions would restrict the numbers of university graduates, truncate
nascent research capacity, and force UEM to take on more expatriate teachers to fill the void
created. Similarly, EPU teachers would be unable to cope with student erolments and
would continue to deliver subtndard teaching products (in the absence of books and teaching



materials), thus contributing to a further deterioratie'' . learning achievements, with
cascading negative consequences for ill-prepared uni .sity entrants and graduates entering
directly into the labor market. Without the companion project, it is doubtful that
Mozambique's small and fragile legal system would even begin to deal with the enormous
number of civil and criminal cases coming before it, including the many legal dimensions of
the economic liberalization process which is firmly underway but not adequately underpinned
by legal changes. Finally, in the absence of the project (and associated reforms in public
pay), it is inevitable that the senior civil service will continue to be eroded by attrition and
weak recruitment and by demoralization of those who continue to work for the Government.
'Those who remain in the public service, who are insufficiently trained in public
administration, will also be unable to carry out their responsibilities, and existing bottlenecks
in implementation of public sector programs will only worsen.
6.4          The IUM  component of the project is expected to generate multiple benefits,
both for itself and for Mozambican society. First, the combination of staff stabilization
(through retention incentives) and nationalization (through staff development), textbook
provision, library strengthening, and facutty linkages will upgrade educational quality and
reduce student drop-out and repetition, thereby increasing the number of graduates produced
each year. Second, improved mechanisms of accountability and structures for management
will place its relationship with government on a more stable and collaborative footing which
still preserves university autonomy. Third, an increased capacity to receive students from
other parts of the counry will create over time diversified and representative leadership and
managerial cadres that will contribute to long run political stability in the country. Finally,
the major effort to rehabilitate its physical infrastructure will ensure that these now critical
needs are addressed-thereby insuring institutional capacity and productivity over the next
decade and beyond-before a likely national peace accord focuses government and donor
budgetary attention on the massive challenge of re-building the country's primary school
system.
6.5          Reduced student drop-out and repetition at the ue seconda  level will
increase the number of graduates each year and improve the quality of University entrants.
Through increasing gender equity, the project wil strengthen women's access to university
education, and to key positions in the public and private sectors. The decentralization of
fimds for mainenance, teacher training, and teachers bonuses to the school level, working
through official Government budgetary channels, will support the efforts of MINED to design
budgetary systems and provide staff training which ensure that these key activities are
undertaken. Thus, implementation and financial management capacity will be strengthened at
the central, provincial, and school levels. The pilot program of financial decentralization for
the EPUs will then be extended to general secondary schools. Communication flows
throughout MINED will be improved, information systems strengthened, and participatory
processes in all aspects of educational planning reinforced, as the role of the NDSE as a
technical advisor to the schools and clearing house for school initiatives is revitalized.
B. 1Eak
6.6          Overall, the greatest risk facing the Capacity Building Project is precisely that
the capacity to plan and manage implementation of the various components will fail to
materialize, or will deteriorate over time. The broad strategy to deal with this project-specific
risk is precisely the same one being applied on a national scale in the project itself: improve



- 45 -
Incendtves to component managers and other important Implementors, create strong enabling
institutlonal environments (e,g., managemet unit organztional structure, management style
and systems, office technology, etc.), and offer stimulating and relevant training (pr-service,
in-service, on-the-job) to project managers and their staffs. Tbe application of this risk-
reducing strategy is spelled out in greaer detail for each of the prject components in the
paragraphs below.
6.7          Since it possesses the greatest concentration of professional skills in the
country, IUM has a greater capacity than most Mozambican institudons to manage risk.
Nevertheless, implementation capacity remains a continuing concern, particularly with regard
to the substantial amount of civil works anticipated under the project. 'The university has
recently taken steps to shore up Its management capacity in these areas: a Deputy Rector has
been appointed, and a new management unit (the University Buildings Office) is being
organized to supervise construction and maintenance activities. Other parts of the University,
such as the Engineering and Architecture Faculties and the UEM planning office (GEP)
possess experience in this area, which constitutes an additional resource. A series of specific
management studies being conducted under the Education II Project, and an overall review of
niversity management and governance structures, currendy underway with other donor
support, are expected to recommend other administrative improvements.
6.8          There is also a risk that the UEM will have difficulty attracting and retainng
staff when they return from graduate study abroad. To minimize this risk, the project is
designed to expand staff access to housing, as a meaningfl staff retention incentive. Other
actons, including external institutional linkages, increased availability of computers and
reference books, opportunities to attend professional meedngs, the new university research
fund established by other donors, and campus renovation will all create a more positive work
environment and an enticement for staff to remain at UEM.
6.9          For the EPUs, the risk of inadequate capacity in MINED and at the schools
has been minimized by concentrating the early years of project implementaion on training and
systems development. Decentralization of key functions to school level wIll also help to avoid
overburdening the staff at the NDSE. Furthermore, the project has built in incentives for
teachers, including the provision of housing, and the institudon of small bonus funds to
reward outside activities, which will aid in the attraction and retention of EPU teachers and
school administrators.
C. Imnac on &M  of          Attedon
6.10         Capacity building in Mozambique will expand significandy the supply of
higher level humansurms which is a necessary condition for the achievement of all IDA
program objectives. The proposed project also contins special measures to increase women's
educational opportunities.
6.11                      I== The project is rated Category C, and as such, no
formal environmental analysis ir required. During appraisal, building inspection codes and
reguadons were evaluated. Prior to any construction or rehabilitaton, pemits must be
obtained from the Government housing agency and plans approved. After completon of civil
works, inspection visits are made by the electricity company, the water company, and the
Government housing inspection agency to verify the soundness of construction. These
procedures were judged to be environmentally sound. These procedures would pertain to the



-46-
constructon of now buUdings on UEM campus, the rehabilitation of apartment buiding off-
campus, and the construction of dormitories and staff housing at upper secondary schools. A
satisfactory resettlement plan was submitted before negotiations; regarding the resettlement
requirements for apartment buUdings to be rehablitated by the University, it is Important to
stre that tenants are being voluntarily relocated, (a tenants' survey was carriod out under the
PPP), and for the less than 20% of tenants who do not wish to relocate to project-provided
housing, alterative apartments are being provided. Monitoring of the resetlement plan wIll be
done on an annual basis during project Implementaton reviews.
ViI. AMMPfAN= AND RECOMMPAlIQ
7.1          The following will be conditions for Effectiveness of the Credit:
that GOM furnishes documentary evidence, satisfactory to IDA, certifying
its formal approval of the Capacity Building Action Plan (para. 1.2);
that key Implementation staff have been employed, on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA (see paras. 5.3, and 5.6).
7.2          Conditions for disbursement of the IDA Credit are:
for the book fund, that the study and recommendations for the University
bookstore, and the guidelines for the functioning and implementation of
the book fund is completed and found to be satisfactory to the University
and IDA (para. 3.5);
for tining programs, that the first year training programs be completed
and approved by IDA (para.3.36 and para.5. 1l); and
for all civil works, that satisfactory evidence of ownership of all sites be
furnished to IDA (para.3.41 and para.5.11).
7.3          During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained from the
Government:
that the Government will take necessary measures to free from all
occupants the sites legally attributed to UEM to carry out the construction
program and implement the resettlement plan as agreed with the
Association;
that the Government will progressively increase its budgetary allocation
for maintenance of the UEM physical plant from 0.5% of estimated
replacement value in FY93 to 2.0% by FY97 (para. 3.23);
that UEM will by June 30, 1993 present to IDA for review detailed
proposals for operation and maintenance of University housing (covering
establishment and collecion of users' mainenance and manuaemet fee)



-47-
and the draft negotiated contract withi the management firm engaged
(para. 3.14 and para.4.8.(a));
that by June 30, 1993, MINED will present to IDA a proposal to
privatize the management of EPU dormitories and decentralize the
collecton and utilization of school fees (paras. 4.8 (b);
that by October 31, 199 and each year thereafter, the component
maaeswould prepare annual progress reports, to be evaluated during
the annual project review by November 30 of each year; and that an in-
depth mid-term project review be held by November 30, 1995. (paras.
5.14 and 5.15).
that the Government, during the execution of the Project, continue io
maintain UEM and MINED staff responsible for Project implementation.
7.4             Based on the above, it is recommended that the project constitute a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 34.1 million (US$48.6 million equivalent) to the
People's Republic of Mozambique.



- 48 -               ~~~~~~Annex I
Page 1 of 4
MQzam=hke
Capacity Building: Human Resources Development Project
CAPACITY BUILDING STIRTEGY
ESTRAT3GIA DO CAPACITY BUILDING
1. A partir do ano 1986, o Governo Moqambicano iniciou e
desenvolveu todo um conjunto de reformas Politicas, Econ6micas
e Sociais. Estas reformas, vem consubstanciadas na Constituicao
da Repdblica, aprovada em Novembro de 1990, que consagra a
abertura do pafs ao pluralismo politico, e define que a
economia do pais assenta nas forqas do mercado.
2. A partir do ano de 1987, o pais iniciou a implementaq&o do
Programa de Reabilitaq&o Econ6mica, que incorporou em 1990, a
componente Social, dando-se assim corpo a todo um esforqo para
reverter o decrescimo econ6mico que se verificava at6 ent&o.
Da necessidade de neste quadro se introduzir um conjunto de
reformas institucionais, foram-se tornando evidentes as fraquceas
de cardcter institucional de que enfermam a Administraqgo
P1blica e a quase generalidade das Instituig3es nacionais.
Essas fraquezas, tornaram-se mais agudas como resultado da quase
total destruqao das infraestruturas economicas e sociais nas
zonas rurais e o consequente surgimento dos deslocados e
refugiados de guerra, tornando-se o desafio da reconstru;&o
nacional, um exercicio de dimens&o gigantests so levarmos em
linha de conta o ponto de partida e as possibilidades do Pals.
3. De facto, Mocambique 6 um pals com cerca de 15/16 milh8es
de habitantes e o efectivo de graduados nacionais cor  forma.&o
superior nao ultrapassa o8 5000, o que pode ser considerado dos
niveis mais baixos do mundo, quando comparado com o de outros
paises.
t esta a realidade, que faz com  quo o factor humano seja o
elemento central de t^ualquer estratdgia de deoenvolvimento
desenhada ou : desenhar sempre no pressuposto de que so pretend.
caminhar para ur sociedade civil e democratica efectivamente
assente num Estado de Direito.
4. Apenas a disponibilidade em quantidade e qualidade de recursos
humanos nacionais, habilitados tdcnica e cientificamente e
devidamente organizados, pode permitir a criaqgo de bases
institucionais que alicercem o modelo de sociedade para onde se
pretende caminhar.



-49                         AnexIz
Page 2 of 4
5.  neste cendrio quo  a Governo Mocambicano tem estado a
desenvolver com a Comunidade Doadora em particular o Banco
Mundial, todo um exercicio - 0 Capacity Building -, que A no
fundo  um  exercfcio  de criseo  de  capacidade  humana  e
institucional, com vista a, de uma forma gradual, se lograr
aquele objedtivo.
6. E osta capacidade, que num clima de paz e estabilidade vai
permitir  o relanqamento  da actividade  econdmica  e sua
expans&o, a luta pelo alivio a pobreza, o incremento da
disponibilidade   do8  serviqos  bdsicos   aos   cidadgos,
designadamento a educacso e sadde e o reforqo das
instituicoes.
7. As componentes jd identificadas, a saber, o Ensino
Universitdrio,  o Ensino  Pre-Universitsrio,  a  Formaroa
Juridica, a Administracso Pdblica, a Formarqo Tdcnico
Profissional,  a  Assistencia  Tdcnica,  sao  a  prove  da
definigAo da linha que o Governo de Moqembique pretende
seguir.
Em relaeao ea Ensino UniversitArio, um, conjunto de medidas
oatS mendo implementado, incluindo o estabelecimento de uma
estrat4gia de estabiliza9&o institucionai e crescimento para a
proxima d4cada.
Cor o plano estrat4gico adoptado prar  a UEM, o Governo tem em
vista eliminar a tendincia negativa de perda do pessoal docente
e melhorar o rendimento do processo educativo, incrementar a
capacidade de gestao, molhorar as condiq6oes de vida dos
estudantes, obter maior transpar4ncia e reportabilidade no
desompenho institucional e estabolecer maior equilibrio e
ropresentaqao das diferentes zonas do paLs e introduzir
melhorias nas infraestruturas.
A maior prioridade 4 dada ao desenvolvimento institucional e
utilizsqao com maior eficAcia dos recursos fisicos, humanos e
financeiros existentes, para permitir a consolidacqo dos
resultados positivos quo ultimamente vem mendo alcanqados e riar
condicoes  operetivas  maim  estdveis  para  uma  expansao
progressiva Ao longo da d6cada.
Na Area do Ensino Pr6-UniverstArio, o Governo pretende
desenvolver acq8es para a molhoria da qualidade do ensino,
onvolvendo a elaboraqAo de novoa curriculuns renov-ao e
modernizaqao do materiais e metddos pedag6gicos, reforco da
capacidade gestaeo o do  funcionamento  das  instituiq8os
escolares,  bem como a reabilitaeao e apetrechamento das
respectivas infraestruturas.
Pare a nelhoria da qualidedo dos professores, tem-se em vista, a
realizaq5o de acq6es de reciclagem do pessoal docente em
tdcnicas didictices, bem como em temAticar de especialidade,
desenvolvirento do ac8oes do apoio podag6gico e de estudos de



-50-                           u
Page 3 of 4
alternativas de formaq&o rApida dos docentes par& oste nivel do
ensino. a4m do recrutamento de professores expatriados para
colmatar necessLdades especificas identificadas.
No dominio do desenvolvionto das instituiq8es legai, a
estrategia cdnsiste fundamentalmente:
(i) No estabelocimedto do mocanismos visando o reforqo da
capacidade profissional no Ambito da actividade Juridica,
nomeadamente na magistratura e na advocacia;
(ii) Na adopeao do medidas com vista a liberalizaao da
prAtica de advocacia;
(iii)  No  estabeleci-tento  de  instituiqeo   e  no
desenvolviment,o de aco8os de formagao profissional do
magistrados;
(iv) No esforgo de estabilizaao * molhoria da qualidade do
processo de ensino/aprendizagom na Faculdado de Direito da
UEM, bem como na realizapao de acpeos de actualizaeao dos
graduados e molhoria das condi3eos operativas do conjunto
das institui8oes ligadas a administra,qo da justi;a e
promocao da legalidade.
No dominio do funcionamento do serviqo pdblico, a Governo
estd empenhado na descentralisacio polftico-administrativa
para a nivel local ligada ao reforqo da democratiza.&o em
curso no pars, na formulaqao de polfticas * ostrat6gias
operativas para o servio e na molhoria da qualidade dos
servicos prestados.
Nesse quadro protende-se lovar a efeito ac8es par- continuar a
restruturar o serviqo pdblico, aperfeiqoar *struturas e
mecanismos de progrossao nas carreiras profissionais, melhorar
o0 termos * as condiq8-s gerais de emprego e remuneraao no
sector pdblico, limitar a saida do pessoal de olevada
qualificaqao * experi4neia pars outros sectores de emprego, e
desenvolver a capacitagao aos nivwis central, provincial -
distrital tendo em linha do conta as n.oessidades das
instituig8es e as actuais medidas sobr- deseentralizaq&o e
desenvolvimento local.
No Lubito da components relative *o Treinamonto, a estratgia.
visa o reforqo da capacidade instituoional e a consequent*
molhoria da sus efLioLneLa, eficcia, s ofectividads atrav6s
designadamento do acq8es do formagAo * capaecita,lo do longa,
mddia e curta durac;o, prepara;ao on "pro-service" para as
ocupaqdes  profissionais,  a  formaqlo  em  serviqo  para
aprofundamento dos conhecioentos em novas t4cnicas de trabalho,
nos Areas profissionais chaves, o fortaleelmonto das capacidades
locals  em  matdria  do  gestlo  econdaica,  nomoadamento,
ocon6mica, contabilidade, lois * t&cnicas do nogcio.
Para o alcance dos objectivos preconiz-dos importa molhorar a



-51-                         Arns I
Page 4 of 4
organizaq&o e a coordenaQ&o das acc6e8 de formaqao que
atd ao momento estd a ser lovadi cabo pelos diferentes
rinistdrios e organizag8es. Estudos deverso ser feitos com
vista a reformulaqao da actual poiftica de emprego o
formaqaao  profissional,   facilitando   e  encorajando   a
participaq 4o  das  diferent&s  forqas  do  mercado  na  sua
implementa&ao.
A formaqAo tdonica deverd ser encorajada e analisada a
possibilidade da reformulaqeo dos programas de ensino e
critdrios  da  avaliaqao  e  certificaq&o  envolvendo  as
diferentes dreas da Economia Nacional designadamente a
comercial, industrial, agro-pecuAria e de serviqos. Como forma
de aumentar os ingressos nas escolas tecnicas e institutos, os
curios nocturnos deverao ser introduzidos onde ainda nao
existam.
A formaqao profissional o vocacional, levada a cabo pelos
diferentes centros, podera ser um dos factores impulsionadores
da qualidade de formaqSo dos trabalhadores de todos os sectores
da economia, pelo facto de as seus servioso serem bastante
flexiveis e levados a cabo durante um curto espaqo de tempo.
Torna-se pordm necessario reforqi-los com pessoal altamente
capacitado, envolvendo tambem recursos financeiros suficientes.
Durante as dltimos anos o governo iniciou passos importantes com
vista a definir e direccionar as actividades da Assist8ncia
Tdcnica en Moe,a-bique. Neste processo, d de destacar a
aprovaqao, em Maio de 1990, do Documento de Orienta;ao sobre
a Politica de Cooperaqao T4cnica, o qual define os objectivom
e prioridades da AT no patm, estabeleeo a quadro da *ua get&ao,
o traea directrizes a observar na prossecu95o dos objectivom
enunciados, sendo de destacar as quo concernem a orienta,ao da
CT para actividades de formaqao, d racionalizacao e
programaqao da CT de modo a elevar a sua eficAcia e reduzir o
seu custo, a necessidade oe avaliaqao e coordenacao da CT em
estreita articulaqao com os doadores.
Em cumprimento destas directivas, foi lanqado o Programa
Nacional de CooperaCao Tdcnica (PNTC) no fimbito do exercicio
NaTCAP. Por outro lado, a comunidade doadora teom-se maostrado
receptiva ao desenvolvimento do Fundo do Pessoal, possibilitando
ao governo a contrata&ao da AT main aJustada Am nocesmidades em
mercadoa regionals e outrom.
Para quo os resultadoa destes esfor;os surtam o efeito demejado,
e necessmrio que me continue a trabalhar na melhoria dos
mecanismom de gestaa desta CT, favorocendo o desenvolvimento dos
recursos humanos nacionais, na priorizaqao das principais
componentes, na integraqao da CT nos programas de desenvolvimento
institucional e na capacitaqao do governo na dimsemina,ao da
informaao s*obre esta CT.



-52 -
Annex II-I
Eduardo Mondlane Uni=fty
STUDENT ENROLLMENT BY COURSE OF STUDY: 1975 . 1991
Course                 1975    1977  1980  1985   1989   1990   1991
Agronomy                  104      41    60   208    227    209    271
Architecture               -        -     -      -      94    124    119
Biology                   49       22    25      6      83      99     99
Physics                    12       9     11     2      29      39     56
Geology                    1S       3    14      -      62      79     75
Chemistry                  5        3    13    29       36      55     62
Law                      458      156   150      -    276    253    350
Economics                285      134   147   238    532    485    507
Civil Engineering         119      34    36   129    158    223    179
Eeictical Engineering     153      31    30   177    219    284    275
Mechanica' Engineering    126       9    72   160    164    190    166
Chemical Engineering      28       14    22    75       91    107      91
Geography                 27        1    20      9       -      41     62
History                  242       40    24    11       34      75     95
Linguistics                -        -     -      -      44      69     87
Math/computer science     64       23    1S    32       99    119    126
Medicine                 525      153   108   162    266    287    260
Veterinary Medicine       91       43    70   113    124    146    136
Others                   131       61    199    91      94      -       -
TOTAL                   2433      777  1016  1442   2632   2884   3016



-53 -
Annex 11-2
Mo=Umbby
NATIONAL AND FOREIGN FACULTY BY DEPARTMENT
- May IM91 -
asional Facly              Forepg                  Percent
DO=                 Acdve*   Inw lhbiW              Puxu4yF                  EoWu
Agronomy              12              13             21           46         46
Architecture           8               -               8          16         S0
Biology               12               2              6           20         30
Physics                4               1               7          12         58
Geology                8               2               8          18         44
Chem ry                8               2               S          IS         33
Law                   23                               5          28          18
Economics             17               8              12          37         32
Engineering           39               9             20           68         29
Social Sciences       25              16             21           62         34
Mathematics           20               2              13          35         37
Medicino              60               6              6           72          8
VetednaryMod.         Z                A             14           de         a
Total              257              66             146         469       31%
Imbdu fbl ad -aa seff



-S4 -
Annex E-3
BUDGETr 1990
(US$)
GovernMent           Donors           Total
Recurrent conts:
Salaries                $1,636,093         $10,037,507      $11,673,600
Other                    2,527,430            751,223         3,278.653
Investment:
construction               759,846           2,531,741        3,291,587
EquIpment                2,457,373           1,005,583        3,462,956
Other                      377,228             81,912           459,140
TOTAL                          $7,757,970          14,407,966      $22,165,936
$aum: UDM -Pm.m and Pypmiva
Exchap rle: U9SI.00 - 927.02 Mt.



Annex i-4
Eduardo Mondlane Unieeh
ESiATB"TD BlDGEr - 1992
(US$)
Government            Donors             Total
Recurrent:
Salaries               $3,371,905         8,585,387        11,957,292
Other                   1,693,476         3,722,628        5,416,104
Investment:
Construction           2,660,285          3,539,333        6,199,618
Equipment                874,857          3,103,809        3,978,666
Other                    213,047          3,136,285        3,349,332
TOTAL                        $8,813,570        22,087,442        30,901,012
Source: Eduardo Mondlane University
Exchange rate: US$1.00 = 2,100 Mt.



-56 -
Annex II-5
CaMackiy Building: Human Resources Develogment Project
Eduardo Mgndlane UniDeit
FACULTY/STUDENT RATIOS BY DEPARTMENT - MAY 1991
Departnent                            Ratio
Agronomy                              1: 7
Architecture                          1: 12
Biology                               1: 6*
Physics                               1: 4*
Geology                               1: 7*
Chemistry                             1: 4*
Law                                   1: 14*
Economics                             1: 19
Engineering                           1: 16
Social Sciences                       1: 4*
Math/computer science                 1: 4*
Medicine                              1: 8
Veterinary Medicine                   1: 5
cnty re-oped deputm_U which have not yet rahed fullt eelnm



- 57 -                           Annex I-6
Capaciq Buiding: ua Resources Development Poect
B3duardo dQndiane Universit
REGIONAL DISIUTION OF UEM STUDENTS
(Percentage distribution by birthplace)
Province % of                                      Admission
Provirnce       Total Population+    1981      1985      1990      Exam 1991
Cabo Delgado         7.7             3.4       4.9       3.4
Niassa               4.2             2.0       3.1       2.9          -
Nampula             19.8             7.4       7.4       7.4         7.1
Zambezia            20.6             9.9      12.2       8.1         3.7
Tete                 6.8             4.1       4.6       4.5          -
Sofala 8.8          6.5              7.3       6.5       7.8
Manica               5.3             1.7       2.7       2.9
Inhambane            8.1            16.6      13.1      11.8
Gaza                 7.9            12.4      10.2       9.5         2.7
Maputo              10.8            31.8      32.8      40.7        78.7
TOTAL              100.0            95.8*     98.3*     97.7*       100.0
+CNP/DNE, Infom   Eati 1986
do not tot 100% due to aXchujo of foianbom an hiztlm unknown



Annex t-7
Page 1 of 2
Mozambigue
Capagit Building: Human Resgurces Developmen Prolect
Edufard  Mondlane UPi>eFSt
INDICATIVE LIST OF EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE ACTIVITIES, 1992
(exdudes tedmical assstance)
Donor                                Amount (USS)               Sector Benfitted
Ford Foundation                         120,000                  woci sciencs
Pord Foundation                          40,000                 Center A. Studies
Ford Founaon                              6,000                 wUppolt staff
51A                                    178,000                 a11
SIDA                                     18,5O                  soppoit staff
British Council                         pending                 all
Commonwalth Sec.                        pending                 all
USAMD                                   pending                 all
Gulbenkian Fdn.                         pending                 aul
FPNIA                                    60,000                 Agronomy
Govt. of Fmnue                          180,000                 various
USIA                                    pending                 various
Poitugual                                20,000                 various
Got. of N elln                           87,500                 various
Prfessional Meeting
Ford Foundation                          50,000                 socia sciences
SAREC                                    41,600                 all
NORAD                                   192,800                 all
Libmv. Documetaon and Comnmte
SIDA                                    324,500                 bookb
SIDA                                     46,500                 textbooks
SARBC                                   166,600                 books
SIDA                                     92,500                 docuntaton
Ford FounaPtion                          60,000                 co_pot
Ford Foundaton                           11,000                 tining
Vsitinu Profeors and Toahing S&Modt
Fond Foundation                         123,000                 social sciences
UNFPA                                    65,000                 soeial sciences
UNDP                                  2,000,000                 anomy, veerinay
DANIDA                                  250,000                lkw
Con _un-vealtb Sec.                      60,000                 linkage  xploration



59-
hnncz1 I-7
Page 2 of 2
Donor                             Amoun (USS)                   Beaer aneIfi
SARBC                                  1,540300                 an
SIDA                                    150,000                 an
NORAD                                   289,300                 a
IDRC                                     52,0W00                 cein
SIDA                                   1,615,000                an
USAID                                 5,000,000                 aul
SDA                                     485,000                 el
NORAD                                    30.000                 an
AuatIL                                   40.500                ai
SIDA                                    605,500                   -d
SIDA                                     53.50                  tqip. m       _atmom
SDJA                                     46.50                  bldg. mahumm
SAREC                                    52,100                 Vaud
SARBC                                    49,100                 eqp. maiatarum
FoPa  FoundaIon                          17,000                 moeai
NdUe    1)   oluhdseludl miMam do to t.k of dor infomation.
2) Donor fu.dI  abo ve         vaying tm pelod.
3) Exoude IDA mdkl



-608
Page 1 of 2
CQaily ]3uilding: Human Reaoifce DeVelopment BrLect
NATIONAL EDUCATION SYSTEM
34                                                         ODa         4
23 T a                           ,- t
Zs I                          a ensino superior_ , w 
It.                    II _                                              a
*       . _ _-__                                                   n
Lin^IE'1         E*l:                                   PU.UISSSS S;   3 w 
.  LI+I11L   1 I                                                  .
fs                                                                     nol    
It     |                   I                 .
_ _ _ _ t11 -  ,                                                 , S  
* T} _ 13. ur                            i rceh.EEIh nIn
. .    ~ensino                                        rat^s ..
1                                                                    U.
nTw        primirio                                      
*      A              tL II tttO
o_ _ _ _ _ _ _                   1               ~L 



-61 -
Ann  II-8
Page 2 of 2
[Number key for Figure 1, previous page]
1.     Years of study
2.      Teacher training
HIGHER EDUCATION
3.      Entry into working life
4.      Normal paths
5.      Possible paths
6.      Fourth level: higher
7.      Pre-university education
8.      Teacher training
9.     Intermediate technical and vocational education
10     Pre-university education for adults
11.    Accelerated pre-university education
12.    Secondary education
13.    Teacher training
14.    Basic technical and vocational education
i5.    Secondary education for adults
16.    Third level: intermediate
17.    Second level: secondary
18.    Age of entry
19.    Upper
Lower
PRIMARY EDUCATION
20.     Elementary technical and vocational education
21.     Upper
Lower
PRIMARY EDUCATION AND LITERACY TRAINING FOR ADULTS
22.    First level: primary
23.     Kindergarten
24.    Creches
25.    School-age population
26.     Population 15 years of age or over



-62-
Annex 11-9
Mozambi
QUCW=4 Building Pro3ec
PRIE-UNIVERSITY EDUCATION
ITIMATED TEACHING NEEDS BY DISCIPLINE, 1991
Existing in            Needed for
Subject                       1991                    1992             Difference
Portuguese                       19                    22                 -3
History                          10                     17                -7
G}eoaphy                          8                     17                -9
English                           9                     18                -9
Mathematics                      26                    25                  -
Biology                          18                     12                 -
Chemist"r                        18                     12
Physics                          14                     12                 -
Design                            9                     7                  -
Physical Education                7                     10                -3
French                            0                     7                  -7
Intro. to Computer                0                     5                  -5
Sciences
138                   164                -43



-63 -
Annex I-10
Page 1 of 4
Mozambigue
Capacity Building: Human Resources Development Project
TEACHEI TRAONWG
Teacher training for general secondary and pre-university education is
provided by the Institute for Advanced Pedagogical Training ([SP), which intends to become
the future University of Education Sciences. Previously this training was provided by the
Eduardo Mondlane University, before the Govermment decided to create a specific institution
in 1986.
From an initial enrollment of 93 students in its founding year the ISP has
expanded to 813 students in 1990 and its planned capacity for 1993 is 1,485 students. In
addition to its headquarters activities in the city of Maputo, the ISP operates teacher training
courses in the city of Beira, Sofala, and it is also planned to open new premises in Nampula.
The opening of these branches in the interior is designed to ensure the availability of qualified
teachers throughout the country, not just in Maputo, the capital. Recently, July 1992, ISP
graduated 110 new teachers, including students with a previous bachelor degree. The
following table contains, in sunmmary form, ISP's expansion plans.
THREE-YEAR PLAN: ISP (INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED PEDAGOGICAL TRAINING)
city               Course                            Academic Year
1990/91    1991/92    1992/93     1993/94
Maputo    History and Geography               165        180         190        190
Mathmatics and Physics             166         180        190         190
Mathemaucs (evening)                28          25         25          25
Pedagogy and Psychology             142        150         160        160
Education Planning                   7           7           -          -
Pedagogy ar .v Planning               -         25         25          25
French                                -          -         30          60
Portugues                           121        150        160         160
English                             34          65         95         125
Chemistry and Biology               97         125        150         160
Subtotal                           760         907       1,025      1,095
Beira     Physics                              27         55          80        105
Geography                           26          55         80         105
Mathematics                           -         45         40          40
-         30         50
_          -          -          30
Subtotal                            53         155        230         330
Nampul -                     -                             -           -         30
_          -         30
Subtotal                                   -                 -         60
TOTAL'                                        813       1,062      1,255       1,485



-64-
Annex II-10
Page 2 of 4
e  R    LQas
While the projected student body at ISP (including students at the Beira and
Nampula campuses) will be nearly doubling during the next four years, with total projected
enrollments increasing from 813 in 1990/91 to 1485 in 1993/94, this by no means implies an
equivalent increase in the number of teachers at the pre-university schools. Although ISP is
the principal supplier of pre-university teachers, the EPUs are not the sole source of
employmenw for ISP graduates. An estimated of 30 percentage or less of total ISP graduates
actually end up teaching at the EPUs, with the majority of ISP graduates seeking
administrative posts in the Ministry of Education, or jobs in the private sector. Thus, for
example, of the 813 students enrolled in 1990/91, approximately 162 will graduate (1/5), and
of these, at most around 20/30 will go on to teach at Government pre-university schools.
Inadequate salary incentives and poor personnel administration contribute to
the loss of trained teachers from the education system. In May 1991 the salary scale for
teachers in secondary and pre,university education was as follows.l/
Teacher level A - with master's degree        Mt 521,007.00
Teacher level B - with bachelor's degree      Mt 378,079.00
Teacher level C - with two years of teacher
training after the ninth grade  Mt 187,737.002/
This remuneration in meticals converted into dollars at the parallel market rate
is approximaty equivalent to US$255 (A), US$189 (B) and US$93 (C). It is true that
teachers at levels A and B receive supplementary allowances amounting to US$1,500 and
US$1,000 a year, respectively, but there is no allowance at other levels, which means that
only 282 teachers are receiving allowances (a kind of salary supplement). Only level A and B
teachcs are working in pro-niversity education. Some of the level A teachers were trained
abroad, especially in the former East Germany. However, as a result of the expansion of
higher education and the introduction of a market economy, many of the teachers who studied
overseas have been or are being attcted by universities and companies.
These salary scales, while appearing modest, represent a substantial increase
in red wages from 1990 levels. However, due to inadequat personnd and payroll
admiistration, and weak coordination between the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of
Pinance, and the Ministry of State Adminis on, only recenty teachers are receiving their
salaries according to this scale, which was announced in April 1991. The result has been a
series of teacher strikes and the resultdg failure of the EPUs in Maputo City to provide
examinations for their students.
1/ Ifrmatioa provided by Franic Manyapa Seondy School.
2/ Alao workig in seonday nd po-uversty edcaion am the coep6wa, whose montly
emn on (May 1991) wu Mt 108,174, or approximatly US$51, plu an ailowance of US$200
a nth. bem wm not my teahs in this cawo.oy.



-65 -
Annexl-1
Page 3 of 4
If teacher training is to be made a more effective and efficient public
investment, therefore, measures must be found which ensure that a higher proportion of ISP
graduates actually goes on to teach at the EPUs. Providing more attractive incentives is one
option, which is discussed in the main body of this report. The introduction of the salary
incentive fund would benefit all EPU teachers (level A and B, because of academic
qualifications); in addition, those teaching outside Maputo would get a bonus.
Another option for increasing the supply of teachers available to the EPUs, is
the reintroduction of the three year Bachelors in Education degree, specifically targetting
students in this program to teach at the EPU level. This would speed over the turnover of
ISP students, and create an intermediate step between the upper secondary degree and the full
licenciatura, which would perhaps be an attractive option to those unable to complete a five
year degree program. During the first year of project implementation ISP will develop A study
to analyze options and make recommendations for the introduction of alternatives forms of
pre-service teacl ar training. The basic purpose of this study is to find ways to prepare
teachers to work in the EPUs outside of Maputo. Furthemore, ISP intends to develop distance
education programs as one of the alternatives not only to upgrade teachers pedagogical and
content skills but also for pre-service teachers' training. Each year during the life of the
project, ISP will review the proposed teacher training strategy presented during negotiations
according to NDSE requirements.
Table 1 shows the distribution of teachers in the various levels of education in 1988 in
the General Education Subsystem. However, the data do not provide a proper picture as
regards qualifications. The percentage of those with pedagogical training in this table refers
to rapid training; only 282 professors in the SNE in Mozambique have higher-level training,
of which 86 have completed the master's degree (licenc(atura) and 196 the bachelor's degree
(two years of training).
Table 1: Ministry of Education - Planning Department
General Education Subsystem - Teachers Employed by Level of Education in 1988
EPI                    12                    S
Totld  w/Tni   wJTnm   Told  w/Tmg  wArns   Tow   wiTng   wfln    Totd   wAnTe  wlrnw
C.Ddgdo   2.033   1.236    60.7   162    140   BA4    71        03   00.7
Gae       2.166   1.204    66     243    212   17.2    64       64   lo0.       S           100.0
hW*mubm    2.106   1.623    72.6   261   216    7.8    72       02   0l.1
*          0?7   707    71.6   167        14"   94s     23      22    6.7
Ms"        74      847    4.8          * 3   94.6    23         21    61 8
map"      4267   8,106    72.6   321     277   6.8      60      60o   38.6     27      27  100.0
N"MpO     1.011    671     "A    110          0  7.8     I      3 s   6 61
Mfma      1.647   1.214    76.6   2e      162   eA      6       01    6 6.     16      1   100.0
adds        4      64s    76      121     6s   70.2    42        5    63.8
Tow       3.375   2.462    78A    287     167   681     71      6e    8.1      14      14  100.0
Zcwbaoi    2.26    1,166    s1.    46    417    6.    28       24     W.       07      07  100.0
21.410  14.885  17.0  2.462   2.000   6.8     6 88    744    0.6    182      132  100.0
Mhen this situation is compared wit projections for muater's degree holders in the
years ahead t becomes clear that a special efbrt will have to be made to ensure the presence
in secondary and pre-university education of teachers having a minimum of university



- 66-
Annex E-10
Page 4 of 4
training. Everything indicates that alterative formis of traini  must be devised to meet the
inevitable expansion in the years to come.
It was not possible to obtain more comprehensive indicators regarding the quality of
the teachers being trained by the ISP. What can be said, on a provisional basis, since the
project intends to arrange a specific study, is that the ISP is using various kinds of external
cooperation to develop its competence in education sciences. From this standpoint the current
situation is as follows:
-     five teachers are doing master's degrees abroad: two in English, one in
anthropology, one in education adminion and one in demography; three
of these are studying in England, one in Portugal and one in Botswana;
-     three teachers are preparing doctorates abroad: two in the teaching of
mathematics in the Netherlands and one in anthropology in Portugal;
-     five teachers are to begin preparing doctorates in 1991, two in the teaching of
chemistry in Germany, two in ethnomathematics in Brazil and one in the
sociology of religion in Germany;
-     three teachers began graduate work abroad in 1991, one in a master's
program in Australia in the teaching of mathematics, one in education
administration in Pakistan and one in the teaching of geography../
In addition, of the 113 teachers working In the ISP, 24 have doctorates (10
fom full-time study and 14 from part-ime study). It should also be noted that some areas in
which the ISP is proposing to get involved, such as Anthropology of Education, Ethnoscience,
Study of National Languages (Bantu languages) are of undeniable Importance for education in
Mozambique. Since these are complex areas only a specific study will be able to determine
the real possibilities of success.
ISP is also involved in linkage programs with JIEP to enable 7 bachelors to
obtain their masters in education planning and to improve the staff capacity to teach
educational planning concepts and with a Swedish University to enable a group of bachelors to
obtain their masters degree in education sciences.
2/    Informaton provided by tho Reoor's Office of the ISP.



-67 -
Annex l-I1
Page 1 of 7
Mozambigu
Capacity Building: Human Resources Development Project
PRE-UNIVERSITY SCHOOLS
PRELIMINARY SURVEY OF 6 EPU'S - NOV-DEC, 1991
Scope of the Project
Proposed is the rehabilitation and in some cases physical expawsion of 6
existing EPU's and the rehabilitation and construction of student dormitories and staff houses.
Below are the results of a preliminary survey of the five existing EPU's, based on a site visit
and discussions with the officials of the school and the regional education authorities. The
EPU in Xai-Xai which was only recently taken into use has not been surveyed. The size and
physical condition of the schools and scope of remedial action are described separately below.
Attached are sketches of the existing facilities, a preliminary cost estimate of the
improvements and an estimate of the improvements and an accomodation schedule of a
"basic" EPU to serve as a guideline to planning and the design of proposed extensions.
MUV= - losina Machel
This school is probably one of the largest and most luxurious in the country
and in its present form was completed in 1952. The total covered area of the school is
9200m2 and comprises 29 classrooms, 4 special classrooms, 3 laboratories with adjacent
amphitheaters, a large library, 2 gymnasia, an assembly hall with stage, a music room, 5 lifts
(elevators) and an indoor swimming pool (see Fig. 1). Built with deep verandas on both sides
of the classrooms the circulation area must be close to 50% of the total area.
Although built with the best materials available the school, through lack of
maintenance and intensive three-shift use, has become badly deteriorated particularly on the
upper floor. Extensive repairs must be undertaken to the roof, all the sanitary installations,
the electrical installation and part of the windows and doors. The lift and swimming pool
installations are out of order. Apart from damage to parts of the concrete roof the building
appears structurally in good condition and so are most of the wall and floor finishes, which
are executed in marble, tiles and hardwood. Steel windows and doors are corroded and in
need of repair but most can be reinstated without replacement.More wan half of the classroom
furniture is missing or in poor condition and needs to be replaced. Laboratory benches and
fittings are in reasonable condition and could be rehabilitated.
The scope of the rehabilitation under the project should be the complete
refurbishment of the existing infrastructure without replanning of internal areas and/or
extension to the building. However, due to financial constraints the lifts and the social block
(I.e. corpo F,G. and I) will be excluded from the refurbishment measures with the exception
of the roof which will be repaired on the entire building. Refurbishment of the school will not
entail restoration and some of the installations and special finishes would have to be



-68 -
Annex HI-11
Page 2 of 7
rationalized where necessary. Security would be improved by installing burglar proofing to all
laboratories and stores and improving the perimeter fence. Fire protection measures will also
have to be installed. A preliminary cost estimate is shown in table 1.
Maputo - Frnacisco Manyania
This three story building in the center of Maputo was completed in 1972 and
according to information supplied by the headmaster has 43 classrooms, 3 laboratories and 2
gymnasia.Tbe gross floor area is approximately 9800m2. The building is structurally sound
and generally In a better condition than Josina Machel but extensive repairs are required to
the sanitary installations, the electrical installations, a small part of the roof and to the change
rooms, windows and floors of the gymnasia.Laboratory and administration furniture is in
reasonable condition but most classroom furniture is missing or in bad condition.
The scope of the rehabilitation under the project would be the refurbishment
of the entire building. No replanning of internal areas and/or extensions to the building are
envisaged. Security and fire protection measures would be the same as in Josina Machel.
Included in the project is the rehabilitadon of the student dormitory which is in the vicinity of
the building on a different site. An allowance for new dormitory furniture and equipment for
the kitchen and laundry has been provided.
Beira - Samora Machel
This school is similar in concept to Francisco Manyanga and was completed in
1969. It comprises 22 classrooms, 5 special classrooms, an arts room, a 250 seat
amphitheater, 3 laboratories, 2 gymnasia, a library and staff facilities. The total covered area
is about 7900 m2 (see Fig.2).
The school is structurally sound except that, due to the unfavorable soil
conditions in Beira, part of the concrete slab in the administration area on the ground floor
has subsided making this part of the building dangerous to use. In some of the external
walkways similar subsidence of the ground floor slab may be noticed.The roof appears
generally in good condition but repairs are necessary to the sanitary and electrical installations
and some of the doors and windows. The floors are In good condition. Because protective
roof overhangs are missing in the gymnasia, there is extensive damage to the windows and the
timber floors, making these rooms unusable. Also the ceilings here are damaged because of
leaks. The change rooms of the gymnasia are pardy below ground level and appear
permanently flooded. The school has a new water storage tank and pump and some walls
have recently been painted.
Excluding the repairs to the basement and ground floor slab for which expert
investigations are required tL5 cost of rehabilitation would appear to be about USD50/m2.
Security measures are the same as above. In addition, fencing and repair of hard courts and
fencing of the sports fields are necessary. About half of the classroom furniture would have to
be replaced. New residences with a capacity of 200 male and 100 female students are rquired
to replace current student accommodation which will be returned to the Diocese in 1993. Ten
new two bedroom teachers houses are also included in the project.



-69 -
Annex H-11
Page 3 of 7
Ouelimane - 25 Septembro
This school was probably built in 1970 and has a covered area of 5400m2
(see Fig.3). The building is made up of 5 blocks strung out along a covered walkway and
comprises 18 standard classrooms, 3 laboratories, 1 music room and a covered multipurpose
hardcourt with ehange rooms. Only one block has three floors; the remaining ones are single
story.
Structurally the buildings are in good condition with the exception of one
single story classroom block of more recent construction (Bloco C) where the roof trusses
appear to have been badly designed and need to be replaced. Infetation of the timbers of the
windows, doors and the ceiling of this block is also apparent. Throughout, the sanitary and
electrical installations and about 20% of the doors and windows need to be repaired. About
half of the furniture appears in good condition. Required fcr rehabilitation is the
refurbishment of the entire building including the replacement of the roof of Ploco B. To
bring the school up to EPU standard, an extension of the library facility (new block ?) and the
construction of a multipurpose hall are included in the project. Improvements to the
sporsfields and a security fence around the entire complex including the sports fields Is
desirable. Included also is the construction of the dormitories for 150 boys and 50 girls and of
10 staff houses. T'e programme and space standards for the new extensions and buildings are
to be found in the " Accommodation schedule for a basic EPU".
NaMpula - lo De Maio
The main school building dates from 1948 and is a solid double story
structure with a basement level fully exposed at the rear due to the slope of the site. The
school has a classic symmetrical layout with classrooms and offices on the ground and upper
floor and stores and workshops in the basement (Fig. 4.5). The classrooms on the upper
floor are being used as dormitories. There are no laboratories. An assembly hall/ auditorium
has been built at the back of the building. With the exception of the hall which has a pitched
roof, the main building has a flat concrete roof with parapet walls all around. Behind the
main building is a kitchen/dining room block which is in a very bad condition. Adjacent is a
vehicle shed which has partially collapsed. Also at the rear of the site is a new single story
classroom block which has been completed recendy and will be used as from next year.
The interior of the main building has been recently renovated by the Catholic
Diocese to which It formerly belonged. However, there is still remedial work to be done to
the extern  facade, the water supply and the sanitary installations. The roof appears to be in
good condition with the exception of the expansion joints. Because of the sloping site
conditions major improvements are necessary to the storm water disposal, retaining wails,
paths and playing areas around the back of the building. Site security will also have to be
improved. The kitchen/dining block will have to be fully renovated. No repairs are
necessary to the new classroom block.
It is envisaged under the project to take the dormitories out of the building
and to use the additional space to create a physics, chemistry and biology laboratory. Tbe
optimum location of these facilities within the building is to be determined during the desig



-70 -
AnnexII-
Page 4 of 7
study. A now dormitory for 200 boys and 100 gkls and 16 new staff housas are to
constrcted on sites to be identifled by the Ministry.
X    ai - EI1 (information updated as of July, 1992)
In January, 1992, the EPU of Chokwe transferred to temporary facilities in
Xai-Xai. Some rehabilitation of the temporary building was carried out prior to the move but
no survey was carried out to establish its actual size and conditions. During the first semester,
this school, located in the suburbs, was again attacked. For the time being it has been
decided to provide funds in the project to look at both options: contruct a new school or
extnd the temporary facility and to construct new laboratories, a library (resource center)
and a multipurpose hall. The design consultants would provide MINED (GEPE) with
inormation and final design on both options, so a decision on which option to choose can be
made during the first annual implementation review. The project costs are based on: new
construction of laboratories, resource center and multi-purpose hall as well as additional
refurbishment of the existing building and improvements to the site security. In line with the
policy for other provincial EPU's, new dormitories (150 boys and 50 girls) are to be
consructted as well as 7 staff houses. Size of dormitories, the laundry, the maintenance
workshop and other student facilities are all estimated. It is essential that prior to the
appointment of consultants the National Directorate of Secondary Education (NDSE) finalizes
these requirements.



- 71 -
Annex I-I1I
Page 5 of 7
Capacity Building Project
PRE-UNIVERSITY SCHOOLS
PRELIMINARY COST ESTIMATES, APRIL 1992
I Maputo                   Fanisco Manyanga
School building            oit.           9100         490         170         170
Site woiks                                              50
Dormitoy: 250p             eidst.         2700         135          75          75         S0
Sub.                                                                            675         245         245         50
2 Maputo                   Josina Machll
School buiMing             eiL           12500         100        1250         218
Site Woik                                                           s0
Subt                                                                                       1300         218
3 Belt                     Samom Machd
School buiangs             exi;.          79tl          SO         592         138
Site wod.                                                          100
Dormitory: 200. + 100g    ew              2100         400         840          84         50
Staff houwe  lOx75n      smw              750         400         300          30
Sub&                                                                                       1832         272         50
4 QueinL.   25 de Sqembro
School buildi              oxiL           5400          50         270          94
Rourc ce                   nw              230         350          80           8
Multipurposbal              ew             850         350         300          30
Site works                                                          50
Dormitoty: 150m + MSg      a              1400         400         560          56         40
Staff houses: 10 x 7Sf     nw              750         400         300          30
SubS.                                                                                        1560         218         40
5 Nampula                 lo de Maio
School building            exiat          4450          20          89          40
Site woch                                                           50
Dormitoy 200b + IOOg      nae             2100         400         840          84         S0
Staff houe: 16 x 7          mw            1200         400         480          48
Sub.                                                                                         1459         172         50
6 Xzi-Xai
School building            exisL          3000          20          60          52
Laboratories                 m             540         400         216          21
Reourc ceatre              am              230         350          80           8
Multipposehall 600p        a               850         350         300          30
Site worka                                                          30
Domitoty: 75m + 2Sg        exiL.
Dormitory: IS0w + 5g       ae             1400         400         560          56         50
Staff houe: 7 x 75          mw             525         400         210          21
Sub.                                                                                          1456        188         50
TOTAIS CW+FU+RQ                                                                              82S2        1293        240
mm   15*                                                                                      1242
1 All cost are subject to review by survey curmtdy in progess
2  Furniture cost for rebab ar           a   based an reopling 509%  of existing furniture
3 School in Xai-Xai has not been surveyed and costs am indicative only.
4 Allowance for dormitory equipment is for lamdry and Idtcheo.



-72 -
Annex -11
Page 6 of 7
Mozambiac
Capacjty Building Project
COMPONENT - EPU
fa X5ff-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'f .;.f ... w r l  ....    ;;Sf f:..j   ;; . f:   .... f
:~~-a Ca VffYi                  --                   Am          cMuf
TEACHINO
Cls rooms                             16        60         960        0.35        336
Physics lab.                           1       1S0         150        0.40         60
Biology lab.                           1       150         150        0.40         60
Dawing class                           1       100         100        0.40         40
Genera toiles                          1       120         120        0.40        48
4        40         160       0.40         64
1640                   608
Wals/circd. (35%)                                          574        0.35        200
Tot teaching (1)                                          2214                    808
RESOURCE CENTRE
Library/reading room                   1       120         120        0.35         42
Teahing aids                           1        20          20        0.35          7
Reproduction                           1        20          20        0.35          7
Bookskte                               1        20          20        0.35          7
180                    63
Wals/circ d. (35%)                                         63        0.35         22
Total resource c. (2)                                      243                     85
ADMINIISTRATION
Director                               1        25          25        0.35         9
Pcdagogical advisor                    1        20          20        0.35          7
Night audy dhireor                     1        20          20        0.35          7
SecretarI                              1        35          35        0.35         12
Teachen room                           1        60          60        0.35         21
Sick room                              1        20          20        0.40          8
Staff toilets                          1         4          12        0.40         5
janitor                                1        10          10        0.40          4
Worbshop                               1        40          40        0.30         12
242                    8S
Walscircd. (35%)                                            85        0.35         30
Total adnins. (3)                                          327                    115
MULTInPRURPOSE HALL
all, 600p                              1       600         600        0.35        210
Storae area                            1        20          20        0.30          6
Change rooms                           2        40          so        0.40         32
Tuck shop                              1        1S          1S        0.40          6



-73 -
Anunex 
Page 7 of 7
M~~~~~~~~~~V1W ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~.. 
715                    250
140        0.35         S0
Walis/   . (20%)
Total m.p. hall (4)                                         8SS                     300
Total bullding (1-4)                                       3639                    1304
SPORTS AREA
Coveed open court                       1      1000        1000        0.15         150
Change rooms                            2       100         200        0.40         80
Sporb fields                            2      6000       12000        0.02        240
Total sports (5)                                                                   470
St development (6)                                                                 200
CIVIL WORKS EPU (1-6)                                                              1978
FURNffR  & EQUIP.                                                                  200
TOTAL COST EPU                                                                    2178
STUDENT RESIDENCES FOR 250 PUPILS
Dormitory, 10x 2Sp                     10       100        1000        0.35        350
UKIthen/dining                          1       250         250        0.40         100
Supweisor                               2        50         100        0.35         35
Landry                                  1        SO          50        0.40         20
1400                    505
Walls/circul. (25%)                                         350        0.35         125
Total building                                             1787                     630
Site development (15%)                                                               95
Furtu  (10%)                                                                         63
EquIpment                                                                           50
TOTAL COST RESIDENCES                                                              838
Am per pupil                        7.132
Cost per pupi:                   S(o00)Irn
Conutzuctlou                         2.9
FP_Itu                               0.3
EquIpment                            0.2



- 74 -
Annex II-12
Mozambique
Capacity Building: Human Resources Development Prolect
PROPOSED COURSES OF SITUDY FOR NEW EPU CURRICULA
Group A                                      Group B
Poiwgues                                    Pofuguowe1
Eng1sh                                      English
French                                    Madtaties
Philosophy                                    Physics
oneman                                      Chemiauy
History                                     Biology
Latin                                       Design
bItroduction to Computer Science                Geology or Geography
Physical Education                     Introduction to Computer Scienco
Philosophy
X __________________________________      _ *  .Physioal  Education
Group C
Poltuguese
English
Prenh
Histozy
Geography
Biology
Mathematics
Latin
Introduction to Computer Sciaec
Philosophy
Physical Education
1.            The proposals for the 11th and 12th grades (2o Ciclo do Ensino Secundario)
divide the disciplines into three sub-groups, or menus of study, from which students who are
specializing in Humanities, or the Sciences, can pick their courses. Group A corresponds to
Humanities (Languages), Group B corresponds to Sciences, Group C to Social Sciences.
These specializations are illustrative, because it is also the intention that students indicate their
university specialization (the entrance exam for which they are going to sit) and that they
follow the appropriate core program. To graduate, students must be approved in 6 courses of
their menu of study which "clude required, complementary and elective (disciplinas
obrigatorias, complementares e nucleares) courses. The core curriculum for all students
includes Portuguese, English, Philosophy, Physical Education and Introduction to Computer
Sciences.
2.             The curriculum proposals have not been approved; in fhcu, they are seen as
future objectives towards which MINED is working. Implementation of the proposal will
occur as teachers are available for new courses. Starting in the 1993 school year, French will
be added to grade 11, and the principle of individual student selection of core programs in
accordance with university specialization will also be introduced. Study programs and
matbrials to enhance the curriculum will be developed under the technical assistance supported
by the Capacity Building Project.



OHGUIRI   Dl BI lElU MAlNL 00) EIISIII SEam 
LDpaitmento de CiOncais               DFpj _     todciiT                     Oemtamnto de                 Rspn_tiio de Adois-
Socials a Hu _na                      Ntur   Exact.                          Olrec1o Escolar              to    interns
Vea pr_scdid                           YzP   F     -sww i                    Vg presdi&                   V.p    mI
P     otuguam                         Biologie                                          Tdcnicos             -                         ti
.2 Vga                                . lVe                                             3 Vae                  . I_W
1Coopwznt                                                            . 3u
- ce6afie                      Alb         - QuImics                                               - A     _ 
2 Vega  proenchidd                        . 2 Vega preenchids                                     . 2 *m
Stlstdria                             F$sica                                                                 - "
)Vag&                                  IP                                                                      2_ g 
pro-                                  Aldo                                                                    .3VAM|^ 
chids  - I. ge                                      -   i -tic1o                                              .  2 V4p1
I Vag preenvchidd             Vqs                                   de Laboratd-        _         st
C Copeanta de                                                         . 1 Coopwt  riot a Hlos1
British Counel           oesui             Vietnemita               Didicticos                 -        *
.1 VegIaeN*k
proenchida
Francs                                   1 Vega      - EducaqAo Fisica                  Tdcnicos             -  9V*io4KII&
.I Vga                                                   I .1 Vga preenchide            .2 Vaga ss&
TM: 4 1gas                                TOTAL: 4 VWa                                                 Total: 8 VWags



- 76 -
Annex II-14
Capacitv Building - Iuan Resources nDelo  neat Protect
BACKGROUND WIFORMATION ON EPU DORMITORIES, 1992
Existing dormitory capacity is low and conditions are precarious. The major problem facd by the
dormitories is lack of an adequate recurent budget, which is reflected in the complete dependence on
foreign food aid for the provision of students meals and the steady deterioration through lack of
maintenance of an essentially sound structure. Fees for students are set at 1,500 Meticais per month- les
thn the cost of one meal. In most cases, fees are no longer collected, due to both their ludicrously low
amount and the fact that students are urged to spend their disposal income supplementing the inadequat diet
that is provided at the dorms, courtesy of emergency food aid. Students are usually provided with the
meal thr  times a day- corn meal, beans, and now and again, tinned meat or sardines.
In general, the recurrent budget covers expenditures for gas, electricity, staff salaries, and wood
fuel for cooking. These type of expenditures exhaust the funding provided by the State. Recurrent funding
for the dormitory must increase substantially in order to adequately provide for students' nutritional needs
and the maintenance of the facilities through a combination of increased cost recovery and additional budget
support. The proposed project will support rehabilitation and construction of new dormitor.es with special
attention given to the needs of female boarders. Thus, part of the number of dormitories to be constructed
are usigned to girls. New construction is justified as MINED will be retutning the bulk of the existing
dormitories to the Catholic Church. Together with improvements in space and genemrl conditions of the
dorm, the Ministry of Education agreed to develop studies to solve the dorms' administrtive problems.
Th idea is to release EPUs from administering student boarders. The Ministry of Educstion is supposed to
define the organizational model of student boarders in EPUs and select institutions/or groups that will be
responsible for administering the dormitories. The finance study will also establish the fees that stents
should pay for living ic the dorms. One of the alternatives already discussed is the use of existing NGOs in
Mozumbique to administer EPUs'student dormitory.
Province                     No. of Doerders
Male       Female      Total
1. Softala                       196        54         250
2. Zamhezia                      150        19         169
3. Naipula                       161        35          196
4. Gaza                          120        28         148
5. Xai-Xad                      153       38         191
New Dormktry- Pmjecdis
Provi                        No. of BrerdM
Male      Femae       To091
1. Sothla                        200        100        300
2. Zambezi                       150        50         200
3. Nmpula                        200        100        300
4. aa                            200        t00        300
S. Xdi-Xai                      ISO        so        200



- 77 -
Page I of 4
Mozanbiqu
Caac-ity Building: -Humnan Reources Devctopment Projct
NATIONAL EDUJCArION POLICY
The Government of Mozambique's education policy starts from the realization
that the objectives set out in the indicative plan Prepared at the beginning of the 1980s have
not been achieved and are unlikely to be achiev. during the 1990s, given the steady
impoverishment of the population due to the war and the drought, which will have effects on
Mozambique's economy that will still be felt for some years to come.
The education sector has been one of the hardest hit by the war. It is
estimated that the conflict is responsible for the paralysis of more than half of the primary
school network, either because of its destructive effects or the migrations it has provoked as
the population seeks safer locations; the result has been a sharp fall in enrollments in the
initial grades, in addition to the repercussions on the geographical distribution of the school
network. Secondary schools, mostly located in urban areas have been less affected, but the
EPU school in Chokwe also had to move to a Xai-xai suburb after attacks in 1991, and then
was attacked again in 1992.
As a consequence, the total number of children enrolled in primary schools in
Mozambique fell from about 1,377,000 in 1981 to 1,200,000 in 1988. Over the same period
the number of schools has fallen by some 60%. According to Ministry of Education
projections, by the year 2000 primary school enrollment will be around 85% of children aged!
7, well below the corresponding figure for 1981, which was 111%.I/
Accordingly, the Government of Mozambique has decided to review the
targets previously established in the law on the SNE, and has proposed a range of actions with
a view to:
"promoting debate so that )ducation policy can be the product of
further reflection and experience. It is important that the education
sector, from top (Ministry) to bottom (DDEGs and schools), be
aware of the main objectives to be achieved over the next 10 years,
and of what can be done and what cannot or should not be done."2/
Among the main revisions being made, one of the more significant is the
decision by the Fifth FRELIMO Party Congress to endorse private sector participation in
1/  Govenunent of Mozambique: General GuideUnesfor Defining an Edualon PoUay.
MINED/Planning Department, Maputo, Editora Escolar, 1991, p. 6.
21  Idem, p. 7.



*78 -
Annex II-1S
Page 2 of 4
education in order to facilitate an expansion "beyond the levels it is currently estimated that
the Goverms.nt can support."2/
Regulations for private sector participation in education were contained in
Decree No. 1 1 of June 1, 1990. The Ministry of Education has already granted the first
authorizations and although it is not yet possible to assess the scope of this new policy, the
first indications are that growth possibilities exist.
In general terms Mozambique's education policy involves the following kinds
of actions:_/
(a)    Emergency Actions - These are actions designed to restore the capacity for
educational development, the emphasis being on helping teachers affected by
the war, teacher training and rehabilitation of the school network;
(b)    Minimizing the Effects of thp 1Economic Recovery Program - The rapid rise
in the cost of living, resulting in "the impeverishment of a considerable part
of the population," together with the erosion of the education budget, has had
disastrous consequences as regards "the deterioration in the quality of
education and in living standards in boarding schools and student hostels."
'Ministry of Education actions should be directed toward introducing, as
quickly as possible, effective support systems for vulnerable population
groups, through scholarships, subsidies, reductions in fees and other
education charges and the distribution of learning aids.
kc)    Development and Expansion - In this area, Mozambique's policy is to
expand education while focusing on quality, the priority being on primary
education (EPI), since improving the base will have positive effects on other
levels in the system. The most urgent actions at this level are the following:
providing learning aids to lil students, training teachers, both in traditional
methods and as regards the need to 'cope with children affected by the war,"
developing literacy in national languages, "so as to guarantee the success of
literacy programs in rural 'reas, including those directed at women."
This expansion must go ahead, but without any sacrifice of quality. It is felt
that this can be achieved by good management, and the Ministry of Education will be giving
priority to improving its technical capabilities in the areas of administration, management and
planning.
As regards targets, the goal for the end of the century for primary education
(EPI) is to raise gross enrollments from the current 60% to around 85%, priority being given
to regions affected by the war; in EP2, efforts will be focused on maintaining the current
transition rate from EPI to EP2, at about 70%, priority being given to urban areas in the
interior of Mozambique.
I/  Idem, p. .
VI   Extract from tho doment General GuideUnes for Definng an Education Poliy, cited above.



- 79 -
AnnexI-
Page 3 of 4
The same policy is being applied to general secondary education (ESG) and
pro-university education (EPU), the focus for expansion being on the northern and central
regions of the country 'even to the detriment of the southern region. As regards pre-
university education, adoption of this policy will ensure that by 1995 pre-university schools
will exist in every province."
In terms of targets, the Ministry's Planning Department estimates thbt by the
year 2000 the transition rate from EP2 to ESG will be 51% and from ESG to EPU 39 %,
which translates into enrollments of the order of 61,000 students in ESG and 8,300 in EPU.
If these estimates are reasonably accurate, the number of graduates from EPI,
EP2 and ESG who will be unable to continue their studies will ipcrease. It is estimated that
by the end of the century about 37,000 graduates from EPI, 21,000 from EP2 and 57,000
from E3 will be excluded from the General Education Subsystem. Therefore current policy
emphasizes the need for general education curricula to take on a more vocational character
and for steps to be taken to introduce short and medium-length vocational training courses at
the elementary, basic and intermediate levels.
EPU POLICY
In June, 1992, the Minister of Education issued a revised policy for the EPU
level. This policy statement reviews the present problems of this level of education (see
chapter 2 of SAR), reaffirms its basic objectives and structure, the plan to the year 2000
targets, but does not foresee any expansion of public schools beyond the already existing
ones. Rather, it encourages private schools to provide for the expanded demand.
The policy statement describes as its principal objectives to: (a) improve
quality and efficiency and (b) reinforce capacity to plan, manage and operate the existing
schools.
The strategy foreseen for improvement of quality and efficiency is to:
(a) elaborate the new curricula
(b) improve teacher quality, through in-service training, pedagogical support,
alternative ways to upgrade secondary teachers, and recruitment of foreign teachers.
(c) modernize teaching methods and materials;
(d) reduce the weekly class hours from 31 to 28 to promote independent study and
laboratory work;
(e) revise the examination system;
(f) rehabilitate infra-structure; and



A~n-e ls
Page 4 of 4
(g) improve working and living conditions of teachers.
Toe strategy foreseen for the improvement of management is to:
(a) rationalize the use of budget;
(b) decentralize to provincial, distict and school level; and
(c) train central and local staff.
The policy statement also mentions that special .atention will be given to increasing
female participation (through provision of scholarships) and finding mechanisms to promote
private participation.



- 81 -
Annex U-16
Page 1 of 2
mQzamblua
Capaclly Building: Human Resources Develogment Project
EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE TO PRE-UNIVESITY EDUCATION
1.           Donors assistance to pre-university schools is fragmented and iacks a strategy
to counteract the major pre-university education problems. Traditionally, donor activities
have addressed human resource problems by providing cooperantes to support curriculum
activities or/and supply teachers for school curriculum activities. Currently, the major
support for pre-university schools comes from the Ford Foundation and the British Council.
The Portuguese Government and the French continue giving support through fellowships and
cooperantes assistance. The Italian Government is currently funding a project to provide six
secondary schools with fully-equipped laboratories. Studies to design and implement science
centers where both secondary and pre-university teachers will be trained to use laboratory
equipment and learning materials for teaching science are also part of the Italian -funded
project.
2.           Currently, the Ford Foundation is supporting the PROMEF-EPU Project
(Projecto de Melboria do Funcionamento das Escolas do Ensino Pre-Univeristario). This
Project (USS "' 000) aims at enhancing the learning environment in five EPUs, which also
are responsible for administering the funds. Under the grant, the EPUs would expand their
extra-cucular activities for students by equipping libraries($30,000), training librarians
($8,750) and purchasing books ($34,000), by installing video equipment and a Brazilian-
produced series of documentary films designed for schools ($27,850), and by managing
modest development funds for urgent improvements ($25,000). School directors coordinate
project implementation In each of their schools w.h the support teachers and students. School
directors also meet every three months to discuss the progress of the project ($6,000) and a
final evaluation would attribute prizes to the schools which have been most creative in their
use of these new resources ($5,000). The project is coordinated by an administrative unit
lodged in Maputo. With project funds, pr-university schools alreawy have each received 300
books and a group of teachers was trained in the use of the video school program (video
escola) which consists of over 160 short documentary films collected from all over world.
The video school program aims at providing students with attractive and easily digested
information on a wide range of social and scientific issues. it a;!so includes an instruction
manual for teachers on the best ways of using the films as teaching aids, and a series of
ancillary activities to be developed by the students themselves, such as debates and a
Znewspaper'. The Higher Pedagogical Institute (ISP) is involved in the evaluation of the
project to be done ten monts after its implementation. Schools will be awarded with prizes
(three $1,000 prizes) for the best library, the best video school project and the most creative
use of the development find. This grant action is the first occasion the Ministry of Education
has permited schools themselves to manage donor funds. Tbe directors believe that
competidon for these prizAs should stimulate commitment to the project and minimize the
possibility of misuse of funds. They also hope that the associaWt publicity will draw attention



- 82 -
Anne II-16
Page 2 of 2
to the difficulties of the EPUs, proclaim the advantages of adminisatve decentralization, ad
help them to sensitize others donors.The success of the project Is expected to stimulate similar
decentralizing efforts within the Ministry of Education.
3.           The British Council has been helping in the training of English teachers (one
teacher per EPU) outside of the country. Additionally, a project for provision of English
Language Textbooks for pre-university schools has been discued. The wider objectives are
to help to satisfy the country's demands for well trained people proficient in English by
improving the English language comnpetence of students proceeding to tertary level education
where many texts are in English. The project also intnds to support Government's attempts
to remove subsidies on school textbooks; support the private sector booksellers and the
development of a national network for book distribution; and ihprove the effectiveness of
English teaching at the pre-university level by involving teachers in the maerils selection and
adaptation. This project will provide over a two year period consultant services to select and
adapt already published English Language teaching materials for the pre-university schools in
grades 11 and 12; a forum for the discussion of materials to be adapted and the adaptations
to be made; the printing, within the region, of approximately 10,000 copies of the book;
distribution, as class sets, of approximately 6,000 copies to tea EPUs; provision of 4,000
copies to the local traders for sle (real per unit production costs to be repaid to ODA); in-
country training of EPUs teachers in the use of the materials.



- 83 -
Annex m-i
Mozambiau
EdMnd  Universit
COST ESTIMATES FOR LOCAL STUDY MANUAL PUBLICATION
Total titles to be produced                                     200
Average number of copies per title                              300
Titles to be covered by initial capital                          138
Author's payment per tide                                     $1,000
Editing costs per title                                       $ 125
Prining overhead                                                10%
Boostore overhead                                               25%
Unit Cost Per CMo
Production costs                                              $ 4.00
Author's payment                                                3.30
Ediftin                                                         .40
Pting overhead                                                  .40
Bookstre overhead
Total $10.10



- 84 -
Annex m-2
Mlozambiueg
Capacit Building: Human Resources Development Pro3ect
Eduardo MQndlane Univers
INDICATIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE INSTITUTIONAL LINKAGE PARTNERS
Facul1y of Economics
2.    Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Portugal
2.    Universidade Tecnica de Lisboa, Portugal
3.    School of Business Administration, University of Birmingham, U.K.
4.    Department of Management, UNISA, South Africa
EacWll of Enineeri
1.    Universidade Tecnica de Lisboa, Portugal
2.    Technical University of Delft, Netherlands
3.    University of Chile, Santiago, Chile
4.    Witwatersrand University, South Africa
5.    University of Sheffield, U.K.



-85 -
Annex m-3
M4UZ10fWMLUlrU
oMondansUi=f
HOUSING DEMAND
(Based on Paculty/Student Ratio of 1:10)
._____ ______ _____ ______ ______ __ _   1992  1996   2003
Projectd Student Enrollment                3404         5550        5500
Faculty at 1:10 Rado                        340         550          550
Senior Administriove Stff                  142          .21         .21
Sub-total                                 352          578          578
Hot'shqg Availableo
hlouambican Facuty                        213          247          529
Foreign Facuty                            la           IV           4
Sub-tot                                  377          377          569
Addition Housing**
Construction/Rehabitatdon                  0           100          0
Compledon at BRU                           0            9Q          0
Sub-total                                 0           192          0
Shortage/Surplus                            25           -9          -9



86-
Annex M1-4
COST ESTMAWTS:
COMIWLTION OF 92 UNITS IN BAM1O UNVESARIO
Nu_barota                                       92
Squuo me pe unit                                100
Completion I.1a    1                            $10,000 par unit
Complein I o 2                                  S 3,000 p anit
Compe_n P tb 3,6,7,16,17             S     2      5.000 per unit
Nuobr of ui., Blook 1                           20
Numb_r of unt, Block 2                          20
Numbe of unitb, loc  3,6,716,17                 52
Infi_uMn   ooat.                                s300,000
S--'viaon                                       5% of cost of competo  NW Infraavcur
Comslction Comb for N.w*                        $400 per sq. mt
Superviion Fe  for New*                         10%
Contlm.moy                                      $100,000
Mondy Rit P                                     10% of Vvw cos of conetlon, ato.
Mmmeswwp e                                      5% of Rat
Ma2 eanceCharm                                  2% of Replaemen V.
LAnd                               S      0       S    0
Complto Cost                       1,560,000       16,957
I*adnfomstsu e                      300,000         3,261
-upwAdo-  .  00                                    JAU
Sub-Totdl                        $1,953,000       $21,228
condrmq                                0.           1087
Total                            S2,053,000       S22,315
Mo y Rat                                     t397
Month MamP":                                   79
Mobly M       _mnmt Pa:w
Total                                         99
*EtImaed coat of smdir hboue   buik  dy.
Modh   e Ib bse en dh rpaemn cod n_   infrauctu  oo.



- 87 -
Annex m-s
Capacit Bidn:H anRsucsDvelopment PoEct
Eduardo Mondlane Univerit
REHABILITATION OF 60 UNIIS IN ISATEX BUIIDING
AssmMtions.
Number of Units                          60
Square meters per unit                   80.1
Rehabilitation costs per sq. mt.         $280
Supervision Fees                         18%, includes relocation management fees
Replacement value for new construction   $650 per sq. mt.
Supervision Fees                         12%
Monthly Rent                             10% of replacement cost
Management Charge                        5% of rent
Maintenance Charge                       2% of replacement cost
REHABILITATION BUDGET
TQW          ~~Unit Cost
Land                      $      0              $0 
Rehabilitation          $1,345,680             $22,428
Supervision             S U242.2               S 4.03
Total                   $1,587,905            $26,465
Monthly Rent                        $486
Monhly Management                     24
Monthly Maint ce nc
Total Monthly Charge                $121



- 88 -
Annex M-6
Capaciy Buildig: Human Resources Development Prolect
EdulFo MondlaneUniversit
REHABILITATION OF 18 UNllS
AV. VLADIMIR LENIN NO. 2253
Assumptio:
Number of Units                                 18
Square Meters per Unit                          79.7
Rehabilitation Costs per Sq. Mt.                $225
Supervision Fee                                 18%, includes fee for resetflement management
Replacement Cost of New Construction            $500 per sq. mt.
Supervision Fee                                 12%
Monthly Rent                                    10% of replacement cost
Management Charge                               5% of monthly rent
Maintenance Charge                             2% of replacement cost
REHABILfTATION BUDGET
Land                      $      0               $    0
Rehs:.. uon               $322,785               $17,933
Supervia"On               $ 58.101              S 3221
Total                     $380,886               $21,161
Monthly Rent                          $372
Management Charge                       19
Maintenance Charge                      24
Monthly Charges                       $ 93



-89 -
Page 1 of2
C:pcityx Buldng NmneoR2M         DeveloggMn Project
ESlMATED BUDGET FOR AVERAGE                               FELLOWSHIP
Tuition (average)                              $6,260
Living allowance                                8,400
Book allowance                                   780
Professional metang                             1,200
Insurance                                         576
Unit administative costs                        1,250
Sub-total                                      18,466
btlcosts:
annual costs x 2.5 years                       46,165
field research                                  2,500
airfares and excess baggage                     4,250
professional meetings on return (2)             8,500
professional association dues (2 x 2)             800
TOTAL                                         $62,215



- go -
Page 2 or 2
Cagaclty Building Pro3ect
E3duardo MondlanseU{nivers
ESTIMATED BUDGEr FOR AVERAGE VAR D.GRE FELLOWSIP
Annual costs:
Tuition (average)                              $ 7,400
Living allowance                                10,080
Book allowance                                    936
Professional meedng                              1,200
Insurance                                         960
Unit administrative costs                        1,250
Sub-total                                     $21,826
Total costs:
annual costs x 4.5 years                       98,217
field research                                  9,000
airfares (2) and excess baggage                 6,250
professional meet   on return (2)               8,500
professional association dues (2 x 2)             800
TOTAL                                        $122,767



-91 -
Annex m-s
Capacty Building: Hluma Resources DevelosMe t Prjec
PROPOSED TOPICS FOR EPUS PEDAGOGICAL SEMINARS
1.           One of the strategis to improve quality of education is the reinstitution of
pedagogical seminars and workshops. During the first two years of project implementation
and in 1992 with funds ,from PPF, these seminars will be held in Map uto while in the
following years, the seminas should take place on sites of EPUs. The seminars wiil be
organized and prepared by the staff of NDSE with technical support from either ISP or
individual consultants as part of their specific assignments related to curriculum development,
examination, textbooks. preparation of learning/teaching materials or others.
2.           The workshops will be also orgaaed and prepared by the staff of NDSE,
who will make visits to the individual schools to present the material. The workshops should
attend particular needs of individual school related to pedagogical or administrative needs
assessed during the technical and administrative supervision visits.
3.           The pedagogical seminars have two main objectives: (i) integrate the school
team to attain the goals and objectives of EPUs curriculum; (ii) update teachers' knowledge
in content and pedagogica matters related to individual disciplines. Thus, the strategy for
Implementing the seminars should attend both objectives, to provide general information
concerning EPUs implementation program and to give opporAmity for teachers exchange their
experiences and to obtain knowledge about methodologies and technological advances in their
teaching field. Annually, 120 EPUS' teachers will be invited, a minimum of 2 teachers of
each discipline per school.
4.           The 1992 Pedagogical seminar to be held in Maputo will concentrate in the
preparation of teacher in the curriculum program, currently being discussed in the Ministry
of Education for the 11th grade.
5.           Proposed topics for the subsequent pedagogical seminars and workshops at
EPUs' sites include:
a)    curriculum development for the 12th grade and study plans;
b)    students' learning achievements evaluation procedures;
c)    methods and strategies of instruction for pre-university level of study;
d)    instructional materials and how to use them to enhance students'
learning achievements according to individual disciplines;
e)    methods of selecting specific instructional media to attain instuctional
objectives;
f)    media selection for group and individual studies;
g)    techniques of preparation of leaming matrials;
h)    specific teaching approaches according to each discipline or group of
disciplines.



- 92 -
Annex m-9
Mozamkbigu
Cagacity Building: Human Resources Development ProjE
TEACHER TRAING PROGRAM
1.           Overall teacher training program will be developed by ISP according to
requirements of NDSE. ISP will be responsible for developing the EPUs' teacher training
program and will support NDSE in overall activities for upgrading teachers and administrators
pedagogical and administrative skills. ISP's proposal to be financed under project funds will
include expatriate and local technical assistance and basic equipments and supplies (10% of funds
available to ISP) to implement the training program . NDSE will also use ISP expertise for
designing and implementing the annual pedagogical seminars and to support implementation of the
management training program.
General Terms of Reference for ISP
2.           Specific functions: ISP would design a proposal and implement activities
including:
(i)    a detailed training strategy to support upgrading of the pedagogical and
subject content skills of the existing body of EPU teachers;
(ii)   a strategy to provide opportunities for bachelor-level EPUs teachers who are
located outside of Maputo to obtain further education;
(iii)   a study to analyze options and make recommendations for the introduction
of alternative forms of pre-service teacher training.
3.           TIaining pogram development and implementation to be carried out by ISP:
3.1.         Development: ISP would (i) study the technical and pedagogical training needs of
EPUs teachers; (ii) discusses the logistics of the proposed traiing with NDSE and assess the
possibilities of training teachers in the EPU's sites; (iv) prepare annually detailed course syllabi of
modular short-course training programs and the appropriate methodologies for its presentation; (v)
a plan for the monitoring, evaluation and feed-back of the EPUs' training program.
3.2.         Implementation: implementation schedule should be annually agreed with NDSE.
Alternatives methodologies should be explored, combining distance education and other training
methodologies according to specific needs of the EPU's curriculum and restrictions of
replacement of teachers during school year.
4.           Upgrading teacher's degree: ISP will present a proposal to provide opportunities
to bachelor-level teachers to obtain further educatdon. Considering that the main idea is to avoid
replacement of teachers during school years, the proposal strategy should focus on implementing
these opportunities through combination of distance education training methodologies during
school year and/or other methodologies during teachers' vacation.
5.           Studv: ISP will also develop with foreign technical assistance a study to analyze
and explore options for the introduction of alternatives forms of pre-service teacher training. The
main purpose of this study is to increase the number of qualified teachers to work in the EPUs
outside of Maputo.



-93 -
Annex I-1
Mozambieun
CRiyAg Buildine: Huma Resouces bevelgament Project
PROJECT COS1S BY EPENDITURE CATEGORY
Contos                                USD                              X Totat
,,,,,, 0; --------,j;a-               .......... o --- -.--------w-e--   X Forelgn   E asr
Local   Foroign       Total         Local  Forelgn    Total         Exch new       Costs
......................................._....... ...........................  ...........................................   ....................
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
......... ..................
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. NEW  CONSTRUCTION                  5292      12348       17640         2646      6174      6820              70         16
2. RENOVATION                         8256      19265       27521         4128       9632    13761              70         26
3. ARCHITECTURAL FEES                 1236       4115        5352           618      2058      2676             77          6
....... ......................  ........................... ....................
Sub-Total                                14785      35f28      50513          7392    17864    25256               71          52
B. Project Prep. Facility                  542       1013        1555          271       506       m               65           2
C. FURN/EGUIP/VENICLES
1. FURIltURE                           350       3716       4066            175      1858      2033            91           4
2. EGUIPHENT                            91       1732        1823            46       866       912             95          2
3. VENICLES                              2          28         30             1        14        15             95          0
. .............................  ........................... ....................
5th-Total                                  442       5477       5919           221      2736      2960             93           6
D. Supptles  nd Nateralss                  129       2465       2574            66      1222      1267             95           3
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. LOCAL CONSUtLTANTS                 1059       3524       4582           529       1762      2291             77          5
2. FOREIGN CONSUtLTANTS               2826       7623       10451          1414      3511      S25              73         11
i................ ................. . .................... ...........................   ..........................................
Sub-Total                                3667        11146     150I3          1943      5573      7517             74          16
F. TRtAIING
1. LOCAL SEINARS/WORKSHOPS             236        555         793           119       277       396             70          1
2. LOCAL TRAINING                      454        1059       1512           227       529       756             70          2
3. STUY TOURS                            11        209        220             6       104       110             95           0
4. FELLOWSHIPS                         360       6844        7204           160      3422      3602             95           7
S. Local Felltouhips                  134          336       1660           672       168       60              20          2
5th-Totat                                 2407       9002      11409          1203      4501      5704             79          12
G. StIES                                   107        341        448            54        170       224            76           0
B. OPERATING COSTS                          H8         37         125            U         19        63            30           0
1. Fwd                                      15        285        300             8       142       150             95           0
Totat INVESTNEUT COSTS                  22401       65474       7875         11200    323        439M              7S          91
..............................    ............................................... ............................................. ..........
It.  REAORRENT COSTS
................... ................... 
A. OP.ERATION I   NAINTENANCE
1. VEHICLE O & N                         7          34         36             1        17        16             95          0
2. EWUIPHENT 0 *                      166,'       2536       4227           645      1268      2113             60           4
3. WILDING O & N                      3054         763       3617          1527       382      1909             20           4
. .. .....  ....................... ...........................  ...........................................   ....................
5tb-Totat                                 4746       3334       6060          2373      1667      4640             41           f
D. SUPPLIES AND NATERIALS                    0          0           0             0         0         0              0
C. Oreratiw Exaines                        605        259          64          303        130       432            30
D. Inrerantat Salares                       49          0          49            25         0        25              0
.     ..............................    ...........................   .................. _
Total IEUREIT COSTS                       5401       3593       69            2700       1796     497              40           9
..............................    .............................................. ........... ...............  ................ ..........
Total  ASEtLIVE COSTS                   27602       69067      96669         13901    34534    46435                71        100
Phyfcat Continenqcis                 2423        S642       9264          1211      3431      4642             74          10
Price Contingencies                  13647      32646       46293          2119      5084      720T             71          15
................. i................................... ..;;  .. *........    ...........................   ....... .................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                     43671    108575    152447          1231    43049    60280                 71        124
................................................................................................0..................
V tues Usted by 1000.0 -   7/2711992  17:52



C         B*t &  _b _M _swgpwothb
Estudd Tm cand 1di  UwdV                                      EthuAd Tam and Due Usury
hiuhied hi 1e  os                                              Addd to Bm  Coat. (    Separ
OMI
SIATEM                          I)    412    I      14)     15)    16)       ) 81             ml      I)   (III   112)   413)    1)    115)    I n n       17    1181)   J1M
CVIL WOUCS:                                                                          11.8      10.6                                                                        10.0
LoaL Mtea                                     .                     22O.                                    -                             10.0   10.0   22.0    2.2
ForeIV MaSads                  16.5   7.6   1.0             27.0   31L0    10.3                                    -                      10.0   10.0   38.0    3.8
Labw,                           .             -     10.5   10.6   15.O    1.0                         -            -                      10.0   10.0   15.0    1.6
Ovshsd                          -      .             -              26.0                              -     .      -         -            10.0   10.0   2S.0    26
PROFESSIONAL FEES                -      -      -      30.0                           30.0      23.1 &         -
FtWJIf f                                                                             9.4        8.6                                                                        15.O
LadlMd                                        -      -              25.0    .                         - -                         20.0    6.0    25.0   25.0    6.3
F_*W Mstsdi                    16S    7.6   1.0    -        27.0   26.0    6.8                        -                             00 -   L. 6.0    2S.0   2S.0    6.3
Labor                           -      -            10.5   10.5   25.0    2.6                         -  -                         -       5.0     .0    25.0    1.3
OvDihd                                 -      -      -              26.0                                 -     -          -        -       6.0    6.0    2S.0    1.3
EGUWJUENT                        -             -                                                       3S.0  7.6   1.0      -       30.0    -                              73.5
VEHICLES                                       -                                                       28.0  7.6   1.0             60.0    -                               0s6
SWPPLES                                 -                      -                                       36.0  7.6   1.0      -       20.0                                   6&6
VATRIR-AL                                                                                              36.0  7.5   1.0      -       10.0    -                              65
FOflEICN ASSSTANCE               -                                                   30.0      23.1    -            -       30.0
LOCAL ASSISTANCE                 -      -            30.0                            30.0      23.1    -     -      -       -       -
LOCALTRIPS                       -
STUDY TRI6P                                                         - -  -  -         -                                  -                   - -
FELLOWSHIPS                             -
PER DEM                                 *      *      *                               ,                                     30.0            -30.0
RENT                                           ,
OPERATNG COSTS                          -      -      -                                                -     -                             t10.0                          10.0
NCaREWNTAL SALARES               -      -      -      -                                                                     30.0                                           30.0
SALARES PAS BY GOV.              -      -      -      2.6                            2.5        2.6    -            --
8LDO. OP. AND MAINT.                                                                 16.6      13.65                                                                         o
Locd Mitwr                      -      -        -     s             30.0    -                         -     -      -      -        -      10.0   10.0   30.0   3&0
Foreign Matbdalc               18.5   7.6   1.0    -        27.0   60.0   13.5                        -     -      -      -        -      10.0   10.0   50.0    6.0
Labor                           -      -      -     10.5   10.5   20.0    2.1                         -     -      -      -        -       -       -      20.0
EQtIIP. OP. AND MAWT.                                                                2.1       2.1                                                                         6S.8
Matwids                         -      -     -       -       -      80.0    -                         36.0  7.6   1.0     -       30.0     -      73.5   80.0   58.8
Labor                       -  - -                  10.5   10.5   20.0    2.1                         -            -      .                        -      20.0
VEH. OP. AND MAiNT                                                                   0.3       0.3                                                                         5.1
Materalslep. pbc5                             . -  -                5.0     -                         28.0  7.5   1.0     -       60.0     -      96.5    6.0    4.8
Labor                           .      -      -     10.5   10.6    2.5    0.3                         -     -      -      -        --              -      2.6
Oved                            -      -      -                     2.5     -                         -     -      -      -        -      10.0   10.0    2.5    0.3
as oiie/wuco                    -        -                          90.0 -  -  o90.0 -
SouicRefermnc.:
JI I At1o1i Deltos de Inmpooa ,. 'Import Taxe"'                                                          1101     Prcentag of Taxs & DuLties to be added to San Costa
121 & 111) E.G.A.. Emokumetobe Gers Aduaneoros. "(General Custom Dutes)'                                 l141     Iwsto do Consmo. (Consumer Taxesl-                            X
131 & (121 ADENA. Agenda do Derpaco Nacondl, INeatonal Tranection Agency Duti uls                        l1S1     bnposto do CircuIecao. (Aggregated Value Tax)l
141 & (131 T    UberStoad Sobre a Salado Auteddo, *(Wage Taxi-                                           11e      Taxes and Dutes incidence Per item
151 & 1161 Sub Totrsb of CobwnrI I to 141 and (91 to 1141 mspcti-ly.
163 & (171 EstImated Percntage of Subitem Partcipatlon, over a Total Item 100%
171 & JIB) T-ma and Duties knidenca per SubItem
18)     Taxos and Dutie Incidence per Item
I91     Pecentage of Taxs and Duies to be deducted from Sue Coste. equd to:
1100Vi100 + 11 a - Prontage ncbed I bassecosts stxown h (8)(iInput In COSTABl



-95 -
Annex IV-3
Mgzambigne
Capacity Buildinf: Human Resources Development Project
TAXES AND DUTEES TO BE PAID BWk MOZAMBICAN GOVERNMENT
TOTAL COSTS    TAXES AND    TOTAL TAXES
I    (US$'000)        DUTIES        AND DUTIES  I
.___________________  .__--______-     (US$'0O0)
INVESTMENT COSTS          _
Civil'Works                         27.88            10.0             2.79
Professional Fees                    3.03             0.0             0.00
Furniture                            2.48            15.0             0.37
Equipment                            1.07            73.5             0.79
Vehicles                             0.02            96.5             0.02
Supplies and Materials               1.51            63.5             0.96
Foreign Tech. Assistance             6.50             0.0             0.00
Local Tech. Assistance               3.11             0.0             0.00
Local Training                       2.73             0.0             0.00
Study Tours                          0.15             0.0             0.00
Fellowships                          4.99             0.0             0.00
Studies                              0.28             0.0             0.00
Operaing Costs                       0.07            10.0             0.01
Funds                                0.16             0.0             0.00
PPP                                  0.80             0.0             0.00
RECURRENT COSTS                     .      _                          0.00
'Vehicle O & M                       0.02             5.1             0.00
Equipment O & M                      2.54            58.8             1.50
Building O & M                       2.28             8.0             0.18
Operating Expenses                   0.60            10.0             0.06
Incremental Salaries                 0.03            30.0             0.01 |
TOTAL                               60.28                             6.68



-96 -
Annex I-4
Page 1 of 3
enkb1Anb   r/
Type of             Statu or
MMr Dkocion                              Contract            NW so
Dafti, and Editing of Manuals to prepare   Indiv/L           Await submission of
supplementary course materials                               proposals by local authors
L,i        Agrmen  between Faculties to    InsthI            Preparatory visits
provide discipline-specific support in                       financed by PPF
syllabus-development, research design,
teaching, and development of learning materials
Curriculum Reform  SOba    Analyze causes of  Indiv/I          OR approved
poor student performance and recommend
medium-term program fbr curriculum reform
Di,tance Eduation SU&  Examine viability  Indiv/I            TOR approved
of distance education; explore options of
linkage programs with regional universities;
and present a summary budget proposal for
recommended changes
GIU Direc    Planning and supervision of   Indiv/l           Advertised
establishment of GIU; recruitment and
training of all junior staff; overall
coordination and management of GIU activities
prrorem ent AdvisorTraining of GIU staff in Indiv/l         TOR and advertisement
procurement and development of procurement                   agreed on
systems and procedures for afU
consultantd=                             lndivALndlv/L       TOR and advertisement
agreed on
1/    Additonal indvidual or nustutonal tchica anmaanc conracts may be let under the tanig
prognu, eith  for d.vlopmzn of traing modules, or for the acta dolivey of baining.



-97 
Annex IV-4
Page 2 of 3
Type of            Status or
Short DesCidpMon                       con=c               Ne axtSe
Accountant                             Indiv/L             TOR and advertisement
Audits                                 Instl               TOR to be submitted
Maagme  of Economics Degartment to   Indiv/I or L          TOR approved
coordinate all department activities
including outside linkaes and ties with
economics raining outside the University
EMU
Y      o_J Teachers Teach EPU classes in    Inst/I         Needs study to be
selected disciplines                                       carried out in 1993
Curriasb RgftMAssist the NDSE in       Indiv/I and L       General TOR approved,
developing and implementing curriculum                     specifics as curriculum
programs; provide in-service training;                     reform process evolves
coordinate curriculum development activities
Textbool  Evaluto Develop a study to   Indiv/I and L       General TOR approved,
explore options for the production and                     specifics as curriculum
distribution of textbooks for EPUs                         implemented
Reform Assist in designing  Indiv/1 and L       TOR approved
School Administratio,n. I)evlop t of   Indiv/I and L       TOR approved
Reson= Prepare studies on school
legislation, financial management, and
school regulation and design and implement
follow-up



-98-
Page 3 of 3
Type of             Statu or
Shot hwlf                               Sbl                 Nezt S
GEPE S positions                 Illdiv/L            TOR  approved, some
candidates identified
M  1 position. Assist in        lidivAL             TOR approved
establishing and managing
the UTP



99-
Annex IV-5
C=bxamWud    Hum  Resources DeveloDMent Proect
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA Fiscal Year          2       294     25       26      22     29      22
Annul                   2.1*    5.3    10.7    11.4      8.8      6.0    4.4
Cumulative              2.1      7.4    18.1    29.5    38.3     44.2  48.6
Cumulative (%)          0.04    0.15    0.37    0.61    0.79      0.91   1.00
Standard (%)            0.06    0.14    0.30    0.50    0.66      0.82   0.94
Profile for
Education
Sector in Afirica
* Includes repayment of PPF



-100-
Anex V_-l
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STRUCTURE
se0c&o do exame,
MINED          IAP,  .0o.
ensino        ensino      ensino
GEPE               superior      secunddrio    primirio
DNES
| GRUO DEAPO O-<!sa;c            .s      fX;
Banco Mundial
Doadores
a-ffXi            ffis
D   Estruturas permanentes
D  |  sBtruturas teuporais ligadas con o projecto
N.Wg WLigag6es de trabalho



ii~~~~~~~~~~
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U  
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U t 
\g 1]|{lllligl Xi}1!|~~~
D    I }1|i  U



-102-
Annne V-2
Page 2 of 6
gg    IM      199     IS  -           7
AoftI                         1234 1   341234123412341434
"aboAmIaa Of PAyeIca Plan
Study: ftab sum                     ,mm .
Iady: mIwm                             ._mY._
YhUittatnjj                               mmAcwmm mm 
Ouas Unlwsaby haildinsa Offiu.        m..
Fdod:  _ p b _eA"        wm m---mmmm_mm
ftdy: uoeulY WAOOMYm
Study: tUght of nu offis                  m



-103-
Annex V-2
Page 3 of 6
Key actions by UEM
Yea 1. 1993:
3 m. aer effcdveness    : frniture survey completed
4 m. after effectivene3s    : operational study bookstore submitted to IDA
June 30                 : UEM scholarship manual completed
July 31                 : pocurement alning UEM staff completed
September 30            : all usufrct rights extended to at least 40 years
December 31             : reorganizaton financial admistation completed
: 40 houses completed in BRU
: contracts negotiated for linkages
Faculties of Economics and Engineering
Yea 2, 1294
December 31             : 52 units in BRU completed, 108 rehabilitated
: computer hardware installed and training completed
: study on distance education completed
Year 3. 
December 31             : student residence and facilities completed
: academic performance, curriculum relevance and credit system
study completed
December 31             : physical rehabilitation main campus completed



-104-
Annex V2
Page 4 of 6
PRE-UNIVERSITY SCHOOLS -EPUs
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1992      193      1994      I"S      l2m       1W
Actlvlt.                              123412341234123412341234
1. C     -urcl  D_vlopn3n
Study: Cunicuum eview                        ._
Study: Examation                                    mm_m_m
Produce loca study guides-m    mm                 mm-mm
Pedsgogcal Seminars-m                                    -m       mm        m            m       m
EPUs wosbhops                              ---m  m-m-m-m-mmmmm  m-m  m  m-m -m-m-m
School wpervsion                           mm mm mm mm mm  m m  mm  m  m mm m
2. Teahnglafrning Materials
Putchan Teching KMu      -       -      -     -      -      m-m-m-m---m---m  m-m  mm-
Pmncha5e Librar booksm    mm    mm    mm  m    mm    mm    mm 
Production of workbooksteachers)mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
Study: To    kmmiom
3. Teaher Tainin
Prposl (ISF
*Training                                          m    mm    mm    mm    mm    mm
4. Inmcasn Supply of Teachers
prposa for inston
hire vohuters                                                ,_.___,,_m
Staff Duwromb~aU -tf
*Contact ingitutlona                                 mm 
Staff developrusataingm
Study: chool  s-ationm
Study: Fm    MonoinSmmmmmmmmmm
Study: School Reguion
Puwhs of equipma-suppliea                                                
tdy To  (2 peyer)                                              mmymmammwmm)mmmmmmmm
Rafq GIa4s' Ebralm_
. Schdad,ps                                           mm._m_ m..._m_m_ _m_m_m



-105 -
Annexs V-2
Page S of 6
19               124      1995     1996     19
Aovity                            1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
EPU hh00abiuam
vlatIot Of c.uIIIaMS                           m - m
Pap. ofTechical Prapoub                        m
BvaWob & a,,,ovam
Das p Pcap I -Jods Mar"                        mm-m
Fanc. myap                                     ___mm .
Tata                                     mm mm mm m
Approval
Bvahitic & approval                                            m    mm 
Doup Pac~g U - Sammoa Mach
lo de Muio
25 de Seambwo
Togal                                      mm   mm    mm    mmc
Approvalm
Ivahnatlo & Wappovasm mc 
Doesig & Supevlulon Civil Works
Fuamurs aD Schools
Laundr & Kithn Equip. Dci..
Spaihalauw and Prxourmaa (0313)



-106-
Page 6 of 6
Key actions for EPU
Year 1. 1993
January 31             employ all staff in GEPE and NDSE
February 4             implement grade 11 curriculum
March 31               start examination study
i initiate design technical proposals EPU package I
June 30                proposal private management dormitories
: proposal decentralization school fees
October 31             start contracting volunteer teachers
December 31            complete curriculum grade 12
'ear 2, 1994:
February I          :  implement grade 12 curriculum
March 31               initiate textbook study
initiate bidding EPU package I
June 30                complete technical proposals EPU package II
initiate bidding EPU package II
LK3-22
January 30             initiate rehabilitation EPU package I
May 31                 initiate rehabilitation EPU package II
June 30             :  complete studies of textbooks and examination system
Year 4. 19t9
March 31            :  complete all studies



-107-
Annex V-3
Page 1 of 2
Momiaue
CaDacky Building: Human Resources Delom ent project
LESSONS LEARNED IN PROJECI IMPLEMETATION
1.           A review of the portfolio and the lessons learnt since GOM started to borrow from IDA
(1986) was carried out prior to the fit Country Implementaion Review (CIR) held in February, 1991.
This CIR focussed on four areas: project implementation arrangements, especially the use of project
implementation or coordination units; delays in procurment, disbursements, compliance with audit
requiremears and public administration salary and incentive structure. For each of the areas, a short
description will be given of the problems encountered, the recommendations of the CIR, the progress
made in carrying out the recommendaions and how these lessons learnt have been taken into account in
the Capacity Building Project.
2.           ErIM       I D               n    he earlier projects in the portfolio have
established separate Project Implementation or Coordination Units (PlUs), and PIU staff questioned the
merit of such arrangements versus strengthening implementing agencies as part of a sustainable
institutional development strategy. PIUs do wt fit in the Mozambican public administration structure: its
levels of autonomy and authority are ill-defined with the sectors (because they often handle budgets larger
than the rest of the sector) and they are often expected to coordinate activities of various institutions for
which it has no clearly defined hierarchy, Nles, and procedures. For the financiers, such as IDA, PIUs
facilitate project implementation becausm they bring all the necessay information together for monitoring.
In the newer projects in the portfolio, attempts have been made to strengthen existing institutions, but it is
too early to see results of this newer strategy.
3.           The Capacity Building project by its very nature is trying to avoid creation of new
instiutions and procedures and to strengthen implementation capacity of existing institutions.
4.                                                               . Ingo=three
major problems were identified: delays in approvals within Mozambique, delays in obtaining no-
objections from IDA, and not having a reviow of the local procurement procedures. Within
Mozambique, procedures could be streamlind by adoption of stndard contracts and staff training in
MINFIN. Such contracts have been prepared for consultants (individual and firms) and would be
approved by MINFIN by June 30,1992. IDA's new standard contract for civil works of December 1991,
has also been analyzed and translated. While IDA's standard contract has been used up to now without
major problems, it actly contdicts Mozambican laws and a more thorough review and
recommendations for adaptation of the Mozambican laws has been planned in the course of FY93 as part
of the review of the local pr eent assment All recommentions on streamlining of approval
procedures would have to be implemented as a condition of second tranche release of the ERC.
5.                        anblag u 1 by about 50% compared to SAR esdlmates for the overaU
portfolio. Decentralization of dburseme  authority from a centralized point (Banco de Mozambique) to
PIUs or implementing agencies as well a streamlining the procedures authorizing payments within the
Minitry of Finance has been recommendd ua pat of the Financial Management Action Program



- 108 -
Page 2 of 2
(FMAP) to be implemented before second tranche release of ERC would be authorized.
6.           Auk reports for the whole portfolio for 1990 were eventually received In 1992. The
recommendations of the auditors for the rehabilitation credits are being implemented as part of the
FMAP; for most projects, the auditors only had minor comments, which are being taken into account.
7.           Within the Capacity Building project, there will be many technical assistance contracts and
the streamlined procedures would contribute to rapid project implementation. Contracting a procurement
agent for the procurement of goods would also alleviate pressure on implementing units. For the
contracting of civil works only two implementing agencies would have responsibility and both have
experience with IDA procedures. In fact, GEPE's computerized system for procurement and accounting
would be transferred to other implementing agencies as well as it has been evaluated as one of the best
project monitoring systems in the portfolio. Given the experience in the portfolio, the disbursement
period for this project has been set at seven years for a five year investment program.
8.           Public administration salarv and incentive structure. With the proposed salary incentive
fund, many of the identified problems of retaining staff to implement projects or programs should be
removed. The proposal gives weights for education level attained, years of experience and level of
responsibility and will be applicable to all higher level staff as well as higher level technicians. As clear
criteria are now available, it will also be possible to apply these in a transparent way to staff working in
project implementation agencies.



-10 9-
.Annex V-4
Page 1 of 2
Capacity Building: Human Resources Develpmnt Project
PROJECT PREPARATORY ACTIVITIES 1/
Funds Needed for Project Preparation, as estimated in Agril. 1992
1. UniversQade    Iado Mondlane:
- GIU                                         $ 35,000
- Autonomy Study                              $ 50,000
- Training                                    $ 20,000
- Furniture Needs Study                       $ 12,000
- Linkage Program                             $ 25,000
- Prep. specs. + bidding docs.                S 50,000
- Rehb. needs costing                         $ 10,000
- Complete houses                             $ 63,000
- Feasibility housing fund                    $ 75.000
S 340,00
- Lin.~age Program                            $ 25,000
- Prep. specs. + bidding docs.                S 100,000
- Complete Houses                             $ 210,000
- ISATEX Occupation                           $ 125,000
- Bookstore Study                             S 25,000
TOTAL UEM:
2. Pre-University Schools
- Equip. & Furn. for NDSE                     $ 45,000
- Operating Expenses                          $ 3,000
- Pedagogical Seminar                         S 50,000
- Foreign Consultants' Services               $ 37,500
- Local Consultants' Services                 $ 9,000
- Workshop for School Directors               S  I.
TOTAL EPUs:                                   S 146.000
I1 The PPF was granted on February 6, 1992 and was intended for the preparation of the
companion project dealing with Capacity Building (Human Resources Development Project
and Public Sector and Legal Institutions Development Project)



-110-
Annex V
Page 2 of 2
3. Strengthening Legal Capabilities
- Strategic Development Seminar                      $  12,000
- Study Tours                                        $  65,100
- Office set-up for Working Group                    $ 43,000
- Studies and Consulting Services                    S 146.
TOTAL Legal:                                            27C
4. Public Administration/Management Strengthening
- Development of a Vocational
Training Strategy                             S 200.000
5. 1YOTAL FORECASTED PROJECT PREPARATION
FUNDING NEEDED:                                            $1,438,600
6. AMOUNT AVAILABLE UNDER                BANK ppFs 750
7. AMOUNT NEEDED TO BE FINANCED
FROM OTHER SGURCES*                                        $ 688,600
*Other sources might include a second PPF and bilateral assistance.



Anne V-5
Page 1 of 2
5.&zambigge
Capacity Building: Human Resources Develogment Project
ELEMENTATION MaNUA&
UEM's implementation manul was produced after the appraisal mission. Its table of
r&=nts. summarized and translated into English. has been reproduced below.
-     Introduction
-     Principal UEM Stabilization needs
-     Project Objectives
-     Project Activities, describing in each case: objectives, program description,
management arrangement: and procedures, staff needed, costs
-     Project manageir nt
-     Accountability, reporting requirements
-     Risks
-     Evaluation indicators
-     Investment Budget, by financier, by project activity
-     Recurrent Budget, by GOM budget category and project activity
-     Procurement schedules, timetable, implementation responsibility and procurement
method
-     Implementation schedule
-     Bid advertisements for construction and rehabilitation
-     Terms of reference for TA and studies:
housing management contract
housing ownership feasibility study
operational feasibility of Univ. bookstore
book store manager
annual audit
furniture needs
feasibility study transfer central administrative offices
study on curriculum, credits, academic calendar
study on distance education
study on university autonomy
GIU
GIU civil engineer
GW architect
Economics Faculty Managing Director
Economics Faculty Pedagogical Director
Economics Faculty Research Director
Snior Accountant
Junior Accountant
Senior Procurement Officer
Junior Procurement Officer
Procurement Unit
Base Line studies used to prepare project proposal



-112 -
Page 2 of 2
EPU's implementation mamual was reviewed and revised during negotiations. Its table of contents has
been reproduced below.
-     Introduction
-     Principal Problems of EPU
-     Objectives of EPU component in context of Capacity Building
-     Project Adminon and Management
Description of each sub-component
Activities under each subcomponent, with Indication of responsible staff/agencies and
costs
Implementation Schedules
-     Monitoring and Evaluation
-     Lists of equipment and didactic materials
-     Proposed Training Programs
-     Terms of reference for TA
staff in GTP
curriculum development
textbook study
examination study
EPU management and decentralization
education regulations
ISP, to provide in-service and pre-service tning



-113 -                                      An        V-6
Page 1 of 3
CaRacity Building Human Resgurces Develonment Proiect
Monitoring and Evaluadon Indlcators
Indicate.                     Year 1        Year 2       Yer 3       Ya 4         Year 5
1. tmprove owe                             monitor       evaluate    monor        evau
perormanc                   bselin        hndicr       mid-tmn     Wiatr         hdior
- dropout fas              ran          rae          run         ras           rae
- rapdon rat
* padtion  es
- *awfuadena rados
averp  wM    ot                                 _              _            _
2. Expnd sude' aces           Number of   idem.          Numbe       Idea.        Each
to books                    books di-                  of booh                  soaent
tribuzed to               per                       Mast
books
3. Locl zebook produwon        norms        40 cm       40 WM        33 _m        At bs
doUsed;      contated    contrt      conuad    124 ts
25  sto                                               -
conaed 
4. Staff dweveopmznt          calculate     monitor      eval"       monior         aluate
- toW- Mommbican staff      baseie        indialors    mdtm        indiamo      final
- aveae lengh of sevac      indarsd
-  p erent ivth Sadua
S. Insur regina and           Provicia    ideni          Ide..       ide..        Prvincia
gede repntelo               stuet at                                              sm   up
lew 30%;                                           to 50%;
Women at                                           women 30%
Ia 25%
6. Inmve amnagmen             Reor          At bc Futy.    MIS                    Adam.
lnaROWA      I saff       Dept. L &  sy           sysqM
sctor.      tuned         adan        lrgey        am taind
trng.i       in &S        staff       in h.1       shaff i
prosuze0 two years;    asiolld        two hea      Pac
mezt  e.   two bha        Totak  so
L we         courso
7. I_mp       eeuabiLy         adi and      Ide.         Ideat       Idt.          Idea.
consult
S. Establish Mg iam hoe.   m.o ma..  3uge                            Dudgen         udsg
maeaosprops                 downn        raining;      1.0%        1.5%         2.0%
bud:        bodce
0.5%        0.53%
9. Gradua    nng               Send 10      Send IS      Send L      Send 10       35 MAe
MA's en       W    and     SA's   M<     A         adS PhD
S H"D'.      I PhD          .omple_ d
-opi                                                and Staff
adate
.m                                         _     _      _     _



gt ;|1Iil 1111 i__
-                _a     ..fsls     13'     i  
: i h1[]Iii In 'I



I    It~~II  1[  F ____  11111 r  IL It
1 t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I      it  IL t
It                                      Smt  t  IL
ar  a~~~~~~~~~ 
F   F~~~~ 
It IIPtM< 2                   .1 Li
-       -   -   -   -   -   - -  - -  -
1E~~1~3**                       .1 XfL3I



- 116-
Annx Y7
Page 1 of 4
MQzEse
Capacity Building: Human Resources Development Projc
Capacit Buildings Public Sector and LealIntituins Development Prolect
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.          It is envisaged that significant multi-disciplinary resources will be required to
supervise this project in light of the complex institution building activities required under the four
components in the two capacity building projects, which also include significant investment in
civil works in the Human Resource Development Project. The further development of
Mozambique's Capacity Building Strategy and Action Plan wIll to a large extent happen through
the dialogue to be maintained during the implementation of these projects. IDA will need to
commit significant resources to supervision and donor coo lination. Arrangements will be made
to (a) transfer the task management to the Resident Mission Senior Operation's Officer and assign
a local staff member at the Resident Mission to spend about half time on this project; and (b) to
coordinate closely with other donors and especially with SIDA alternate in taking the lead in
supervising the public administration component.
2.          IIDA Sjervision In: Bank staff or consultant input into Ihe supervision of the
two projects will amount to about 25 staffweek for the first year; about 30 thereafter, especially
dudng the two fiscal years surrounding the mid term review. This required input will take the
following form:
(a)    Eotflio MTnhmegt Oer: 'Me review of procurement documents,
progress reports, correspondence and the internal reporting related to such
activities would be divided between the Resident Mission and headquarters and are
expected to require about 10 staff weeks per year. Monthly project coordination
meetings are expected to be held by the Resident Mission.
(b)    Field Superision: It is planned to undertake fie!d supervision on a semi-annual
basis: once a year (in October/November) to hold the annual implementation
seminars, annual donor meetings for the University (if the UEM maintains the
schedule to hold them annually) and Capacity Building donor meetings; once a
year (in March) to coincide with SIDA's anmnal review of the public
administraon program, and hold a donor meeting. The legal working growp
plans to hold national conferences in 1994/95/96; the results of such meetings
would be incorporated in the annual implementation review. In addition, the
secondary e Acation specialist may bave to review progress at times during July
instead of March, to coincide with the annual training programs of EPU staff.



-117 -
Annex V-7
Page 2 of 4
3.           MA FieldJiWerigio.lh
Approximat
Datn                                           Expeced Skill              Staff
(Month/Year)               Activity            Requirements               input (Sw)
10192        Project Launch Workshop           Higher Education           7
Anual University Donor Seminar    Educator
Procurement specialist
Lawyer
Architect
CD specialist
Public administradon
Evaluation specialist      2
3/93         Public Admitraon Spn with         Public Administration      2
SIDA
Review civil works               Architect                   I
Secondary Educadon review        Educator                   2
Progress review Legal            Lawyer                      1
i0193        Pirst Annual Implementation Seminar Higher Education
Educator
Lawyer
Architect
CB specialist
Public Administration      12
3/94         Public  dminon Spn with           Public Administration      2
SIDA
ReWiew civil works               Architec                    1
Secondary Education              Educator                    1
Review Legal                     Lawyer                      1
10/94 Sooond Annal Implementation Seminar Higher Education
La Sttgy Workshop                       Educator
Lawyer
Architect
CB specialist
Public Administration      13
3/95         Public Ad rion Spn with           Public Administration      2
SIDA
Reviw civi work                  Architect                   1
Soeondary Education              Educator                    I



-118-
Page 3 of 4
Review Legal                     Lawyer                      1
Prepare for midterm evaluation   Evaluation specialist       2
10/95  Mid term Review                         Higher Education
Annual Legal Strategy Workshop   Educator
Lawyer
Architect
CB specialist
Public Administration
Evaluation Specialist      16
3/96         Public Administration Spn with    Public Administration      2
SDA
Review civil works               Architect                   1
Secondary Education              Educator                    1
Review Legal                     Lawyer                      1
10/96 ThIrd Annual Implementation Seminar      Higher Education
Annual Legal Strategy Workshop   Educator
Lawyer
Architect
CB speciist
Public Administration      13
3/97         Public Administration Spn with    Public Adminstrton         2
SIDA
Review civil works               Architect                   1
Secondary Education              Educator                    I
Review Legal                     Lawyer                      1
10197        Fourth Annual Implementation Seminar Higher Education
Educator
Lawyer
Architect
CB specialist
Public Adminiaon           12
3/98         Public Adminisraon Spn with       Public Adminon             2
SIDA
Review civil works               Architect                   1
Secondary Education              Educator                    1
Review Legal                     Lawyer                      1
10198        Fift Annual Implementation Seminar Higher Education
Educator
Lawyer
Architect



- 119 -
Annex V-7
Page 4 of 4
CB specialist
Public Administration      12
3/99         Project completion               Higher Education
Educator
Lawyer
Architect
CB specialist
Public Administration
Evaluation specialist      14
11/99        PCR writing and "iorkshop                                   14
By IDA fiscal year the supervision requirements are:
FY                        93    94    95    96    97    98    99    00
Human Resources            7      9     10    10      9      8     13     7
Public Sector/Legal       8       9     10    10      9     9      13     7
sw in field               15    18    20    20    18    17    26    14
Document review            10    10    10    10    10    10
total sw                  25    28    30    30    28    27    26    14



- 120 -
Annex V-8
Page 1 of 2
Caaciqt Building Project
LIST OF REFERENCE DOCUMENTS FOR PROJECr FILE
Eduardo Mondlane University
Principal Referenpes
1.    entWe e Dff=A=, May 1991 (UEM institutional stabilization plan)
2.   World Bank sector study on CZaci  Building
3.   UEM funding proposal: 'Contribuicao para a Estabilizacao Institucional da
Universidade Eduardo Mondlane" March 1992
4.   Appraisal mission aide memoire, annex 4 (UEM), of March 1992
emu tlbReferences
5.    'Final Report on Faculty Housing in Mozambique," January 24, 1992, by Frieda
Molina (World Bank consultant).
6.    "Gestao e Manutencao do Parque Habitacional: Estudo Preliminar," by
Consultec, March 1992.
7.    "Programa de Reabilitacao de Apartamentos," by Consultec, March 1992.
8.   "Estudo de Viabilizacao de um Programa de Incentivos: Estudo Preliminar," by
Consultec, March 1992
9.    "Study of the Actual Situation of the Computerization and the Needs for
Computerization in Eduardo Mondlane University," by CIUEM/UEM, March
1992.
10.   "Modernizacao e Reabilitacao da hnprensa Universitaria," by Jose Dias Loureiro,
Armando Virgilio Uanmusse, and Paulo Alberto Chope, Divisao Grafica/UEM,
March 1992.
11.   "Savings Mobilization and Home Ownership," by Apoli Mugwanga (World Bank
consultant), April 1992.



-121 -
Annex Y-8
Page 2 of 2
EPU Doawnens
1.    Mozambique - Social Secr Expenditure and Financing Review
2.    0 Ensino Secundaro Geral e o Pre-Universitario em Mocambique.
3.    Proposta de Regulamento Organico da Direg5o Nacional do Ensino Secundario
4.    Levantanento dos cargos e fungoes da DNES.
5.    Informacoes sobre o Insuto Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Educacao.
6.    Acao Social - modelo de formuario da Escola Josina Machel.
7.    Evolucao do nimero de alunos matriculados nas EPUs.
8.    Carta dos Directores das EPUs.
9.    Acta do Grupo de Trabalho das EPUs.
10.   Gestao Administraiva - antocendentes e justifcacao.
12. Qualitr of Teachers and Quality of Teaching-lnformation.
13.   PInciaento dos Gastos Correntes da Adm    intrc  do Estado.
14.   The National Educational System
15.   Relatorio Final de Seminarlo do BUSC(EP).
16.   PROMEF - EPU - Projecmo de Melhoria do Funcionamenm das EPUs.
17.   The FORD Foundation - Recommendaton for GratFAP Action.
18.   Project - Provision of English Laguage Textbooks for Pre-University Schools.
19.   Educaton and econmi crisis - the cas of Mozambique and Zambia.
20.   Education in Mozamblque 1989.



CL       WANDA:    ..s         [AUN3'3                                                                                8
J'R  ZAIRE   ;RU"       y/      -DI-N                                                                                                                 40J     >3-3e   
I.\ T\ AN2ANI-   OCCAN                             3
D.                                      ~~~~~~~~~TANZANIA                                             PI~
IANGOIA  -;  .-, )    =%7  'A   .'4 /L                              \TANZA                                                                         L        A    2
32-      /                   L&                                 <7         A     UP!ACIMBOA  
r    AMwo B    I                 A                                                                                            M IJU E D    A    APPUAIA 
NAMAJDIA S
1 4a m w A ~ C ~                      +                                                 t     M  A  O      CA X L A   P                            dA C O M IA
A R/  P A
___________ __________*___________ __                                                                                      /              ANCUAB
Z A M                      A IE A  MALAWI LICHINGA  MA             E;G              MA .
14-                                                                                                                       P EACPLE
N  f                                                      a D'C. 
<    . GA  NGI[A                                   c    BA                                          EC            -U'
Z~ IAA MAA B A  B  W  E                             fANICA    ChI FI.,A
GURUot                                                  '
.I ' tMU T   A
y_      GON     /                                                                             MOGOVOLA
IAGD             CN0                       AZE <
N -AE[GATATt                    ~>UA                            I                                  IANOH
Z A ~EZI    > \AA
~PEBANE              -
20-Ul A    PP OCI    U I A
GUR THIAZEAVA\ CA;P                                             AAA
-                                           Mo ( 
APACOSSA                                          CAPACIT  BUILDIN0PROJEC
XM A S S A s G (          INHASSORO                        | -Pr INiASSUsGE
22     /    -\               \\  M A S O T E )             r                          .    Rrcililulicn OT PnrUnivelsit FociliiicsE *--'  -
--RONGOSA            4' 4C N( M
CAI'
Z IMBAB                         \MWE  CAAANE /                 S   A                                        P
MAGUDE *   t   [ i          I ZAAVAI
AFRICA                                  IE                  R D
\ ~     ~         ~~ ,N         CARBAA_'MOA BIU
3,0@   ,   4 SMH AFRhCAOY BUILDIN3PROJEC
ASSA  G  UNASSORO                                                          riority districts
22-                           M A    T E            1/-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*      Relabilitation of Pre-Utoversiity Facilities
InternatiOnal airport
F UNHALOURO           '                          t    Obrarot
EORM    B                       ProvOnasicapitals
*     Nottisol capital
24-
A   F  R  I C   A           IL~ ~ ~~[PR                  ''~
/SWAZILAND  * PATUTAINE                                                                 O     a    , ~ ,             ,      m        
305                            SOr         AFRICAoada40a



