CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1330 AR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Fourth Buenos Aires Power Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 1, 1976


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 1, 1976, between THE ARGENTINE
REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Servicios El4ctricos del Gran Buenos Aires S.A.
(hereinngfter called the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to make to
the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to one hun-
dred and fifteen million dollars ($115,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided, and
undertake the other obligations hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank'n enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower, and undertake the other
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the term "Corpora-
ci6n de Empresas Nacionales" means the agency of the Guarantor
established by Law No. 20,558 of the Guarantor, and any successor
thereto.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds;
Execution of Part B of the Project
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth in the Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the pro-
visions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifi-
cally undertakes:
(a) to take or cause to be taken all reasonable action, in-
cluding action by Corporaci6n de Empresas Nacionales, as shall be
necessary or appropriate to enable and to cause the Borrower to
perform its obligations under the Loan Agreement;
(b) whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the
funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the
estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of Part A of
the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be pro-
vided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures,
either by making additional equity investments in the Borrower or
otherwise; and


﻿-4-
(c) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, to provide:
(i) grants to the Borrower in amounts equivalent to not less than
$50,300,000 during 1976 and $36,500,000 not later than June 30,
1977; and (ii) loans or cause to be provided loans to the Borrower
in amounts equivalent to not less than $25,000,000, $42,000,000,
$59,000,000 and $80,000,000, not later than June 30, 1977 and during
each of the years 1978, 1979 and 1980, respectively, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. (a) The Guarantor shall carry out Part B of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency, with its own experi-
enced and qualified staff, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, shall complete said Part within 12 months after the date of
this Agreement.
(b) The Guarantor shall make contractual arrangements with
the Borrower for the purposes set forth in Section 3.02 of the
Loan Agreement.
(c) In order to assist the Guarantor in certain matters re-
garding the carrying out of the plan and the study included in
Part.B of the Project, the Guarantor shall employ consulting firms
or individual consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) With respect to Part B of the Project, the Guarantor
assumes towards the Bank, mutatis mutandis, the obligations set
forth in Section 3.05 (b) (i) and (iii) of the Loan Agreement.


﻿-5
Section 2.04. The Guarantor shall exchange views with the
Bank on the findings and recommendations of the plan and study in-
cluded in Part B of the Project, and on the proposal for the carry-
ing out of such recommendations.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. It is the mutual intention of the Guarantor and
the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over
the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets. To that end, the
Guarantor undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of the Guarantor
as security for any external debt, such lien will ipso facto equal-
ly and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and inter-
est and other charges on, the Loan, and that in the creation of
any such lien express provision will be made to that effect; pro-
vided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this Section
shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time
of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property; (ii) any lien on commercial goods
to secure a debt maturing not more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred and to be paid out of the pro-
ceeds of sale of such commercial goods; or (iii) any lien arising
in the ordinary course of banking transactions to secure a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is ori-
ginally incurred.
The term "assets of the Guarantor" as used in this Section
includes assets of the Guarantor or of any agency of the Guarantor,
including assets of the Banco Central de la Repdblica Argentina
or any institution performing the functions of a central bank for
the Guarantor.


﻿-7-
The Guarantor further undertakes that, within the limits of
its constitutional powers, it will make the foregoing undertaking
effective with respect to liens on the assets of any of its poli-
tical subdivisions and their agencies, including local governing
authorities.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will cause its
agencies to take all reasonable action in respect of the timely
settlement of debt for electricity supplied to such agencies by
the Borrower.
The Guarantor undertakes that, within the limits of its con-
stitutional powers, it will make the foregoing covenant effective
with respect to its political subdivisions and their agencies,
including local governing authorities.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken
from time to time all steps necessary to enable the Borrower to
sell electricity at such rates as shall be required to obtain the
revenues provided for in Section 5.05 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall, from time to time, prompt-
ly after each occurrence of the event specified in paragraph 2 of
Article 15 of the Concession, cause the Borrower to take the ac-
tion therein provided regarding the valuation of its assets.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall take or cause its agencies
to take all action necessary: (a) to coordinate the expansion of
generating, transmission and distribution facilities of all elec-
tric utility entities operating within the Greater Buenos Aires


﻿-8                                     0
area in order to prevent waste of energy, duplication of facili-
ties and unnecessary investment; and (b) to continue to intercon-
nect all such entities in such a manner as will permit the most
economic and efficient operation thereof.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of the study referred to in Section 4.02 of the Loan
Agreement, and shall exchange views with the Bank on its conclu-
sions and the Borrower's proposals to carry out its recommenda-
tions.
Section 3.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Guarantor shall not approve any new major investment in power
generation or transmission until the plan included in Part B (a)
of the Project shall be completed. Any subsequent major investment
in power generation or transmission shall be in accordance with
such plan, as amended from time to time.
Ada


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Economics of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Economfa
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:                    Telex:
Ministerio Economa                121952
Buenos Aires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿-10                                      0
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s! Adolfo Diz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President


