77-23
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1330 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Fourth Buenos Aires Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SERVICIOS ELECTRICOS DEL
GRAN BUENOS AIRES S.A.
Dated November 1, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREDENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 1, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and SERVICIOS ELECTRICOS DEL GRAN BUENOS AIRES S.A. (herein-
after called the Borrower).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guaran-
tee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) " Estatutos" means the estatutos of the Borrower, ap-
proved by Resolution No. 2499 of July 1, 1976 of the Inspecci6n
General de Personas Jurfdicas of the Ministry of Justice of the
Guarantor.
(b) "Concession" means the concession contract dated Febru-
ary 1, 1962 between the Guarantor and the Borrower, approved by
Decree No. 1247 of the Guarantor, dated February 8, 1962.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred and
fifteen million dollars ($115,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall prompt-
ly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and ninety hundredths per cent (8.90%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. Pursuant to the provisions of the Guarantee
Agreement, the Guarantor shall carry out Part B of the Project.
For such purpose, the Borrower.shall make contractual arrangements
with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the
transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn
from the Loan Account under Category (2) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, and for the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower
of such funds as the Borrower will be required to pay to the Bank
on account of such proceeds.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with sound public utility and business prac-
tices.
(b) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the ac-
quisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use
or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be pay-
able in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or re-
pair such goods.


﻿-6-
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (a) obtain title to all goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan free and clear of all encumbrances; (b) cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to
be used exclusively for the Project; and (c) not sell or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets necessary for the effici-
ent carrying on of its business and undertaking, including the Proj-
ect, unless the Borrower shall first pay, or make adequate provi-
sion satisfactory to the Bank for payment of, all of the Loan which
shall then be outstanding and unpaid.
Section 3.05. (a) Upon request from time to time by the Bank,
the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank the plans, specifi-
cations, contract documents, and work and procurement schedules for
Part A of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to re-
flect the progress and cost of Part A of the Project and to iden-
tify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall,
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
Part A of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-7-
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, prop-
erty and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 3.06. Whenever the Borrower shall propose to under-
take, during the period of construction of the Project, any major
expansion project other than the Project or to make any major ad-
dition to its plants or other property, the Borrower shall, before
taking any action with respect thereto, afford the Bank a reason-
able opportunity to exchange views on such proposal.
For the purposes of this Section, a "major expansion project"
s     or a "major addition to its plants or other property" shall be
deemed to be a project or an addition regarding generation facil-
ities, or transmission lines at a tension of 220 kV or more, the
aggregate estimated cost of which shall exceed ten million dollars
equivalent.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times maintain its
corporate existence and right to carry on its operations and shall
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in
the conduct of its business.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times manage its affairs, plan
its future investment and expansion, and maintain its financial
position, all in accordance with sound business, financial and pub-
lic utility principles and practices.
(c) The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and property and from time to time make all neces-
sary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering and public utility principles and practices.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall carry out a study of the
structure of its rates and shall furnish to the Bank, for comments,
by December 31, 1977 or such later date as the Bank shall agree,
the conclusions of such study and the proposals, if any, made by
the Borrower to the Guarantor for applying its recommendations.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and ex-
penses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in ac-
cordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than fou-
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and finan-
cial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no mortgage, pledge or other right in rem exists on
any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) the Borrower shall not voluntarily create or
suffer to be created any mortgage, pledge or other right in rem
on any of its assets in favor of third parties unless the Borrower


﻿- 10 -
shall at the same time create, in favor of the Bank, and at no cost
to the Bank, a mortgage, pledge or other right in rem, satisfactory
to the Bank, which shall have priority and preference to, and shall
rank ahead of, the mortgage, pledge or other right in rem first
above mentioned, and, in the creation of any such mortgage, pledge
or right in rem, the Borrower shall make express provision for the
submission thereof to the priority, preference and prior rank of
the Bank's rights; and (ii) if any such mortgage, pledge or other
right in rem shall be created by operation of law, the Borrower
shall create in favor of the Bank, and at no cost to the Bank, an
equivalent mortgage, pledge or other right in rem satisfactory to
the Bank which shall secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the provisions of this Section shall not apply to: (i) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions ani -:uring a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As soon as practicable after the date of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall: (i) in accordance with the laws of the Guaran-
.'-, duly protocolize, record and register, or at the Bank's re-
quest take any action required to enable the Bank to protocolize,
record     register, the undertaking contained in paragraph (b) of
this Section in such manner and places as may be required under
the laws of the Guarantor to make such undertaking valid and bind-
ing in favor of the Bank and of the holders from time to time of
the Loan and enforceable against the Borrower and all third parties
in accord&nce with its terms; and (ii) furnish to the Bank an


﻿- 11 -
orinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable
to the Bank that such undertaking has been duly protocolized, re-
corded and registered in such manner and places as may be required
under the laws of the Guarantor to make such undertaking valid and
binding in favor of the Bank and of the holders from time to time
of the Loan and enforceable against the Borrower and all third par-
ties in accordance with its terms. The Borrower shall pay all rea-
sonable charges, fees and expenses in connection with the forego-
ing.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt if, after the incurrence of any
such debt, the net revenue of the Borrower for the fiscal year next
preceding such incurrence or for a later consecutive twelve-month
period, whichever is the greater, shall be less than one and one-
half times the estimated maximum debt service payments (includ-
ing repayment of principal and payment of interest and other char-
ges) for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt, including the
debt proposed to be incurred.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the term "debt" means all debt of the Borrower payable
by its terms on demand or maturing by its terms more than one year
after the date of its incurrence;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the day such debt
becomes outstanding and repayable in accordance with the loan con-
tract or agreement providing therefor or, in the case of guarantee


﻿- 12 -
of debt, on the date of execution and delivery of the contract pro-
viding for such guarantee, but only to the extent that the guaran-
teed debt is outstanding;
(c) the term "net revenue" means gross income from all sources,
adjusted to take account of electricity rates in effect at the
time of the incurrence of debt even though such rates were not in
effect during the fiscal year or twelve-month period to which such
income relates, less all operating and administrative expenses, in-
cluding provision for all taxes other than income taxes but before
depreciation of assets and before provision for interest and other
charges on debt and income taxes; and
(d) whenever it shall be necessary to value in terms of the
currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate
of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of such
valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall sell electricity at such
rates as shall be required to produce, starting in 1977, the reve-
nues set forth in the Concession, and shall take, from time to time,
all steps required or permitted under the Concession to establish
and maintain such rates.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall provide for straight-line de-
preciation of assets based on realistic valuations of such assets
and on their estimated useful lives but in any case at an average
annual rate of not less than 3%.


﻿- 13 -
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall, from time to time, promptly
after each occurrence of the event specified in paragraph 2 of
Article 15 of the Concession, take all necessary steps to carry out
the action therein set forth regarding the valuation of its assets.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) a change shall have been made in the Estatutos which
shall adversely and substantially affect the conduct of the Bor-
rower's operation or its financial condition; and
(b) the Guarantor or the Borrower shall have modified, term-
inated, or failed to enforce or comply with a provision of the
Concession in such a way as shall adversely and substantially af-
fect the conduct of the Borrower's operation or its financial con-
dition.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are sDecified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraph (b) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 d&ys after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and the Guarantor.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addition-
al condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the Tribunal de Cuentas of the Guarantor has examined the
Guarantee Agreement in accordance with the laws of the Guarantor
and has issued its opinion thereon without formulating any objec-
tion thereto.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional mat-
ter, within the meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Condi-
tions, to be included in th% opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank, namely, that all action necessary to enable the Bor-
rover to procure the goods and services required for the Project
in accordance with the procedures for procurement of goods and ser-
vices set forth or referred to in this Agreement has been taken.
Section 7.03. The date January 31, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses; Amendment of Other Agreements
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For the Borrower:
Servicios E14ctricos del Gran
Buenos Aires S.A.
Balcarre 184
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Cable address:                Telex:
SELBASA                       1043 AR
Buenos Aires


﻿II
- 17 -
Section 8.02. Section 5.04(c) of the loan agreement (Buenos
Aires Power Project) dated January 19, 1962; Section 5.03(e) of
the Loan Agreement (Second Buenos Aires Power Project) dated Janu-
ary 25, 1968; and Section 5.03(e) of the Loan Agreement (Third
Buenos Aires Power Project) dated November 14, 1969; all of them
between the Bank and the Borrower, are hereby deleted; and Section
5.14 of each of said loan agreements is hereby amended to read as
Section 5.04 of this Agreement.


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their represei
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in the:
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, a.
of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SERVICIOS ELECTRICOS DEL GRAN
BUENOS AIRES S.A.
By /s/ Oscar Luis Briozzo
Authorized Representative
By /s/ Federico Luis Amadeo
Authorized Representative


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Cateaory              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment and              100,000,000
materials
(a) Imported                                 100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) Manufactured                             60% (represent-
locally                                 ing the esti-
mated foreign
expenditure com-
ponent)
(2) Consultant ser-                500,000       100%
vices
(3) Unallocated                 14,500,000
TOTAL      115,000,000


﻿-20-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures for goods or services supplied from the
territory, and in the currency, of any country other than the Guar-
antor.
3.   The disbursement percentage for Categories (1) (b) and (2)
have been calculated in compliance with the policy of the Bank
that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account of pay-
ments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such
taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement per-
centage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of: (i) expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, and in respect of destination check charges
(comprobaci6n de destino); and (ii) contracts under Category (1),
the cost of which is less than the equivalent of $20,000.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Cate-
gory to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds


﻿- 21-
of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the esti-
mated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, with-
out in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or
remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan.


﻿-22-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A:   Transmission and Distribution
Part A of the Project, which is part of the Borrower's
1977-1981 expansion program, consists of the following:
(a) Transmission Lines
Construction of about 60 km of a single-circuit 500 kV
transmission line connecting the Ezeiza and Abasto sub-
stations and conversion of the double-circuit 220 kV
line between the Rodriguez, Ezeiza and Abasto substations
to a single-circuit 500 kV line. Construction of about
120 km of 220 kV double-circuit lines and about 42 km
of 220 kV underground cable to interconnect the ring and
the feeding points into the subtransmission (132 kV)
system.
Construction of about 62 km of 132 kV double-circuit
transmission lines and about 70 km of 132 kV underground
cables.
(b) Substations
Installation of 1,600 MVA - 500/220 kV transformer capa-
city at each of the Rodriguez and Abasto substations.


﻿- 23 -
Installation of 2,100 MWA - 220/132 kV transformer capa-
city and 1,880 MVA - 132/MT kV.
The above includes the installation of switchgears, con-
trol, communication and load dispatching equipment, as
well as 600 MVAR of (132 kV) reactive capacity.
(c) Distribution
Installation of about 2660 km of 13.2 kV lines, of which
approximately 50% will be underground cable.
Installation of about 5580 km of low tension, 380/220 volt
distribution lines, of which approximately 15% will be
underground cable.
Installation of 900 MVA of distribution transformers
(13.2/.38-.22 kV) distributed among approximately 4,6o0
distribution substations.
Installation of about 180,000 service connections, about
300,000 electricity meters, and about 21,000 public
lighting fixtures and other distribution equipment.
Part B:   Plans and Studies
(a) A national power expansion plan for generation and trans-
mission facilities.


﻿(b) A national power sector organization study.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿I
- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date PaMent Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1979
through November 1, 1990                     4,790,000
On May 1, 1991                                    4,830,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-26-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General
Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.80%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                          3.55%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          6.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                          7.70%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                          8.90%


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods shall be procured in ac-
cordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part
A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goodsi Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   With respect to each category of equipment and materials to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Borrower shall in-
vite bids as follows:
(a) bids for two-thirds of the total quantity to be procured
will be invited from suppliers from &ll member countries of the
Bank and Switzerland; and
(b) simultaneously, bids for the other one-third will be in-
vited only from suppliers offering goods manufactured in Argentina.
2.   Bids for the supply of goods shall be evaluated and compared
on the following basis:


﻿-28-
(a) bids offering goods manufactured in Argentina: ex-fac-
tory price plus cost of freight and insurance and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of the goods to the place of their use
or installation or to the Borrower's warehouse. Sales and similar
taxes and destination check charges (coMprobaci6n de destino) on
the imported inputs used in the manufacture of such goods will not
be included; and
(b) bids offering goods manufactured outside Argentina: f.o.b.
price plus cost of freight and insurance and other expenditures in-
cidental to the delivery of the goods to the place of their use or
installation or to the Borrower's warehouse; provided that the
freight cost to be used shall be that then applicable by the cor-
responding international maritime conference. Customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods and destination check charges
(coMrobaci6n de destino) on such goods will not be included.
3.   (a) Once the bids under paragraph 1(a) hereof are evaluated,
they shall be compared with each other on the following basis:
(i) bids offering goods manufactured in Argentina, the
manufacturing cost of which includes a value added
in Argentina of not less than 20% of their ex-factory
price (hereinafter called Argentine bids): the value
arrived at pursuant to paragraph 2(a) hereof;
(ii) other bids: the f.o.b. price plus cost of freight
and insurance as provided in paragraph 2(b) hereof,
plus, in the case of bids offering goods manufactured
outside Argentina, the amount of customs duties and


﻿- 29 -
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered
in such bid or 15% of the c.i.f. cost of such goods,
if such import taxes exceed said 15%, plus other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods
to the place of their use or installation or to the
Borrower's warehouse, plus 0.5% of the said c.i.f.
cost on account of the difference in the cost of
inspection during manufacture of the goods produced
in Argentina and abroad. If as a result of this com-
parison an Argentine bid is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
(b) If v   . result of such comparison another bid is the low-
est, all bids other than the Argentine bids shall be compared with
each other on the basis provided in paragraph 2 hereof, and the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for the award.
4.   (a) If in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 here-
of an Argentine bid is selected for award, the bidder may, at the
Borrower's option, be awarded the contract for a quantity of one
and a half times the quantity specified in the bid invitations, at
the price contained in the bid submitted by such bidder under para-
graph 1(a) hereof.
(b) If in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 here-
of any bid other than an Argentine bid is selected for award, such
bidder shall be awarded the contract notwithstanding any Argentine
taxes which the Borrower may have to pay by reason of such award,
and the bids for the additional one-third, referred to in para-
graph 1(b) hereof, shall be opened and evaluated.


﻿-30-
5.   If the bid cost (in accordance with paragraph 2(a) hereof)
of the lowest evaluated bid under paragraph 1(b) hereof does not
exceed the cost of the bid under paragraph 1(a) hereof selected
for award, determined in accordance with paragraph 2(b) hereof (in-
cluding difference in inspection costs), plus 38% thereof, such bid
shall be selected for the award. If all bids under paragraph 1(b)
exceed such amount, the Borrower shall invite the bidders under
paragraph 1(b) to reduce their price to that level. If no such bid-
der agrees to reduce his bid to such amount, the bidder of the bid
under paragraph 1(a) hereof selected for award shall be given the
option to increase by one-half the quantity under the contract
awarded to him, at a price not to exceed that stipulated in his
bid. Contracts for goods manufactured in Argentina, awarded under
this paragraph, shall not be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to each contract for equipment and/or materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further


﻿- 31 -
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's con-
currence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and the reasons for the intended award and shall furnish
to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the


﻿-32-
invitation to, and analysis of, bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly in-
form the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


