Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFF1CLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13280
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORTS PROJECT
(LOAN 2450-ME)
JIUNE 29, 1994
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Abbreviations
BANOBRAS          -      National Bank of Public Works and Services
BANPESCA          -      National Bank of Fishing and Ports
CELASA            -      Drilling Platform Manufacture Company
CONASUPO          -      National Council of Popular Subsistence
CGPPI             -      General Coordination of Industrial Port Projects
CNCP              -      National Port Coordination Commission
DGCF              -      Directorate General for Federal Roads
DGGI              -      Directorate General for Irrigation Works
DGOM              -      Directorate General for Marine Works
DGOPD             -      Directorate General for Port Operation and Development
DGP               -      Directorate General for Planning
DGVF              -      Directorate General for Railway Infrastructure
ESP               -     Port Service Company
FERTIMEX          -      Fertilizantes Mexicanos, S.A.
FIDELAC           -      Trust Fund for Lazaro Cardenas
FONDEPORT         -     National Fund for Port Development
PUERTOMEX (PM)           Puertos Mexicanos
PMT               -      Productos Mexicanos de Tuberias, S.A.
SAHOP             -     Secretariat for Human Settlements and Public Works
SARH              -     Secretariat for Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
SCT               -      Secretariat for Communications and Transport
SEDUE             -      Secretariat for Urban Development and Environment
SICARTSA          -      Siderurgica Lazaro Cardenas--Las Truchas
SPP               -      Secretariat for Programming and Budgeting
TUM               -      Multiple Use Terminal



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORTS PROJECT
(Loan 2450-ME)
Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit       =      Peso (Mex$)
US 1.00             =      Mex$ 25 in Decemberl981
=     Mex$ 150 in December 1983
=     Mex$ 168 in December 1984
=     Mex$ 257 in December 1985
=     Mex$ 612 in December 1986
=     Mex$ 1378 in December 1987
=     Mex$ 2273 in December 1988
=     Mex$ 2461 in December 1989
=     Mex$ 2813 in December 1990
=     Mex$ 3018 in December 1991
=     Mex$ 3100 in December 1992
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric: British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)         =      3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)    =      0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)     =      2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton) =     2,205 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)         =      0.27 gallon (gal)
1 hectare (ha)      =      2.47 acres
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
lofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 29, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Mexico
Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Port Project
(Loan 2450-ME)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Mexico - Lazaro Cardenas
Industrial Port Project (Loan 2450-ME)" prepared by the Infrastructure Operations
Division, Country Department 2, of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional
Office, with the Borrower providing Part II.
The project was implemented with some delay and about half of the loan was
canceled in the end.   This was due, inter alia, to the impact of the 1985
earthquake and tidal wave in the project area as well as the considerable
tightening of the budgetary constraints in Mexico during the second half of the
1980s.
Nevertheless, the principal objectives of the project - improve the port's
facilities, augment its capacity, and improve its administration and finances -
were largely achieved.   Actual port traffic was considerably higher than
anticipated at appraisal and the economic reevaluation of the project shows a
satisfactory 18% rate of return. On the other hand, the environmental part of
the   project was not satisfactorily completed,  mainly because of unclear
responsibilities, a continuing lack of interest in and emphasis on environmental
matters by those in power, and because of the budgetary problems. Loan covenants
were complied with except for those related to the availability of local funds.
The project's outcome is rated as satisfactory, its sustainability as
likely and its institutional development impact as modest.
The PCR's quality is satisfactory. No audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K6pp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onLy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORTS PROJECT
(LOAN 2450-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  .............................................  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  .................................   ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                       .......   1
Project Identity . .........................................   1
Background ............................................   1
Project Objectives and Description ..............................   2
Project Design and Organization  ...............................   3
Project Implementation . ..................................... 4
Project Results . .........................................   8
Sustainability ............................. ....... . .   11
Bank Performance ........................................ 11
Borrower Performance .....................  12
Project Relationships  .....................  12
Consulting Services .....................  12
Project Documentation and Data .....................  12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  .....   14
Introduction ............................................ 14
Description of the Project and its Modifications ......................  14
Substitution of Government Financial Agent ........................  15
Opinion and Lessons Learned .................................. 16
PART III: STATISTICAL DATA   .............................  19
TABLE 1:  Related Bank Loans ...............................  19
TABLE 2:  Project Timetable  ................................  19
TABLE 3:  Comparison Between Appraisal Estimates and Actual Costs  ... ...  20
TABLE 3A: Comparison Between Appraisal and Actual Financing Plan  ......  21
TABLE 4:  Estimated and Actual Schedule of Disbursement  ............. 22
TABLE 5:  Compliance with Loan Covenants  ...................... 23
TABLE 6:  ESP's Revenue and Expenditure Statements  ...............   26
TABLE 7A: Use of Bank Resources (Staff Inputs)  ...... ..              ..........   27



2
TABLE 7B: Mission Data  ....      I..      I................ . 28
TABLE 8:  Economic Re-evaluation .........................    31
TABLE 8A: Economic Re-evaluation  .........................   32
TABLE 9: Port Traffic .........................                             33
TABLE 9A: Port Traffic - Diagram  .........................    34
MAP: IBRD 17795 - Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Port Project and Master Plan
[BRD 17797 - Transportation Network and Industrial Port Locations



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORTS PROJECT
(LOAN 2450-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Lazaro Cardenas Industrial
Ports Project, for which Loan 2450-ME in the amount of $76.3 million was approved on
June 21, 1984. The loan was closed on December 31, 1992, two years behind schedule.
$38.25 million of the loan was disbursed and $38.05 million cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure and Operations Division of the Latin
America and the Caribbean Country Department II (Preface, Evaluation Summary and
Parts I and III). In August 1993 the Borrower sent a brief PCR which is included in Part
If (Project Review from Borrower's Perspective). In November 1993 and January 1994
the Borrower sent cost and other supporting data which were important inputs in the
preparation of the report. The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on March 7, 1994, but
no further comments have been received from the Borrower.
Work on the preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission in June, 1992. This PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, Supervision Reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank Memoranda, reports/data received from
the Borrower, and information available from the Project files.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORTS PROJECT
(LOAN 2450-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
(i)    The main objectives of this project, the improvement of transport facilities to the
Lazaro Cardenas Port, the augmentation of the port capacity by the addition of critical port
handling equipment, and the improvement of the port administration and finances were
largely achieved, although on a somewhat less ambitions scale than originally perceived.
The Technical Assistance provided under this project helped define the long term plan for
the ports and the framework for the restructuring of the Port System which was followed
up in the Port Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2946-ME).
Implementation and Results
(ii)   There were substantial delays and important changes during the implementation of
the project. Soon after the start of the project, the earthquake of September 1985 caused
considerable damage to the port infrastructure in Lazaro Cardenas which necessitated the
inclusion of several repair and reconstruction works to the terminals, services and transport
facilities in the port area as well as some shore protection works (para. 5.04). Further
amendments to the project became necessary in the following years due to the deterioration
of the Mexican economy, resulting in budgetary cuts and the imposition of "techos" or
ceilings on investments (para. 5.05) which slowed project execution. As a result the loan
closing date had to be extended twice, for a total of two years.
(iii)   A major component of the project, the maritime access works consisting mainly of
dredging works was not implemented (para. 5.10) primarily because interest in the
waterfront land at Lazaro Cardenas did not materialize as expected, and in any case
financial stringency relegated this item to the lowest priority. The flood protection works
were only partly done (these were completed in the following project). As regards the
environmental protection works, which were aimed at controlling the problems caused by
municipal and industrial wastes, the former was effectively tackled, whereas the latter was
not, largely due to the indecisiveness of the government which did not as yet have clearly
defined environmental policies or plans. In addition, a consultant's study concluded that
whereas the Municipal Waste Management Plan had been well developed and should be
implemented straightaway, the proposed hazardous waste facility should be put aside until
there was demonstrated need for the proposed system (paras. 5.07 and 5.09). As a result,
the overall cost of the project was $57.8 million against the Appraisal estimate of $112.5
million and only $38.25 million out of the loan of $76.3 million was utilized.



iv
(iv)   However, despite the curtailment of the project the most essential parts of the
project comprising the rail access to the port, the equipment for improving the port
handling facilities, a part of the industrial park, the flood control works and the technical
assistance were implemented. The economic re-evaluation of the project yields an ERR
of 19% against 23 % forecast at appraisal. Through the period of implementation of this
project, port organization improved significantly (para. 9.01) and the financial targets set
in the loan agreement were achieved.
Sustainabilitv
(v)   The implementation of the project that was reduced to its essentials, the general
improvements in the ports subsector and the follow-up by the Ports Rehabilitation Project
(Loan 2946-ME) will, it is expected, ensure the sustainability of the project.
FmdinLs and Lessons Learned
(vi)   The main feature of this project is that it was appraised during a period of
economic growth and great optimism, but was implemented in an environment of
considerable economic austery and financial stringency resulting mainly from the fall of
petroleum  prices.  The earthquake of 1985 not only caused considerable damage,
introducing new project components to repair the earthquake damage, but also diminished
the need for a major project component, the maritime works (para 5.04). Due to these
reasons the project was substantially curtailed during its implementation, and took two
years more than planned at appraisal.
(vii)  Although at first glance this project does not appear to have been successful
because important parts of it were not implemented, closer examination reveals that despite
the curtailment of the project cost by nearly 50 % and the elimination of several
components, the project's core was maintained, and the principal objectives of the project
were largely achieved, although on a less ambitions scale than originallv planned. The
financial situation of the port improved as also did the productivity of the cargo-handling
(paras. 5.08 and 6.02)
(viii) This was a complicated project which involved several government departments,
and a diverse group of industries and other agencies. Although the Bank had been
preoccupied from the start about the organizational and management aspects of the project,
the arrangements, as they developed, (para. 4.01 to 4.03) continued to present difficulties
until the emergence of Puertos Mexicanos (PM) and the transfer of the Borrower's
responsibilities to BANOBRAS (para. 5.08)
(ix)   In conclusion, although the Project underwent important changes due to the
Earthquake of 1985, and to the macro-economic difficulties in Mexico, the core of the
project was maintained and the principal objectives of the project were achieved. In
addition, a substantial improvement in the institutional infrastructure of the ports took
place during the project's implementation period.



I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORTS PROJECT
(LOAN 2450-ME)
pART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Proiect Identity
Project Name:           Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Ports Project
Loan Number:            2450-ME
Loan Amount:            US$76.3 million
Project Cost on Approval:  US$112.3 million
Actual Project Cost:    US$57.8 million
RVP Unit:               Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country:                Mexico
Sector:                 Transport
Subsector:              Ports
II.   Background
2.01  Mexico's deep-rooted structural problems were accentuated during the high growth period
of the mid to late 1970s, the economic crisis of 1982 and the subsequent recession. Social and
economic problems included widespread poverty, a skewed distribution of income and wealth,
unemployment and major urban and regional imbalances. The Industrial Ports Program which
this project supported was formulated in 1978 in response to the problem of regional income
disparities. Mexico's policy makers were concerned that if the trend towards concentration of
population and economic activity in Mexico City and the Central region continued, the regional
distortions would exacerbate social imbalances and the already difficult urban problems in the
metropolitan area of Mexico City such as the acute water supply problem, pollution and traffic.
In addition the growing cost of urban services would gradually become unmanageable. The
Government therefore took a series of steps towards the definition of a national spatial
development policy which was embodied in the National Urban Development Plan (1978).
2.02 The Industrial Ports Program was an important element of the overall government
strategy to relocate population growth, employment and industrial development away from the
central plateau to the coastal areas. In addition, the program aimed at improving the national
transport infrastructure, expanding the industrial base, and the promotion of exports. The public
sector's role centered on the development of infrastructure including industrial parks and
multiple use port facilities at various industrial ports which would allow industry to take
advantage of direct access to maritime transport. The Industrial Ports Program was given high
priority in Mexico's public sector investment program and included the industrial ports of Lazaro



2
Cardenas and Salina Cruz on the Pacific Coast, and Altamira and Laguna de Ostion on the Gulf
Coast. Between 1979 and 1983 a total of $755 million-was invested under the program at these
sites of which 37% went to Lazaro Cardenas and 34% to Altamira.
2.03  The conduct of work related to these rather substantial investments revealed the complex
nature of the institutional arrangements for the Industrial Ports Program, involving a large
number of government departments as well as problems relating to port capacity, road and rail
accesses, environment, flood control, etc.  The Bank had been active in supporting the
Government's regional decentralization and industrial development programs and was especially
involved in the initial development of the Lazaro Cardenas area through operations to support
the Sicartsa Steel Plant (Loan 934-ME), the Fertimex Fertilizer Plant (Loan 1112-ME) and an
Urban Project (Loan 1554-ME). The first Port project (Loan 820-ME) for the port sector was
made in 1972 to improve port operations and to introduce a commercial approach to tariffs and
services. The Port Development Preparation Project financed by a loan of $14.0 million (1964-
ME) was made in 1981 to assist the National Ports Co-ordinating Commission (CNCP) in the
pre-investment work of the industrial port development project through the provision of planning
and management services in project formulation and through studies and detailed engineering for
individual project components in the ports program. This work provided the basis for the
Industrial Ports Project and for a part of the subsequent one.
III.   Project Obiectives and DescriDtion
Project Objectives
3.01  The principal objectives of Bank, support for the Ta.zaro Cardenas Industrial Ports
Program were to:
(a)   improve transport facilities for industries through improved maritime access and
coastal shipping;
(b)   encourage economic growth in the under-developed coastal regions;
(c)   augment the country's port capacity and reduce dependence on foreign ports as
the country diversified its international trade; and
(d)   improve port administration and finances.
In addition, by supporting the ongoing port development program, the Bank sought to introduce
improvements in investment analysis and project defuiition and to assist in the institutional and
financial development of the port service enterprises.
3.02 More specifically the project aimed to increase the efficiency of the port terminal at
Lazaro Cardenas, to strengthen the administration and finances of the industrial port, to improve
transport for the industries existing or those under development, to reduce environmental
hazards, and to provide protection from flood damage.



3
Project Description
3.03 The project as originally appraised comprised the following components in the Lazaro
Cardenas Port and its industrial park area:
(a)   Construction of a paved highway (7.5 km) to connect the Fertimex and the
multiple-use terminal to the existing road system, as well as 8.5 km of rail lines
to interconnect plants and terminals in the project area;
(b)   dredging works for the improvement of maritime access to the port terminals and
industrial facilities, and flood protection works on the left branch of the River
Balsas;
(c)   Acquisition of machinery and cargo-handling equipment for the port including
forklift trucks, tractors, trailers, cranes, pallets, toplifters and communications
equipment;
(d)   Construction of a tug boat including the acquisition of the required propulsion and
navigational equipment;
(e)   Setting up an Industrial Park for small and medium-sized industry; environmental
protection works and facilities including waste water collection and treatment
system for the National Fund for Port Development (FONDEPORI) and facilities
for the collection, processing and disposal of solid wastes in the project area; and
(f)   Technical Assistance for the supervision of the project and for training of port
personnel in port administration, operation and maintenance, feasibility studies,
preparation of engineering designs for the project, and studies on cost-related port
dues as well as the costs and tariff levels of the Port Service Company (ESP).
3.04 The total estimated cost of the project including contingencies was about US$112.7
million. The expected foreign exchange component was about US$76.3 million which was
proposed to be fmanced by the Bank loan. The Mexican Government (including ESP and
Fondeport internally generated funds) would finance the local costs equivalent to $36.4 million.
IV.   Proiect Design and Organization
4.01 The project was to be implemented by the various agencies responsible for the design and
maintenance of individual project components, with overall coordination by the SCT. This
procedure was similar to that used in the earlier stages of the industrial ports program (1979-
1983), and had as its rationale the continuity of responsibility with the same agency, from the
design and bidding stages, contracting and supervision of constriction, to final acceptance and
operation/maintenance. Although the roles of the involved institutions were clearly defined, the
complexities of interagency coordination led to implementation difficulties.
4.02 The Industrial Port Program Commission (CGPPI) which was made up of representatives
of SCT, SARH, SEDUE, FONDEPORT, CNCP and SPP was charged with overall policy-
making and coordination for the Industrial Ports Program. Project Coordination was entrusted



4
to a monitoring group within this commission which included representatives of SCT, SARH,
SEDUE as well as CNCP, SPP and BANPESCA, with the SCT taking the lead responsibility
within the group. A project coordinator was appointed at Laaro Cardenas to oversee
supervision of all works.
4.03 BANPESCA was the Borrower and was expected to transfer project funds between the
Bank and the executing agencies for which purpose it entered into supplementary agreements
with ESP, FONDEPORT and the Government for on-lending of project funds on the same terms
and conditions as those between the Bank and BANPESCA. Procurement of Bank financed
goods and services was to be arranged in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
procurement.
4.04 The project was slated for completion in December 31, 1990.
V.   Project Inplementation
Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up
5.01 The project was appraised in September-October 1983, negotiated in May 1984 (after two
post appraisal missions) and was approved by the Board in June 1984. The Loan Agreement
was signed on September 21, 1984 and became effective after nearly six months on March 8,
1985. The main cause of the delay was that the studies on the administration, commercialization
and promotion of FONDEPORT, the satisfactory completion of which was an essential condition
for loan effectiveness, were considered inadequate by the Bank. The Bank detailed its comments
on the analysis and recommendations of the studies, and the loan was declared effective only
when further work and substantial revisions corrected these deficiencies. Problems also arose
in regard to the flood control works and the maritime access works. SARH proposed a change
in the design standards for the flood control works as it was now considered that designing the
works for a flow of 10,000 cubic meters per second (instead of 7,000 cubic meters per second
at appraisal) would assure significantly greater protection at only 5 % additional cost. In the
maritime access works, CNCP and Obras Maritimas had not yet prepared the economic
justification of the dredging works as agreed at negotiations. In addition, there was delay in the
negotiation of cost recovery arrangements with the beneficiaries.
5.02 Soon after the loan became effective, the Supervision Mission (April 1985) reported that
some aspects of the project were progressing well. The rail access to the CONASUPO grain
silos was 80% complete. Work on the industrial park was fairly advanced. However, traffic
levels were substantially lower than forecast due to the economic recession, which slowed down
the port equipment program. On the institutional front, FONDEPORT had broadened the
organization of the Lazaro Cardenas Delegation to include administrative financial and
accounting functions. Both the National Port Study and the ESP's cost and tariff studies were
nearing completion.
5.03 A Bank consultant reviewed the results of the mathematical model and the modified
design for the flood control works and approved the revised figure of 10,000 cubic meters per
second for the design basis.  However, four problems started to emerge in the project
implementation. Two of these problems relating to access roads and flood control resulted from
budgetary constraints on local funds. The maritime access dredging works were delayed as



5
CELASA started negotiations to utilize alternative sites for which dredging would not be
required. And ESP delayed and then reduced its procurement of cargo-handling equipment
because of lower than expected container traffic.
Project Changes
5.04 The first modification of the Loan Agreement was made on February 1, 1985 to open
the Special Account in Dollars with the Bank of Mexico to facilitate disbursements from the
loan. The second modification of the project was caused by an earthquake in September 1985
with its epicenter only 10 km from Lazaro Cardenas, which caused considerable damage to the
Multiple Use Terminal (TUM), the grain terminal and the water supply system of Fertimex.
A portion of the road and rail access to the TUM was destroyed by the 'tsunami" (tidal wave)
caused by the earthquake. This resulted in the diversion of the grain ships to Manzanillo. The
tsunami also destroyed the embankment for the roadway to Fertimex and alerted the authorities
to the vulnerability of the land transportation and utility corridor between the shore line and the
Sicartsa steel works. The cost of the repairs and strengthening works related to the earthquake
damage to the road and rail access to the port, the TUM, the grain terminal and the water supply
system to Fertimex was estimated at about $21 million at the then exchange rate of 326
pesos= iUS$, and it was proposed to finance these works by re-allocation of funds assigned to
the equipment and maritime access components. The decision was based on an analysis of the
evolving needs of the project. Indeed the Earthquake's effect was two-fold. The obvious
damage to the terminals buildings and systems was taken care of by the alterations to the project.
The more insidious effect, however, of the earthquake was that it shook the confidence of the
people, convincing them that [azaro Cardenas was not a good place to settle in. The Japanese
who were important investors in the Port Zone pulled out rather fast, discouraging other
potential investors.  CELASA, a petrochemical complex, a ship-yard and other potential
waterfront industries who had been negotiating for sites developed cold feet and withdrew.
Although FONDEPORT did manage to lease most of its sites on the Small Industries park where
smaller investments, mainly by local firms were required, none of the larger water front
industries materialized thus obviating the need for large dredging works, investments which were
to be recovered from the industries themselves. The Earthquake thus indirectly contributed to
the cancellation of a major component of the project (para 5.10).  The damage to the
Zihuatanejo-Manzanillo-Altamira roads was taken care of under the Highway Rehabilitation and
Safety Project (Loan 3628-ME). An Amendment to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements was
signed on January 15, 1986, to reallocate the funds needed to provide for the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of parts of the port of Lazaro Cardenas damaged by the earthquake of September
1985 by creating two new parts (F and G) of the project as follows:
Part F:     Repair and rehabilitation of earthquake damage to (i) the port's road and
rail access; (ii) the grain terminal; (iii) wharf structures and port auxiliary
buildings; and (iv) aqueduct and wells providing water supply to Fertimex.
Part G:     About 12 km  of shore protection works west of the port's West
breakwater.
5.05  In August 1986 a Special Account was established to disburse the proceeds of
withdrawals under several loans of the World Bank to Mexico, including Loan 2450-ME to
BANPESCA. Further amendments of the project became necessary due to the deterioration of



6
the Mexican economy during these years, resulting in budgetary cuts and the imposition of
'techos" or ceilings on public investments. Those restrictions slowed the project down, and the
Mexican Government sought the cancellation of $20 million out of the loan amount. This was
agreed by an amendment to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements on March 18, 1988. An
amendment on September 29, 1989 cancelled another $18.05 million to reduce the loan amount
to $38.25 million. The year 1989 also witnessed the substitution of the Government's financial
agent BANPESCA by the Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos (BANOBRAS),
whereby BANOBRAS took over all the rights and obligations of BANPESCA. A formal Loan
Assumption Agreement was signed on March 8, 1991 to transfer the loan from BANPESCA to
BANOBRAS, together with a Supplemental Guarantee Agreement between the World Bank and
the Mexican Government to recognize this transfer. To take care of the delays in project
execution, the closing date of the loan, December 31, 1990, was postponed twice, first to
December 31, 1991 and finally to December 31, 1992.
Project Execution
5.06 When the Bank mission visited Mexico in April 1986 the most disruptive damage from
the earthquake, the displacement of the rail access to the TUM had been repaired, and repairs
to the highway bridge across the right branch of the Rio Balsas and the grain terminal were
under way. The water supply system for the Fertimex had been repaired and the first stage of
the Rio Balsas river-training project was to be completed in the following month. However
shortage of local funds was affecting the start up and progress of several works. Meanwhile the
Bank had started looking at the needs of other ports, and approved diagnostic studies, largely
to be undertaken by local consultants for the ports of Tampico, Altamira, Mezquital, Cozumel,
Morelos, Playa del Carmen, Progresso, Zihuatanejo, Acapulco, Lazaro Cardenas, Manzanillo,
Mazatlan Topolobampo, Guaymas, Ensenada, Tuxpan, Veracruz and Coatzacoalcos. These
studies were organized by six main groups, each of which was awarded to a local consultant
familiar with the area. The recommendations of these studies would contribute to a review and
amendment of investment plans for the following project.
5.07 In December 1986 a review of the solid waste studies by Consultants concluded that the
Municipal Solid Waste Management plan which had been a subject of some controversy had
been well developed, and should be implemented straight away. It was however recommended
that the proposed hazardous waste facility should be put aside until there was demonstrated need
for the proposed system.
5.08 The year 1987 brought an upsurge in overall traffic which closely approximated figures
forecast at appraisal. Furthermore, as tariffs were adjusted upwards, the financial position of
the port improved. However the pace of work continued to be slow and disbursements up to
the end of the year 1988 remained at about $15 million. Traffic rise continued for a second year
in 1988 by 7.2% over the previous year, with import traffic increasing nearly four-fold. The
productivity of the dock-side labor also increased which together with the substantial traffic
increases caused the company's working ratio to improve from 84 in 1987 to 81 in 1988. The
government also increased its equity holdings in the port operating company through financing
investments in new equipment used for improving the port operations. In 1989 traffic again
increased significantly, with an overall increase of 26% over 1988. After having its tariffs
frozen for the whole of 1988, the Government authorization in January 1989 of an "across-the-
board" tariff adjustment of 40 % plus the traffic increases gave ESP a considerable improvement



7
in its financial situation, improving the operating ratio from 115 in 1988 to 86 in 1989 and the
working ratio from 81 in 1988 to 61 in 1989. With the establishment of Puertos Mexicanos
(PUERTOMEX) in March 1989 as a new central authority for all of Mexico's ports, the local
offices of the former Direcci6n General de Puertos and those of the Direcci6n General de Obras
Maritimas were consolidated into the somewhat smaller local office of PUERTOMEX and
PUERTOMEX signed a program contract with ESP containing operational, maintenance,
financial and administrative goals for the following years in accordance with the Loan agreement
with the Bank. In 1989, Lazaro Cardenas generated surplus revenues of almost $1 million.
5.09 The environmental components of the project, however, did not proceed too well. The
Bank expressed its concern to BANOBRAS and the Mexican Government on the inadequate
attention paid to the environmental components of the project in relation to the sewage treatment
plants, the solid waste disposal sites and the monitoring of air quality in the vicinity of the
industrial plants. More specifically, whereas the municipal waste management program was
successfully completed, attention to the industrial wastes and air-quality program remained
inadequate. The environmental part of the project was not satisfactorily completed, mainly
because of unclear responsibilities, a continuing lack of interest and emphasis on environmental
matters by those in power, and of course the budgetary problems.
5.10  As far as the maritime access works are concerned doubts arose early during the
implementation of the project because interest in the industrial waterfront land at Lazaro
Cardenas was not materializing (para 5.04). This was reflected not only by the borrower's
inability to prepare a viable economic justification for the dredging works as agreed at
negotiations but also in a lack of progress in the negotiations with the beneficiaries for the cost
recovery arrangements. Finally the estimated $29.8 million allocation for the maritime access
works remained unutilized, although a part of this amount was reallocated for the repair works
resulting from the earthquake of 1985 (para 5.04).
Project Costs
5.11  Analysis of the project costs was difficult not only due to the relatively high and
fluctuating inflation rates but also because the parity between the dollar and the Mexican peso
fluctuated greatly during the project years. A comparison between the Appraisal estimates and
the actual costs is given in Table 3 (Part III). The estimated and actual Financing Plan is given
in Table 3A. The actual cost of the Project at $57.87 million was substantially (48.5 %) lower
than the Appraisal estimate of $112.5 million largely because of changes in project scope.
Major reductions occurred in the maritime access works as the dredging program was not
implemented, not only because there was little interest in the industrial waterfront land (paras.
5.04 and 5.10) but also because these works were not considered essential in the light of the
scarcity of funds and budgetary restrictions. The budgetary restrictions also slowed down the
flood control works (along the Rio Balsas river) eventually leading to a substantial reduction in
the amount invested to $18.5 million instead of $27.0 million foreseen at Appraisal. Additional
civil works at the port of Topolobampo cost $12.3 million, but the overall cost of the project
at $57.87 million remained well below the Appraisal estimate of $112.5 million.
5.12 Overall, local costs of the project were $19.62 million instead of $36.4 million estimated
at appraisal, and the foreign exchange costs were $38.25 million instead of $76.3 million
foreseen. $38.05 million, i.e. 50% of the Bank loan of $76.3 million was cancelled.



8
5.13  Summarizing, the main features of the project implementation were as follows:
(a)   the project was actually completed in 1992 instead of 1990;
(b)   project implementation delays occurred due to necessary changes in project
content, brought about initially by the earthquake of 1985, and later by paucity
of counterpart funds caused by budget restrictions;
(c)   the estimated expenditure of $29.8 million in maritime access works appears to
have been based on over-optimistic expectations with regard to the demand for
industrial waterfront land, which did not materialize.
Disbursements
5.14 Table 4 (Part III) gives the position of the estimated and actual Schedule of
Disbursements. Disbursements actually started in the quarter ending March 31 of FY 85 as
against the Appraisal estimated start a few months earlier, and by the end of FY 85 $7.45
million were disbursed against the Appraisal target of $5.8 million. However, in the following
year disbursements really slowed down because of the earthquake damage and the changes in
the project, and by the end of FY 86, the cumulative total of disbursements was only $9.86
million against $28.3 million estimated. Thereafter, the rate of disbursements remained slow,
and by the original closing date of the loan (December 1990) only $19.49 million were disbursed
out of a total of $76.3 million. Two extensions of the loan were given, extending the loan
closing date to December 1992 when $38.25 million was disbursed and $38.05 million out of
the original loan of $76.3 million was cancelled (para 5.05).
VI.   Proiect Results
Project Objectives
6.01  The principal objectives of this project i.e. to imnprove the transport facilities to the
Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Port, to augment its port capacity and to improve the port
administration and finances were largely achieved. Having said this, however, it is important
to note that a significant part of this project as originally conceived remained undone, partly
because it was not considered essential and partly because funds were not available. Indeed this
has been the fate of more than one project in Mexico that was conceived in the euphoria and
optimism of the early eighties when Mexico was flush with petro-dollars and planned expansive
projects, which had to be drastically trimmed, when petroleum prices fell and the country's
economy went into reverse. However, despite the changes in the project, the rail access to the
port was improved. The acquisition of equipment for improving the port handling facilities was
delayed due to poor traffic but was later implemented when port traffic rebounded from 1987
onwards. Through the period of implementation of this project, port organization improved
significantly (para. 5.08) and the financial targets set in the loan agreement were more than
achieved (para. 6.03), and the economic re-evaluation shows reasonably satisfactory results
(para. 6.08)



9
6.02  Although the Industrial Ports Program was an important element of the overly ambitious
government strategy to relocate population employment and industrial development away from
the central plateau to the coastal areas (para 2.02), this program was almost completely halted
when the economy of Mexico de.eriorated due to curtailment oIf oil revenues, and the there were
ensuing cuts in public expenditures. As a result, the long-t.rm goals of the Government with
regard to spatial decentralization were abandoned due to macro-economic difficulties.
Port Traffic
6.03 The volume of traffic moving through Lazaro Cardenas port in 1984 was only 63% of
the SAR forecast. The damage caused by the 1985 earthquake further delayed the port's
capacity to attain much higher outputs. Yet by 1989, with the aid of project investment in
equipment and infrastructure repairs, the total annual volume was 3.6 million tons of cargo
(including 219,000 tons of containerized general cargo) - figures 18% and 17% respectively
higher than the volumes forecast in the SAR (see table 9 and diagram 9a). The investments
made in the infrastructure improvement and port-handling facilities in Lazaro Cardenas were,
therefore, largely justified.
Fmancial Performance
6.04 There were three separate financial entities involved in the execution of the project:
(i) the port operating enterprise (ESP), constituted as a commercial company, with appropriate
accounting and financial reports, a summary of which is presented in table 6 for the relevant
years, (ii) a government agency responsible for port infrastructure (DGOP), with a budgetary
reporting system, and (iii) a nationwide port lands development company (FONDEPORT), with
central accounting in Mexico City, but no separate branch accounts in Lazaro Cardenas. In
March of 1989, Puertos Mexicanos, a central, semi-autonomous agency was formed and
absorbed DGOP's functions.
6.05 Whereas tariffs for specific services constitute the revenue of the ESP, revenues from
port dues, wharfage and storage were collected by DGOP and subsequently by P.M. as returns
on infrastructure investments and for central administration costs. FONDEPORT's revenues
derive from lease, or sale, of lands and buildings.
6.06 Despite the earthquake of 1985, whose epicenter was very close to Lazaro Cardenas and
therefore caused considerable damage to the port (para. 5.04), the port operations recovered



10
rapidly, cargo targets were achieved and the financial ratios of the ESP by 1989 were better than
the targeted ones for that year, as may be seen in the following comparative table of ratios:
1984     1985 ]  1986      1987      1988    1 1989
RATIOS ACHIEVED
Working Ratio       |1.04        0.95    0.74       0.84      0.81      0.61
Operating Ratio         1.09   1.0        0.97    0.99        1.15      0.81
TARGET RATIOS
Working Ratio           1.11     0.97     0.87      0.71      0.63      0.62
Operating Ratio      |  1.45     1.42     1.27      1.02      0.86      0.84
6.07 As for Puertos Mexicanos, revenues from port dues always exceeded administrative costs
and current investment outlays for Lazaro Cardenas itself, although never fully recovering
capital costs on infrastructure investments. The cash surplus thus created went to P.M and was
redistributed to other ports.
6.08 FONDEPORT is a nation wide organization and maintains its accounts on a country wide
basis. It did not set up a separate accounting system for the Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Port.
The Industrial Park (small and medium industries) in L.C was however fully leased and
FONDEPORT has remained financially solvent since 1985 awards except for the year 1989.
Economic Re-evaluation
6.09 At appraisal, the project components separately and jointly evaluated were: a) road
access; b) rail access; c) cargo handling equipment; d) maritime access; e) a tug; f) the industrial
park for small industry, and g) flood protection. However, components (a) and (d) were not
executed; the road access was not constructed, because the 1985 earthquake and accompanying
Tsunami had destroyed the sea defenses and the railway line following the same coastal route
proposed for the access road. As there is a serious danger of the proposed roadway being
washed away if prior measures to contain the sea are not taken, the construction of the access
road was postponed. Until effective protective measures are taken to avoid the renewed
encroachment of the sea, traffic to the port continues to traverse the city and the SICARTSA
docks as it did before; the sea access component (dredging access channels and docks for new
industries) did not materialize because there was no such demand (para. 5.04) during the period
of project execution.



I1
6.10 Using the same methodology used at Appraisal for the project components actually
executed, the following are the recalculated rates of economic return:
Re-evaluated:    SAR
Rail access:             15%          17%
Port Equipment:
Containers ---- +                 15 %
General Cargo -+-  18%            23%
Tug             +                 17%
Flood protection         N.A         23%
Industrial Park          26%         23%
Over-all I.R.R.          18%         23%
Details of the economic reevaluation are given in Table 8.
6.11  The return on the rail access is considerably reduced because of the postponements of the
benefits caused by the collapse during the earthquake of the machinery tower of the silos and
the total destruction of the grain unloaders. This has required a major reconstruction and the
acquisition of a new discharging system, creating a delay of about four years, in generating grain
cargo for the railway.
VII.  Sustainabilitv
7.01 Although this project was implemented during a difficult period of considerable economic
adjustment, the essential components of the project were executed. This, coupled with the fact
that the project, after a slow start was generally well implemented will enable over time the
realization and maintenance of the projected benefits of the project. The work started on this
project for updating the country's port network and for the improvement of sector planning is
being continued in the follow-up project (Ports Rehabilitation Project - Loan 2946-ME).
VIII. Bank Perfonnance
8.01  The Bank spent 138 staffweeks to prepare and appraise this project, including 251 man-
days in the field (Tables 7A and 7B). A total of 135 staffweeks was spent on supervision,
including 354 man-days in the field. This was therefore a carefully prepared project which was
subsequently well-monitored. However, the project experienced significant difficulties (para.
5.04) to which the Bank responded quickly, including the Earthquake of 1985 and the substantial
curtailment of the project which ensued when changing economic conditions put a squeeze on
Mexico's resources. Indeed the aggravation of the country's economic situation following the
drop in petroleum prices is something that could hardly have been foreseen at the time of
appraisal. What is significant, however, is that when circumstances changed and Mexico was
forced to curtail its investments, the Bank responded by assisting in reducing the investments to
the minimum essentials required.  As a result, the project that was implemented was
considerably leaner than the project appraised, and one that was certainly more meaningful under
the changed economic circumstances.



12
[X.   Borrower Performance
9.01 The three principal participants in the project were the Federal Government, the Lazaro
Cardenas Empressa Servicios de Puertos (ESP) and FONDEPORT (Fondo Nacional para
Desarollo de los Puertos). The Bank loan was channelled through BANPESCA (Banco Nacional
Pesquero y Portuario). The project organization (Chapter [V) was at best diffused, with the
project coordination entrusted to a monitoring group comprising of representatives of the several
disparate agencies involved in the project. This monitoring group had representatives of SCT,
SARH, SEDUE, CNCP, SPP and BANPESCA, with the leadership entrusted to SCT, a
responsibility which the SCT apparently discharged well in policy matters, but not particularly
effectively in regard to the day-to-day execution of the project. Progress of the project was
often slowed by delays. With the creation in 1989 of Puertos Mexicanos (PM) (para. 5.08)
amalgamating in one unit the different agencies of the Port subsector, the coordination of the
project work improved notably, and in particular the interface with the World Bank was
strengthened substantially. The change over of the Government's financing agent from
BANPESCA to BANOBRAS also led to an improvement in the quality of project management
and follow-up as BANOBRAS had better channels of communication with the Bank, having had
considerable experience of World Bank financed loans in the past.  The inadequate
implementation of the environmnental component (para 5.09) of the project is indicative of some
of the problems of co-ordination between the different agencies involved, but was caused far
more by indecisiveness at the higher levels of the government on environrmental issues as
SEDUE had not yet developed clear-cut policies and action plans for the clean up of industrial
waste and other pollution mitigation measures.
X.   Proiect Relationships
10.01 Bank relationships with the Government and the various agencies dealing with the
implementation of the project were generally satisfactory. The procurement process was
properly executed, although there was disagreement between the Bank and the Borrower in one
instance, pertaining to the procurement of the mobile crane. This issue was satisfactorily
resolved in accordance to the Procurement Guidelines of the Bank.
XI.   Consulting Services
11.01 Only less than a quarter of the nearly $4.0 million provided in the original project for
Technical Assistance, Supervision and Training was actually utilized, largely because of
budgetary cuts. Actually the major cut was the proposed $2.5 million for supervision for which
local talent was used successfully, and training ($1.0 million) which was financed gratis by the
US government. However, a number of important feasibility studies were financed from the
Bank loan which not only helped define future port investments but also clarified the position
regarding cost related port dues and ESP's costs and tariff levels.
XII. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.01 The Staff Appraisal Report was the basis for framing the legal documents, and provided
the take-off point for the terms of reference for consulting services and for the supervision of



13
the civil works and the procurement. Given the eventual duration of the project (more than eight
years), the changes in the Bank's supervision teams, changes in the Government and the
Borrower's management, the SAR also provided a frame of reference concerning the project
origins, and for alterations/amendments to the project content, which ensured that the basic
objectives of the project were maintained.
12.02 Periodic reports from the borrower were received regularly although often with delays.
The Borrower sent a brief 'Informe de Terminaci6n de Proyecto" (Project Completion Report)
in August 1993 which is enclosed as Part 11 of this report. At the request of the Bank, in
November 1993 and January 1994 BANOBRAS sent cost and other supporting data which were
important inputs in the preparation of the report.



14
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS [NDUSTRIAL PORTS PROJECT
(LOAN 2450-ME)
PART U
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Introduction
Owing to the major problems caused by the concentration of population and industrial
activities in Mexico City and its Metropolitan Area (including the states adjoining the Federal
District), in the course of the 1970s and early 1980s the Mexican Government adopted a set of
measures aimed at defining national policy concerning spatial development. These policies were
then embodied in the Law on Human Settlements (1976), the National Urban Development Plan
(1978), and the National Development Plan published in 1983.
In this context, the Industrial Ports Program was a key element in the Government's entire
strategy for redistributing population, jobs and industrial development from the country's central
region to the coasts. In addition, this program was intended to improve the national transport
infrastructure and broaden the industrial base, as well as promoting exports.
However, the development of the industrial ports proceeded more slowly than planned
(including that of the LAzaro Cardenas Industrial Port), in part because of the recession that hit
the country at that time, which slowed new investments in Mexico, and also because of the very
optimistic projections of demand for land for industrial use in the port areas.
It should also be noted that this period was one of major budget constraints for the Federal
Government, which impacted the investments made in maintenance or reconstruction of the
country's infrastructure, including its port infrastructure.
II. Description of the Project and its Modifications
Loan 2450-ME for the LAzro Cardenas Industrial Ports project was initially granted by the
World Bank to the Banco Nacional Pesquero y Portuario S.N.C., the loan agreement being
signed on September 21, 1984 for an original amount of US$76.3 million for the partial
financing of port infrastructure works at LAzaro Cardenas, Michoacan, with the closing date for
disbursement set at December 31, 1990.
This project formed part of the Industrial Ports Development Program and its purpose was
to complement the investments already made in Lizaro Cardenas in order to increase the
efficiency of the port, strengthen its administration and finances, create transport savings for the
industries already there and in process of construction, reduce or eliminate the area's pollution



15
problems associated with the industrial development of the port and provide protection against
flood damage.
In the course of its execution the project was reformulated on various occasions, basically
to include the reconstruction works following the damage caused by the 1985 earthquakes, and
to take into account the two cancellations of funds included in the original amount.
The first modification took effect on February 1, 1985 as a result of the establishment and
opening of the Special Account in dollars with the Bank of Mexico for facilitating disbursements
from the loan.
The second modification was made on January 15, 1986 in order to include parts F' and
'G," referring to reconstruction of facilities damaged by the 1985 earthquakes and also
restructuring of the amounts by investment categories. The main changes were reductions in the
dredging and equipment components because of the lower than expected demand for waterfront
land in L.zaro Cardenas and the financial constraints of the Ldzaro Cardenas Port Services.
The third reformulation was on March 18, 1988 with the cancellation of US$20 million of
the total originally set, owing to domestic budgetary constraints resulting from the delay in
execution of the project works, which made it difficult for Mexico to fund payment of
commitment fees due to the slow pace of disbursements from the external loans contracted.
In addition, as of September 29, 1989 US$18.05 million of this line of credit was cancelled,
chiefly because of lack of counterpart funds, leaving US$38.25 million in the credit line.
As a result of the deterioration of the economy during those years, budget cutbacks were
very frequent and in none of the fiscal years of Loan 2450-ME were liquid funds available until
the second half of the respective fiscal years. The delays in this connection were due basically
to the approval of the investment program being subject to the determination of the financial
ceilings ("techos") imposed.
It must be noted that it was necessary to extend the closing date of the loan by two years,
to December 31, 1992.
m.   Substitution of Government Financial Agent
On March 15, 1989 and May 18, 1989 the Secretariat for Finance and Public Credit, through
the Directorate General for External Funding (Directorate of International Financing Agencies)
replaced the Federal Government's financial agent, the Banco Nacional Pesquero y Portuario
(BANPESCA) by the Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos (BANOBRAS) for Loan
Agreement 2450-ME.
By means of the Agreement on Substitution of Financial Agent, concluded on November 6,
1989, BANOBRAS took the place of BANPESCA as financial agent of the Federal Government,
whereby all the rights and obligations initially contracted by BANPESCA with IBRD were taken
over by BANOBRAS.



16
BANOBRAS was then able to apply its experience in managing infrastructure projects
funded by international financing agencies.  Its installed infrastructure enabled efficient
continuation of the execution of this project.
IV.   OPINION AND LESSONS LEARNED
BANOBRAS
The Mexican Government's confidence in BANOBRAS for managing this type of project
was reflected in the contracting of another operation for port equipment and rehabilitation (Loan
2946-ME), for which BANOBRAS was also designated as financial agent for the Government.
From the time the loan for the Lizaro Cardenas Industrial Ports project was transferred to
BANOBRAS, that institution fully complied with the contractual commitments established, and
performed the processing of the documentation for the respective disbursements. All of this was
done in constant coordination with SHCP, SCT, Puertos Mexicanos, ESP and FONDEPORT.
In addition, through the execution of the project, the channels of communication between
BANOBRAS and the executing agencies and with the World Bank itself were improved; in the
majority of cases the World Bank staff were cooperative in the interests of the efficient
implementation of the project.
Notwithstanding the uneven execution of this project, the commitments under the loan
agreement were in general complied with. However, the environmental requirements stipulated
in the contracts could not be met, partly on account of the lack of clarity regarding decision
authority in this area, and also because of budgetary problems.
PUERTOS MEXICANOS
The World Bank assigned very professional personnel with a thorough knowledge of
transportation and especially ports to the project.
It is considered that the Bank displayed flexibility during the execution of the project, since
it authorized the cancellation of funds and extension of the closing date, together with inclusion
of the Topolobampo port and I-Azaro Cardenas grain terminal projects, which were not originally
envisaged in the loan.
However, as regards procurement and compliance with rules set by it, the Bank was on
some occasions felt to be too rigid. As an example, the Bank's recommendation that the
contract for construction of the gantry crane be awarded to the Italian firm of Ansaldo, whereas
Puertos Mexicanos proposed another firm, can be cited.
It was known in advance that Ansaldo would not be able to meet the deadlines specified for
completion of the crane, a situation which made it necessary to extend the term of the loan by
a further two years.



17
The project was originally assigned to the National Ports Coordination Commission (CNCP)
and executed by the Directorate General for Marine Works (DGOM) for the civil works,
FONDEPORT as regards the urban works and by the LUzaro Cardenas Port Services Company
(SERPOLAC) for equipment procurement. The Secretariat for Water Resources (SARH) also
participated as executing agency for the training of the left branch of the Balsas River.
In the beginning there were coordination problems among the different agencies for the
execution of the works, owing to the budgetary constraints which forced cutting back of the
national contributions for the project. This situation prevailed in the period 1985-89.
In the same way, the change in responsibility for monitoring the project from the Directorate
General for Planning (DGP) to the SCT's Directorate General of Financial Resources caused
some delays, largely due to the need for the latter to learn how to handle disbursement requests
and forwarding of documentation to the Bank.
Owing to the budget constraints in the period 1985-88, the river-training works on the left
branch of the Balsas River were halted for a time; at the end of 1988 progress stood at 23%
while at loan closing in 1992 it was 65%. The works will be continued in 1993 and will be
completed in 1994 with government funds.
A similar situation occurred with the environmental projects in the port regarding solid-waste
disposal, wastewater treatment plants and industrial sanitary drainage, all projects that were not
fully completed.
The establishment of Puertos Mexicanos in March 1989, by means of which the different
agencies in the ports subsector were all combined into one authority, brought about an
appreciable improvement in the execution of the loan, since the centralization of the coordination
function in this way facilitated work and expedited the implementation of the projects.
The main lesson that can be learned is that when there is a coordinating agency that is
responsible for the planning, programming and construction of the works the efficiency of
project execution improves markedly, as happened in this project with the establishment of
Puertos Mexicanos.
During the preparation and execution of the project relations with the Bank personnel were
consistently excellent, being characterized by an atmosphere of cordiality and dialogue.
On occasions the Bank was approached directly, by phone, fax or letter, which enabled the
exchange of information, views and recommendations in a timely fashion, while in other
instances the assistance of the financial agent was enlisted to resolve some problem.
FONDEPORT
On April 10, 1991 the amended agreement between BANOBRAS, the Federal Government
through SHCP and FONDEPORT was signed, reducing the funds allocated from the loan to
FONDEPORT from US$3.33 million to US$3.25 million.



18
As of May 31, 1993 and due to exchange differences, the funds allocated from Loan
2450-ME to FONDEPORT and actually used totaled US$3.27 million.
FONDEPORT's objective in this project was to cooperate in the financing of an investment
program for port infrastructure, equipment, studies and training for the Liza ro Cardenas Industrial
Port.
During the period 1985-90 FONDEPORT, by means of an investment of US$3.27 million,
carried out various urban infrastructure works designed to ensure basic services for the
establishment of small, medium and large industries, thereby promoting deconcentration and
economic development in the country's coastal regions.
The tasks accomplished with the support of the loan funds are described below:
(a) Installation of utilities for the First Stage of the small and medium industries park:
electricity hookups, energy distribution system and lighting for Block 3, stormwater
discharge into the right branch of the Balsas River, and a raw-water supply line from the
source to the park system.
(b) Construction of the industrial sanitary drainage system.
Includes: West zone, blocks A-C and C-G: Boulevard G-E and waterfront section of the
system made up of 6.2 km of lines, two pump pits with their control equipment, and an
oxidation lagoon.
(c) Construction of the Boulevard de las Bahias in the Gasolino, San Francisco, El Naranjito
and waterfront sections.
FONDEPORT succeeded in accomplishing all the objectives specified in Section IV of
the loan agreement.
However, not all the objectives originally set for the project were achieved, due to a
number of factors outside of FONDEPORT's control, which included:
(a) Lack of necessary information and financial resources for the preparation of integrated
projects that would enable better returns to be obtained from the investment, as also
determination of the socioeconomic impacts obtained.
(b) Lack of basic services in the region:
- High-quality roads suitable for heavy vehicles
- High-capacity airport suitable for long-range aircraft
- Railways
- School facilities for higher education.
(c) The region is characterized by a social imbalance resulting from the struggle between the
political parties.



19
Table I - Part III
Table 2 - Part IlI
TABLE 1: RELATED BANK LOANS
(USS MDlions)
Tille            |  Loan No.          Year of Approval         Original Amount          Disbursed                Comments
Pist Post project                 820-ME                1972                    20.0                  19.71         Closed 1977, PCR No. 2592 of
June 1979.
LAS TruchaS Stecl Proje           934-ME                1973                    70.0                  67.80         Closed 1977. Lazaro Cardenas
Porl built, PCR No. 3478 of
May 1981.
Port Development Prepaation       1964-ME               1981                    14.0                   4.5          Closed 1986, PCR No. 7245 of
Project                                                                                                             May 1988.
Ports RehabiL;taion Project      2946-ME                1988                    50.0                  45.08         Under Implementation.
Source: IBRD Statement of Loans, July 31, 1993.
TABLE 2: PROJECT TIIMTIILET
Il_ e                                       Date Planned                   |                  Actual Date
Identifiaion                                                                                                  May 1982
Preparaion                                                                                                    January 1983
Apprisal-                                                                                                     September-October 1983
Negotiaion                                                  Fcbnrury 1984                                     May 21-25, 1984
Board Approval                                                March 1984                                      June 21, 1984
Loan Signature                                               June 1984                                        September21, 1984
Loan Effectivene                                           December 31, 1984                                  March 8, 1985
Loan Closing                                                December 31, 1990                                 December 31, 1992
proje  compleon                                            December 31, 1990                                  December 31, 1992
Source: IBRD Projeat Files



20
Table3 - Pa  m
TABLE 3: COMPARISON BETWEEN APPRAISAL ESTIMATES AND ACTUAL COSTS
(USS Millions)
Appraisal Estimates                       Actual Costs
Description              Local       Foreign       Total       Local       Foreign       Total
Road Access                        2.3          1.9           4.2         .5           .8          1.3
Rail Access                        0.2          0.9           1.0         2.5         3.8          6.30
Maritime Access                    8.9         20.9          29.8
Equipment                          3.2          8.5          11.7         1.10        11.5        12.60
Collector Sewers                   1.5          1.5           3.0         1.34         1.40        2.74
Solid Waste Systems                1.2          1.8           3.0
Industrial Park                    1.3          1.1           2.4         1.18         1.67        2.85
Flood Protection                   8.1         18.9          27.0         7.20        11.10       18.30
Technical Assistance               0.2          0.4           0.5         .10          .60          .70
Supervision                        0.8          1.8           2.5
Training                           0.3          0.7           1.0
Total Investments                 27.9         58.2          86.1        13.92       30.87        44.79
Contingencies                      8.5         17.9          17.4         .48          .09         0.57
TOTAL COSTS                       36.4         76.3         112.7        14.40       30.96        45.36
Additional Items                    -           -
Civil Works (TOPOLOBAMPO)                                                 5.1          7.2        12.3
Exchange Rate Adjustments           -           -             -            .12         .09         0.21
GRAND TOTAL                       36.4         76.3         112.5        19.62       38.25        57.87



21
----                                      Table 3A - Pa  m
TABLE 3A: COMPARISON BETWEEN APPRAISAL AND ACTUAL FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Millions)
Appraisal Plan                              Actual
Financing Instituon          Local      Foreign        Total         Local        Foreign        Tota
IBRD                                          76.3         76.3                        38.25         38.25
Government                       36.4-                     36.4          19.62                        19.62
| TOTAL                                     _________     112.7                                      57.87



22
TabI 4-Par III
TABLE 4: ESTIMATED AND ACTXJAL SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(USS Millious)
Actual as % of Revised
IBRD Fiscal Year              Appraisal Estimate           Revised Estimate1         Actual Disbursements             E stimates
1985
September 1984
December 1984                                  1.7
March 1985                                                                6.0                        0.19                        3
June 1985                                     5.8                        6.40                        7.45                      116
19B6
September 1985                                                          7.90                         7.86                      99
December 1985                                17.2                        8.25                        8.21                        9
March 1986                                                               8.90                        9.18                      103
June 1986                                    28.3                       10.10                        9.86                      93
1987
September 1986                                                          10.43                       10.73                      102
December 1986                                39.4                       11.63                       11.08                      95.
March 1987                                                              11.83                       11.08                      94
June 1987                                    46.7                       12.03                       11.08                       92
1988
September 1987                                                          13.28                       12.57                       95
Decernber 1987                               54.1                       13.28                       13.19                      99
March 1988                                                              13.28                       13.19                       99
June 1988                                    63.4                       13.43                       14.53                     108
1939
September 1988                                                          13.63                       14.53                      106
December 1988                                72.8                       15.13                       15.71                     104
March 1989                                                              15.58                       17.08                      110
June 1989                                    73.9                       15.88                       17.80                      112
1990
September 1989                                                          18.08                       17.99                       99
December 1989                                75.3                       18.68                       19.49                      104
March 1990                                                              19.18                       13.25                       95
Junc 1990                                    76.3                       20.48                       19.49                       95
1991
Septenber 1990                                                          21.13                       19.49                       92
December 1990                                                           21.63                       19.49                      90
Much 1991                                                                 .83                       23.73                       99
June 1991                                                               23.33                       U.96                       101
1992
September 1991                                                          25.83                       24.90                       96
December 1991                                                           27.23                       27.23                      100
March 1992                                                              35.35                       29.35                      83
June 1992                                                               35.65                       33.45                       94
1993
September 1992                                                          35.95                       35.90                      99
December 1992                                                           38.25    -                  38.25        100% 38.05 cuncello
Source: Supervision Reports and IBRD Project tiies
1. This is the last version of the revised estimatte which was continuously updated by
supervision missions.



23
Table 5 - Part [ll
TABLE 5: COMPLIANCE W[TH LOAN COVENANTS
SECTION                     SUBJECT                  ... DEADLINE                    STATUS
Loan Agrzement
2.01               Amount of Loan - $76.3 million                              Disbursed - $38.25 million
Cancelled - $38.05 million
2.02 (b)           Opening of Special Account                                 Complied
3.01 (a)           Contractual Agreement with ESP and                         Complied (paras 6.02 to 6.06 o
FONDEPORT                                                  Part I)
3.01 (b)           Contractual Agreement                                      Complied
Guarantor/Borrower for funds transfer
4.01 (a)           Borrower to represent all assets free of   Septemb-r 28, 1984  Complied.
liens
4.02               Annual Audit of Special Account                             Complied.
Guarantee
Agreernent
2.01               Guarantor to ensure punctual payment                       Complied
of principal and interest
2.02               Guarantor to provide funds for project                     Complied partially due to
economic policy and budget
constraints, but in line with
revised project scope.
3.01               Guarantor to carry out Parts A, C (ii),                     Limited funds restricted
E (i), (iii), (v), F and G of project with                 progress.
due diligence.
3.02 (a)           Guarantor/Borrower contractual project                     Complied.
arrangements to transfer funds
3.02 (b)           Guarantor/Municipality contract for Part                   Complied.
C (ii) (solid waste)
3.02 (c)           Guarantor/FONDEPORT contract for                           Complied.
Part A (iv) (River Rectification) for
partial recovery of investment costs.
3.02 (d)           Guarantor not to amend contract                            Complied.



24
TABLE 5: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS (cont'd)
SECTION                      SUBJECT                 |         DEADLINE                     STATUS
3.03               Guarantor to employ consultants for                                 Complied
Parts E (i), (iii), (v)
3.04               Guarantor present studies and                                       Studies submitted late.
engineering designs for Parts C (ii)
prior to December 15, 1984.
3.05               All subjects under Part A (iii)                                     Component cancelled
(Dredging) to have minimum ERR of
12% and to provide for cost recovery.
3.06               All subprojects under Part A (iii) to be                            Complied with the
submitted not later than December 31,                              deferred/amended date of
1987.                                                              December 31, 1989.
3.07               Semi-annual exchange of views on:
(a) Financial status of Project.
(b) Achievement of objectives                                      Complied
(c) Pollution Control Indicators.                                  Complied
3.10 (b)           Guarantor to prepare and submit PCR    December 31, 1993.           Complied partially
3.11               Guarantor to acquire land rights for                                Mostly complied in
Parts A, C(ii) of project.                                         accordance with amended
scope of project.
3.12               Bank to publish notice of award of                                  Complied.
contracts
3.13               Regulation of operation of hydropower                               Complied
plants in accordance with project.
4.01               Creation of lien on assets.                                         Complied.
4.03 (b)           Submission of verification of accounts                              Complied.
and records annually.
4.04               Contact Bank to furnish accounts related                            Complied.
to Special Account.
4.05               Study on Port dues.                    September 15, 1985.          Complied.
Exchange of views with Bank.           January 15, 1986.            Complied.
Action Plan.                                                        Complied.
4.06               Guarantor to enable ESP to meet                                     Complied
financial targets.



25
TABLE 5: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS (cont'd)
SECTION                       SUBJECT                  ... DEADLINE                       STATUS
4.07                    Adequate maintenance of project                                Partially complied due to
items.                                                        earthquake and paucity of
funds.
4.08                    Transfers of port equipment to ESP                             Complied.
as equity.
4.09                    ESP to collect storage fees and                                Complied.
retain sufficient to cover costs.
4.10                    ESP and Borrower acting as mistee                              Complied.
for FONDEPORT to perform.
4.11                    Prevent Wastewater Discharge by                                Industries complying.
Plants and terminals from                                     FIDELAC not complying.
contaminating surface waters.
FONDEPORT Proiect
Argeement
2.01 (c)                Administration Commercialization                               Complied.
and promotion studies by December
15, 1986 and implementation of
Action Plan.
4.01                    Maintenance of separate accounts                               Not complied'
for Lazaro Cardenas.
4.02                    Annual Audit of Project Accounts                               Complied.
and FONDEPORT financial
Accounts.
FSP Proiect                                                                            Complied.
A2reement
2.07                    ESP Costs and Tariff Studies and
Action Plan.
4.02                    Annual Audit of financial statements                           Complied.
and project expenditure.
4.03                    ESP to produce total revenues in                               Complied.
FY '95 and '86 as specified.
1. FONDEPORT was officially dissolved by Presidential decree when Puertos Mexicanos was formed (para 5.08) in March
1989, although it still continues to exist.



26
Table 6 - Part m
TABLE 6: ESP's REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE STATEMENTS
(in millions of Mexican pesos)
1983       924            1985          1986           1987          1988 7989
REVENUES
Port Services        393         413            646           1319          4858          8493          16999
Other Revenues                     2             11           153           828            1432           849
Total Revenues        393        415            657           1472          5686           9925         17848
COSTS
Working Costs        351         431            622           1092          4068           6866         10306
Depreciation          21          23            32             182          754           2876           3383
Total Cost            372        454            654           1274          4822           9742         13689
Operating Surplus     21         -39             3            198           864            183          4159
Inflation Index       100        165            261           486           1126           2411         2892
RATIOS:              1983                      1              1986          12             1988         i198
Actually Achieved:
Working Ratio        0.89        1.04          0.95           0.74          0.84           0.81          0.61
Operating Ratio      0.95        1.09          1.00          0.97           0.99           1.15          0.81
Sar Estimates:
Working Ratio        0.94        1.11          0.97           0.87          0.71           0.63          0.62
Operating Ratio      0.96        1.45          1.42           1.27          1.02           0.86          0.84



27
Table 7A - Part HI
TABLE 7A: USE OF BANK RESOURCES (STAFF INPUTS)
Stage of Project Cycle            Planned              Actual                  Comments
Through Appraisal                       N/A                  109.4
Appraisal Through Board
Approval                               N/A                    18.9
Board Approval Though
Effectiveness                           N/A                   10.0
Supervision                            N/A                   135.3
273.6



28
Table 7B - Part III
TABLE 7B: MISSION DATA
AGE OF PROJECT    | MONTH/YEAR | NUMBER OF | DAYS IN  SPECIALIZATION  PERFORMANCE                                                 COMMENTS
CYCLE                                         PERSONS          FIELD        REPRESENTED           RATINGS
I. Throueh Appralsal                                                                                                   First project brief for an Industrial
Port Project.
Project Identification     April 1982          2                7           Eng. Eco.                                  Project Brief Updated May 10,
1982.
Project Preparation        May 1982            2                5           Eng. Eco.                                  Project Brief Updated June 15,
1982.
Project Preparation        January 1983        3                7           Eng, Eco, Fin.                             Project Brief Updated March 17,
1983.
Project Preparation        May 1983            3               14           Eng, Eco, Fin.                             Project Brief Updated June 16,
1983.
Project Preparation        September 1983      1                14          FCS2, Eco3,                                Reviewed particularly Flood Control
problems related to Rio Balsas.
Appraisal                  September-          5               20           Eng, Fin, Eco, Env,                        Although this was designated as an
October 1983                                    L04                                         Appraisal Mission, appraisal could
not be completed as institutional and
technical gaps remained Issues Paper
- November 3, 1983. Interim
Decision Memorandum December
12, 1983.
2. Flood Control Specialist
3. Economist for 2 days only to introduce Flood Control Specialist
4. LO for 2 weeks, others for 3 weeks.



29
TABLE 7B: MISSION DATA (cont'd)
AGE OF PROJECT            MONTH/YEAR  NUMBER OF  DAYS IN  SPECIALIZATION  PERFORMANCE                                          CONMMENTS
CYCLE                                        PERSONS         FIELD        REPRESENTED           RATINGS
11. Appralsal for Board
Approval
Post Appraisal Mission    December 1983       1                1          Eng.                                       Brief visit to review progress of
outstanding issues.
Appraisal Completion      January 1984        7               7           Eng, Env, Eco, Fin,                        Revised Issues Paper issued
Mission                                                                   FCS, Evn, DC'                              February 17, 1984.
Decision Meeting - February 23,
1984.
Decision Memorandum - March 9,
1984.
Negotiations              May 21-25, 1984
Board Approval            June 21, 1984                                                                              Loan Agreement signed September
21, 1984.
Ill. Suprislon
August 1984        4               12          Eco, Fin, Eny, Eng.     1
Supervision
Loan Signature            September 21,                                                          1
1984
Loan Effective            March 8, 1985
Supervision               April 1985          3               13          Eco, Fin, Eng.                             Budget Constraints appear in 1985
budget.
Supervision               November 1985       2               12          Fin, Eng.              2                   Reformulation of project proposed
because of Earthquake and budget
constraints.
S. Division Chief joined the mission for 2 days.



30
TABLE 7B: MISSION DATA (cont'd)
AGE OF PROJECT             MONTH/YEAR  NUMBER OF  DAYS IN I SPECIALIZATION  PERFORMANCE                                        COMMENTS
CYCI.E                                       PERSONS          FIELD        REPRESENTED          RATINGS
Supervisioni              April 1986          1               12          Eng.                    2
Supervision               September-          2               12          Fin, Eng.               2
October 1986
Supervision               June-July 1987      3               10          Fin, Eco, Eng.          2                  Project Reformulation discussed.
Supervision               November 1987       2                4                                  2                  Discussions on project refomiulation
L01nt`1n.e.
Supervisioll               September 1988     2                7          Fin, Eng.               2                  Port traffic iicreases. financial
conidition good. Disbursements only
$14 millioi.w
Supervision               August 1989         3               11          Fin, Eco, Eng.          2                  Loani passes from BANPESCA to
BANOBRAS. Puertos Mexicanos
(PM) tbrined. Loani anid Guarantee
Agreements revised.
Supervision               July 1990           2               10          Fin, Cons.             2                   Procuremenit progress still slow.
Disbursed $19.5 nmillion.
Supervision               December 1990       2                5          Fin, Eng.              2                   Mission also supervised - 2946-ME.
Supervision               January 1992        4               14          Fin, Eco, Eng. Env.    2                   Disbursements - $27.2 niillion.
Supervision               June 1992           4               13          Fin, Eco, Eng. Proc.                       Loan closed at $38.25 million.
SUMMARY
Mission Data                      Staff Days
Through Appraisal                   201
Appraisal to Board                   50
Preparation and Appraisal (Total)   251
Board Approval/EffeCtiveness         48
Supervision                         306
Supervision (Total)                 354



31
Tabk * - PatI
TABLES: ECONMIC REVUAMN
On MUU.a 1963 Pas)
Eqilpu1a t                      liw.                       Eqiip mnt                         totat       met
mail       Cent.       S.C       tug       1.P   Nint.        slil    Cant.        C.C       tug       L.p Eanefits    s nits
C..t
Year
1915       IS?         317        S4       210       229       9S5                                                           0      -n
1966       566         211        S4       21       106      1155         *        40        36                            76    -1079
198?        35          26        S4         7        16       13-                  52        36        Is        S0       149         It
1985        3S          26         3         7        12        63                  69        38        1S        97       219       136
1969        3S          9?         3         7        12       154                  Vs        38        22       13       293       139
1990        35          37         3         7        12        94         -       143        38        31       138       3SS       261
1           35         105         3         r        12       162       140       174        36        35       1S0       531       375
I9z         35          33         3         7        12        90       200       251        36        40       1S0       679       589
199         35          33         3         7        12        90       26S       27S        38        45       ISO       m         68.
199         35          33         3         7        12        90       27m       300        38        Si       1S0       116       726
1995       3S           33         3         7        12        90       289       300        38        57       ISO       a34       744
1996       3S           33         3         7        12        90       302      300         38        60       150       350       760
l99         35          33         3         7        12        90      336       30          38        63       1S0       my        797
199         35          33         3         7        12        90      336       300         38                 IS 10     590       a00
199        3S           33         3         t        12        90      336       300         38        69       1S0       593       a03
2000        Is          33         3         7        12        90       336       300        38        73       ISO        197      80o
2001        35          33         3         7        12        90       336       300        38        76       1SO       900       510
2002        3S          33         3         7        12        90       336       300        38        00       ISO       904       814
2003        3S          33         3         7        12        90       336       300        38        54       150       906       eta
2004        3S          33         3         7        12        90       336       300        3                  IS 10    912       U22
200S        3S          33         3         7        12        90       336       300        38        93      10        917       827
2006        3S          33         3         7        lz        90       336       300        is       100       ISO       924        534
zoo2       is           33         3         7        12        90       336       300        38       100       ISO       924       634
2000        IS          33         3         7        12        90       336        00        36       100       150       924       814
2009        35          33         3         7        12        90       336       30         3a       100       ISO       924       814
2010        35          S5         3         r        12        90       33        3oo 08              100       ISO       924       814



32
Table SA - Pa1 III
TABLE U: MECOKC RE!4VAUATION
(in Mm" 1N PCs")
lecalculet ien by Hai C _nsnts
mail Cwmpiet                                       Port Cwpnengts                          Inctrlel Perk
Toer    cts    b-f.             net               eats   benf.          net              csts   bemi.          net
. .. .. .__.._ ......  ----    . .. ...             -----     -----     . . ....            ..... . -----
1905      157            -     -157                 520         a      -s25                29           -     -229
I9W       5                    -S                   531        7       -?ss                10           .     -104
1"?7        35                  -35                 11         U        -27                  16       SO        34
1965       3s                   -3s                  64       107        43                  12       7r        as
199        35            -      -3s                 13S        33        -2                  12      138       126
1990       35                   -3S                  7S       I"        III                  12      135       126
199        35          145      10S                 143       352       209                  12      ISO       1I3
w2         3s         200       16s                  71       489       415                 52       ISO       135
193        3S         26s       230                  71      Sig       so0                  12       ISO       138
194        3S         277       242                  71      6IS       S44                  12       15O       135
199        3s         259       2S4                  71      627       ss6                  12       ISO       136
199        3S         302       267                  71      640        s69                  12      1SO       138
19r        3s         336       301                  71      674       60                    12      1SO       135
16         35         336       301                  71      674        603                 12       IS       I38
199        3S         336       301                  ?5      674       603                   12      ISO       13
2000       3S         336       301                  75       674       603                  12       ISO       136
2001       3S         336       301                  75       674       603                  12       ISO       136
2002       3S         336       301                  75       674       603                  52       ISO       138
2903       35          536      301                  71       674       603                  12       ISO       138
2004       35         336       301                  75       674       603                  12       ISO       138
2095       3s         336       301                  71       674       603                  I2      ISO        I3l
2006        3          336      301                  71       674       603                  12      IS        13
2007       35          336      305                  71       674       603                  12       ISO       138
2006        3S         336      301                  71       674       603                  12       ISO       I 3
2009       3S          336      301                  71       674       103                  12      ISO       135
2010                   336      336                  71       674       603                  12       ISO      135



33
Tabb 9 -Prt III
TABIL  9: PM:   TRAFC
(  inT _ df ldrik Tr)
1984   1985   1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991   1992
CONTAINERISED CARGO             46      49      51    88   178   219   229   353    392
OTHER GENERAL CARGO              81    200    279   n.a.   477   519   914   869    915
GRAIN                           217     98    158   n.a.   225    177    93   132    122
MINERALS IN BUK                  12    130    255   n.a.  1912  2506  3093  3133   3315
IRON AND STEEL                 276    159    160   n.a.
COAL                           348    491    500   n.a.
OTHER                                   128     38   n.a.    49   183   189   148    349
TOTAL                           980   1255   1441   1609  2841  3604  4518  4635   5093
SAR ESTIMATES 1/               1564   1424   2009  2652  2977  3056   ---
NUMBER OF CONTAIES                5      10      7    10    23    26   28.2 32.4          44
ITEUt
1/ VWIdout PEMEX mu CONASUPO Grain
Source: Puwrtos Mgxcanos Stasical Repo
TONNAcE.xAs
3121 44



34
Table 9A - Part m
TABLE 9A: PORT TRAMC - DIAGREAN
(in Mlillion 1983 Pesos)
CARGO HANDLED 1984-1992
6000
5000
_ 4000
o 3000
2000
a 1000
0
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
YEARS
U CONTAINERISED CARGO C OTHER CARGO
CONTAINERISED CARGO AND NUMBER OF CONTAINERS
400
350
300
z250
200
100
50
0
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
YEARS
CONTAINERISED CARGO           NUM8ER OF CONTAINERS



- 2'  STAES           ARA                                                                      M E X I C O
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
Kt   -,-- <5-C#  S  \Nl-*>-<;<, zo c5\\AND INDUSTRIAL PORT LOCATIONS
--                                     N
Tc-
.PACIfIC            OC     A  AV                                                                                                                            Indon/
g   /  -  -  Z  *  {ndw*treol ports~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Po..olo:pt
X    4      _           >                                                                                                        -      I1DOos__. Ibtf o*srlodoo,.,
S.O c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
.R,7                      -           - ?-                       M                    1
OcW L<aD M~~~~~~~~~~ozlo.-                                             -   $-.. ..T   4.0C.,.C  -                              /    L- 
K1^|fSIE 0      00       200 1X 4X    0w
o_+o1Ro_4             +_       t   ~~~GUATEMALA  
_  HONDURAS
'O                                                                         iOC*                                                                  90c -)C 






.              1                                                                           - _<       1;0'          ID0'          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD I'''
0                         3      A                                                   __,*',  LU/tlEO STAIrS OF AMER CA
MEXICO~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~                                                                                                               ~          ~~ In  2 20.  I :R SI C St0    s
M E X I C O                                                                                        i           j0 
LAZARO  CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL  PORT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                   E IhmDabepeeDrewussae6lrhcFo  C Mei
|o rena, . O   and .s eecrrsler vr E loo  rrorra,   "r . TWOrUo dar arc he elrr,a,orrar@  -!20'                         '
Iyonarce CpDra;vrrd Tvu dFlOtrarrooAnDF Er~ Sh he eroorar,eS Seh owrm Ter map do noT                 @ .O/
own on e  pa@ S@rr O of The r55'rr V aAZ andh rah   rneCdOrennayrdper.                              a, 
L                                                                 !               ID0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  TOc  OAJArMALA1
EXISTING  FACILITIES                                                                      PROJECT                          FUTURE  MASTER  PLAN                                                                        Selected Roods
AND    PROJECT1,P V,' 1- D-                                               Rod                                                                                               lo V/Or  D-,.      ----e  Railroads
AND   PROJECT                   \                     /  7zaV//.w=Dom               _   Rosod,                                                                                      f,idges
- - -  Collector Sewers                                                                                                              Selected Collector Sewers
/  Sewage Treatment Logoons                                                                                                        Se.oge Trect,eot   Logoons
_     Sewer OAtfoll                                                                                                                Sewer Oatfolla
Med,,m  ond Smll                                    r/                                                                       Medusm  and Small
/   }   -   ~ ~ ~ 1  Industro  PForks                                                                                                  ,Industral Parks
:  R,Aer RecrIcf,to                                 ,                                                                          Former R,e0, Bed
A,AZAMA5                                                          EXISTING
Selected Roads
< / t ,-    .-c De R. roads                                                                                                'OUE TAPON
B,ages
CR    /                                   , E                                                          r         /L   RLLAS  
PETACALC
SA, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~IK
< I \ \\\ X;/0 yl' / \ J w ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E    K5
IE   dMTA                                                                                                                           TLL
'-'        C AST -L1ER0S
'  y  J   CARDENAS    1   1    L                     v                                                          '/ )                   I   CONASUPO                           /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADEN
/o                               I    / Co  SP                  D/f(                                                                                              PEMEX
t                                                                            __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EE
-CARTS1                                                                               S;C A RTSA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



