Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAJ'    5o-1)16
lepogt No. P-3837-M
RE PDRT AND RECO IMENDTION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TEE
IN7ERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONST1gCTION AND DEVELOPMEIT
TO 'TE
EECUTIVE DIRBCTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALEqT TO US$76.3 MILLION
TO
BANCD NAC IONAL PESQlERO Y PORTUARIO, S . A.
WITH THE GUARANrEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
F CR A LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORTS PROJECT
May 31, 1984
Thi doaseme  has a rearictd distriuu_ md my be wed by reipients dly in the ped.nomae d
teir ocind dutjes ghI caten  may notd odmewse be dissd wditho  Word Dank auih tim



Currency Unit - Peso (Nex $)
On May 31, 1984, the exchange rate in the controlled marke- was
UTS$1 M= ex$163.61; the freemarket exchange rate stood at US$1 = Mex$181.73.
Both exchange rates are currently sliding at a rate of Nex$0.13 per day again.:
the US dollar.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
ADbreviations
BANPESCA  -  Banco Nacional Pesquero y Portuario, S.A.
National Bank for Fisheries and Port Development
CGPPI     -  Coordinacion General de Proyectos de Puertos Industriales
General Coordinating Commission for Industrial Ports Projects
CNCP      -  Comision Nacional Coordinadora de Puertos
National Port Coordinating Commission
DGCF      -  Direccion General de Caminos Federales
Directorate General for Federal Roads
DGGI      -  Direccion General de Grande Irrigacion
Directorate General for Large-Scale Irrigation Works
DGOM      -  Direccion General de Obras MaritXmas
Directorate General for Marine 'Works
DGOPD     -  Direccion General de Operaciones y Desarrollo Portuario
Directorate General for Port Operations and Development
DGP       -  Direccion General de Planeacion
Directorate General for Planning
DGVF      -  Direccion General de Vias Ferreas
Directorate General for Railway Infrastructure
EFF       -  Extended Fund Facility
ESP       -  Empresa de Servicios Portuarios
Port Service Company
FERTEIEX  -  Fertilizantes Mexicanos, S.A.
Mexican Fertilizer Plant
FONDEPORT -  Fondo Nacional para los Desarrollos Portuarios
National Port Development Fund
NDP       -  Plan Nacional de Desarrollo
National Development Plan
N de N    -  Nacionales de Mexico
National Railways Company
PTT       -  Productos Mexicanos de Tuberias, S.A.
Tube Product Plant
SAHOP     -  Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Publicas
Secretariat for Humaa Settlements and Public Works
SARH      -  Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos
Secretariat for Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
SCT       -  Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes
Secretariat for Communications and Transport
SEDUE     -  Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia
Secretariat for Urban Development and Environment
CFE       -  Comision Federal de Electricidad
Federal Electricity Commission
SHCP      -  Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Secretariat of Finance
SICARTSA  -  Siderurgica Lazaro Cardenas -  Las Truchas
Lazaro Cardenas-Las Truchas Steel Plant
SPP       -  Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto
Secretariat for Programming and Budgeting
TUM       -  Terminal de Usos Multiples
Multiple Use Terminal



)ifCO                    FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Banco Nacional Pesquero y Portuario, S.A.
(BANPESCA).
Project Executing
Agency;            Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes (SCT)
Guarantor:         United Mexican States.
Amount:            US$76.3 million, including capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:             Fifteen years, including three years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description: The proposed project supports the Government's strategy for devel-
opment of the Industrial Ports Program, to achieve a more balanced
distribution of population and economic activity, a more organized
expansion of the industrial plant, coordinated development of port
infrastructure and services and the overall strengthening and mod-
ernization of transport activities. Specifically, the proposed
project would help: (i) ensure efficient operation of existing
terminals in the industrial port of Lazaro Cardenas; (ii) streng-
then the admfaistration and finances of the industrial port; (iii)
improve access to, and increase the utilization of, industrial
port installations; (iv) provide effective pollution and flood
control in the port area; and (v) maintain a dialogue on remaining
institutional and related policy issues affecting the performance
of the port subsector. To achieve these objectives, the project
Includes: (a) construction of roads, rail installations and provi-
sion of maritime access to industries, facilities and services;
(b) acquisition of general cargo handling equipment; (c) installa-
tion of sewerage treatment systems for effluents; (d) provision of
equipment and shops for solid waste management; (e) land prepara-
tion and services for small and mediumr-sized industries; (f)
provision of flood protection works; and (g) consulting services
and training.
*      Risks:       The proposed project faces three risks:  (i) institutional, since
it is the first project under the newly established Industrial
Ports Program; its execution and operation will require coordina-
tion among various sectoral Government agencies.  The project has
been designed to reduce these risks; (ii) prolongation of the
economic recession could affect projected traffic levels and the
pace of industrial investment at the port. Sensitivity analyses
indicated that the economic return of the project would not be
affected significantly by foreseeable variations in traffic
volumes, or project costs; and (iii) delays in industrial invest-
ment and production could affect the viability of the maritime
access component of the project. This component has been tranched
in order to minimize the risk.
This docume hs  a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or ter ofkicia duties Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World llank authorization.



Estimated Project Costs
Local Foreign Total
-(in US$ million)-
Road, Rail and Maritime Access     11.4    23.7   35.0
Equipment                           3.2     8.5   11.7
Environmental Protection            2.7     3.3    6.0
SmalU and Medium Scale Industrial   1.3     1.1    2.4
Park
Flood Protection                   8.1    18.9   27.0
Technical Assistance and Training    1.1    2.9    4.0
Total Base Cost 11                27.9    58.2   86.1
Physical Contingencies             3.1      5.9    9.0
Price Contingencies                 5.4    12.0   17.4
Total Project Cost 1/             36.4 2/ 76.1  112.5
Front-end fee                      0.0      0.2    0.2
Total Cost                        36.4    76.3  112.7
Filancing Scurces:                     Local Foreign Total
(in US$ million)
Proposed IBRD Loan                  -      76.3   76.3
roverment 3/                      36.4       -     36.4
~4     - 76.    i  l.T
Estimated Disbursements                (in US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Annual                  5.8    22.5    18.4    16.7    10.5         2.4
Cumulative              5.8    28.3    46.7    63.4    73.9    76.3
Rate of Return:   The project has an overall economic rate of return of 23
percent. The maritime access works would be evaluated and
approved in tranches, and would have a minimum economic rate
of return of 12 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 5025-ME, dated Mav 29, 1984.
1/ Totals may not add up due to rounding.
2/ Includes local taxes estimated at US$12,100,000.
3/ Includes ESP and FONDEPORT internally generated funds.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO BANCO NACIONAL PESQUERO Y PORTUARIO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORTS PROJECT
1. *I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Banco Nacional Pesquero y Portuario, S. A., (BANPESCA) with the Guarantee of
United Mexican States for the equivalent of US$76.3 million to help finance a
Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Ports Project to be carried out under the lead
responsibility of the Secretariat of Communications and Transport (SCT). The
loan, which includes a capitalized front-end fee of 0.25 percent on the Bank
loan, would be repaid over 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate. Proceeds of the loan, required by ESP and
BANPESCA, acting as trustee for FONDEPORT, for carrying out the Parts of the
Project assigned to them, would be ow-lent to them under the same terms and
conditions as those of the Bank loan. These entities will also bear the
foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOM!
2.        An economic report on Mexico (Mexico:  Recent Economic Developments
and Prospects, No. 4996-ME) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 14, 1984. The report's main conclusions are summarized below.
Background
3.        After almost three decades of relatively stable and high economic
growth, Mexico experienced a serious financial and economic crisis in 1976 and
an even more serious one six years later, in 1982. When the Bank's previous
economic report was prepared in 1980 and early 1981, an underlying trend
towards structural economic imbalance was already evident, and the potential
dangers were recognized. However, the issues were not addressed by the out-
going Government with the vigor that was required as oil revenues and external
loans had temporarily eliminated foreign exchange constraints to development.
4.        Today, Mexico is struggling to emerge from a crisis worse than any
other in its modern history, and faces a seve-e resource constraint. In this
struggle, the Government cannot afford to delay implementation of corrective
policies on a broad front. Moreover, the prospects for a resumption of econo-
mic growth depend more than ever on favorable international conditions. The
path leading to Mexico's economic recovery is a narrow one, with limited
options and little room for maneuver in domestic policy.
Developments During 1977-1982
5.        The stabilization measures initiated in 1977 and the discovery and
exploitation of large oil resources in the mid-1970s allowed the Lopez Portillo



- 2 -
Administration (Jan. 1977 - Dec. 1982) to overcome the serious financial crisis
of 1976 and to start working on structural, social and economic problems,
including poverty, income and wealth inequality, unemployment, regional
imbalances and relatively slow agricultural growth. In the early years of that
Administration (1977-1980) GDP grovth was high (8.5 percent a year), 2.5
million jobs were created, domestic consumption recovered, and the share of
investment and savings in GDP surpassed historical levels.
6.        Rapidly rising public expenditures unmatched by revenues led to
increasing public deficits and an overheated economy. Although inflationary
pressures mounted, the exchange rate was not adjusted. By mid-1981, the
economic situation began to mirror the scene prevailing before the 1976
financial crisis. The appreciation of the real exchange rate contributed to a
current account deficit of 5.8 percent of GDP, while the deteriorating
international oil market conditions caused large revenue shortfalls with
respect to budget expectations. The public sector deficit rose to just under
15 percent of GDP. External borrowing was used to finance part of the domestic
fiscal deficits and to defend the exchange rate. Mexico's foreign debt
increased rapidly, at a time of high and rising international interest rates.
A stabilization program initiated by the Government in mid-1981 was not
sufficient to redress the growing fiscal imbalance, the high cost of foreign
loans and the increasing private capital flight fueled by the public's anxiety
over Mexico's financial troubles.
7.        The crisis came to a head in 1982.  In February, as capital flight
intensified, the Bank of Mexico had to stop supporting the peso, which then
experienced a 40 percent devaluation in dollar terms. A large wage adjustm.ent
granted in March 1982, which tended to undo the effects of the devaluation, and
continuing slack in the oil market kept the balance of payments under strain.
Under the circumstances, the international banking community was unwilling to
commit new funds to Mexico, in the amounts required. These factors led to a
second devaluation of the peso in August 1982, while the acute shortage of
foreign exchange forced the Government to suspend the amortization payments of
most of Mexico's external public debt pending a broader agreement on its
refinancing. Capital flight continued as private sector confidence was shaken
by the nationalization of the banks in September 1982, and the mandatory
conversion of US dollar deposits into pesos. Also put into effect were a
generalized system of exchange controls and strict external trade restrictions.
Recent Developments
8.        The Administration of President de la Madrid, that began its term in
December 1982, lost no time in taking steps to deal with Mexico's grave
economic situation. The EFF agreement, approved by the IMF in December 1982,
laid the basis for the re-negotiaticn of that part of Mexico's public external
debt on which amortization payments had been discontinued in August 1982.
Commercial banks agreed to restructure some US$19 billion of public sector debt
and provide US$5 billion in net new loans for 1983. All obligations falling
due between August 23, 1982 and December 31, 1984 were restructured over an
eight year period, starting from January 1983, with a grace period of four
years and at an interest rate of 1-7/8 percentage points over LIBOR (or 1-3/4
over the New York prime rate). The US$5 billion syndication had a 6-year
maturity, with a 3-year grace period, at a spread of 2-1/4 over LIBOR (2-1/8
over prime). The restructuring exercise included an understanding that the



- 3 -
international banks would maintain their exposure to the Mexican banks that had
been nationalized. At the same time, it provided a mechanism that would
eliminate 1982 private sector interest arrears and faciiitate payment of the
rescheduled principal on such debt.
9.        A new two-tier exchange rate system was introduced, with a controlled
market for imports, most proceeds from merchandise exports (except those of
in-bond industries) and debt related transactions, and a free market for all
other transactions including those relating to tourism. The controlled rate
was originally set at Mex$95 = US$1, a depreciation of some 35 percent in
relation to the previously prevailing ordinary rate of Mex$70 per US dollar.
*      It has been depreciated at a rate of Mex$0.13 per day, and is currently about
Mex$160 per dollar.  The free market rate had remained at about Mex$150 per
dollar until September 1983, when the authorities decided to let it slide at
the same rate as the controlled rate, and is nov about Mex$175 per dollar.  The
differential between the two rates, which in December 1982 stood under 60
percent, is now down to 11 percent. Although inflation cont-nued to be high
(about 80 percent in 1983), the real effective exchange rate in the controlled
market remains competitive, and nonr-oil exports have risen considerably.
10.       Under the IMF Agreement, the Administration committed itself to a
drastic reduction of the public sector deficit, from 18.0 percent of GDP in
1982 to 8.5 percent in 1983, 5.5 percent in 1984 and 3.5 percent in 1985.
Substantial progress was achieved during 1983 in meeting the program objec-
tives. The public finances were strengthened considerably and the public
sector deficit in 1983 remained at all times below the ceilings established
under the program. The brunt of public expenditure cuts in 1983 was borne by
public investment. The cuts were made virtually across the board, but the
authorities gave priority to completing projects that were already far advanced
and to those that were important for employment, equity, or foreign exchange
earnings. Overall, public investment expenditures are estimated to have
declined in 19B3 to about 7.4 percent of GDP, from 11.7 in 1982.  The fiscal
performance of 1983 was also aided by significant price increases for nearly
all public goods and services, including petroleum products, electricity rates,
food, etc. The Government has committed itself to a substantial reduction and
eventual elimination of most subsidies, including those provided in the form of
low interest rates.
11.       The balance of payments experienced a major turnaround, the current
account moving from a deficit of almost US$5 billion in 1982 to a surplus of
US$5.5 billion in 1983. The strength of the current account and the availa-
bility of external finance permitted Mexico to replenish its international
reserves while paying a large part of the arrears that had accumulated in
1982.  The net use of foreign financing by the public sector was US$4.2 billion
for the year--below the ceiling of US$5 billion under the stabilization pro-
gram. The errors and omissions account of the balance of payments dropped from
US$11 billion in 1982 to an estimated US$0.4 billion in 1983, largely reflect-
ing the decline in unrecorded capital outflows. The swing in the current
account was mainly the result of a very sharp contraction of merchandise
imports, to US$7.7 billion representing a decline of about US$7 billion from
their 1982 level. The recession, the large devaluation of the peso and the
quantitative restrictions all contributed to this. The performance of non-oil
exports which had been poor in the earlier part of the year, improved consider-
ably in the second half and showed an increase of 10.6 percent in dollar terms



- 4 -
for the year as a whole.  Growth in tourism and in-bond industry was particu-
larly strong, and helped in alleviating unemployment. The Government's
stabilization program, together with a moderate incomes policy helped bring
down inflation; it averaged 70 percent (annualized rate) in the last quarter of
1983 compared to 125 percent in the first quarter. The flow of savings into
the banking system was in line with the projections of the program, reflecting
both the exchange rate and interest rate policies. The Impact of the severe
and sudden adjustment of public expenditures and imports on econci.ic growth bag
been serious; GDP is estimated to have declined by close to 5 percent in 1983.
However, some signs of economic recovery have appeared in recent months: the
demand for credit in the private sector has increased, and employment in the
modern sector has risen somewhat.
12.       The new Government took steps to regain the confidence of both
domestic and foreign private investors. These included efforts to deal with
the problems of private external debt, procedures to compensate owners of
nationalized banks, and a more flexible application of the foreign investment
law.   Negotiations are now being completed with commercial banks and other
private creditors for the refinancing of a total of US$11.6 billion of private
sector obligations at stretched out maturities varying between 6 and 12 years,
with 3- to 4-year grace periods. Moreover, the Government undertook the
restructuring of Mexican private sector obligations guaranteed by official
credit agencies abroad. The Government recently announced a program to
transfer back to private sector ownership most of the 400 private firms that
were controlled by the commercial banks prior to their nationalization. These
measures and announcements have been beneficial, but much more remains to be
done to restore full confidence of Mexican entrepreneurs and foreign
investors. The Government fully realizes that this is an issue of the greatest
importance as economic recovery beyond the current stabilization period will
depend critically on the resumption of vigorous private investment.
Short-term Economic Outlook
13.       The Administration's stabilization policies will continue in 1984.
The authorities expect a gradual resumption of economic growth and a further
reduction in inflation, while maintaining a strong balance of payments. Real
GDP in 1984 is projected to grow by about 1 percent, while inflation is
expected officially to decline to about 40 percent, on a December-to-December
basis, compared to 80 percent the year before although that may turn out to be
somewhat optimistic. The increase in economic activity is to be based mainly
on a revival of the private sector and a small increase in public investment.
Total employment should continue to rise as the authorities proceed with the
implementation of an emergency program to create and maintain between 700,000
and 800,000 additional jobs in 1983-84. Declining domestic inflation (combined
with the steady slide of both the controlled and the so-called free market
exchange rates - see para. 9) is expected to provide adequate incentives to
export development and efficient import substitution. The Government expects
merchandise imports to increase to US$14 billion in 1984, partly as a result of
recent measures reducing the restrictiveness of the import licensing system,
and merchandise exports to US$24 billion (from US$22 billion in 1983) with most
of the increase coming from nonr-oil exports. The current account surplus for
the year is expected to be about US$0.7 billion in 1984. For 1984, the growth
in public sector debt outstanding and disbursed is to be limited to US$4
billion. An important source of external financing for the year will be o



US$3.8 billion syndicated loan from commercial banks. This loan will have a
10-year maturity, with a 5-3/4-year grace period, comparing favorably with the
1983 US$5 billion loan of 6-year maturity and 3-year grace. Further, the
spreads on the new loan are 1-i percent over LIBOR (1-1/8 over prime), down
from 2-1/4 over LIBOR (2-1/8 over prime) in 1983.
Mediumr-term Prospects
14.       The Government's strategy, as outlined in the National Development
Plan(NDP) for 1983-1988, combines special efforts to recover from the present
crisis with a longer-term perspective on regaining balanced and stable growth
to overcome structural problems. The main structural problems facing Mexico in
the years ahead include the very high rate of population growth (2.6 percent
estimated for 1983) together with an even higher rate of labor force growth (a
little under 4 percent), slow growth in agriculture, poverty, a highly skewed
interpersonal and interregional income distribution, and an overly oil-
dependent economy with a manufacturing sector that has been inward looking for
too long.
15.       The medium-term strategy presented in the NDP focuses on the need for
structural changes in the economy including a greater export orientation of the
industrial system, poverty alleviation through basic needs policies and
improvement in l1bor absorption, decentralization of economic activity,
revision of external trade policies and modernization of the commercial struc-
ture. The basic elements of policies to address structural problems are
mentioned in the NDP and it is expected that further details on specific pro-
grams and schedules for policy adjustments will be provided in the sectoral
plans which are now under preparation.
16.      Miexico's medium-term prospects for recovery and stable economic
growth are good, provided economic management continues to be prudent, private
sector confidence is restored, and the international environment remains favor-
able. Adequate domestic policies include inter alia continued efforts to
reduce the fiscal deficit, liberalize trade and minimize price distortions.
Restoration of private sector confidence is crucial since only a strong and
dynamic private sector will be able to raise investment from the present
depressed levels and to supply the increasing non-oil export surplus required
for the resumption of growth. Success in this regard will depend critically on
the quality and the effectiveness of Government's policies. As regards the
external environment, the commercial banks are expected to maintain their
exposure in Mexico in real terms, and foreign markets to be open to Mexico's
nonr-oil exports. Mexico's prospects would benefit from a fall in interest
rates in the world financial markets (a one percentage point drop would mean a
savings of about US$800 million in overall interest payments) and rising
petroleum prices (a one dollar change in the price of a barrel of oil would
alter export receipts by $550 million for the year).
17.       Under favorable external and domestic conditions, Mexico's economic
growth could reach 6 percent a year-the historical average for Mexico --
towards the late 1980s. This growth would materialize through a sustained
recovery of the commodity producing sectors. Contrary to the recent experience
with public expenditure-led growth, Mexico's future economic performance will
depend critically on the recovery of private sector investment.



- 6-
External Debt and Creditworthiness
18.       Mexico's external public debt increased by about US$4 billion during
1983 and is expected to rise by a similar amount this year. With an expected
net new borrowing of some US$3 to US$4 billion a year, the ratio of external
debt to GDP would decline steadily from 41 percent in 1984 to 33 percent by
1990. The debt service ratio (32 percent in 1984 after rescheduling) would
peak at about 60 percent in 1987-as amortizations on new borrowing and the
rescheduled debt fall due-and would decline thereafter to below 40 percent by
the end of the decade. The ratio of public debt outstanding to exports of
goods and non-factor services would fall from 2.5 in 1984 to 1.5 in 1990.
19.       As its debt repayment schedule Implies large gross financing needs
during the 1980s, Mexico will need to count on the continued cooperation of the
international financial community in refinancing amortization payments and
providing some additional net new borrowing. Such cooperation is already
evident from the favorable terms of the US$3.8 billion jumbo loan from the com
mercial banks for 1984 (see para. 13), reflecting the improvement in Mexico's
external position. At the end of 1982, the last year for which a comprehensive
external debt report is available at this time, the Bank's share in Mexico's
debt was 5.3 percent. The Bank share in Mexico's total public external debt
service payments during that year was 3.7 percent. In view of the good medium
and long term potential of its economy and the prospect of continued pursuit of
sound economic policies by the present Administration, Mexico is considered
creditworthy for IBRD borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICOl/
Bank Operat'ons
20.       As of March 31, 1984, Mexico had received 82 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$6,486 million, net of cancellations and terminations; of these,
53 loans totalling US$2,887 million were fully disbursed. The Bank held
US$5,335.9 million, of which US$2,327.4 million had not yet been disbursed.
Some 42 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural development,
23 percent for industry, 11 percent for power, and 13 percent for transporta-
tion; the remaining 11 percent has been for water supply, tourism, urban
development, vocational training and pollution control projects. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1984.
21.       Of the US$6.48 billion total lending, about US$3.2 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or nonr-existent, and setting up in the comr-
mercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal of
investments in agriculture, industry and tourism. These credit programs have
facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and medium-scale indus-
trial and tourism enterprises based on productive investment plans, rather than
credit granted on the basis of collateral.
1/    This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Second Highway Sector Project (Report No. P-3805-ME). Changes have
been introduced in para. 27).



-7-
22.       The Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978
to 1981, which significantly improved project implementation. Government and
Bank officials met periodically to review project implementation, and greater
attention was focused in Mexico on project monitoring. As a result of these
measures, most of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented satisfacto-
rily until mid-1982 and disbursements rose from US$91 million in FY78 to US$448
million in FY82. However, the present financial crisis is again causing delays
in the provis'on of counterpart funds, consequently, disbursements in FY83
declined to 'S$389 million.  A Special Action Program (SAP) was established in
early 1983 to help the Government by alleviating the counterpart funding cons-
traints on development projects, and 18 Bank financed projects are receiving
support under the Program. Partly as a result of the SAP, disbursements during
the first three months of 1984 improved significantly and, at US$195 million,
almost equalled thrice the amount disbursed in the same period of 1983.
IFC Operations
23.       As of March 31, 1984, IFC had made investment commitments in 23
companies in Mexico, for a total of US$730.4 million, of which US$542.8 million
had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC investments is
presented in Annex II. IFC has been working together with the Bank in prepar-
ing proposals to establish a facility for provision of foreign exchange
financing to private sector companies for the importation of machinery, equip-
ment and spare parts required for production of exportable products, for
efficient import substitution and for improvements in the utilization of their
existing productive capacity. IFC approved a US$100 million facility (includ-
ing funds mobilized from foreign commercial banks) in 1983, which is providing
finance for fixed investments of a larger size than those assisted under the
Bank loan for an Export Development Project.
Bank Strategy
24.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico in the past eight years
have been to: (a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribu-
tion of the benefits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that, di-
rectly or indirectly, contribute significantly to output and employment; (c)
help reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances; and (d) help free bottlenecks
which prevent rapid growth. More recently, however, in response to Mexico's
requirements following the 1982 economic crisis, the Bank, in close cooperation
with the IMF, also supported the Government's stabilization program through as-
sistance for export promotion and intensified and broadened economic and sector
work. As for medium term prospects, the volume and composition of Bank lending
to Mexico would be related to progress in the implementation of policy reforms
needed for structural economic adjustments, through broad policy conditionality
affecting the entire lending program or important parts of it. Specific policy
reforms that would be pursued through a dialogue with the Government, to be
conducted in parallel with the processing of lending operations, would cover
priority macro-economic and cross-sectoral issues, such as interest rate
policy, energy pricing, subsidy reduction and export development.
25.       Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the
sector's crucial importance for the one-third of the nation's population living
in the rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its
lending.  The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico has four goals:



first, to help increase productivity of presently cultivated lands in general;
second, to give emphasis to improving the productivity of small farmers; third,
to complement infrastructure investments with support services, such as extenr-
sion, marketing programs and credit; and fourth, to promote employment-generat-
ing investments in rural areas. The Bank has made 13 loans in FYs78-83 total-
ling US$1,829.4 million for irrigation, rural development and agricultural,
agro-industrial and livestock credit programs. A US$175 million loan for a
rural development project and a US$180 million loan for an irrigation rehabili-
tation project were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82, and a US$138.4
million loan for San Fernando rainfed agricultural development was approved in
early FY83. A US$1L5 million loan for marketing perishables was approved by
the Executive Directors in April 1983. Projects for rainfed agriculture,
regional development and rural credit are in preparation.
26.       Bank lending for industry has aimed at:  (a) reduction of the balance
of payments deficit; (b) decentralizing industrial activities away from the
major, increasingly congested, urban areas; and (c) promoting greater employ-
ment.  A steel project which the Bank helped structure and finance is now
operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the west coast of Mexico, and
the city in which it is located, Lazaro Cardenas, is developing into a new
growth pole. The timing and location of the proposed project would also
contribute to the further development of this region. Four loans for indus-
trial projects to promote the development of small- and medium-scale industrial
enterprises, to finance expansion of small- and medium-scale mining, and to
support an industrial equipment fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive
Directors in FYs78-80. A loan for a vocational training project was approved
by the Executive Directors in July 1981; it is assisting a program to increase
the supply of skilled workers and technicians. A US$152.3 million loan for
development of a capital goods industries project and a US$60 million loan for
pollution control were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82. A modi-
fication in the capital goods project was approved by the Executive Directors
in early 1983 to set up a pilot export development fund to help satisfy the
foreign exchange needs of Mexican exporters. A US$350 million loan for an
Export Development Project and a US$175 million loan for a Third Small and
Medium Scale Industry Development Project were approved by the Executive
Directors in FY83.
27.       Bank lending for physical infrastructure has been focused on regional
development and strengthening of institutions and sector policies. Two highway
sector projects (FY79 and FY84) and the fourth railway project (FY81) support
these goals. The first and second medium-size cities water supply and sewerage
projects (FYs 76 and 81) reinforce the planning, management and finance of spe-
cialized water supply and sewerage institutions at the federal and municipal
levels, and contribute to the establishment of tariffs more closely related to
costs; a third project was approved by the Executive Directors on May 17, 1983.
28.       The Government has adopted a National Urban Development Plan that
spells out its regional development priorities in operational terms. A project
to assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas urban area was approved by
the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second urban project for oil-producing
southeastern Mexico was approved by the Executive Directors in FYB1. A loan
for the preparation of a deconcentration program for the Mexico City Region was
approved by the Executive Directors in August 1982.



29.       The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CECADE (Centro
de Capacitacion de Desarrollo Economico under the Secretariat of Programming
and Budgeting) in training Government staff in project preparation, Monitoring
and evaluation_ EDI assistance is directed at courses on urban and regional
development, agriculture, rural development and agro-industries. The Bank has
also assisted the Mexican authorities in training personnel for managing water
supply and industrial credit projects.
30.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the secoad largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico total-
ling US$3,039.3 million as of September 30, 1983. Over 50 percent of the total
has gone to agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance to
transportation, industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism infrastructure,
education, municipal development, and pre-investment.  The IDB and the Bank
have coordinated their assistance on several projects. Each has made loans for
the national integrated rural development peogram (PIDER), agricultural and
livestock credit, small- and medium-scale industries development, and botel
development projects. The International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural development project in
the state of Oaxaca which was appraised by the Bank's staff and for which the
lank is acting as cooperating institution for administering the loan.
31.       Bank-supported power, steel, fertilizer and tourism projects in
Mexico have been co-financed by several bilateral export credit agencies end
commercial banks. In January 1982, Mexico borrowed US$500 million from com-
mercial banks to provide complementary financing for Bank-assisted projects
where project specific co-financing would have been difficult.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN MEXICO
A. GENERAL
32.       Mexico's difficult topographic conditions as well as the dispersion
of its population and economic activities have always made transport a crucial
element of the country's development efforts. The initial emphasis was on
railway infrastructure investments, which led to the laying out of 19,000 kms
of rails by 1910. Transport infrastructure investments then slowed down
substantially until the mid-193Cs, after which the emphasis shifted to highway
construction to provide connections between Mexico City, the state capitals and
the main border crossings and seaports. Requirements for port infrastructure
and services increased dramatically in the late 1970s because of the growth of
the coastal shipments of crude oil and of dry bulk foreign trade resulting from
the rapid development of Mexico's petroleum industry lind of the Government's
effort to stimulate and diversify exports. These factors contributed to the
momentum of growth over that decade.
33.       The accelerated development generated by the oil boom in the late
197Cs resulted in unprecedented growth in demand for transport services. Since
transport had declined as a percentage of public sector investment from 21
percent in 1972 to around 9 percent by 1979, serious deficiencies occurred in
transport operations and infrastructure affecting national and international
trade between 1978 and 1982. The Government responded to the new demand by



- 10 -
increasing real investments in railways by 173 percent, ports tenfold and high-
ways by 86 percent between 1978 and 1981. The budgetary restrictions which
accompanied the economic crisis in 1982 and 1983, however, resulted in reducing
transport investment to 1979 levels, postponing major investments which were
not near completion and shifting emphasis to maintenance and rehabilitation.
The lull in transport demand caused by the recent recession has given the
Government some leeway, in terms of timing, to reorder its transport priorities
but critical investment decisions will have to be made within the next few
years, in order to serve any economic recovery effectively. Ihe Bank lending
strategy for the transport sector is designed to provide assistance in meeting
the immediate financial needs of the sector, as well as to help in developing
mediumr- and long-term sectoral investment programs and policies.
Transport Network Capacity
34.       Mexico has developed an extensive transport network comprising over
200,000 km of roads, of which 67,000 km are paved; about 20,000 km of railways;
some 33 ports, of which 13 serve international traffic; about 50 airports
capable of handling mediumr and large-size aircraft; and over 20,000 km of
pipelines handling crude oil, refined products and gas.
35.       Much of Nexico's nonr-petroleum-related foreign trade is with the US,
for which overland routes are used predominantly. However, maritime transport
increased as a percentage of international transport over the last decade, and
this trend is expected to accelerate as Mexican foreign trade diversifies and
new export markets are obtained. In 1982, 101 million tons of international
traffic passed through the port system, of which 81 percent was petroleum
related traffic. Domestic coastal shipping, mainly of petroleum, is also
important. In 1982, some 50 million tons were transported by coastal shipping,
of which 78 percent was petroleum-related. Containerized traffic has tripled
since 1979, and it grew from 7 percent to 23 percent of all general cargo
traffic between 1979 and 1982.
36.       The system's capacity had been generally adequate until the late
1970s when general cargo and bulk traffic, particularly grain, increased at a
fast pace. After 1976, traffic growth took off, with general cargo and dry
bulk traffic increasing at annual rates of 17 percent and 12 percent respec-
tively. These large increases led to capacity problems, and, by the late
seventies, some two million tons of Mexican imports and exports were handled by
US ports with extensive overland movements. In 1982, the port system, feeling
the effects of the recession, experienced a 19 percent decline in non-petroleum
traffic.
Sector Investments
37.       During the 1960s and 1976s, substantial amounts were invested in
transport, particularly roads, railways and aviation. In the late 1970s, how-
ever, transport sector investments declined, but it became evident that the
transport network would be unable to cope with the accelerated growth in traf-
fic. To improve capacity, in 1979 the Government launched an industrial ports
development program and a major track improvement plan for the railways. High-
way investment expenditures, however, were maintained at constant levels, so
that its share of transport sector investments declined.



- 11 -
38.       With the onset of severe budgetary restrictions, as a result of the
recession in 1982, transport investment priorities had to be shifted again.
Transport investment levels, not including urban transport, were reduced in
1983 in real terms to about US$1 billion (roughly equivalent to the 1979
levels), focusing on maintenance, reconstruction of existing infrastructure,
completion of high priority ongoing construction works, and deferring the
initiation of new investments. But the transport sector's cuts were less
severe than those in public investments in general and, therefore, its share in
the total rose from 9 percent in 1979 to 11 percent in 1983.
39.       The current Government established a six-year plan for 1983-1988. As
part of their stated strategy, the 1984 budget does not envisage major new
investments. During the remainder of the six-year period, however, the Govern
ment will have to face the need for additional major investments, in order to
provide adequate transport services required by economic recovery. These
investments may be in areas of rail infrastructure, including completion of the
electrification of the Mexico City-Queretaro line and new li-es between
Guadalajara and Monterrey. In the highway network, provision of dual carriage
ways for toll roads may be required. In addition, substantial investments may
be needed for the airport at Mexico City to expand its capacity.
Institutional Framework and Planning
40.       The current Administration introduced a far-reaching institutional
reform soon after taking office in December 1982 by incorporating all transport
agencies under SCT. Previously, highway and airport development were under the
jurisdiction of the former Secretariat for Human Settlement and Public Works
(SAHOP). The earlier dispersed institutional arrangement hampered coordination
of planning and investment and limited the scope of the Bank's dialogue on
sectoral issues. A new Subsecretariat for Infrastructure in SCT now handles
infrastructure development for almost all transport, and a Sunsecretariat for
Operations has responsibility for operational, regulatory and tariff matters.
A Directorate General for Planning, which reports directly to the Secretary, is
in charge of overall planning.
41.       SCT is presently reorganizing the Directorate General for Planning
and the other modal planning offices within the Subsecretariats for Infrastruc-
ture and Operations. Once fully implemented, it is expected that planning
units in the various modal directorates will be responsible for identifying and
proposing capital investments and will provide the technical details required
for the analysis of such investments. The Directorate General for Planning
will have the responsibility for carrying out the economic feasibility analysis
and providing a consistent multimodal framework for the preparation of the
mediur- and long-term investment program. Sectoral planning within SCT is
complemented by the Secretariat for Programing and Budgeting (SPP), consisting
mainly of reviews and approvals of the proposed SCT investment and operating
budgets. These arrangements have proven effective and are satisfactory. Based
on a review of training requirements for planning in SCT, the Bank is already
providing assistance to enhance SCT's planning capabilities under various
ongoing transport loans: Highway (1671-ME), Railways (1924-ME) and Port
Preparation (1964-HE) projects). To assure continuity, further assistance
would be provided under the recently approved Highway Sector Project (2428-NE)
and the proposed project.



- 12 -
Fuel Pricing
42.       In the late 1970s petroleum products were being priced at the pump
well below world market prices in Mexico. As domestic inflation surged, this
situation worsened since gasoline and diesel prices were not allowed to
increase above USS0.42 and US$0.18 per gallon, respectively. Gradual price
increases initiated in December 1981 by the previous Administration had taken
greater momentum in December 1982 when the current Administration took office.
By April 1984, the price per gallon of extra and regular gasoline was raised to
US$1.30 and US$0.96 respectively, representing real term increases of 84 per-
cent and 240 percent. Diesel prices rose to US$0.63 per gallon, which repre-
sented a real term increase of 430 percent. Current gasoline prices are now
slightly above the relevant-Caribbear-based--international price, while diesel
prices stand at 78 percent.
43.       The current Administration in Mexico has demonstrated a strong com-
mitment to the gradual elimination of price subsidies. The upward price
adjustments discussed above represent serious action taken to resolve the fuel
pricing issue, including a reduction of the price differential between diesel
and gasoline. With the present level of prices, no major distortions are
apparent in the transport sector. Recent analyses by the Bank also show that
the impact of relatively low diesel prices on the choice between labor or
equipment-intensive construction techniques for rural roads is not signifi-
cant. It is the stated policy of the Government to continue adjustments in
fuel prices in 1984 and beyond, with a view to approaching opportunity cost
levels and reducing subsidies. The Bank will continue to monitor progress on
the fuel pricing issue and assist the Government in assessing the implications
of its pricing policies and the need for further action consistent with the
stated policy.
B. THE PORTS SUBSECTOR
Port Administration
44.       Responsibility for administration of Mexico's commercial ports lay
with the Navy Secretariat until 1977, when responsibility for industrial,
commercial and fishing ports was transferred to the Ministry of Communications
and Transport (SCT). The management of the ports subsector was divided among
two Subsecretariats within SCT, dealing with port infrastructure and opera-
tions, through (a) the Directorate General for Marine Works (DGOM), responsible
for port construction and dredging and (b) the Directorate General for Port
Operations and Development (DGOPD), which runs overall port operations. Within
the SCT framework, the National Port Coordinating Commission (CNCP) is responr
sible for coordinating port development planning and serves as a vehicle to
consult port users on port development needs. Other institutions or entities
performing specialized functions under the SCT jurisdiction include:(a)
FONDEPORT, a trust fund placed under BANPESCA, with responsibility for the
development, sale and/or lease of adjacent land to port areas; (b) ESPs, local
service companies in charge of port operations; and (c) BANPESCA, a Govern-
ment-owned Bank which finances port development and fisheries operations, and
is the Borrower for the proposed project.



- 13 -
45.       A recent attempt by some agencies of the Government to propose the
introduction of local port authorities, did not progress. Instead, under the
overall framework of SCT, the ports are operated by local port service compa-
nies (ESPs), jointly owned by the Federal Government, port unions and port
users. SCT has given the ESPs broader responsibilities, to include port equip-
ment acquisition and maintenance, cargo storage, and collection of aln port
tariffs and dues, complemented with strengthening their administration and
operations vith highly qualified staff in administration, finance, statistics,
maintenance, and operational supervision. These new concepts are being
introduced first at Lazaro Cardenas' ESP, which will serve as a model for the
strengthening of other ESPs. FONDEPORT owns the industrial park lands adjacent
to the port areas and is responsible for their administration and commercial
development. It has set up a special department to deal with its new respon-
sibility in the development of the industrial ports program. The proposed
project would serve as a vehicle for the Implementation of these key
decisions.
Port Pricing
46.       Since the ESPs are operated on a commercial basis, the tariffs
charged for their services are, in principle, cost-related and subject to
frequent adjustment. They do, however, require approval by SCT's Directorate-
General for Port Administration and the Directorate-General for Tariffs before
they are officially published and become effective. As a result, there is
often a considerable time lag between the application by an ESP for a tariff
change and its eventual implementation. With the rapid inflation of the last
two years, this has meant that cargo-handling tariffs have steadily been fal-
ling behind the increasing costs, often eroding profits and reserves of the
port operation companies. Ship dues, berthage and wharfage fees paid by ship
operators go directly to SHCP. These are not related to the capital investment
in port infrastructure.
47.       The current Administration has stated their intention of rationaliz-
ing port pricing with the general objective of eliminating subsidies and
promoting a more efficient use of resources. Pursuant to this objective, the
Government has set up a special Pricing Commission in SHCP to determine cost
recovery principles for infrastructure and for Government-controlled enter-
prises. In 1983, the Government raised port dues by levels which resulted in
real increases in revenues of 115 percent between 1982 and 1983. Individual
charges were raised between 24 percent and 2,000 percent in that year. In
1984, additional increases are planned for August, ranging between 30 and 40
percent, to adjust port dues to reflect price increases caused by inflation.
For the Lazaro Cardenas ESP, frequent adjustments in port tariffs have been
made in 1983 and 1984 to meet price increases. Other actions being taken by
the Government include the revaluation of assets owned by the Government in all
commercial and industrial ports. Under the proposed project, a countrywide
study of the proper level of port dues, which will serve as a basis for
preparation of an action plan to rationalize port pricing, will be carried out
as a positive step in the resolution of this issue (para. 85). Upon completion
of the ongoing revaluation of countrywide port assets and of the port dues
study, a phased but fairly rapid adjustment of port dues is expected to be made
in line with the stated Government policy.



- 14 -
C.  THE INDUSTRIAL PORTS PROGRAM
Program Origin and Formulation
48.       The historic population trend in Mexico has resulted in heavy demo-
graphic and resource concentration in only a few regions in the country; 30
percent of the population now lives in three main cities: Mexico, Guadalajara
and Monterrey. These areas also concentrate about 65 percent of industrial
production on the national level. This has led to serious socio-economic
distortions, especially poverty, income and wealth inequality, unemployment and
regional imbalances. These deep-rooted structural problems have persisted
through the high growth period of the mid-to-late 1970s, the economic crisis of
1982 and the subsequent recession. Mexican policy-makers in past and present
administrations have been concerned that, if the trend toward concentration of
population and economic activity in Mexico City and the central region were to
continue at the same pace as in the past, the resulting regional distortions
would exacerbate social imbalances, and that the already difficult urban pro-
blems in the Mexico City Metropolitan zone, such as an acute water supply
problem, pollution, traffic and the high cost of urban services, would evenr
tually become unmanageable.
49.       The Industrial Ports Program was formulated in 1978 by the Office of
the Presidency as a key element towards achieving a more balanced distribution
of population and economic activity, promotion of industrial growth and employ-
ment generation. It supports a more organized expansion of the industrial
plant, coordinated development of port infrastructure and services and the
overall strengthening and modernization-of transport activities. The objec-
tives of the Program fit into the general development strategy of the Govern-
ment. This strategy focuses on selective investments in priority regions,
activities and needs identified by the National, Urban and Industrial Develop-
ment Plans, through coordinated planning of requirements for the ports, the
industrial plant and related support services, complemented with ecological
protection measures and human and urban requirements. From the administrative
viewpoint, it is a complex multisectoral program which involves the concerted
participation of many public sector agencies both in the planning and execution
as well as in the management and operating stages of the activities associated
with it.
50.       The areas selected under the Program have physical features which
justify the concentration of incentives and other Government supports to
promote sustained industrial growth. Until the launching of this Program,
little advantage had been taken from existing fa'orable physical conditions in
the coastal zones, and ports operated in a commercial capacity, acting
principally as linkages between maritime and land transport systems. The
change from commercial to industrial centers is expected to generate its own
increased transport needs.
Investment Priorities
51.       In the port sub-sector, the Government's strategy concentrates, in
the early years of the six-year plan (para. 39), upon rehabilitation and
reconstruction of its commercial ports and on the completion of and improvement
to the industrial ports of Lazaro Cardenas and Altamira. New capacity is
planned in the medium term at the commercial ports, particularly Manzanillo,



- 15 -
Salina Cruz, Tampico and Vera Cruz. These investments will have to be studied
carefully to determine the appropriate timiog for investment in increased
capacity. To improve planning capabilities and to determine resource require-
ments, port investment programs and criteria for economic analysis would be
reviewed annually under the project as part of the monitoring process (para.
91). The decisions needed for these new investments will depend on the timing
and structure of the economic recovery, projected levels of import substitution
and its impact on grain imports and related transport requirements, the evolu-
tion of non-traditional exports, and the prospects for industrial and urban
deconcentration.
52.       The Industrial Ports Program was given high priority in Mexico's
public sector investment program. Four industrial ports sites were originally
selected for inclusion: Lazaro Cardenas and Salina Cruz on the Pacific Coast
and Altamira and Laguna de Ostion on the Gulf Coast. Between 1979 and 1983, a
total of US$755 million was invested by the Government at these four sites,
exclusive of investment in industrial plant. Most of these resources were
directed at Lazaro Cardenas (37 percent of total) and Altamira (34 percent).
Investments peaked in 1981 and then fell, in real terms, in line with the
urgent need to reduce public sector investment after the 1982 financial
crisis. Until the recession and the need to reassess the proper scope and
timing of the Program, infrastructure at the four sites was constructed at an
extremely rapid pace. Industrial development at the industrial ports has
progressed at a much slower rate than expected when the Program was conceived,
partly because of the recession, which has halted new investment throughout
Mexico, but also due to overly optimistic projections of demand for industrial
land at the port sites. Of the four sites, Lazaro Cardenas is the most
advanced, requiring limited additional investments to make the port fully
operational and to provide flood and environmental protection. The Lazaro
Cardenas Industrial Port was developed in the 1970s to serve the steel plant
Siderurgica Lazaro Cardenas - Las Truchas (SICARTSA), and subsequently
developed to provide a wharf for FERTIMEX' fertilizer plant. It was to be
expanded to accommodate a grain terminal, a foundry and a steel pipe plant, an
oil refinery, chemical plants, and ship construction and repair facilities.
Four new industrial plants (besides SICARTSA and FERTIMEX) or specialized
terminals are currently under construction there and plans include investments
by an oil drilling platform manufacturer and in a small and medium scale
industrial park.
53.       The public sector's role centered on the development of infrastruc-
ture, including prepared industrial park land with waterfronts and multiple use
port facilities, at several industrial ports, to allow industry to take advan-
tage of direct access to maritime transport. Private sector initiatives at the
industrial ports were supported by actions taken under the Industrial Develop-
ment Plan of 1979. This Plan set out as basic objectives the promotion of
industrial investment in accordance with regional priorities, creation of jobs
to absorb a rapidly growing labor force, increasing real income, and the devel-
opment of domestic technology. The public sector's participation under this
Plan concentrated in strategic productive sectors and economic and social
infrastructure. Under the Plan's industrial investment incentive scheme,
industry locating at the industrial ports received tax rebates and special
prices for energy inputs. Concurrently, it was also consistent with the main
thrust of the Urban Development Plan (1978) to discourage migration towards
already congested urban and industrial areas by promoting relocation of both
population and economic activities and services towards the coastal areas which



- 16 -
thus receive preferential provision of infrastructt;re and services. The new
Administration has retained these basic objectives.
54.       In its recently published National Development Plan (NDP) (May 1983),
the new Administration has reaffirmed the priority of the Industrial Ports
Program, not only as a means of promoting decentralization but also as an
element in its efforts to expand exports. The investment strategy being
pursued by the new Administration focuses on completion, at a minimum cost, of
necessary works at Lazaro Cardenas, and on a full review of the proper pace and
scale of other investments under the Program. In addition, more emphasis is
being placed on the role of these ports within the overall national ports
system, and on the establishment of effective administrative and financial
frameworks. While well conceived investments in the Industrial Ports Program
can contribute to overall and regional economic growth, these alone will not
have a major impact on slowing Mexico City's growth. To achieve this, the
Government must improve its pricing policies in the central region by, inter
alia, eliminating water and energy subsidies, and enforcing existing environ-
mental regulations. The Industrial Ports Program will serve as a positive
vehicle for these difficult measures.
Situation in the Lazaro Cardenas Region
55.       The Lazaro Cardenas area concentrates abundant water, land, power and
mineral resources coupled with an important agricultural potential and well
developed transport network. The location of the port on the Pacific Coast is
ideal for servicing the Mexico City area as well as the Northern region through
coastal navigation. It is also an appropriate outlet for trade activities with
the Pacific Basin countries.
56.       The population of the Lazaro Cardenas region has grown along with the
development of the port. The Municipalities of Lazaro Cardenas and Guacamayas,
with estimated 1980 populations of 25,000 and 15,000 respectively, are the two
largest towns in the area. The rest of the region is made up of several small
communities and villages in both the States of Michoacan and Guerrero. In
1960, the total population of the region was estimated at 6,500 people. By
1970, the region's population had grown by 17,000 and reached 60,000 by 1980.
This growth of industry and population has generated a number of problems,
related to environmental pollution and to the strains on the road system caused
by heavy road traffic generated by the port and the industries located in the
area. The rapid growth has also been accompanied by urban management problems,
including inadequate facilities and operations of the sewerage and water supply
systems , and poor housing. The Industrial Ports Program contemplates some
simultaneous basic measures and activities, in the educational, labor, health,
housing and urban fields to minimize the consequences of rapid industrial and
population growths.
57.       Environmental degradation, already a problem at Lazaro Cardenas, is
expected to worsen with further industrial development if proper steps are not
taken. The problem of municipal and industrial solid and liquid wastes is
being addressed under the proposed project. The Government agreed at negotia-
tions to take all necessary measures to prevent contamination in the Project
area (Section 4.11 of the Guarantee Agreement). Furthermore, environmental
conditions at Lazaro Cardenas would be monitored by the Bank under the project
during semi-annual meetings to review progress in achieving project objectives
-nd enforcement of existing regulation.



- 17 -
58.      Solutions for easing future congestion of the urban and regional road
system are also needed. Prior to making any major road or bridge investments
in the area, SCT will analyze alternative road traffic patterns and select the
most economic solution to this traffic management problem.
Past Bank Participation and Experience
59.       The Bank has been involved in supporting the Government's regional
decentralization and industrial development. It has been especially active in
the development of the Lazaro Cardenas area through operations to support the
SICARTSA steel plant (Loan 934-ME), the FERTIMEX Plant (Loan 1112-ME), urban
development (Loan 1554-ME), the development of the Zihuatanejo-Ixtapa tourist
resort (Loan 793-ME), and the Zihuatanejo International Airport (Loan
1022-NE). Additional projects which support the goals of regional decentral-
ization include two medium-size cities water supply and sewerage project, an
urban project for oil producing southeastern Mexico and a loan for the prepara-
tion of a deconcentration program for Mexico City.
60.       The Bank has provided broad support to the development of transport
in Mexico. Nine highway loans have been made, the first in 1960 and the ninth
in 1984. There have been four railway loans and an airport loan. A Bank loan
for US$20 million (Loan 820-ME) was made in 1972 for a First Ports Project.
The main objective of the Bank's participation in the ports project was to
assist in the achievement of more efficient operations and in the introduction
of a commercial approach to tariffs and services. While substantial operation-
al improvements were reached at some ports over the last decade, little was
accomplished with respect to the rationalization of port tariffs.
61.       The Port Development Preparation Project (US$14 million, Loan
1964-ME) was approved in 1981 to assist in the preinvestment stages of the
Industrial Port Program through provision of planning and management services
in program formulation and design, and studies and detailed engineering for
sector and individual project components in the ports program. Disbursements
have been slower than expected because of the large budget reductions experi-
enced after 1982, which greatly limited the ability of Government entities to
utilize loan proceeds. Nevertheless, the studies and advisory services which
have been completed, or are currently under way, have provided a firm basis for
the preparation of the proposed project.
Role of the Bank and Lending Strategy
62.       As the first Bank loan in over 12 years for the physical development
of Mexico's ports, the proposed project is intended as the start of a series of
operations in the ports and maritime transport subsector. These operations are
to be prepared in the context of Mexico's overall program of port development.
63.       The Bank's participation in the Industrial Ports Program fits in well
with the overall transport sector lending strategy by assisting the Government
to focus upon difficult investment decisions and by defining, and assisting in,
the satisfactory resolution of, issues related to the port subsector. At the
same time, the Bank's role in the Program goes beyond the transport sector,
with Bank participation serving as a vehicle for dialogue on the administrative
and financial aspects of the Industrial Ports Program, and on the proper pace,



- 18 -
scale and composition of Mexican decentralization schemes and related pricing
and investment policies. as well as on the difficult issue of euvironmental
control.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
64.       The Government of Mexico has requested a Bank Loan of US$76.3 million
to help finance its program of investments at the Lazaro Cardenas Industrial
Port. This project vas identified in 1982 and subsequently prepared by CNCP.
A Bank mission appraised the project in October 1983 and a post appraisal
mission was made in January 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington on May
21-25, 1984. The Mexican Delegation was headed by the Deputy Director of
External Financing Operations of BANPESCA, Dr. Antonio Aspra Rodriguez. A
Staff Appraisal Report entitled -Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Port Project,"
No.5025br-ME, dated May 29, 1984, is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. Supplementary project data are included in Annex III.
Project Objectives
65.       The proposed project would support the Industrial Ports Development
strategy. It would complement major investments made by the Government in
Lazaro Cardenas to increase the efficiency of the port terminal, to strengthen
the administration and finaices at the industrial port, to create transport
economies for industries already existing or under construction, to reduce or
eliminate environmental hazards associated with the industrial port develop-
ment, and to provide protection against flood damage. The project objectives
are as follows: (a) to improve transport facilities for industries through
provision of access to international maritime commerce and coastal shipping for
major industries; (b) to encourage economic growth in under-developed coastal
regions of the country; (c) to increase the country's port capacity and thereby
reduce its dependence on foreign ports as it diversifies its international
trade patterns; (d) to improve port administration and finances and maintain a
dialogue on these institutional issues; and, (e) to help establish a proper
administrative, operational and financial framework for the industrial port of
Lazaro Cardenas.
66.       Key areas of intervention through the proposed Bank loan include
introduction of cost-based tariffs, definition of financial objectives and
targets, implementation of a training program to upgrade management skills of
existing and new staff and of a comprehensive equipment maintenance program
starting in 1985. In addition, Bank support to the ongoing port development
program aims at the introduction of new approaches to investment analysis and
project definition, and assistance to the institutional and sound financial
development of port entities in general.
Description
67.       The proposed project would support the following six components in
the Lazaro Cardenas port area:



- 19 -
(a) Transport Infrastructure
Land Access
68.       Provision of land access to new port terminals and industrial facili-
ties through (i) construction of about 7.5 km of highway to connect the multi-
ple use terminal (TUK) and fertilizer plant (FERTINEX) with the existing road
system, and (ii) installation of about 8.5 km of rail lines, connecting the
grain terminal and steel pipe plant (PHT) with existing rail networks.
Maritime Access (dredging)
69.      Extension or deepening of the harbor basin for specific industries
needing maritime access to connect existing navigation channels with special
purpose docks to be built by the industrial users.
(b) Port equipment
70.       Provision of cargo handling equipment and a harbor tug to Improve the
efficiency and capacity of existing container and general cargo berths at the
TUM and to assist vess ls inside the harbor during maneuvering, berthing and
unberthing operations.
(c) Environmental Protection
71.       Correction of environmental problems caused by industrial and munici-
pal wastes through (i) provision of a wastewater collection and treatment
system at FONDEPORT industrial park; and (ii) of a collection, processing and
disposal system for municipal and industrial solid wastes.
(d) Industrial Infrastructure
72.       Provision of cite preparation, road construction and utilities for
about 125 small to medium-sized installations in an area of about 40 ha. This
area is part of a 120-ha site designated for such industries within the overall
area under FONDEPORT's jurisdiction in Lazaro Cardenas.
(e) Flood Control
73.       Provision of flood protection works to protect the port and the
adjacent industrial installations from flood damage against flood flows of up
to 7,000 cubic meters per second (cms) through levees and channel rectification
on the left branch of the Balsas river.
(f) Technical Assistance
74.       Provision of advisory services for studies, engineering, construc-
tion, supervision, training and management of port development activities.
Costs and Financing
75.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$112.7 million, of
which US$76.3 million, the amount of the proposed Bank loan, is foreign
exchange. These estimates include physical contingencies varying from 10



- 20 -
percent to 15 percent for civil works and from 0 percent to 15 percent for
equipment procurement, and price escalation in both foreign and local cost
components (denominated in USs) at 3.5 percent for 1984; 8 percent for 1985; 9
percent for 1986, 1987 and 1988 and 7.5 percent for 1989.
Project Execution and Administration
76.       The proposed project is a multisectoral program, which involves the
participation of several public sector agencies. In order to deal effectively
with such a complex task, the Government submitted at negotiations a specific
institutional framework created for this purpose. The Industrial Port Program
Commission, which includes high-level representatives of SCT, SARH, SEDUE,
FONDEPORT, CNCP and SPP, is the body charged with overall policy making and
coordination for the Industrial Port Program under the lead responsibility of
SCT. Project coordination will be entrusted to a monitoring and coordination
group established within the Commission, which would include participants from
each of the directorates within SCT, SARB and SEDUE involved in the project, as
well as CNCP, SPP and BANPESCA. A Technical Secretariat within CNCP, which
will report to this group, will be responsible for day to day project monitor-
ing, including the preparation of reports regarding project execution and
achievement of the project objectives. A project coordinator will be appointed
in Lazaro Cardenas to oversee supervision of all project works.
77.       SCT would be responsible for execution of the road, rail and maritime
access components of the project and for the Lazaro Cardenas road system
study. SARH would be responsible for the flood protection measures and SEDUE
for the execution of studies and related civil works and equipment acquisition
for the solid waste disposal system. FONDEPORT would be responsible for the
sewerage component at the industrial park and the small- and mediumr-scale
industrial park while ESP would be responsible for cargo handling equipment and
tug procurement.
78.       BANPESCA would be the Borrower for the proposed project aud would
transfer project funds between the Bank and the executing agencies as a
condition of loan effectiveness, and, to that effect, would enter into agree-
ments, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with ESP, and
FONDEPORT, for onr-lending of project funds (Section 3.01 of the Loan Agree-
ment).  The agreements with these two entities would be on the same financial
terms and conditions as those between the Bank and BANPESCA. The foreign
exchange risk will be borne by the two entities, ESP and FONDEPORT.
Financial Framework
79.       The three principal participants in the project are the Federal
Government, through its various sectoral agencies (SCT, SARH, SEDUE) and ESP
and FONDEPORT, acting through its trustee, BANPESCA (paras.44-45) under SCT
jurisdiction.
Port Operations (ESP)
80.       ESP has been handling cargo and ship traffic in the existing port
facilities since about 1975, and is constituted as a commercial .enterprise.



- 21 -
While it has consistently shown some sort of profit, its expenditures do not
reflect the real costs of equipment used since its equipment is depreciated on
a historic cost basis. Nor do ESP's expenses include any infrastructure costs
at all, since the channels, navigation aids, quays and sheds are used for the
port operation by ESP without a concessionary fee. Some of the costs for these
items are, however, recovered directly by the Government from the port users
through vessel and mooring dues and wharfage.
81.       In accordance with the Government's stated decision to rationalize
port pricing (para. 47), it is the Government's intention that ESP port tariffs
countrywide be adjusted as appropriate to reflect costs, and that they be
increased periodically as required to maintain these levels in real terms. A
cost and tariff study will be undertaken for the Lazaro Cardenas ESP, under the
project, in order to determine required adjustments (Section 2.07 of the ESP
Project Agreement). Pending completion of this study in September 1985, in
1984 the Government has made frequent adjustments to maintain the tariff levels
in real terms. Other actions being taken by the Government to strengthen the
Lazaro Cardenas ESP are reflected in the ESP action plan confirmed at negotia-
tions, which includes: (i) transfer to ESP of all Government-owned equipment
being used for the operation of the public wharves in Lazaro Cardenas, as an
equity contribution from the Government, by December 31, 1984 (Section 4.06 of
the Guarantee Agreement); (ii) by June 30, 1985, the Guarantor will allow ESP
to collect storage fees and to retain an amount sufficient to cover the costs
of operating and maintaining storage facilities on the public wharves (Section
4.09 of the Guarantee Agreement); (iii) ESP would produce total revenues to at
least cover its working costs for the fiscal years 1985 and 1986 and by 1987,
generate revenues adequate to meet not less than the sum of its total operating
expenses, and the amount by which debt service requirements exceed the
provision for depreciation (Section 4.03 of the ESP Project Agreement); and,
(iv) the Government will take appropriate measures to permit ESP to meet its
financial targets (Section 4.06 of the Guarantee Agreement).
Industrial Park Development (FONDEPORT)
82.       FONDEPORT has commissioned studies on administration, commercializa-
tion and promotion of its industrial parks which will provide, inter alia, the
basis for decisions regarding the type of administrative structure which should
be set up to operate the Lazaro Cardenas industrial park. These studies will
also provide an analysis of market demand for the industrial park land which
will serve for financial and investment planning purposes and for setting of
rents and service charges. While FONDEPORT's financial targets for the Lazaro
Cardenas industrial park cannot be set until the studies are completed,
FONDEPORT has stated its financial objectives with regard to the Lazaro
Cardenas industrial perk. The minimum financial objectives will be to set
leases and service charges so that internally generated funds cover a
reasonable proportion of the average annual capital expenditure incurred or
expected to be incurred in Lazaro Cardenas over a five-year period. It is



- 22 -
expected that FONDEFORT will generate sufficient funds for no less than a 20
percent average participation in its five-year investment plan. Although the
lands for industrial development cost FONDEPORT nothing, it is intended through
this project that, in the future, FONDEPORT will set its rents so as to achieve
a reasonable financial return. The leases would reflect their market price,
allowing for recovery of investments made in infrastructure, the special
benefits to be derived from waterfront location or proximity to the port and
the share of the flood control costs which can be attributed to the industrial
park.
83.       In keeping with these goals, agreement was reached at negotiations on
the financial objectives of FONDEPORT as follows: (i) that the administration,
commercialization and promotion studies already initiated by FONDEPORT, be
completed as a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the Loan Agree-
ment); (ii) that FONDEPORT present to the Bank, by December 15, 1984, an action
plan for the implementation of the recommendations of such study and to carry
out the agreed Action Plan (Section 2.01(c) of the FONDEPORT Project Agree-
ment); and (iii) that the costs of dredging to provide maritime access to
industrial waterfront to industries located in the FONDEPORT industrial park be
recovered from the beneficiaries of such works (Section 3.05 of the Guarantee
Agreement).
Port Infrastructure - The Federal Government (SCT)
84.       The Federal Government, principally through SCT, has invested some
Mex$ 16.4 billion (at 1383 prices about US$131 million) in dredging works,
construction of the public wharfs, buildings and infrastructure at Lazaro
Cardenas. These investments are recovered, only in part, by port dues and
mooring fees levied on vessels, wharfage levied on cargo (also through the ship
operators), excess storage charges and concession fees from industries operat-
ing their own wharfs. These dues and fees, which are collected through the
Superintendencia (a field agent of DGOPD), and the Customs authorities in the
case of storage, are uniform among all Mexican ports. Revenues go directly to
the Ministry of Finance and are in no way related to funds for port invest-
ments, which come from SCT's annual investment budget.
85.       At negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on a
series of actions to improve the financial picture of the Lazaro Cardenas
industrial port and implement adequate cost recovery arrangements. Thus,
(i) a countrywide study of cost-related port dues would be carried out by
September 15, 1985. Subsequently, based on the results of this study, the
Government would present to the Bank, by January 15, 1986, an action plan for
the progressive achievement of such port dues at Lazaro Cardenas, (Section 4.05
of the Guarantee Agreement); (ii) the Government will recover from FONDEPORT
that part of the flood control component proportionate to the benefit received
by FONDEPORT from the works (Section 3.02(c) of the Guarantee Agreement); and
(iii) the Superintendencia will keep proforma accounts showing periodic results
with regard to costs and revenues in Lazaro Cardenas (Section 4.02 of the
Guarantee Agreement).



- 23 -
Procurement
86.       Civil works and equipment to be financed under the proposed project
would be subject to ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines with the exception
of (a) the civil works for the FONDEPORT sewerage system, to be procured under
local competitive bidding procedures similar to those used by SCT and which are
acceptable to the Bank; (b) the propulsion and navigational components for the
tug, which would be procured through limited international tender; and (c)
training-related equipment which would be procured under local comparative
shopping procedures. (Schedule 2 to the Guarantee Agreement). Prequalification
of contractors would be required for all works. In evaluating bids for equip-
ment procured through ICB, Mexican bidders would be allowed a margin of prefer-
ence equivalent to 15 percent of the CIF cost of competing imports, or the
relevant prevailing custom duty, whichever is lower. All contracts for civil
works and procurement of goods with a value of more than US$200,000 would be
subject to prior review and approval by the Bark. Contracts under US$200,000
would be reviewed after the award. In carrying out the project's technical
cooperation components the Government would employ, when appropriate, consul-
tants in accordance with Bank Guidelines, with qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions in accordance with Bank Guidelines, satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement).
87.      Procurement arrangements for items to be financed under the proposed
loan are summarized below:
-US:$ millions
Procurement Method
Project Element              ICB        LCB      Other        N.A.    Total Cost
Civil Works                86.4       3.8       -            -       90.2
(57.0)    (1.9)                           (58.9)
Equipment and rails        13.8       1.9      2.2           -        17.9
(10.6)              (2.2)                 (12.8)
Consultant Services,
Training and Studies       -          -        -           4.4        4.4
(4.4)     (4.4)
Total                     100.2       5.7       2.2         4.4      112.5
(67.6)    (1.G )    (2.2)       (4.4)    (76.1)
Note:   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank loan, exclusive of the front end fee, and include price and
physical contingencies.
Disbursements
88.       Bank funds are expected to be disbursed over a sir-year period.
Disbursements of the loan would be made against: 66 percent of total expendi-
tures of civil works contracts; 100 percent of cost, Insurance and freight for



- 24 -
equipment and rails procured from foreign sources and 100 percent of ex-factory
cost for equipment and rails procured from domestic sources; and 100 percent of
the costs of professional services for technical assistance, and training other
than recurrent operational training (Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement).
Retroactive Financing
89. In order to allow for disbursements against the FONDEPORT sewerage works
which were initiated after appraisal, it was agreed at negotiations that retro-
active financiag of up to US$1.5 million would be provided under the project
(Schedule 1, 4(a) of the Loan Agreement).
Accounts and Auditing
90.       To help speed up loan disbursements, and as a condition of loan
effectiveness, a Special Account would be set up in the Banco de Mexico, which
would be operated in accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 2.02 (b) and Schedule 3 of the Loan Agreement). Satisfactory
auditing arrangements for the Special Account were agreed during negotiations,
including an assurance that the Banco de Mexico would cooperate, as needed, to
satisfy the auditing requirements of the Special Account (Section 4.02 of the
Loan Agreement and Section 4.04 of the Guarantee Agreement). Appropriate
arrangements for auditing were also agreed for the project accounts maintained
by SCT (Section 4.03 of the Guarantee Agreement) as well as for the auditing by
independent auditors of the accounts and financial statements of ESP and
FONDEPORT (Sections 4.02 of the Loan Agreement and 4.02 of the ESP and
FONDEPORT Project Agreements).
Project monitoring and semi-annual consultations
91.       The Government would prepare periodic reports providing information
on progress in the execution of the project, listing the status of each cor-
tract related to Bank-financed components of the project; the status of
disbursement requests and the schedule of estimated withdrawals of the loan
proceeds (Section 3.10 of the Guarantee Agreement). Furthermore, in order to
monitor progress on the accomplishment of the objectives of the overall pro-
ject, the Government and the Bank would hold semi-annual meetings (Section 3.07
of the Guarantee Agreement). In addition to the ESP, FONDEPORT and Government
accounts, CNCP would maintain annual consolidated accounts for all entities
operating in the industrial port.
Project Justification
92.       The project composition is designed to minimize transport costs
(road, rail, cargo handling equipment, maritime access and tug); to protect
against flooding; to address problems of environmental degradation, and to meet
demand for industrial land for small and medium scale industries. In the
assessment of each project component's economic justification, alternative
project designs were analyzed in order to ensure that the selected project
component was appropriate in terms of scope and timing. The overall economic
rate of return for the project is 23 percent.
93.       Generally, the direct effect of these transport-related investments
would be to enable the port to handle at reduced cost the increased and diver-
sified traffic volumes expected at the TUM and specialized terminals at the



- 25 -
industrial park which will otherwise have to be transported at higher economic
costs. The road access component has an economic rate of return of 20 percent
and the rail access of 19 percent. The investments to provide maritime access
(dredging) to industrial users would result in cost savings from avoidance of
road transport and double handling and reduction of ship waiting times. The
two evaluated subprojects have economic rates of return of 18 and 22 percent.
94.       The general cargo and container handling equipment to serve forecast
traffic at the TTJM would contribute to faster turnaround resulting in decreased
ship waiting and service times. The rate of return for these components are 18
and 23 percent, respectively. The benefits from the tug include savings in
ship moving and unmoving time due to increased tug traction capacity and
increased levels of port safety.
95.       The environmental components address problems of environmental
degradation caused by municipal and industrial wastes. The FONDEPORT
industrial sewer will serve the requirements of projected industrial demand in
the short to medium term. It also represents the first phase of an overall
master plan at the industrial park to provide for appropriate disposal of waste
as the industrial park develops. The solid waste disposal system is under
preparation through a study which will include feasibility analyses and
designs, to be submitted to the Bank for review by December 15, 1984. It was
agreed at negotiations that the Guarantor, through SEDUE, and the municipality
of Lazaro Cardenas would enter into effective agreements for construction,
operation and cost recovery for the solid waste component (Section 3.02(b) of
the Guarantee Agreement). Submission of this agreement would be a condition of
disbursement of this component (Schedule 1, para. 4(d) of the Loan Agreement).
96.       Benefits from the flood protection component will result in avoidance
of damage to industrial and port infrastructure and prevention of production
losses. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Government would
regulate upstream reservoirs so as to limit the level of flow in the delta of
the river (Section 3.13 of the Guarantee Agreement). Confirmation of the
economic viability of this component through verification of the updated econo-
mic analysis of the flood conditions would be a condition of disbursement for
this component (Schedule 1, para. 4(c) of the Loan Agreement). The economic
rate of return for this component is 40 percent.
97.       The economic rate of return for the small and medium scale industrial
park is 23 percent.
98.       The timing of the proposed project is linked to the recent favorable
evolution of institutional reorganization and consolidation of transport
responsibilities under one single controlling authority, and the concrete
actions already taken by the Government in transport sector pricing and related
sectors, such as fuel pricing, during 1983 and 1984. The Bank's involvement in
the Industrial Ports Program through the ongoing Port Preparation Loan
(1964-ME) and this project has assisted the Government in defining investment
priorities in the port subsector and improving the overall quality of the port
development program. Finally, the implementation of the targets of the Action
Plans (paras. 81, 83 and 85) would ensure the strengthening of finances at the
industrial port. These developments would not only have an impact in Lazaro



- 26 -
Cardenas but would serve as a model for all the industrial port operations
under the Program.
Project risks
99.       Since it is the first project under the newly established Industrial
?orts Program, its execution and operation will require coordination among
various different sectoral agencies. The decision to appoint SCT as lead
agency and the special institutional organization created for this purpose
should minimize this risk (para. 76). Nevertheless, a greater-thanr-average
Bank supervision effort will be required over the life of the project.
100.      The main risks which could be associated with this project would be
shortfalls in the realization of forecast traffic and delays in completion of
ongoing industrial plant construction or projected expansion. The project
sub-components are not directly related to the expected expansions, such as
that of the SICARTSA steel plant and the project viability would not be
compromised if such expansion were delayed or cancelled. The components
related primarily to port traffic growth levels (road and rail access and cargo
handling equipment) are only moderately sensitive to changes in those levels
but only major shortfalls in traffic growth will significantly affect these
components' viabilities. Since the traffic forecasts are considered conserva-
tive, the risk of such major shortfalls occurring is not great. Since part of
Lazaro Cardenas' container traffic is expected to be diverted from Manzanillo
(para. 51), a sensitivity test was made to determine the impact on the conr-
tainer handling equipment component if this traffic did not materialize. If no
traffic were diverted from Manzanillo, the equipment component would still be
viable. These components are only moderately sentitive to increases in costs.
101.      The dredging to create industrial waterfronts is dependent upon the
successful completion and operation of each industry. Requirement for such
waterfront is dependent upon the type and timing of industrial development at
the port which is in turn linked to the Mexican economic recovery. The risks
of premature investment in the dredging to create waterfronts is being further
minimized by the requirement that each company directly pay for the costs of
such dredging. Because of the uncertainties with regard to the demand for
industrial waterfronts, the dredging work to be financed under this project
would be executed in tranches over a five-year period. The economic analysis
was made for all three stages but initially only stage one is included in the
first tranche of works being financed by the Bank. Each subsequent stage of
the work would be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, on the basis of
technical, economic and financial feasibility studies conducted in accordance
with terms of reference which have been agreed with the Borrower and which were
confirmed during negotiations.  A condition of disbursement on each subproject
of the dredging program would be satisfactory evidence of the technical,
financial and economic feasibility of each subproject (Schedule 1, 4(b) of the
Loan Agreement). Each subproject in the dredging program would have a minimum
economic rate of return of 12 percent and be subject to satisfactory cost
recovery arrangements (Section 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement).



- 27 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
102.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and BANPESCA, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the Bank, the Project
Agreements with ESP and BANPESCA, acting as trustee for FONDEPORT and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.  Special conditions of effectiveness and other covenants of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
103.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
104.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 31, 1984



AMN I
TABLE 34                                         Page 1 of 5
-SOCIAL I. .CATO  DAT S
-MD                 lREFERE GWIJS (lWlEhE  AVERAS I
mmS                     (MM  ECENT ESTIATXE) fb
EAT. ARMECAL & CARLLS       ER
A       DR   SQAND. ml)
TOTAL                           1972.s      1972.5 u972.s
AGROLTURAL                      IWlJO       976.4       978.3
GM  e cOm  CM)                      370.0      740.0     2250.0           2tl6.2                   Z43.6
CKILOEAAS OF COAL E4IIALEIr)     786.0    1U45.0       1686.0          1407.FD                  130.a
PoIgATI 0 AM WITL SmtusP=
pOPULATnIW.tD-TEAR CnImxSmUs)  37073.0    51176.0    71215.0
UBJ% PUPULATIO (Z OF TrAL)        50.8       59.0       67.3             65.9                    47.8
POPULATIO PIWJEcrious
POPULATION XS YEAR 2000 (HILL)                        115.0
STATUIUSAR  POPULATIR (MIXLL)                         215.0
TEAR STATIOCART POP. REACaED                          2105
POPULATION DEMSLTI
PMR S94 *I.                     18.8       25.9        35.2            35.6                    82.0
rA Sq. E. AGRI. LARD            37.1       52.-        70.9            93.2                    157.2
POPLlATIOS ME ST.iXMuE (CZ)
0-14 TIS                       45.6       4o.5        44.7             40.1                    31.9
153-04 I                        51.0       50.0        51.6            553                     00.9
65 A3tD ABOVE                    3.4        3.5        3.4              4_1                      7.2
POPULATIO  CROM  RATE (C)
TOTLU                            3.0        3.2         3.0             2.3                      1.6
115M                             4.8        4.7        4.Z              3.7                      3.4
CROUE lars RATE t (PM TuKZ)       45.4       43.4       36.0             31.5                     Z5.0
CUDE DEATi RATE (PEit THOS)       12.2        9.1        7.0              6.1                     9.1
ocs REPRODlCrI.O  RArE             3.3        3.2        2.4              2.0                      1.7
FA:ILT PLAIMII
A gSPTO . AUIAL (TOUS)            ..       25.1      1145.0
USERS a OF MAED 1ES)    *         -          *         38.0
FOOD AN MUERTE
IM    OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-1LOO                     97.0      100.0     19.0             113.0                   100.4
PER CAPrIT SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (C OF  UXJEfEMT5)      117.0      11l.9      l12.0            ll.3                    129.6
PTU3S (GRAMS PER DAT)           69.0       65.0       74.0             67.9                    92.3
OF Ica AML AM PULSE            29.0       27.0        27.01c          34.1                     34.6
CR1. (ACES t-) DEAO_ RATE         10.1        6.5        3.5              5.3                    10.4
LIFE  PElT. AT BR   (YEARS)       S7.0       61.3       65.6             64.6                    07.Z
IXPAFl MORT. (E CPER TOUS)        91.1       73.6       54.4             62.6                    71.4
ACCESS TO SAF  MR IPOF)
OTAL                            23.5       49.01d      5S.Old          64.S
uRam                                       65.51Id     61.4/d          77.S
RURAL                             ..       Z1.o7       51.i7dT         44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRErk DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             __       37.01d      3S.Otd          54.6
11RM A.                                    60.01d    50.0d            69.8                      ..
RMRAL                             4. .07;-    13.07;T                  29.8
POPULATILON PM PSTSICZAI        1830.U     1S10.0     1260.01e         1776.0                   1094.8
POP. PER XUlSISC PERSON         3650.0     1640.0     1420.0d          1012.2                   762.5
PMP. PER ROSPITAL -E
TOTAL                           590.0     970.0       870.01e         477-0                    334.0
URBAN                          5,0.01f   1170.0      1080.07          667.5                   216.0
RURAL                             _.      1370.0     1120.0oe         IZ1.t.
AISSIOiS P31 HOSPITAZ BED           -.         ..         ..             27.                     20.0
AVERAGE SIZE OF dOUSEMOLD
TOTAL                            5.4        5.7
UORB                             5.7        5.7
RURAL                            5.2        5.S
&VEAGE aO. OF PERSOJS/ROOK
TOTAL                            2.9        2.5
URBAN                            2.b        2.2
RURAL                            3.4        3.2
ACCOSS T ELECT. (2 OF  LELIM)S
IOTAL                             ..       5a.9
URBAN                            .-        80.7
RURAL                             ..       27.8



- 29 -
ANNEX I
T a L E 34                                     Page 2 of 5
wEXInO                  - SOCIAL INDIATeRS DATA SNEET
SEXICO                                REYERECE G2PS (WEISTD  AVERAGES) /a
-OST                      CeDSr RECtTfr ESTDRATE) fb
Jb RECEST            mUDDLE INCOME            MMIE rECC!
1960ft b      w97o-q  ESTfIATEb    LAY. AMRICA S CARD            EURerE
EDCAION
ADOS TEl) ESTeOLLMET RATIOS
PqAARY:  T"TAL                    '0_0       106.0       120Q0             105_0                     102_2
?ALE                    82.')      106.0       123.0             106.3                     L07.7
FVALS:                  77.n       102_0       116.0             103_6                      97_9
SECOOSART: TOTAL                   11.0        22.0        37_0              60_0                      56.5
-Ar e-14_0                          26_0        39.0              38.6                      63.4
F!4ALF                   9.0        17.0        35.0              61.2                      48.9
VOCATI.flAL r: OF SECOTmARY)         21.6        26.7        10.4              34.0                      22.4
P7PrI-TfACE-R RATIO
PSPAEYT                            46.0        46.0        39.0              30.7                      24.7
SECOVDARW                          13.0       IG.O         17.0              16.7                      22.1
ADELT LITERACY RATE (%)              65._        74_2        82.7              79.5                      69.7
wnitmrrzop
PASSRSGER CARSITHOUSA!D PDP          12.9        25.1        46.11c            45.6                      52.9
RADIO RECEIVERS1THOCSA5D POP         89.0       273.7       295.4             228.2                     165.5
TV RECEtEVRSITHOUSA.D POP            17.5        58.5       108.1             1083                      124.2
SE S?APER ( DAr t tEAI
ISTERESrT) CIRCULATIOS
PER TqOCSAID PCPLLATEOS             73.3           -        6.54/             64.1                      96.3
CIS%TA i.CcAL  ATTEsDAsCEICAPITh      9.8         4.9         4.4               2.9                       2.9
LAWR FORCE
TOTAL LAROR FORCE (TIOCS)         It91-n      14722.0    20819.0                 _
-,L2ALE (cERCEaS)                  15.2        17._        19.8              Z4.8                      34.5
%MRICLLTLR E (PERC'ST )            55.1        5.Z        35.6              31.3                      40.7
VSDUSTRY (PERCEST)                 19.5        22.9        25.8              23.9                      23.4
PARTICI'AT;O?1 RATE (PERCVIIT)
TOTAL                              30.2        28.8        29.2              31.3                      62.0
IALE                               51.1        47.4        46.7              49. 8                     55.2
FLDALE                             9.2         10.1        11.6              14.8                      29.1
EcODG4IC DEPENDESCY RATIO             1.6         1.7         1.6               1.4                       0.9
I2CC!! DZSTRTYWN
!'ERCEST OF PRIVATE ISCOME
(ECEIVED BY
RICHEST 51 OF HOUSEHOLDS                          .
RICHEST 2n OF HOUSEHOLDS          61.1/h      60.7        57.7tc
LOVIEST 2(1 OF HOOSEHOLDS           3.4/h       3.3         2.9W               -'
LOWEST 40: OF' HOUSErHODS           9s_78h      9.9         9_97_
POVER  TAReT 0U0s
ESTIXATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LFVEL CtSS PMR CAPITA)
RBIAl                                ..          ..          ..             Z89.8                        ..
RURAL                                . -                                    185184.5
ESTLWATEO REIATIVE POVERTY INCcOME
LEVEL tUSS PeR CAPITA)
11HAN                                                     4n 7L0            519.8
RURAL                                 -                   471.0             372.1                     409.0
ESTIMATEO POP. BELOw ASOLLuTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
CRBA! 6                               __
RURAL                                                         _
SOT AVAILABLE
'OT APPLICABLE
S0 T E S
Ia  The group averages for each Indtcator are populatton-welghted arlthletlc seans.  Coverage of countries a_og the
Indcators depends on avatlabillity of data and Is not islform.
!b  Unless oterwise noted  -Data for 1960- refer to any year berwen le59 and 1961: -Data for 1970- between 1969 and
1971: and data for n:ost Recent Estinate between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977: /d Served from w%ter supply and sewerage; /e 1974; If 1962; 4 1976; lb 1963.
lay 1983



- 30 -                                                        ANNEX I
Page 3-of 5
So.:   t Reh oh   aa.cdres toe aeo. iitoalty JodaRd the.5   ett.ottRRettS- as CRo.tl             . it sh6ld  ls  ho- set RUSt they -, oot ho lt.9bsettooly
eoo.aiahc-soa Rf thetko .1 ooe    fdddt lottE.. eat --stef   ssI by diffowot eoflo. to .4atlortI  the Sea. i. doRa -C. oeoohee.. .olt
Moat.. rIses of seotoo ROdloto toe. erR .IRIentotbo   -tenet oaJoo dttl.o    hot.. -eotoe..
ii  rt n.  st-oos a-   ) tO    -t sty noes of te. eohe.ti asotry ea  (2) R             ttRRy n.e sith  -.%Mt high. eteeg   bat ebe the osoCIy sOe of the
toot         7    -  --11efo  to  ldtatt U--, the nosgoR of ofiRto        the  attrtst  d.OS.   th "la". hltt  ofdaa  s  O-    oottooo_ f "". tstt 'h
Uertod-fOtia  aooooe  of. Os. blete  toeeeo.iio   s s  or  oy   Ott  rep t  S.   aelso- of t - iotnte .-  0  toeT se  the atop_ A.R
are        -      .RIU                     - - R -  RRIS              -i0 (thoot-  sho.i          -ootata  itoidod 1                     h1RCor,  ofR1 otortta
RRs     lvw.    ~      ~ ~       ot.  5tai   ittgSyter orC%  tis                 o   a9tt hsltl od
fil,URURCRAw U.-. o or  tooit  sot- eos  attrto  shot otto-.-                                etotlatia t r.b.tc Ro foo   osa   sooltts otla
Mi1ai-w~totoa  RIthet -   eRILd tat -Iat 11079-41 hbots):                             oheb1titRtalo  cotat'   notl  -  oetehtRRIatooo  oaeoeotl staf 05
3900. 1070'. -a 1I data                                                                    by at boot -   9h0.tCIRR. toahahot            stdto  nit.oty12 oRttSlet
tRe  -t  -  tool.dod.  MR,at hoorat._ to-sr0 tIrI.  b-otth -0
SMtr CmISorts PER Co"tt  - toso  qo.n.  ooetto  of rrt.:I                                    oskIto  teo   set s-otosotto athtf ta  by a 0hysioo (lt hy a aStra
retest?` ftrtt  (foo;ctogotto. wtottie. sesot a  as hpd Ro. se o ..oett, ro. olot~a.) tOAle  of for to-soota  aRotoodotat- od
otd gootheRoo  at-ototFttyt  kis ttl o  of ro-t oq Voet   e Cott.;                          P.-ot. R Itiotod tFp  of  "-tot teogtlttao   Too oftetitoa    ooe
bota, toM. esI too  tot.                                                                   etbo  lapltata totte., lUt" ,tlsetoaLaooa   oeploals. Rs oral
%..Pt-I.l. total 00 rore  Re"tesa   adstt as ootttty tto
totlUX0  Mesats   dtotthooe  - -ofLLl t 300,30T. oC  OO                                    odtotes ot hordd       OaE.-t   -tv  15-1"  sayo of- slsos   o-  ic
eato.                                                                          to~~~~~~~- ~,4abo   9-.-   [Ih.. oItgab-e dtt.d by the s Ahr of   hod
0th..  bolait Ieroe  of tota) - Mata *f who, to Rtotlt.          e*
dtooedFtoti=o  of-i.  ro-  ofrtoo                 tttt  of doa-                   Uiltt
fty,tl-t-_-    21111- Cotoe  pRootl-ti  robrios  r hs  to lo                        Osthi si  ..ol.  a oaoder or Ltots ee   - -   -  ho Iseodod to
ro_t   Ooj~ttto  peret   tor trial it rsetoteOf tO-e                                  toroc  saor of ot-e - r     - tal   ho.1so  noel .-"ot  Rbit
c-ott.  tt   lolt. asfoet  tbl -osto -otabtttog                                      R 0.  dsllos  tsootet.blit   sea               oo         tstto
soeisdo too to f-rtlilt  Itedis  tolr-   ta         s toottoot o                    oo-trttirIoro   f dotLlso  - total. oohe.- ee                 -1 -
tosbistos  tooattL5fotlt f  1.        its .d-  toA.   lrtt   stot.                         total, oeheo,Ra  no1 d'oollIo.e nsoottbo17
itotooor  os..obo -. Is e tttot  oeotlat   hoa2o-   otoothEECUI
ototeotatoottoc.m. .scled  op  fe  fottlio rlottotte too.-ot tattoo                                                    d  _        C-       1...Rdf
oat t      _oro_s ofos  tetaoe  It.-Lt ootty. ie oet-eo                                    -toteos  of all tooI tO the ortoc  boo  -  Perteoto  of IRoptIse1
toosotbs  slot-      -R-t3to  -  It  tol sO t,oe oracid ototr                              rI-n-  -tol-e  orttlo;  o lly totlsdo tkcIldoe aos h-Il
tRItR to f theoolotoI the rot.        200 cd .h rat of doo1to  of                        Ja   o   do    for tttlo,-s    It.1 ofotr   otto 
Tnt tottoo7 toslttotIs ootet  'l  oeo af.. totseao             tito  to  opte  -ho- -  shoe the otfole.L -.h.l  p
tose o   Lot dli he ototlo.                                                       ltooooho -ltl  oo                   fosala-   Wot   -R A-oe; oo
- Ol-too  totlettt  W,0 too hisot-e tittoo trolo                              cvoedoo aoro. o               Ratoe. or too :ht . Itliolerel    o
FIXi~o   100 I       Ft. so IOtdt.                                                         "PSIt. .oool  00 22 te IF years of on  torrapedose ,      ooo 
000ot --tatrltoal3*  -= =ostd at  l- too oototrt ta                                  goraly solds.
Zojer  . Os01(4ISveoattct s   sotot  o   i-ereoTy r  -drts    ofML"N                                            totr        ~ bstioeo
oooololoo; 11 F,RlOl, oS  OOt dae                                                tel-tote  rdo - R-sa.   as secoatee - btotl sidot                todt
Roaalo  ret OaattoM!-ei.-t.ottot   oeo   toSLt L Lt.-a. roe  otoe) - U -todi  Se.I(hi U to Cood RSerto -U.
(rode Rin  Ioeft  isol- t..  it- 'trth  .4    --oed of old-
too  poslttt;lot, ol. e4 OO dote.                                            teioqlf-ts
ro.t hat   at ttrtoooot    sst  ooheco looodofsi-oe           rasser  a  (tttheao  orealot    lsserorae  so-ossoo
Osotte rlls.to  -   cet.alt fi:heteet  - eo.a  tehte1.erottt  o   is  f ft; dae for reol-                                        ar  l  o  he teooprht.l - t    -t
of htrt--rott  d _c-tesoF   * ototo        -tI-.e  fault ot.ottt                          tostotoehlitld li&Coto-
.1 rh lt..eer.t .o  V'.o ostot %  cioot..etr.  Coo. et-       to..s- al'.*o ,  se.0d 0%erttto  -a.Iof-t.0    5  oot
I;; o,ei a'e. =. .oaoe*                                                                   oeooto.t.otso                     soito      ls  O   .co
Itie  '*~-..4  r.4.. ~flye Its:r tI* .            1-.0!-t..... 010.01                                                  d.. -?ac-stoe. 1= ,. ooloo
~~t   'e-..41:l00.  Or'.5o.t to.. elolodro 00.0  a1  to to '.ett". It tt eol.oorO 01 test foot lIsts 5 ooah.f 
fedotI'      satdtfa   oos    e.fllo-oo   rsr goot,         CoeAootCtleocot(nt   oTo E       Iodo  Iooro
o Po.ro  -olslM  tfstfC ott    tial   otoioretn.o                                       loneF-  etC oootydho   toI.-. hooot-.I sPo.ot. ett.. eoor-o
ta. stsl  osoJ    rOete   ool otototC.-IFtt  loot                                  osettofilta- refsito1  t b otrlss  totottae  t
Mootito   otI   oioloo'g  o   es   otstbto                                               oeo(tot      ei  lotor f sit   so rete f  -Isa  taho  Forte
00   s   sdooiotoo  oooto.O   lott    Otoei  o ...oeto-         -         Rsooofttot.oo  l t"e I stoes t GoettoITt. Z    lioosotes
Pot auts...elt f fllelsfoot to  tIl"  - Or-tot., tttoet oftot cattlIloll Of OOt doto
set  tol of fod  o  d.    - ppt.ti of I- tedI      F usd so  lo                       FRrttrtttto  atCIotas)   tlo          . tie    fooI.i-pttatto.
ot.dss   toIor t' thee of- OStro  oftol- FIata.. at  7  00.tl                        .te  estt   ttrooo 11    T he Psoietoo  eSD' 104tie.tot- 0-t
tf saooN  r0151  oos  aerte I o th  tood. -'.tod hr Ott 10 teFocetob  -   rsstoslsoe
fattest  oe etoa o a   pola  to - it -r ftat; 310-ti. lOll -at tIF
(II     e   -4  hot talc foot theood 3 - a.-I. doati  no tboo-d 10                "WX''Wet  loo tht t  ah                         kgttd    R-.Seoloo  hbrohe
1a  rto  1- sen, o  ttlro.to hIsso aoto: foM00   rolot                         pno, olhes2            Mtrt. poooo  2U mocotv     s  oest0 p     eroot 
too-loIre tots rttod Its. lif  lotte; 0910,  701 ast tOOl dt..  heotatoide
000111~~~                                                                            fttoltTtt   trt
trr teottreatit tt''.aol -otott  oo-hr f 0er  ofI f *rooisla  ~ ~ fl~~'ot.sao 017apootoot  oaotoeef  atttMgetl-Ia
pea 0000  oa thoeat  it  Irhe;301, 070attlol dte                             ftost  toon  1010w iP- o, I    ' thet low-,I'do  hol.  FCt1  e sils
thr        h 10M__   R                                                                                                                   mooiee.'tio   sttl  lI  etal    n,tooI todbo
to tt stol  0 orlooo  roo    ootos   ino  otea                                 aleo  Satetlot Poosote, borlae  (i  arrrlo  -obo  srua
F            =orosto    oo =nto  te  to  ntctdhoeolt ors5.ashte   olttopetl  Itos100 sho-tid  fe000  s tpt
-atot   tt --o-L.etereo  totrototl  stttt.-                t  t                      s-to   or---1h  tty    to  101todotsOo-oe  ea
.001 I.    eir '.sttooasotbes-Mt  hs20oin112011  70ee   o  thrt    flle   oohtsoo
I .RR.eI o  ltS  tt.tloo   oo1 hoe4thotaoobe               Iooo  ht                     .boo   ooattohlsat    Iorttr-tat(oot3    oo
tt.oo'o rt.l.ro   rto.eheetostl -Ib ltha  _theho-otto                                  rot-rto  of opl              F.-oiehe  as trot) to. ate 'too1t
otohto  f to ho-hed  0set  eoeio  poo R-  Rtteotiot  rot ofI post -RI                                                                             p.



- 31 -
11011 - emx     1101.011          m  SW                                                                          n 
aae 4 of 5
3911              1t 1113  3m      161      Iva     113      361      193            11-2   112    29-6  61115                      3925     11      6I1       1"
CP                                            6.2    35l1   131133   ULII  211.1;  IS3L27  19L41  IJ.    W7.3Z                         L.3      0.13    0S.       LW             30.23   33.3   1[."    23.3
1S IF Tom UFE7:                               -1-22   -493      0.11     LII   -L-77   -Li    -714    -1.6    -.E                       .        _   -            -               -13       4.0        : -3J -2.
63                                           91'.95   3)3.0    26.33   3011.24   301.10   13.33   2303    391.70   211.43              0.3      LO      LOS      LS              33.3C  IGL%0   110.3   13.1
lans  I1aL. rSI                               9.31   1;3.24    3.1    30.09    1          14.17    11      21-9  1     .33 t.30 3.n    _0.3    10.22                               9.10    11.00    11.;7   1_;1
11111t  lozgj NM                              LI8    30.34    3U    20.SS   31.           36      33.11    3.33    65.4               L50      17-3     L4        .23              7.60    31.7    20.       17.4
E                                            4 0.40   -LU      -  -.00    -L5    12.33    19.09 3!J  00    1"        9.4                .        .       .        ,               -.9    -LW                  .0
I      DS11t 2.5   117.57   14193   13.1   344.7.  337.n7    IZ3    14.6   19.6                                                        0.2      Lie   -0.5s      L.                        71.24    7L0      70
1ES3IEI                    2D0.;                      2-4    4.D    51.53    41.4          3.3     4.4    39.275    3.1                L0.       . L1  -517      ?.9              Z1.10    21.13  Z.02 7'39
WM  ML SaW1                                   1045    3.10    Ca.W    15.5    54          7.31    415D    4P.0    0L771 7.30    D0.4                    1.A       .30              MIS    2.7b    2931    r3.0
IC FSICI  Im                                 -3.20    -'04    -4.34    -L.        II -0.31   -9.7  I 0.37    -0I.2    -0.7            i."    IL20"    20."    -3.;0               -1.53    -.0   -4.21   -Lll
DM  sr.. swim                                 17. :    : 4.4    ;7.51   WL.7    4.73    3.516    4.42    31.97   53.3                  0.D0    9.5      3r.' L5   W               11.22    20.30    19.73   :3.90
313733.30gumS 6: IF P
1GRILl0IE33.                                                  1 5.12      1151    202    1.4    30.94    17.11   19.0I 420    kW                       tR    1.-l0        II.29    9m               LI    7.S
1151.9 0961                                   Mr .7 34.11   09.49   7IL          7hDI   70.;     T1.W0    7L4       60.37              7.J        0    -00       L3    -       -        ;2.65    ;L72* 1:
EEINIEi                                      5.40   17.01   101.a    60.L45   307.25  36.3   10.   109.''  140.4                       L:.l    1SD   L0          0.3               .2    57.sX      54.40    55.1
m323L. 120 W7.5.                                231180    9912    230Q6   34304    2133    11    20          2279     0
i         Gm                                   4:3      F,    2150    3Dl         1517     5m5     I0       11535    ;1'
27IE3    1  s3                                 711   2321    110 ll 3R 42  l:PI           5247    NM       113      202
CW!,'.6315 Gm13;    IF7    531-74    155    4YZ    I21                                             4500      13    15M12
SEP3liPC                                       !5S       27 ':    7     24433     7;0      491r    mm       9       323:
E3r SF. giX tF.L.;L                             :117    67o: W 0           9    n           W3      3:122     MP    40770
4RIil6 UIE 3:L                                          040    10952    140      30       256     139      115    20.0.
4E31E71119. -1 l                                       153 1 6      2    2037      23      4539    023      13719   2577
Rw92a5       121 if3                                   222      307      :XV.    443      5449    6500   13314   ISM*
5EtisP am| 3TIZ :131;1  -.;D                                    89r,    qw: tU            58               IlZts  L
;--2K iaiim 119"1001
2t        F02CE tlo! 41.12    14_30   240.00   124.17   1315.                            3.104  IIL6   12L6    I4L50
EWRI Ffl'E 11                                 M2.1     4.43   iw.0  IC9.00    17.3    73.2    42.J  13.70   141,1
iE!SIF J4EW .1Ef                             11.44   10.I3   300.30    91.6    1.30    00.0    1M.6e    00.0    97.07
MP SE PL                            ; :C9.fi   -.5    330.00   1215.3            0.02   290.13  1i44.75  760.60  139.69
12534833 1A3.49    33.49   =2.65   :1.5    57 .161  120.221                                                        
ZO   IT.  ...I !M             FI       C. SOP)
mm  FE1M M                                    1tt7  2.8    .0.37    19.12   'Z.42   J.3 11            0    30.7    30.70
CL OD     11423                             14t6.   19.71   13.57    19.63    3.:3    30.2L     24.62    34.30  Z2.'0
315357    51Ji 5                              6.11    L13       1.II  -4.1Z   -65  -t1.2           2.26    4.-       5.35
71i2a. 2333213                                6.:.C0   30.09   9*.t    2L9       13.33    09       7.119    7.7n     0.44
IEFla, II3173                                 - .     -.5C    -.       -1       -1.005   -0.13   -104    -3I41    -.4-.
6413171OF GM33  POLM                                                                                                                                          G    IF 13113.
gap                                zt~~~~~~~2    13.30  3I    St       21
3324  EW3it3 B                                        31 11 L0.33   221.31  3031.72                                                                            3IL
1R113 I    C11113.1.L    0.9   304.19   72.2                                                                                                                     La..
t-       2J   AN NM _             3E                      .      4.2614 .97   121.6   233A                                                                                 7.92
633  0M61. c0 EI        S       .                     16.48  15.6  353.1   290.52                                                                               32.07
U0110                                           .      3.34    4.33      7.02    1.72                                                                            3.20
3LIC  3                                         . g4.43   197.07  2.00   931.01                                                                                 31."
E11EFFRI                                        .     352J   624.34  11392.3  1106.25                                                                           31.21
5230                                                   1."  126.1   257.10   MI.X                                                                                7.7
13r1                                            .    33I.9   4L1.30  223.72  321.57                                                                           I1l3.
Lt4   F=IN   316                                                       F       i t   I OF 11M            NOW  NOW              PE t31       9       AND1 ER131                                2 O A133
1970    163             3970     3~~         ~        ~~~~~~93  1gn070-3iq                                  1920    19390                  193
13113E                                         4.07    4.90                      23.72   2LW.0                       0.30                      La       5La3                               32.53    LOI
ImaIP                                         2.17     4.-7                      21.22   '0.4                        1.90                     11.4    3197                               15.31   10L.95
S B                                           5.07    093 4n0C6    *7.4                                              1I.                       9.1    11.15                               121.03  21.4
17114                                         12.30    3L0.                     30L.  I30L0                          1.50                      7.0      9.91                                0.00 W I4.u1
31INC 1 5    -NWNW
3r 197 F52      3     IW 32331A IC    MOSI      NAT 931701 FPl3.1.32  VIIL
J1 PM  1975 FipM5 AM  1i059 In VIM=                   ICT M I   1 E SM  11U3MM25  3.
Ca" NUN   310233.
...MCT  _3 kE  1 31 .03  16           3311    0 70. ICL
S51EE: 3.1R113 WIF FIW. IF 131 EII33111, NW SI3FF Wi 3      731
MT111. I"1



- 32 -
OJE I  IF 9STS  EIIEI tt5357W  -  - al                                                                          a
[go IILUO m a  C"M                                             E 5                                       5
to       13975    19o      1ts1   1:90       tic      590      f        191
DePl 18E SF F16111
EISFTI r!KitZIS IFS                5            1117     AM7     M0       2W       2Z1    264        3120D  3183       aT7
DuelS  {im[1I   HISF)                              2     9935   26.   34t    12             I67      mo    Z7           Me
tSM       PXeE                                  -7145    -'117    -7100   -51       5103    1a1n       M200    793      Am
IC, FllCtlD 1EC                                 -479   -149    -4         -1541   -181      -5       -1473    43170   -10Q
tPIF E SIMER 1ERET Pr1Ers51                   -290    -202    -3m        -5476     MM    -734       -19   -l012   -1125
38 k TWAUE. IIET                                  g        ;33     m        29       265      356     ---        . -      .
CURES CC  ; BRAG                               -1t1    -W3    -721   -11 US        -4170    SW         727   -2m       -cs
132937!E ItrEET DEEST!IT                         1I5      20      1254     119       109      374      6.       6.0     1063
PUEIt rn. 9u Lt  iE LYE. MET                             33       40       1W57     Dm       3W1      4013               23
0222S17                                         iD     NU2      1171    1J22     1424     0    6Z    11164   27.3
SEMlPlW                                        56       5       3712     536.6.    S;      451      2454   l374    17z
II IllET;                                        -        --      -21    -1117      :Z       1300     30       120I     -
Jln    EITAL                                     a"        13    3309      39      -09    -157       -000         0        0
D0Aa  t0 EESOSE  -1'NEASE5                      -102     -6      -33513   -3012     S1m    -1106    -          1059    -1440
SW  XLW1T15* a                                            --        74       70      --
GM;4  ;111 Liml XBUTIIEIIS
FIIEIC   . MC   -.T. UsS
1a31                                          11.00   110.20   62nO.    1421.00   9670
OIlfR STILATERM.                              l3t10    121.11  153.00  2119.0  1062.3,
GlIEANUJS                                     79.90    MDR.0   19020   640.90,  6..00
5!!PLIEIE                                      101   37.40   1 ILOEO  240.3    42.00
BUSS MM flnlAr L DITITLIGIS                   570.0  331I330  5179.00 1106.   IL40
EdT A1M NOT 3SICES
PUIM IL E! 0.3 6MWX  M  DOILS1               11010    37.40 3N31L.0 434t7.0O L1.00                                                            E1839L MT
IEE I FRIMI )
WBEST 1 SIt PLIC OID                         211,409      -rn  3343.0  670270  31093. 
- 01133S it FIIEIC IIET                       413.60   71l10 4021.40  3713.10  302.60
a-IC OEM  SEVICES In)                          MQL.I ts,9L       7160.30  Em.7n   M40                                                                                         u    a a6
-3i Ot ECIiD E9       6   OF UKIC at 1 LL.
P1IC DEBT SE0CES ClC                     22.20     2.M45    3.33;   29.16   32.RS                                                            t                                          MCE11
AEU A     IE     F    iC itEtt OFPU N  CUITE S                                                                                                DIIER DF. S                              4U        LU
a.  IT AEREST tS: FUU PRWV 'S                 7.40     9.00    11.48    33f91    12.56                                                      0n85Pa                                  mm ti       ."
1.D. tMet . *.
b. NSE    mNImUiTiF oi  Lnjnu                 -         7.90    *.40     7.00     6.00
tYEDIISt                                                        TOIII,1z
1r- EiE                                                                                                                                        - 
a. IIIR  B.G. ANtD *. tlS 7 DF               IS  9211     s.     .10      5.5     5.20
PUBIC LLD ANG) D.
b. IIIRD OM  SERltlES ttS 7 DF                7.11i    7.29    3.24      5.55     lt,5
PA1LIC OMI SERVICE
a/ AUL FIRES ilEEt TD EIBMI 40 UN  TOMt FIIUC IEII DtL7 (M.
... iC7 SttU E SWitELT DUT [NUMB  ttt TttE TDTtL-
SDNIICB   OK1 ilF REIfII. DRS. ELIZ STAFF BSTINtIES
My Ist 194



-33 -                 ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO1/
A. Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31, 1984)
Loan No.    Year       Borrower      Purpose                  Amount Less    Undis-
Cancellations   bursed
53 Loans Fully Disbursed                 2,887.1
1111-5      1975       NAFINSA       Irrigation                    50-0         6.6
1186        1975       BANOBRAS      Water Supply                  40.0         3.1
1553-5      1978       NAFINSA       Agriculture                   56.0         7.1
1643-5      1979       NAFINSA       Small-scale Agri.             60.0        14.7
1671        1979       BANOBRAS      Highways                     120.0        24.5
1686-5      1979       FERTIMEX      Industry                      80.0         1.7
and NAFINSA
1706-5      1979       NAFINSA       Irrigation                    92.0        58.2
1712-5      1980       NAFINSA       Industry                     175.0        47.4
1820-5      1980       NAFINSA       Small and Medium
Scale Mining               40.0        30.0
1858-5      1980      NAFINSA        Irrigation                   160.0       151.3
1881        1981       NAFINSA       Small and Medium             100.0        10.9
Scale Industry
1891-5      1981       NAFINSA       Agricultural Credit          325.0        92.5
1908        1981      NAFINSA        Irrigation                    23.0        10.1
1913        1981       BANOBRAS      Water Supply                 125.0        92.4
1929        1981      BANOBRAS       Railways                     150.0        71.9
1945        1981      NAFINSA        Rainfed Agriculture          280.0       176.2
1964        1981      BANPESCA       Port Development              14.0        11.6
1990        1981       BANOBRAS      Urban Development II         164.0       126.6
2042        1982       NAFINSA       Technical Training            90.0        26.7
2043        1982       NAFINSA       Integrated Rural
Development               175.0       150.9
2100        1982       NAFINSA       Irrigation Rehab II          180.0       177.3
2142        1982       NAFINSA       Capital Goods
Industry                  152.3       127.5
2154        1982       NAFINSA       Pollution Control             60.0        56.7
2191        1983       NAFINSA       San Fernando Agri.           138.4       133.7
2194        1983       BANOBRAS      Urban Engineering              9.2         7.6
2262        1983       NAFINSA       Agri. Marketing              115.0       104.0
2281        1983       BANOBRAS      Third Water Supply           100.3       100.0
2325        1983       NAFINSA       Third Small Medium
Industry                  175.0       157.1
2331        1983       BANCOMEXT     Export Development           350.0       349.1
TOTAL                          6,486.3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank          1,150.4
Total now outstanding                         5,335.9
Amount sold                    92.3
of which has been repaid       92.3               0.0
Total now held by Bank2/                      5,335.9
Total undisbursed                                         2,327.4
1/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30, and October 31.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                                               US$ Million
Year     Obligor                      Type of Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1958/59   Industrias Ferfect
Circle, S.A.1/             Industrial Equipment    0.8        -       0.8
1958      Bristol de Mexico  S.A.1/  A.C. Engine Overhaul    0.5           -      0.5
1961      Acero Solar, S.A.f/          Twist Drills              0.3       -      0.3
1962/651  Compania Fundidoria Fierro y
66/68     Acero de Monterrey, S.A. Steel                       2.3    21.4    23.7
1963      Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A.1/             Steel                    0.9      0.1      1.0
1963      Quimica del Rey, S.A.l/    Sodium Sulphate             0.7       -      0.7
1964/66   Industria del Hierro,
S.A.1/              I/    Construction Equipment   -         2.0      2.0
1970      Minera7de Norte, S.A.11    Iron Ore Mining             1.5       -       1.5
1971      Celanese Mexicana, S.A.1/  Textiles                   12.0       -     12.0
1972      Promotora de Papel Perio-
dico, S.A. de C.V.1/      Pulp and Paper            2/                2/
1973/79   Cemento Veracruz, S.A.       Cement                   15.9       -     15.9
1974/81   Cancun Aristos Hotel         Tourism                   1.0      0.3     1.3
1975/78   Mexinox, S.A.                Steel                    12.0      3.2    15.2
1978/81/
83      Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.    Pulp and Paper             10.7      5.0    15.7
1978      Tereftalatos Mexicanos,
S.A.                      Petrochemicals           19.0       -      1',.0
1979/83   Cementos Tolteca, S.A.3/   Cement                    168.0      8.0   176.0
1979/81   Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.              Tourism                    -       3.1     3.1
1979      Conductores Monterrey,       Electrical Wire
S.A.3/                       and Cable             18.0       -     18.0
1980      Industrias Resistol, S.A.3/Particleboard              25.0       -     25.0
1980      Vidrio Plan de
Mexico, S.A.3/            Flat Glass              114.9       -    114.9
1980      Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V.3/            Mining                  110.0       -    110.0
1981      Celulosicos Centauro,
S.A.3/                    Pulp and Paper           59.5       -     59.5
1981      Corporacion Agrioindus-
trial, S.A.               Agri-Business            11.3      3.0    14.3
1983      Capital Goods Facility       Capital Goods
4/                             Financing            100.0       -    100.0
Total Gross Commitments                             684.3    46.1   730.4
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment         520.6    22.2   542.8
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                   163.i    23.9   187.6
Total Undisbursed (including participants)          135.8      6.9   142.7
1,       Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
2/        US$25,000.
I/         Gross Commitment including amounts sold to participants.
A US$4.4 million operation with METALSA for auto chassis manufacture is
pending signature.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I  -  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: About 24 months
(b) Project prepared by CNCP/SCT
(c) First Bank mission to review project: March 1982
{d) Departure of appraisal mission: October 1983
(e) Negotiations completed: May 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1984
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) the Government to complete a study by September 15, 1985 on cost-related port dues
and, based on the results of the study, submit to the Bank an action plan by January 15,
1986 for progressive achievement of the recommended levels of port dues at Lazaro
Cardenas Industrial Port (para. 85);
(b) Provision of satisfactory evidence of technical, financial and economic feasibility
and adequate cost recovery arrangements for each dredging sub-project would be a
condition of loan disbursement for each such sub-project (para. 101);
(c) Government to complete studies and engineering designs for solid waste management
by December 15, 1984. Submission of signed and effective agreements with the munici-
pality of Lazaro Cardenas, for construction, operation and cost recovery of the system
would be a condition of disbursement under this component (para. 95); Government to .ake
measures to prevent contamination in port area (para. 57);
(d) the Government to transfer to ESP equipment needed for its operation; ESP to pre-
pare a cost and tariff study by September 15, 1985, and reach revenue levels sufficient
to cover working costs in 1985 and 1986 and operating expenses and debt service require-
ments by 1987. Government to allow ESP to collect and retain storage fees and the
Government to take measures to allow ESP to meet its financial objectives (para. 81);
(e) Government to exchange views with Bank on overall project implementation once every
six months during project execution (para. 91);
(f) BANPESCA to set up a Special Account in accordance with agreed procedures, as a
condition of loan effectiveness, and to have the Special Account audited by independent
auditors; (para. 90);
(g) FONDEPORT to complete administration, commercialization and promotion studies as a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 83). Based on these studies, present to the Bank
by December 15, 1984, an action plan with specific administrative, financial and opera-
tional proposals for a local FONDEPORT entity, which would provide for cost recovery of
industrial park investments; and flood protection works benefitting FONDEPORT, to be
recovered directly from the beneficiaries (para. 85). Verification of the economic
analysis by updated mathematical model would be a condition of disbursements for the
flood control component (para. 96);
(h) BANPESCA to enter into contractual arrangements with ESP, FONDEPORT and Government
for transfer of loan funds as a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 78);
(i) The Government to regulate upstream reservoirs so as to limit the level of flow in
the delta of the river (para. 96).
(j) Financial statements of ESP and FONDEPORT to be audited by independent auditors,
including respective project accounts (para. 90).



IC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
II ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
31S                                                                     9'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
A                                    ~~*o..-a
~~~~~~~~~~ jiJji~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



IBRD 17797
W 00e                                                                                                    MARCH 19tJ
M E X I C O
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
AND INDUSTRIAL PORT LOCATIONS
IX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-,                       W      !icustna! port
N                 .                                      Xp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mir comc   wf
:                                      b
0   ?rincipal cities or to
i   >      :-.                                      -- - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- --Dide hog -o
.Seetd "ugwin,
Railroads
4                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
A,   Pri-cipal apIvrs
Mot-rt                                                                 -      tati --- bIondes
V.tonana
_1             j.4           .
c-
|   <~~~doot -     \olir
.c-                                                                                                L-_Ao,4V -  -
_h           ---A 
.-: ,          ,                                                                                                      -'
(    '   - ,r l Pw, ,,, K_I                                                                      ',?
Morelia _    E   ,'Po
T-G.,< S t . -                                                              .c.J
,\jT   coO>Xw4I  ;   -       -                        .-               _-- - A5.--i'/VAV 
Wy-k~~~~~~~~~~v
-O- GPsouoc  fi       '   ~   ,           ~     w             j BELIZE
-A               *Sisnz1                -                             - i
of-o"Wo   _ .,         \           j    GUATEMALA           -
/                               ,
.OPaC                              HONDURAS
*or  -



l



