Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
>X)i -2-45o -ME,
Report No. 50251b4ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
May 29, 1984
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed witnout Worid Bank autihorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                =  Peso (Mex$)
US$1.00                      =  Mex$  25 in December 1981
=  Mex$  55 in February 1982
=  Mex$  70 in August 1982
=  Mex$ 120 in June 1983
= Mex$ 150 in December 1983
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric: British/US Equivalent
I meter (m)                 =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)        =  2,205 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                 =  0.27 gallon (gal)
1 hectare (ha)              =  2.47 acres
Abbreviations
BANPESCA  -  Banco Nacional Pesquero y Portuario, S.A.
CFE       -  Comision Federal de Electricidad
CGPPI     -  Coordinacion General de Proyectos de Puertos Industriales
CNCP      -  National Port Coordination Commission
DGCF      -  Directorate General for Federal Roads
DGGI      -  Directorate General for Irrigation Works
DGOM      -  Directorate General for Marine Works
DGOPD     - Directorate General for Port Operation and Development
DGP       - Directorate General for Planning
DGVF      - Directorate General for Railway Infrastructure
ESP       -  Port Service Company
FERTIMEX  -  Fertilizantes Mexicanos, S.A.
FONDEPORT -  Fondo Nacional para los Desarrollos Portuarios
N de M    - National Railway
PMT       -  Productos Mexicanos de Tuberias, S.A.
SAHOP     -  Secretariat for Human Settlements and Public Works
SARH      -  Secretariat for Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
SCT       -  Secretariat for Communications and Transport
SEDUE     -  Secretariat for Urban Development and Environment
SICARTSA  -  Siderurgica Lazaro Cardenas-Las Truchas
SPP       -  Secretariat for Programing and Budgeting
TEU       - Twenty foot equivalent units
TUM       -  Multiple Use Terminal



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT        FOR OfFICUAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  PROJECT SUMMARY ...................... .....................    1
II. THE INDUSTRIAL PORTS PROGRAM             ........                  3
A.    Industrial and Urban Development...............              3
(i)   Background.                                           3
(ii)  The Industrial Ports Program   ............           3
B.    Transport and the Port Subsector          ........          5
(i)   Transport Development and the Economy.                5
(ii)  Ports and Maritime Transport..................    7
C.  Institutional Framework                 .....9
(i)   Transport Planning and Organization ..........    9
(ii)  Port Administration          ......                   9
(iii) The Industrial Ports Program ..................   10
D.    Developments in the Lazaro Cardenas Region .........   11
E.    Past Bank Participation and Experience ............ ..   13
F.    Role of the Bank and Lending Strategy ...............   13
III. THE PROJECT       ... ..............   14
A.    Objectives                   ......................................  14
B.    Description ................... ...... .............    14
C.    Implementation, Costs and Financing ............. ......   17
D.    Project Execution and Coordination .................   18
E.    Financial Framewor' ..      ...  ......................   18
(I)   ESP ...................... ...... ....... .*..   19
(ii)  FONDEPORT ........................ . ..... ..   20
(iii) The Federal Government .......................   22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Mexico in September/October 1983 and a post-appraisal mission of January 1984.
The missions comprised Messrs. P. Engelmann (Engineer), Z. Raanan (Financial
Analyst), B. Baratz (Environmental Affairs Specialist), and C. Batey (Flood
Control Specialist) and Ms. K. Sierra (Economist). Mr. D. Hill (Engineer) also
participated in the post-appraisal mission. The report has been edited by Miss
V. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the perorac ofi
their official duties. Its contents may not othewise be discbsed without World Bank authorizaion



(ii)
TABLIE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
F.    Economic Justification and Benefits ..................    23
(M)  Port Traffic Forecast .............................    23
(ii) Economic Justification .......................w...    24
G.    Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis .............. .    27
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS ............. ..28
A.    Cost Estimates, Finance and Disbursements .............    28
B.    Execution and Procurement .............................    30
C.    Special Account ............. ........................ .   32
D.    Accounting and Auditing ...... ........................    32
E.    Semi-Annual Consultations and Project Monitoring ....0    33
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION    ........ ........       33
TABLES
2.1  Population of Principal Urban Centers, 1960, 1970, 1980         36
2.2 Regional Distribution of Economic Activity                       37
2.3  Industrial Ports Program Investments, 1979-1984 .38
2.4  Investments at Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Port, 1979-1984       39
2.5  Historic Transport Investment                                   40
2.6  Total Traffic through Mexican Ports by Major Commodity
Groups, 1978-1982 ....... ...........................    41
3.1  Lazaro Cardenas Actual and Forecast Traffic, 1979-1989.....     42
3.2 Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis......o..            43
4.1  Project Cost Estimates ...................................      44
4.2 Dredging Program .............. .  ...................................    45
4.3  Financing Plann.......................    46
4.4  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements.............-...000.    47
4.5 Executing Agencies....................................           48
ANNEXES
1.  Environmental Conditions in Lazaro Cardenas................      49
2.  Outline Methodology for Economic and Financial
Analysis of Dredging Program ............ ...........         52
3.  Description of the Equipment Component .....................    55
4.  Flood Protection .................  0.....                       58
5.  Details of Training Component               ..                   64
6.  Financial Analysis           ..66
7.  ESP Action Plan ........... . ........ ..............84
8.  Port Traffic Analysis.. .............. . ..................    85
9.  Details of the Economic Evaluation ........................      95
10.  Reporting and Monitoring Requirements .....................    107
11.  Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File...    109



(iii1)
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
CHARTS
25805 Organization of SCT
26028 Organization of the Empresa de Servicios Portuarios,
Lazaro Cardenas
26069 Organization of FONDEPORT
26010 Project Implementation Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 17796 - Population and Industrial Distribution
IBRD 17797 - Transportion Network and Industrial Port Locations
IBRD 17795 - Existing Facilities and Project, and Future Master Plan



MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
I * PROJECT SUNMARY
Borrower:          Banco Nacional Pesquero y Portuario, S.A.
(BANPESCA).
Project Executing
Agency:             Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes (SCT)
Guarantor:         United Mexican States.
Amount:            US$76.3 million, including capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:             Fifteen years, including three years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description: The proposed project supports the Government's strategy for devel-
opment of the Industrial Ports Program, to achieve a more balanced
distribution of population and economic activity, a more organized
expansion of the industrial plant, coordinated development of port
infrastructure and services and the overall strengthening and mod-
ernization of transport activities. Specifically, the proposed
project would help: (i) ensure efficient operation of existing
terminals in the industrial port of Lazaro Cardenas; (ii) streng-
then the administration and finances of the industrial port; (iii)
improve access to, and increase the utilization of, industrial
port installations; (iv) provide effective pollution and flood
control in the port area; and (v) maintain a dialogue on remaining
institutional and related policy issues affecting the performance
of the port subsector. To achieve these objectives, the project
includes: (a) construction of roads, rail installations and provi-
sion of maritime access to industries, facilities and services;
(b) acquisition of general cargo handling equipment; (c) installa-
tion of sewerage treatment systems for effluents; (d) provision of
equipment and shops for solid waste management; (e) land prepara-
tion and services for small and medium-sized industries; (f)
provision of flood protection works; and (g) consulting services
and training.
Risks:       The proposed project faces three risks:  (i) institutional, since
it is the first project under the newly established Industrial
Ports Program; its execution and operation will require coordina-
tion among various sectoral Government agencies. The project has
been designed to reduce these risks; (ii) prolongation of the
economic recession could affect projected traffic levels and the
pace of industrial investment at the port. Sensitivity analyses
indicated that the economic return of the project would not be
affected significantly by foreseeable variations in traffic
volumes, or project costs; and (iii) delays in industrial invest-
ment and production could affect the viability of the maritime
access component of the project. This component has been tranched
in order to minimize the risk.



-2-
Estimated Project Costs:
Local Foreign Total
-(in US$ million)-
Road, Rail and Maritime Access      11.4    23.7    35.0
Equipment                            3.2      8.5   11.7
Environmental Protection             2.7      3.3     6.0
Small and Medium Scale Industrial    1.3      1.1     2.4
Park
Flood Protection                     8.1     18.9   27.0
Technical Assistance and Training    1.1      2.9     4.0
Total Base Cost i/                  27.9    58.2   86.1
Physical Contingencies               3.1      5.9      9.0
Price Contingencies                  5.4     12.0   17.4
Total Project Cost 1/               36.4 2/  76.1  112.5
Front-end fee                        0.0      0.2     0.2
Total Cost                          36.4    76.3  112.7
Financing Sources:                       Local Foreign Total
(in US$ million)
Proposed IBRD Loan                    -      76.3   76.3
Government 3/                       36.4       -     36.4
Estimated Disbursements:                 (in US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year
1985     1986     1987     1988     1989     1990
Annual                   5.8     22.5     18.4      16.7    10.5       2.4
Cumulative               5.8     28.3     46.7     63.4    73.9       76.3
Rate of Return:    The project has an overall economic rate of return of 23
percent.  The maritime access works would be evaluated and
approved in tranches, and would have a minimum economic rate
of return of 12 percent.
1/ Totals may not add up due to rounding.
2/ Includes local taxes estimated at US$12,100,000.
3/ Includes ESP and FONDEPORT internally generated funds.



-3-
II. THE INDUSTRIAL PORTS PROGRAM
A.   Industrial and Urban Development
(i) Background
2.01      Mexico's deep-rooted structural problems have persisted through the
high growth period of the mid- to late-1970s, the economic crisis of 1982 and
the subsequent recession. These social and economic problems include poverty,
income and wealth inequality, unemployment, and urban and regional imbalances.
The Industrial Ports Program, which this project supports, was formulated in
1978 in response to the problem of regional income disparities. Mexican
policy-makers in past and present administrations have been concerned that, if
the trend toward concentration of population and economic activity in Mexico
City and the central region were to continue at the same pace as in the past,
the resulting regional distortions would exacerbate social imbalances, and that
the already difficult urban problems in the Mexico City Metropolitan zone, such
as an acute water supply problem, pollution, traffic and the high cost of urban
services, would prove to be unmanageable. Between 1970 and 1980, the population
of the Mexico City Metropolitan zone increased at an average annual rate of
5.7% (Table 2.1). The State of Mexico grew at an even faster rate of 7% p.a.,
or over double the national growth rate. By 1980, some 24% of Mexico's
population lived in the Mexico City Metropolitan zone, while 35% lived in the
central region, defined as the Federal District and six surrounding states
(Map IBRD 17796). Manufacturing and production are even more highly
concentrated in the Mexico City area than is population. A 1975 survey
indicated that, while the Federal District and the State of Mexico contained
about 25% of the total population, they accounted for about 50% of total value
added in manufacturing (Table 2.2). The Mexico City area produces some 37% of
the national non-agricultural GNP and provides employment for 45% of the
industrial workers.
2.02      During the last administration, the Government took a series of steps
toward the definition of a national spatial development policy. The Law of
Human Settlements (1976) provided the legal basis for the planning and
implementation of a spatial development strategy later defined In the National
Urban Development Plan (1978). The policies presented aim at achieving a
national urban system which, by the year 2000, would consist of three cities of
more than three million people each (Mexico City, Guadalajara and Monterrey),
11 other cities with more than one million inhabitants an! 17 others with over
half a million each. The priority of these policies in Hlexico's medium- to
long-term development strategy has been reaffirmed in the present
administration's National Development Plan issued in May 1983.
(ii) The Industrial Ports Program
2.03      The Industrial Ports Program was a key element of the overall
Government strategy to relocate population, employment and industrial
development away from the central plateau to coastal areas.   In addition to
decentralization, the Program had the objectives of improving national



-4-
transport infrastructure and of expanding the industrial base and the promotion
of exports.   The public sector's role centered on the development of
infrastructure, including prepared industrial park land with waterfronts and
multiple use port facilities, at several industrial ports, which would allow
industry to take advantage of direct access to maritime transport. Private
sector initiatives at the industrial ports were supported by actions taken
under the Industrial Development Plan of 1979. This Plan had, as one of its
objectives, the promotion of industrial investment in accordance with regional
priorities. Under the Plan's industrial investment incentive scheme, industry
locating at the industrial ports received tax rebates and special prices for
energy inputs.
2.04      The Industrial Ports Program was given high priority in Mexico's
public sector investment program, and construction of access channels, rail and
road connections, industrial park and port land development, water and sewerage
supply and urban development at four industrial ports were initiated. The four
industrial ports included in the Program were (MAP IBRD 17797):
(a) Lazaro Cardenas on the Pacific Coast. This existing port was first
developed in the early 1970s to serve the Siderugica Lazaro Cardenas-
Las Truchas (SICARTSA) steel plant, and subsequently developed to
provide a wharf for the fertilizer plant, Fertilizantes Mexicanos
(FERTIMEX), and a multi-purpose cargo terminal. It was to be
expanded to accommodate a grain terminal; food processing, foundry
and steel pipe plants; an oil refinery; chemical plants; and ship
construction and repair facilities;
(b)  Altamira on the Gulf Coast.  Located about 15 km north of Tampico,
an entirely new port was to be developed in about 60 sq km of flat,
barren terrain adjacent to a straight, sandy coastline. Major steel
and related industries, grain import and food processing facilities
and petrochemical and aluminum industries were expected to locate on
this site;
(c) Laguna de Ostion on the Gulf Coast. Located north of Coatzocoalcos,
a new port was to be constructed for major oil terminals and
petrochemical industries; and
(d) Salina Cruz on the Pacific Coast. A new oil terminal and a new
industrial port were to be constructed within two new harbor basins,
adjacent to an existing general cargo port, along with petroleum-
related industrial facilities.
2.05      Between 1979 and 1983, a total of US$755 million was invested by the
Government at these sites, exclusive of investment in industrial plant
(Table 2.3). Most of these resources were directed at Lazaro Cardenas (37% of
total) (Table 2.4) and Altamira (34%). Investments peaked in 1981 and then
fell, in real terms, in line with the urgent need to reduce public sector
investment after the 1982 economic crisis. Until the recession and the need to
reassess the proper scope and timing of the Program, infrastructure at the four
sites was built at an extremely rapid pace. During the initial stages of



-5-
planning and execution, there was insufficient technical, economic and
financial analysis. Government planners relied upon global appraisals of
potential demand for port facilities and for industrial park land, and some of
the civil works were implemented without proper physical studies, which, in
turn, led to failures e*ie to inadequate designs, particularly at Altamira. In
addition, not enough   Ahasis was placed upon the design and implementation of
an administrative and financial framework to operate the completed works.
Of the four sites, Lazaro Cardenas is the most advanced, requiring limited
additional investments to make the port fully operational and to provide flood
and environmental protection. A.t Altamira, a new harbor with a 12 m draft has
been created, and large areas of land have been prepared for industrial
development. The first stage of a public multi-purpose terminal with 270 m of
wharf is almost complete, but terminal operations have not yet begun. At
Laguna de Ostion and Salina Cruz, civil works for new ports were started by
PEMEX, but were suspended before any usable installations were completed and
are not being carried forward at this time.
2.06      Industrial development at the industrial ports has progressed at a
much slower rate than expected when the Program was conceived, partly because
of the recession, which has halted new investment thrcughout Mexico, but also
because of overly optimistic projections of demand for industrial land at the
port sites. By the end of 1983, only four of the 13 industrial establishments
which had been expected to locate at Altamira had been constructed. None of
these have waterfront parcels. Lazaro Cardenas has fared better, with four new
industrial plants (besides SICARTSA and FERTIMEX) or specialized terminals
currently under construction.
2.07      In its recently published National Development Plan (May 1983)
the new administration has reaffirmed the priority of the Industrial Ports
Program, not only as a means of promoting decentralization but also as an
element in its efforts to expand exports. The investment strategy being
pursued by the new administration focuses on completion, at a minimum cost, of
necessary works at Lazaro Cardenas, and on a full review of the proper pace and
scale of other investments under the Program. In addition, more emphasis is
being placed on the role of these ports within the overall national ports
system, and on the establishment of effective admir.istrative and financial
frameworks. While well conceived investments in the Industrial Ports Program
can contribute to overall and regional economic growth, these alone will not
have a major impact upon slowing Mexico City's growth. To achieve this, the
Government must improve its pricing policies in the central region by, inter
alia, eliminating water and energy subsidies, and by enforcing existing
environmental restraints. The Industrial Ports Program will serve as a
positive offset to these difficult measures.
B. Transport and the Port Subsector
(i) Transport Development and the Economy
2.08      Mexico has an extensive transport network comprising over 200,000 km
of roads, of which 67,000 km are paved; about 20,000 km of railways; some 33



-6-
ports, of which 13 serve international traffic; about 50 airports capable of
handling medium- and large-size aircraft; and over 20,000 km of crude oil,
refined products and gas pipelines. During the 1960s and early 1970s,
substantial amounts were invested in transport -particularly roads, railways
and aviation-- with the transport sector receiving about 20% of all public
investment. The network was generally in place at that time and was considered
sufficient to meet expected demand. Emphasis was placed on operational
improvements and pricing and on using transport investment to foster
decentralization and the development of outlying areas. As a consequence, the
sector's share of public investment declined. This investment policy, however,
proved to be untenable with the surge of economic activity in the late 1970s,
which was accompanied by accelerated growth in traffic in all modes.   Between
1978 and 1981, serious port and rail bottlenecks emerged, clearly affecting the
operation of basic industries and the conduct of international trade.
Transport problems were evident with respect to grain imports and the movement
of iron ore and pellets to the steel industry.
2.09      It was evident that the transport network was unable to cope with the
accelerated growth and that, even with operational improvements, capacity
restrictions would continue to be severe. The Industrial Ports Program was to
contribute toward the solution of these problems. Although conceived mainly as
a means to decentralize industry, it was also intended to resolve port capacity
problems for containerized and break-bulk general cargo, and for many bulk
commodities. The railways were also targeted for improvements while, except
for a one-year increase in 1981, the roads budget was maintained at a
relatively constant level. Major airport construction and reconstruction
outside of Mexico City was also carried out between 1979 and 1981. Although
there were instances of premature investment and some works suffered from poor
programing, the overall response of the Government to the situation in those
years was appropriate.
2.10      The budgetary restrictions which accompanied the economic recessions
in 1982 and 1983 again shifted the emphasis in the transport investment
program. Transport investment was reduced in real terms to about US$l billion,
roughly equivalent to 1979 levels (Table 2.5). The investment budget focuses
on maintenance and reconstruction of existing infrastructure and on the
completion of ongoing construction at a minimum cost. At the same time, the
Government has deferred the initiation or continuation of major investments
such as the full-scale Industrial Ports Program, taking advantage of the
current lull in transport demand caused by the economic situation to reorder
its transport investment priorities. Most of the necessary decisions will
depend on the expected timing and structure of the economic recovery, projected
levels of non-traditional exports and import substitution and their impact on
transport facilities, and the prospects for industrial decentralization.
2.11      Besides the scale and composition of transport investments, key
transport sector issues relate to transport pricing and regulations. For land
transport, the main sector issues include the pace of fuel price adjustments to



- 7 -
bring them in line with international levels and thereby eliminate subsidies4/,
as well as the overall balance between road user charge receipts and road
e-.pentditures, and the equitable allocation of such taxes among the various
types of users. Railway tariffs, which for some commodities do not even cover
the railways' variable costs, need to be restructured. The costs and benefits
of current road freight transport regulations in Mexico should be reviewed. In
the port subsector, the main issues relate to inadequate recovery, through port
dues, of port infrastructure investment costs (para 3.29) and the excessive
centralization of port administration. The railway-related issues are being
addressed through the ongoing Fourth Railway Project and the preparation of a
proposed Railway Sector Project. Through the proposed Second Highway Sector
Project, the Bank will assist the Government in analyzing road pricing and
regulatory issues. The proposed port project serves as a vehicle toward
dialogue in, and resolution of, port pricing and administrative issues.
(ii) Ports and Maritime Transport
2.12      Much of Mexico's foreign trade is with the US, for which overland
routes are used predominantly. However, maritime transport increased as a
percentage of international transport over the last decade, and this trend is
expected to accelerate as Mexican foreign trade diversifies and new export
markets are obtained.   Excluding salt and gypsum bulk exports (which pass
through specialized terminals in Baja California), and petroleum and
derivatives traffic, about 55% of international traffic was transported by sea
in 1978, as compared with 45% in 1970. International trade through the port
system consists mainly of the export of minerals, agricultural products and
petroleum, and the import of capital goods, grain and food supplies. In 1982,
101 million tons of international traffic passed through the port system, of
which 81X was petroleum-related traffic. Domestic coastal shipping, mainly of
petroleum, is also important. In 1982, some 50 million tons were transported
by coastal shipping, of which 78% was petroleum-related (Table 2.6).
Containerized traffic has tripled since 1979, and it grew from 7Z to 23% of all
general cargo traffic between 1979 and 1982.
2.13      About 60% of all general cargo is handled by the ports of Tampico and
Veracruz. The system's capacity had been generally adequate until the late
1970s, when general cargo and bulk traffic, particularly grain, increased at a
4/   Since December 1981, the Government has followed a policy of gradually
raising domestic fuel prices toward international levels. From December
1981 to April 1984, gasoline prices have risen from US$1.06/gallon to
US$1.30/gallon for extra and US$0.42/gallon to US$0.96/gallon for
regular. Diesel prices have been raised even more significantly from
US$0.18/gallon to US$0.63/gallon. Gasoline prices are above international
levels (based on mid-1983 Caribbean market prices FOB) of US$0.82/gallon
for regular, while diesel prices are still below international levels
(US$0.80/gallon). The Bank, through its macro-economic discussions with
the Government and its economic and sector work, will continue to monitor
progress on the fuel pricing issue and help the Government to assess the
implications of its pricing policies.



- 8 -
fast pace. Between 1970 and 1976, both international and coastal shipping
general cargo and dry bulk tonnages had increased at a modest rate of between
4% and 5% per year. After 1976, traffic growth took off, with general cargo
and dry bulk traffic increasing at annual rates of 17% and 12% respectively.
These large increases led to capacitv problems, and, by the late 1970s, some
two million tons of Mexican imports and exports were being handled by US ports
with extensive overland movements. In 1982, the port system, feeling the
effects of the recession, experienced a 19Z decline in non-petroleum traffic.
2.14      The lull in transport demand was accompanied by a decline in real
terms, in 1982 and 1983, in port-related investment levels from the highs
reached in 1981. The 1984 budget for the port subsector reflects the
Government's short- to medium-term investment strategy of focusing on port
rehabilitation works and completion of ongoing projects at a minimum cost.
Capital expenditure in port infrastructure works in 1984 will total about
Mex$ 9.6 billion, of which the Industrial Ports Program represents 48%.
2.15      SCT, currently developing a medium-term port investment program
covering the years 1984-1988, is still in the process of reordering its
priorities and scaling down its program to reflect levels of resources which
can realistically be expected. The current draft calls for port investment
totaling Mex$ 63 billion (1983 prices) in 1984-1988. This represents 6% of the-
total SCT transport investment program over the period. The Industrial Ports
Program dominates the draft port infrastructure investment program,
representing 45% of total investment over the period. Among the commercial
ports, greater emphasis is being placed on the Pacific Coast ports,
particularly Manzanillo, a port which serves Guadalajara. Until 1987, the
program is directed toward completion of works already well advanced and toward
rehabilitation and reconstruction works.  Construction of new capacity is
planned in 1987 and beyond at Ensenada (container terminal), Guaymas (mineral
berth) and Mazatlan (roll-on/roll-off facility), while the program contemplates
construction of 600 m of new quay at Manzanillo, scheduled for completion in
1988. A similar pattern is followed for Gulf Coast ports where, until 1987,
only rehabilitation works would be carried out. Thereafter, initiation of
investments in additional capacity is contemplated at Salina Cruz (one
additional berth), Tampico (one additional berth), and Veracruz (mineral
berth).
2.16      This strategy of concentrating, in the early years of the program,
upon rehabilitation and reconstruction is reasonable, and it gives SCT ample
time to carry out the economic analyses which are required to determine the
appropriate timing for investments in increased capacity.  In particular,
investments in new capacity at Manzanillo and Salina Cruz should be analyzed to
determine the most appropriate timing for such investments as well as
alternative operational improvements, while those at Tampico can be analyzed
only in conjunction with ongoing studies of Altamira's potential role. The
Bank is providing assistance under the ongoing Port Development Preparation
Project (Loan 1964-ME) and under the proposed Second Highway Sector Project to
improve planning capabilities and to determine resource requirements. The
economic criteria used in analyzing port investment projects and the port
investment program would be reviewed annually as part of the project monitoring
and consultation program (para 4.12).



-9-
C. Institutional Framework
(i) Transport Planning and Organization
2.17      The current Administration introduced a far-reaching institutional
reform soon after taking office in December 1982 by incorporating all transport
agencies under SCT (Chart 25805). Previously, highway and airport development
was under the jurisdiction of the Secretariat for Human Settlements and Public
Works (SAHOP). The earlier, dispersed institutional arrangement had hampered
coordination of planning and investment; it tended to limit the scope of the
Bank's dialogue on sectoral issues. A new Subsecretariat for Infrastructure in
SCT now handles infrastructure development for almost all transport, and a
Subsecretariat for Operations has responsibility for operational, regulatory
and tariff matters. A Directorate (:eneral for Planning (DGP), which reports
directly to the Secretary, is in charge of overall planning.
2.18      SCT is presently reorganizing the Directorate General for Planning
and the other modal planning offices within the Subsecretariats for
Infrastructure and Operations. It is expected that planning units in the
various modal directorates will be responsible for identifying and proposing
capital investments and will provide the technical details required for the
analysis of such investments. The Directorate General for Planning will have
the responsibility for carrying out the economic feasibility analysis and
providing a multimodal consistent analytic framework for the preparation of the
medium-and long-term investment program. In addition to SCT, the Secretariat
for Programing and Budgeting (SPP) plays an important role in ensuring
consistent and complementary modal planning.  The Directorate for Public
Infrastructure of SPP is responsible for reviewing and approving the proposed
SCT investment and operating budgets and conducts a serious review of all major
investments in the sector. Although small, this unit has proven effective and
capable during the first year of this administration.
(ii) Port Administration
2.19      Up to early 1977, the Secretariat for the Navy was responsible for
the administration of Mexico's commercial ports, but the administrative reform
of that year transferred this responsibility to SCT. Responsibilities for the
port subsector are mainly divided under two Subsecretariats. The Directorate
General for Marine Works (DGOM) is responsible for port construction and
dredging while the Directorate General for Port Operations and Development
(DGOPD) is responsible for overall port operations. Some of the functions of
these two Directorates overlap with those of the National Port Coordinating
Commission (CNCP), which is responsible for coordinating port development
planning and policy, as well as for serving as a vehicle to consult port users
on port development. CNCP has also been recently reorganized and now has
Directorate Generals responsible for port administration, port systems analysis
and industrial ports. In practical terms, the responsibilities of CNCP
via-a-vis those of DGOM and DGOPD are sti3l evolving in response to the overall
reorganization of the sector. Other institutions or entities performing
specialized functions include: (a) Fondo Nacional para los Desarrollos
Portuarios (FONDEPORT), a trust fund recently placed under SCT's jurisdiction,



- 10-
which has responsibility for the development, sale, and/or lease of land
adjacent to port areas (Chart 26069); and (b) BANPESCA, a Government-owned bank
responsible for providing financing for port development.
2.20      With a few exceptions, the ports are operated by local port service
companies (ESPs) which are jointly owned by the Government, port unions and
port users. The nature of these companies and their efficiency vary. SCT has
decided to widen the powers of the ESPs by giving them broader responsibility,
including that for port equipment acquisition and maintenance, cargo storage,
and collection of all port tariffs and dues. The ESPs' administrations and
operations will also be strengthened through the addition of more highly
qualified staff for administration, finance, statistics, maintenance, and
operational supervision. These new concepts are being introduced first at
Lazaro Cardenas' ESP, which will serve as a model for the strengthening of
other ESPs. The proposed project would support this institutional
strengthening in Lazaro Cardenas through, inter alia, the introduction of
cost-based tariffs, the definition of financial objectives and targets, the
introduction of financial and investment planning, the implementation of a
training program designed to upgrade skills of existing staff and to train new
personnel, and the implementation of an equipment maintenance program
(para 3.19).
(iii) The Industrial Ports Program
2.21      Institutional arrangements for the Industrial Ports Program are
complex and have undergone a series of changes, the latest the result of the
institutional reorganization being carried out in the trarsport sector.  During
1982, the planning for the program was managed by the Coordinacion General de
Proyectos de Puertos Industriales (CGPPI). CGPPI's functions were transferred
to CNCP in 1983. Since CNCP is not an executing agency (except for studies and
technical assistance), all investments at the industrial ports are carried out
by the relevant entity empowered with project implementation. Besides the
executing agencies within, or the responsibility of, SCT (DGOM, the
Directorates for highway (DGCF) and railway infrastructure (DGVF), the National
Railways (N de M), and FONDEPORT), several other entities are involved with the
Industrial Ports Program. These include SARE, which is responsible for the
execution of industrial water supply and flood control; SEDUE, responsible for
urban development and environmental protection; and the local and state
authorities.
2.22      A major objective of the proposed project would be the Implementation
of a proper administrative, operational and financial framework for the
industrial port at Lazaro Cardenas. It is expected that the experience there
will serve as a basis for institutional improvemcnts in the port subsector
generally. CNCP drew up draft legislation proposing a single local port
authority to manage the Lazaro Cardenas industrial port. This proposal was
rejected by other Government agencies and a compromise proposal agreed upon
whereby the industrial port would be operated by two entities: ESP and
FONDEPORT. ESP will be responsible for all cargo handling and urine services
(tugs, pilots, etc) at both the public cargo terminal (the Multiple Use
Terminal or TUM) and the private wharfs constructed by the industries located



- 1.1 -
at the industrial port. ESP is currently being strengthened to allow it to
perform this role adequately (para 2.20). FONDEPORT will set up a local entity
to administer and operate the industrial park lands on a commercial basis
(para 3.23).
D. Developments in the Lazaro Cardenas Region
2.23      Lazaro Cardenas is located in a region made up of two of Mexico's
least developed states -- Michoacan and Guerrero. The area's development bad
been promoted as early as the 1930s by Lazaro Cardenas, then President, but it
was not until the 1960s that plans to develop Lazaro Cardenas were initiated on
a large scale. In that decade, a dam and a hydroelectric power plant were
built 15 km from the mouth of the Rio Balsas. In 1976, the SICARTSA steel
plant was completed; as part of the development of the steel complex, the
initial stage of a deep water port was constructed. Expansion of SICARTSA is
currently under way. Construction of a second major industrial plant,
FERTIMEX, began in 1979, and the port was subsequently designated as one of the
four industrial ports. The basic communications needs of the area were met in
the 1970s with the completion of rail and road links to Mexico City, about 400
km away.
2.24      The port of Lazaro Cardenas is located on channels dredged along the
right branch of the Rio Balsas (Map IBRD 17795). The land area of the
industrial port covers some 3,000 ha of adjoining channels which have been
dredged to depths varying between 10 and 14 m. Currently operational areas of
the port include the TUM and a specialized terminal at SICARTSA and FERTIMEX.
The TUM is made up of five cargo berths for ocean-going vessels: a container
terminal and four break-bulk general cargo berths.
2.25      The industrial park, which is owned and operated by FONDEPORT, is
located on an island between the right and left arms of the Rio Balsas.
Several industries or plants under construction there will also have direct
maritime access. A grain terminal is expected to be operational in 1985 as is
Industrias NKS, a foundry. Although almost completed, initiation of production
at Productos Mexicanos de Tuberias, S.A. (PMT), a pipe manufacturing plant, has
been delayed because of the recession; it is now expected that this plant will
begin production in 1986. CELASA, a drilling platform manufacturer, is
scheduled to begin construction of its facility in 1985. In addition,
FONDEPORT is planning a 40-ha small- and mediumrscale industrial park within
the larger Lazaro Cardenas industrial park area. Longer term prospects for
industrial developments include a petroleum refinery, a ship repair facility,
and a coal terminal to serve a proposed electricity generating plant to be
developed by the Comision Federal de Electricidad (CFE).
2.26      The population of Lazaro Cardenas has grown along with the
developmeat of the port.  The Municipalities of lazaro Cardenas and Guacamayas,
with estimated 1980 populations of 25,000 and 15,000 respectively, are the two
largest towns in the area. The rest of the region is made up of several small
communities and villages in both the states. In 1960, the total population of
the region was estimated at 6,500. By 1970, the region's population had grown
to 17,000 and reached 60,000 by 1980.



- 12 -
2.27      The rapid growth of industry and population has generated a number of
problems related to environmental pollution and to the strains on the road
system caused by heavy road traffic generated by the port and the industries
located in the area. The rapid growth has also been accompanied by urban
management problems, including inadequate facilities and operations of the
sewerage and water supply systems, and poor housing.
2.28      Environmental degradation, already a problem at Lazaro Cardenas, is
expected to worsen if proper steps are not taken (Annex 1). SICARTSA is
currently the main source of pollution in the area. Its pollution history,
documented by the Bank as early as 1979, points to problems related to tar,
oil, sulphur dioxide, hydrocyanic acid, benzene and dust emissions. SICARTSA
has not supplied data to the Bank regarding these emissions, but field reviews
made during appraisal indicate that the problems persist. With further
industrial development, environmental degradation would be expected to
accelerate in the Lazaro Cardenas region unless timely intervention is made to
effectively monitor pollution sources and enforce existing regulations.
Careful attention must also be given to the construction and operation of
physical facilities and the strengthening of institutions to address the
problem. Air and water pollution monitoring systems financed under
Loan 1964-ME will be installed which will assist in the data collection needed
to enforce already existing air and water pollution standards. The problems of
municipal and industrial solid and liquid wastes are being addressed under the
proposed project (para 3.07) through two components: an industrirl sewerage
system for liquid industrial waste in the FONDEPORT industrial park and a solid
waste management system for industrial and municipal waste. In addition, the
Government agreed, at negotiations, to take all appropriate measures to prevent
wastewater discharged by plants and terminals in the Port of Lazaro Cardenas
area, and by neighboring communities and facilities, from contaminating the
area's surface waters, including the construction of appropriate sewerage
systems. Such sewerage systems would include improvements to, and extensions
of, the municipal sewerage system, and construction of a system to accommodate
pretreated wastewaters of SICARTSA, FERTIMEX and the TUM. The feasibility
studies and designs for these systems would be carried out by SEDUE, under
financing under Loan 1964-ME. It is expected that the studies would be
completed by June 30, 1985. These components would be eligible for financing
under an existing Bank project for water and sewerage systems in small- and
medium-sized cities (Loan 2281-HE, FIFAPA III), if they meet criteria
established under that project. Finally, environmental conditions would be
monitored under the project during semi-annual meetings which would be held to
review progress in achieving project objectives (para 4.12).
-2.29     Solutions for easing future congestion of the urban and regional road
system are also needed. While the proposed project addresses part of the
problem by including a port access road which will route TUM and FERTIMEX
traffic around the town of Lazaro Cardenas, a bridge over the Rio Balsas and a
major cross-town connection road may be required. In response to this problem,
SCT has informed the Bank that it will carry out a study which would analyze
alternative road traffic patterns and select the most economic solution to this
urban and regional traffic management problem, prior to making any major road
or bridge investments in the Lazaro Cardenas area.



- 13 -
E. Past Bank Participation and Experience
2.30      The Bank has been active in supporting the Government's regional
decentralization and industrial development programs. It has been especially
active in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas area through operations to
support the SICARTSA steel plant (Loan 934-ME), the FERTDMEX Plant (Loan
1112-ME), urban development (Loan 1554-ME), the development of the
Zihuatanejo-Ixtapa tourist resort about two hours' drive from Lazaro Cardenas
(Loan 793-ME), and the Zihuatanejo International Airport (Loan 1022-ME).
Additional projects which support the goals of regional decentralization
include two medium-size cities water supply and sewerage projects, an urban
project for oil-producing southeastern Mexico and a loan for the preparation of
a deconcentration program for Mexico City.
2.31      The Bank has provided broad support to the development of transport
in Mexico. Nine highway loans have been made, the first in 1960 and the ninth
in 1984. There have been four railway loans and an airport loan. A Bank loan
for US$20 million (Loan 820-ME) was made in 1972 for a First Ports Project.
The main objective of the Bank's participation was to assist in the achievement
of more efficient operations and in the introduction of a commercial approach
to tariffs and services. While substantial operational improvements were
reached at some ports over the last decade, little was accomplished with
respect to the rationalization of port tariffs.
2.32      The Port Development Preparation Project (US$14.0 million, Loan
1964-ME) was approved in 1981 to assist in the preinvestment stage of the
industrial port development project through provision of planning and
management services in program formulation and design, and through studies and
detailed engineering for sector and individual project components in the ports
program. Disbursements have been slower than expected because of the large
budget reductions experienced after 1982, which greatly reduced the ability of
Mexican Government entities to utilize loan proceeds.  Nevertheless, the
studies and advisory services which have been completed, or are currently under
way, have provided a firm basis for the proposed project.
F. Role of the Bank and Lending Strategy
2.33      The potential Bank role in the transport sector has been expanded
because of several important actions taken by the administration which assumed
office in late-1982. These actions include reorganization of responsibility
for all modes under one Ministry, SCT. Following the new Government's
indication that it wished to have a substantial lending program for the
transport sector, a sector lending strategy for Bank operations was agreed. In
terms of investment, the strategy is to develop relatively quick disbursing
lending operations which focus upon short-term investment in maintenance,
rehabilitation and modernization, and upon making prior investments operational
while assisting the Government in the reassessment of its medium and long term
investment requirements.
2.34      As the first Bank loan in over 12 years for the physical development
of Mexico's ports, the proposed project is intended as the start of a series of
operations in the ports and maritime transport subsector. These operations are
to be prepared in the context of Mexico's overall program of port development.



- 14 -
2.35      The Bank's participation in the Industrial Ports Program fits in well
with the overall transport sector lending strategy by assisting the Government
to focus upon difficult investment decisions and by defini.ng, and assisting in
the satisfactory resolution of, issues related to the port subsector. At the
same time, the Bank's role in the Program goes beyond the transport sector,
with Bank participation serving as a vebicle for dialogue on the administrative
and financial aspects of the Industrial Ports Program, and on the proper pace,
scale and composition of Mexican decentralization schemes and related pricing
and investment policies, as well as on the difficult issue of environmental
control.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The principal objectives of Bank support for the Mexican Industrial
Ports Program are to: (a) improve transport facilities for industries through
provision of access to international maritime commerce and coastal shipping;
(b) encourage economic growth in under-developed coastal regions of the
country; (c) augment the country's port capacity and thereby reduce its
dependence on foreign ports as it diversifies its international trade patterns;
and {d) improve port administration and finances. In addition, Bank support to
the ongoing port development program has, as objectives, the introduction of
new approaches to investment analysis and project definition, whicn should
result in more economical use of resources, and assistance in the
institutional and financial development of port entities.
3.02      The proposed project is to complement the major investments recently
made in Lazaro Cardenas in order to increase the efficiency of the port
terminal, to strengthen the administration and finances at the industrial port,
to create transport economies for industries already existing or under
construction, to reduce or eliminate environmental hazards associated with the
industrial port development, and to provide protection against flood damage.
In preparing this project, particular attention was given to selecting least
cost solutions in order to provide for the most efficient and economic use of
past and future investments.
B. Description
3.03      The proposed project would comprise the following components in the
Lazaro Cardenas port and industrial area:
(a) road construction, rail installations and dredging for
improvements of land and maritime access to new port terminals
and industrial facilities;
(b) equipment for cargo handling and harbor craft;



- 15 -
(c)  an environmental protection component including facilities and
equipment for the collection and treatment/disposal of effluents
and solid wastes;
(d) industrial park for small- to medium-sized industries;
(e) flood protection works along the left branch of the Balsas
River; and
(f) professional services for studies, engineering, construction
supervision, training and management advisory services.
The location of the preceding components in the existing port and a general
master plan for development of the industrial port are shown on Map IBRD 17795.
3.04     Road construction under the proposed project would consist of about
7.5 km of a two-lane, paved highway with shoulders, connecting the TUM and
FERTIMEX plant with the existing major road system. Rail installation would
consist of about 8.5 km ef single and double-track rail lines, connecting the
CONASUPO grain terminal and PMT plants with existing rail lines.
3.05      Dredging would comprise the extension of the harbor basin for
specific industries needing maritime access in order to connect existing
navigation channels with special purpose docks to be built by the industrial
users. The dredging work to be financed under this project would be done in
stages comprising several subprojects over a five-year period. Each subproject
of the work would be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, on the basis of
technical, economic and financial feasibility studies conducted in accordance
with terms of reference which have been agreed with the borrower (Annex 2) and
which were confirmed during negotiations. Each subproject in the dredging
program would have a minimum economic rate of return of 12Z and be subject to
satisfactory cost recovery arrangements. A mid-term review would be held after
the initiation of the second group of subprojects to review the pace of
utilization of project funds and the forecasts for future requirements in order
to determine the appropriate timing and dimensions of subsequent works. The
technical and economic analysis for the first tranche has been completed but
confirmation of details of cost-recovery arrangements are still pending.
Submission of satisfactory evidence of each subproject's technical, economic
and financial feasibility would be a condition of disbursement on each
tranche.
3.06      Equipment for cargo handling to be financed under the proposed
project is to improve the efficiency and capacity of existing container and
general cargo berths at the existing TUM; a list of the proposed equipmen' is
given in Annex 3. The harbor craft is to consist of a 35-ton traction power
tug, designed to assist vessels inside the harbor during maneuvering, berthing
and unberthing operations. The tug would be procured from local shipyards, and
Bank financing would be limited to propulsion machinery and navigation
equipment.



- 16 -
3.07      The environmental component would consist of the following
subcomponents:
(a) FONDEPORT wastewater collection ard treatment including two
small collector sewers, aerated lagoons, and outfalls
discharging into the left branch of the Balsas River which
would service major industries locating in the FONDEPORT
industrial park area; and
(d) a system to collect, process and dispose of municipal and
industrial solid wastes. The system would include compactor
trucks, tractors, a truck crane, a small toxic waste incinerator
and various physical facilities (laboratory, maintenance shop,
office, etc). All wastes except FERTIMEX gypsum and SICARTSA
slag and scrap would be accepted for disposal.
Preparation of the solid waste management system has not been advanced to the
level at which it can be fully appraised, but its inclusion in the proposed
project is considered highly important because of the urgency of initiating
effective environmental protection measures in the port area.  At aegotiations,
it was agreed that the feasibility studies and designs for the solid waste
management system would be presented for Bank review by December 15, 1984.
3.08      At negotiations, it was agreed that the Government would enter into
agreement with the municipality of Lazaro Cardenas, regarding arrangements,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for carrying out the solid
waste management system component; this agreement would include detailed
provisions with respect to the construction, operation and cost recovery of the
system.   Submission to the Bank of the signed and effective agreement
regarding the solid waste management system would be a condition for
disbursement on that component. It is expected that the draft agreement would
be submitted to the Bank for review and comment by March 15, 1985.
3.09      The industrial infrastructure is to consist of site preparation, road
construction and utilities for about 125 small- to medium-sized installations
in an area of about 40 ha. This area is part of a 120-ba site designated for
such industries within the overall area under FONDEPORT's jurisdiction in
Lazaro Cardenas.
3.10      The flood control component of the proposed project would provide for
levees and channel rectification on the left branch of the Balsas River
(Annex 4). The rectification would provide a 250-meter-wide channel generally
following the existing river bed and extending from La Villita Dam at the head
of the Rio Balsas delta to within 2 km of the Pacific Ocean, a distance of
about 12 km. Approximately 8.0 million cubic meters of material would be
excavated in channel construction. The proposed plan is designed to protect
against flood flows up to 7,000 cubic meters per second (cms). At
negotiations, the Government agreed that CFE would regulate the two upstream
hydropower projects at the La Villita and Infiernillo Reservoirs so as to limit
the water flow in the delta from these plants to 7,000 cms with a flood return
frequency of about 200 years. A mathematical model which would verify flood
conditions is currently being updated and would be used to confirm the economic
analysis of this component. A condition of disbursement on this component



- 17 -
would be the confirmation of the economic viability of the flood control
protection works component through verification of the economic analysis by
this updated mathematical model.
3.11      The professional services to be financed under the proposed project
would comprise:
(a)  supplementary technical studies as may be required for the
environmental components;
(b)  construction supervision for all major civil works and the
testing and inspection of major equipment at the manufacturers'
plants and upon delivery;
(c)  training and related equipment for operating, management and
administrative personnel of the port and the staff of proposed
environmental protection installations (Annex 5); and
(d)  management advisory services for SCT and ESP and studies related
to cost accounting, tariffs and organizational developments.
Agreement was reached during loan negotiations on the scope and timing of these
professional services.
C. Implementation, Costs and Financing
3.12      Civil works and equipment to be financed under the proposed project
would be subject to international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank Guidelines, with the exception of the civil works for the PONDEPORT
sewerage system, which would be procured under local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank (para 4.06); the propulsion and navigational
equipment for the tug (para 3.06), which would be procured through limited
international bidding open to a preselected number of qualified suppliers; and
the equipment related to training which would be procured under local
comparative shopping procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Construction of the
tug, which would not be financed under the loan, would be procured under local
competitive bidding procedures. Prequalification of contractors would be
required for all works. Rails to be financed under the proposed project would
be purchased in a larger lot, under ICB, to replenish stocks used by DGVF for
the Lazaro Cardenas installations. AlU professional services to be financed
under the proposed project would be retained in accordance with procedures
described in Bank Guildelines on the Uses of Consultants. In evaluating bids
for equipment procured through ICB, Mexican bidders would be allowed a margin
of preference equivalent to 15% of the CIF cost of competing imports, or the
relevant prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower.
3.13      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$112.7 million, of
which US$76.3 million is foreign exchange. These estimates include physical
contingencies varying from 10% to 15% for civil works and from 0% to 15% for
equipment procurement. Because of uncertainties with regard to local inflation
rates and exchange rates over the project period, both local and foreign costs



- 18 -
have been calculated in US dollars, and price contingencies have been
calculated based on expected changes in international prices. As a result, the
local currency estimates may not represent the actual amount of local currency
which will be required over the project period. Price escalation in both
foreign and local cost components (denominated in US$) has been estimated at
3.5% for 1984; 8% for 1985; 9% for 1986, 1987 and 1988; and 7.5% for 1989.
D. Project Execution and Coordination
3.14      The Industrial Port Program Commission, which is made up of
representatives of SCT, SARH, SEDUE, FONDEPORT, CNCP and SPP, is the body
charged with overall policy making and coordination for the Industrial Port
Program. Project coordination would be the responsibility of a monitoring and
coordination group established within the Commission which would include
representatives of each directorate within SCT, SARH and SEDUE, which is
involved in the project, as well as of CNCP, SPP and BANPESCA. SCT would take
lead responsibility within the group. A Technical Secretariat within CNCP,
which would report to this group, would be responsible for day-to-day project
monitoring, including the preparation of reports regarding project execution
and achievement of the project objectives. A project coordinator would be
appointed in Lazaro Cardenas to oversee supervision of all project works
(para 4.05).
3.15      SCT would be responsible for execution of the road, rail and maritime
access components of the project and for the Lazaro Cardenas road system
study. SARH would be responsible for the flood protection measures and SEDUE
for the execution of studies and related civil works and equipment acquisition
for the solid waste disposal system. FONDEPORT would be responsible for the
sewerage component at the industrial park and the small- and medium-scale
industrial park while ESP would be responsible for cargo handling equipment and
tug procurement.
3.16      BANPESCA would be the Borrower for the project and would transfer
project funds between the Bank and the executing agencies. It was agreed at
negotiations that, as a condition of loan effectiveness, BANPESCA would enter
into agreements, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with ESP,
FONDEPORT, and the Government for on-lending of project funds. The agreements
with these two entities would be on the same financial terms and conditions as
those between the Bank and BANPESCA.
E. Financial Framework
3.17      The three principal participants in the project are the Federal
Government, ESP and FONDEPORT. Consequently, the financial analysis (Annex 6)
deals separately with each of these entities. Of the three, ESP is, at
present, the only one constituted as a comercial enterprise (Chart 26028).
FONDEPORT, the Federal agency which owns the industrial park lands and has
invested in their development, has commissioned studies for guidance on the
most appropriate form for the administration and commercial development of



- 19 -
these lands. When completed, in about June 1984, these studies are expected to
provide the basis for setting up a local FONDEPORT entity. The Federal
Government, through SCT, remains the largest investor in the port area to
date. The Government partially recovers its investments through dues on ships
and cargo passing through the port (an estimated 22% of annual depreciation was
recovered in 1983). The Government's port-related operations are, therefore,
also treated as a separate proforma entity for the sake of the financial
evaluation.
(i) ESP
3.18      ESP has been handling cargo and ship traffic in the existing port
facilities since about 1975, and, although it has moved over one million tons
of cargo every year since then, it has done so with a minimum of capital and
manpower of its own, using SICARTSA's crane and the stevedoring union's labor
force on a contractual "per-ton" basis. While it has consistently shown some
sort of profit (except for 1981, when it was overtaken by rapid inflationary
price rises without the possibility of adjusting its tariffs accordingly), its
expenditures do not reflect the real costs of equipment used since its
equipment is depreciated on a historic cost basis. Nor do ESP's expenses
include any infrastructure costs, since the channels, navigation aids, quays
and sheds are used for the port operation by Empresa without a concessionary
fee. Some of the costs for these items are, however, recovered directly by the
Government from the port users through vessel and mooring dues and wharfage.
3.19      The Government has stated its intention to strengthen the ESPs'
financial capacity so as to make them financially self-sufficient. In this
regard, it is the Government's intention that ESP port tariffs be adjusted as
appropriate to reflect costs, and that they be increased periodically as
required to maintain these levels in real terms. A cost and tariff study will
be undertaken for the Lazaro Cardenas ESP, under the project, in order to
determine required adjustnients. In the meantime, the Government has made in
1983 and 1984 frequent adjustments to maintain the ESP's tariff levels in real
terms. Other actions being taken by ESP and the Government to strengthen the
Lazaro Cardenas ESP are reflected in the ESP action plan confirmed at
negotiations (Annex 7). Actions being taken include the transfer to ESP of
Government-owned equipment currently being utilized by ESP; transfer of port
storage functions to the ESP; the introduction of financial and investment
planning; the implementation of a training program (Annex 5); and the
implementation of a maintenance program (para 3.20).
3.20      In order to ensure that ESP's equipment and installations would be
adequately maintained, CNCP prepared, with the assistance of consultants
financed under Loan 1964-HE, a comprehensive preventive maintenance program
specifically related to port requirements in Lazaro Cardenas. This program
covers civil, mechanical, electrical and marine engineering aspects of port
maintenance. The periodic data required have been identified, and the forms to
be used to register details of all installations and equipment, to prepare
inspection schedules, and to provide required maintenance services have been
developed. The implementation of this maintenance program starting in 1985 is
included in ESP's action plan. The program would be introduced in parallel to
the training program which would prepare qualified maintenance staff (Annex 5).



- 20 -
3.21      The following agreements were reached at negotiations with regard to
ESP:
(a)   ESP to produce, during each of its fiscal years, beginning in 1987,
total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its (i) total
operating expenses; and (ii) the amount by which debt service
requirements exceed the provision for depreciation. For fiscal years
1985 and 1986, ESP to produce total revenues which will at least
cover its working costs;
(b)   ESP to complete, by September 15, 1985, a study of its costs and
tariffs, and to exchange views with the Bank on the study's
conclusions and on an action plan for the implementation of the
study's recommendations;
(c)   the Government to allow ESP, by June 30, 1985, to collect storage
fees and to retain an amount sufficient to cover the costs of its
operating and maintaining the storage facilities on the public
wharves;
(d)   all existing port equipment currently being used for the operation of
the public wharves in Lazaro Cardenas to be transferred by the
Government to ESP, as an equity contribution, by December 31, 1984;
and
(e)   the Government to take all appropriate measures to permit ESP to meet
its financial targets, including, as and when appropriate, the
granting of authorization for ESP to adjust its tariffs and fees.
3.22      Fullfillment of these conditions would mean a considerable increase
in the level of tariffs and a continuing increase in tariffs in real terms.
The financial analysis shows that tariffs would have to be raised, on average,
by at least 35% in real terms in 1985, and again by 7.5% in 1987, in order to
enable any contribution in later years toward investment costs. Reaching this
latter goal earlier is desirable but not realistic. ESP's action plan includes
financial targets to be achieved in fullfillment of these conditions (Annex 7).
(ii) FONDEPORT
3.23      FONDEPORT has, in the past, operated only as a Federal agency from
its headquarters in the capital. The historic part of the financial analysis,
which confines itself to the last two years, shows the healthy position of the
enterprise. FONDEPORT has set up a special department to deal with its new
responsibility for the development of industrial ports (Chart 26069).
FONDEPORT has also commissioned studies on administration, commercialization
and promotion of its industrial parks which will provide, inter alia, the basis
for decisions regarding the type of administrative structure which should be
set up to operate the Lazaro Cardenas industrial park. It is FONDEPORT's
intention to manage the industrial park separately from its other (mainly
fishing port) operations. These studies will also provide an analysis of
market demand for the industrial park land which will serve as a basis for



- 21 -
financial and investment planning, and for setting of rents and service
charges. While FONDEPORT's financial targets for the Lazaro Cardenas
industrial park cannot be set until the studies are completed, FONDEPORT has
stated its financlal objectives with regard to the Lazaro Cardenas industrial
park. The minimum financial objectives will be to set leases and service
charges so that internally generated funds (i.e., operating surpluses and
depreciation allowance sufficient to cover annually revalued depreciable
assets) cover a reasonable proportion of the average annual capital expenditure
incurred or expected to be incurred in Lazaro Cardenas over a five-year
period. It Is expected that FONDEPORT will generate sufficient funds for no
less than a 20% average participation in its five-year investment plan.
3.24      In discussions held with Bank staff, agreement was reached on the
premises which form the basis for the financial projections of the new entity
to be set up to administer the industrial park. Although the lands for
industrial development cost FONDEPORT nothing, it is intended that their leases
would, in the future, reflect their market price, allowing for recovery of
investments made in infrastructure and the special benefits to be derived from
waterfront location or proximity to the port. The annual rent of Mex$ 35/sq m
used in the financial analysis Is a theoretical minimum which would be required
in order to generate sufficient funds during the first five years of operation
to cover debt service and investments. It is not related to market prices for
industrial land nor does it give a reasonable return on net-fixed assets. It
is, however, expected that market conditions will allow FONDEPORT to set its
rents so as to achieve a reasonable financial return (para 3.23).
3.25      To date, only one lease, that with PMT, has been contracted
officially. Its financial terms, which serve as the point of departure for
FONDEPORT's lease-revenue projections, require revision every three years
(Annex 6). This year, FONDEPORT intends to draw up formal contracts with those
enterprises which have already been allocated lands and are constructing
plants, and to collect rent retroactively. Leases are likely to be for periods
of 20-25 years, with any construction on the land subsequently reverting to
FONDEPORT. Where land will not be required for other port-related options,
extensions for continued operations by the tenants may be granted.
3.26      In addition to the lands assigned to heavy industry on or close to
the waterfront, FONDEPORT intends to develop an area of 120 ha for smaller
industries and workshops which either have some functional relationship to the
heavier industries in the port area or serve the muuicipal area of Lazaro
Cardenas. The first stage of this development (40 ha) would be Included under
the project. Development of this park for small and medium Industries is based
on the results of a market and feasibility study. The study includes a market
survey of potential lessees, and a study of the park's economic and financial
feasibility. The market study and financial analysis recommended a monthly
rental value of Mex$ 48.15 per sq m2 which would be appropriate to meet demand
for land, filling the initial 40 ha area over the first three years. Leasing
contracts would have an escalation clause to maintain the lease at its 1983
value in real terms. It is FONDEPORT's intention to achieve an annual return
of at least 1OZ on the average current net value of the small- and medium-scale
park's fixed depreciable assets. The financial projections show that, in order



- 22 -
to maintain a return of 1OX, the rental value would have to be about
Mex$ 44 sq m. The administrative framework through which the park is to be
managed would be determined as a part of the larger ongoing study with regard
to the administration of the whole of the industrial port area.
3.27      The following conditions were agreed at negotiations with regard to
FONDEPORT:
(a)   that a condition of loan effectiveness be the completion of the
administration, commercialization and promotion studies;
(b)   that FONDEPORT:  (i) exchange views with the Bank on the findings and
recommendations of these studies; (ii) present to the Bank, by
December 15, 1984, an action plan for the implementation of the study
recommendations; and (iii) carry out the action plan; and
(c)   that the Government recover the costs of dredging to provide
maritime access and industrial waterfronts from the beneficiaries of
the works. No dredging subproject would be approved for Bank
financing before such arrangements are made.
(iii) The Federal Government
3.28      The Federal Government, principally through SCT, has invested some
Mex$ 16.4 billion at 1983 prices (about US$131 million) in dredging works,
construction of the public wharfs, buildings and infrastructure at Lazaro
Cardenas5/. These investments are recovered, only in part, by port dues and
mooring fees levied on vessels, wharfage levied on cargo (also through the ship
operators), excess storage charges and concession fees from industries
operating their own wharfs (only FERTIMEX pays such a concession to date).
These dues and fees, which are collected through the Superintendencia (a field
agent of DGOPD), and the customs authorities in the case of storage, are
uniform among all Mexican ports. Revenues go directly to the Ministry of
Finance and are in no way related to funds for port investments, which come
from SCT's annual investment budget. In the financial analysis, proforma
accounts relating to a notional Government port entity at Lazaro Cardenas have
been developed. Projections for 1985-1989 indicate that, in order to generate
the required surplus to pay interest, after covering all 'operational' costs,
existing dues would have to be increased by 120% in real terms and maintained
at such a real level thereafter.
3.29      It is the Government's intention to rationalize port pricing with the
general objective of eliminating subsidies and promoting the efficient use of
resources.  The Government has set up a special pricing commission in the
Ministry of Finance which will determine cost recovery principles for
5/   The overall investments in the Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Port Program as
shown in Table 2.4, include not only these investments in wharfs,
buildings and infrastructure, but also those which have been assigned to
FONDEPORT and ESP in the financial analysis.



- 23 -
transportation infrastructure and for Government-controlled enterprises. In
1983, the Government raised port dues by levels which resulted in real
increases in revenues of 115% between 1982 and 1983. Individual charges were
raised between 242 and 2,000% in that year. In 1984, additional increases are
planned for August to adjust port dues to reflect price increases caused by
inflation. Other actions being taken by the Government include the
revaluation of assets owned by the Government in all commercial and industrial
ports. Under the project, a study to determine the proper level of port dues,
which will serve as a basis for preparation of an action plan to rationalize
port pricing, will be prepared. It is anticipated that, upon completion of the
ongoing revaluation of countrywide port assets and of the port dues study, a
phased but fairly rapid adjustment will be made of port dues, in accordance
with the stated Government intention to rationalize pricing and eliminate
subsidies.
3.30      At negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the
following:
(a)   that the Government would carry out a study, on a countrvwide basis,
to determine the proper level of cost-related port dues, by Septemoer
15, 1985. After exchanging views with the Bank on the study's
findings, the Government would present to the Bank, by January 15,
1986, an action plan for the progressive achievement of the study's
recommendations at Lazaro Cardenas;
(b)   that the Government would recover, from FO1DEPORT, a portion of flood
control investment cost proportional to the estimated benefits to
FONDEPORT lands; and
(c)   that the Lazaro Cardenas Superintendencia would keep accounts showing
periodic results with regard to the port's costs and revenues.
F. Economic Justification and Benefits
3.31      The project is made up of components designed to minimize transport
costs (road, rail, and maritime access, tug and cargo handling equipment); to
protect against flooding; to address problems of environmental degradation; and
to meet demand for industrial land for small- and medium-scale industries. In
the assessment of each project component's economic Justification, alternative
project designs were analyzed in order to ensure that the selected project
component was appropriate in terms of scope and timing.  For the transport-
related components, a key variable in the analysis was the traffic forecast
given in Annex 8 and summarized in paragraphs 3.32-3.34. Annex 9 describes, in
detail, alternatives analyzed as part of the economic analysis, while Annex 4
gives details specifically related to the flood control project.
Mi) Port Traffic Forecast
3.32      In terms of port traffic flows, the port at Lazaro Cardenas can be
divided into the TUM, operated by ESP, and the specialized terminals under
construction at FERTIMEX and at the FONDEPORT industrial park (Table 3.1).



- 24 -
Until recently, the TUM handled mainly traffic generated by SICARTSA at the
bulk handling facility; traffic there averaged about 700,000 tons of coal
imports annually. These declined in 1982 and 1983 because of the recession and
a decision to use domestic coal in SICARTSA's operation, but it is expected
that substantial coal imports will resume in 1984. Iron and steel traffic
fluctuated from lows of 4,000 tons to highs of 346,000 tons over the 1979-1983
period. The port is considered to be adequately equipped to handle
SICARTSA-related port traffic over the short to medium term.
3.33      Traffic at the TUM is expected to diversify, however, in keeping with
a marked trend toward increased break-bulk and containerized general cargo
traffic at the port. Between 1979 and 1983, break-bulk general cargo increased
by 102X p.a. from 11,000 to 172,000 tons. This traffic is expected to increase
at a more modest rate of 7.6% p.a. between 1983 and 1989. The mix of general
cargo commodities is expected to change, with barite and chemical traffic
becoming more important. Containerized general cargo has grown even more
rapidly, from 2,000 tons in 1981 to 46,000 tons in 1983. This traffic is
expected to grow by 26% p.a., reaching 187,000 tons in 1989.
3.34      Grain traffic at the TUM increased at a rate of 39% p.a. between 1980
and 1983, to 475,000 tons. This traffic is expected, however, to be
transferred from the TUM to the grain terminal on FONDEPORT land in 1985, which
will result in an overall decline in TUM traffic in that year. Besides the
grain terminal, other specialized terminals which will begin operations in 1985
and 1986 are: (a) the FERTIEEX berth; and (b) in the FONDEPORT industrial park,
berths for PMT, a pipe manufacturer; for CELASA, an oil drilling platform
manufacturer; and for a Pemex petroleum products tank farm.
(ii) Economic Justification
3.35      Land Access (5% of project costs).  The project includes construction
of a 7.5-km two-lane paved road which will provide access from the entrance of
the FERTIMEX complex and the TUM to the existing main road on the southern edge
of Lazaro Cardenas. Currently, road traffic generated by the TUM utilizes a
service road which passes through SICARTSA land. This road was not designed to
handle the types of traffic which will be generated by the TUM and FERTIMEX.
In the economic analysis, several alternatives were evaluated separately: a
four-lane highway with and without grade separations at the railway crossing,
and a two-lane highway, with and without grade separations. The analysis
indicated that the optimm alternative is a the two-lane road with level
crossing. Quantified benefits from the provision of road access to the TUM and
FERTIMEX plant are vehicle operating cost (including time) savings from
reductions in urban road traffic congestion and avoidance of a road in poor
condition, which, without the project, would be expected to further deteriorate
since it was not designed to bandle the types of traffic which will be
generated by the port. An unquantified but important benefit from the project
is, through the transfer of traffic to the access road, the avoidance of
interference with port operations on the SICARTSA side of the basin. This
component has an estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of 20X. The rail
access would link part of the FONDEPORT industrial park with the national rail
network. The economic viability of rail connections to both the right and left



- 25 -
branches of the industrial park was analyzed, and it was concluded that only
the right branch rail connection could be justified at this time given
projected levels of traffic. Benefits from this component are: (a) reductions
in transport costs from avoiding the 10.5 km road journey between these
installations and the rail station; (b) avoidance of cargo double-handling; and
(c) reduction in grain losses. This component has an estimated ERR of 19%.
3.36      Cargo Handling Equipment (9Z of project costs).  Port operations at
the Lazaro Cardenas TUM were initiated in 1979 with the opening of two berths
adjacent to the SICARTSA complex. Three additional berths (one of which is a
container terminal) began receiving traffic in 1981. Civil works at the TUM
(container yard, general cargo sheds, container consolidation terminal) were
virtually complete in 1983; a quayside gantry crane was installed in 1981. The
nature and the level of TUM traffic are changing rapidly, and the TUN is not
adequately equipped to handle current and forecast levels of traffic (para
3.33). The project provides for acquisition of break-bulk general cargo and
container handling equipment designed to meet projected traffic flows. The
types and numbers of container handling equipment were selected on the basis of
an optimization study made to determine the least cost solution to the handling
of this traffic. In the economic analysis, in the without project case, it
would be expected that cargo would not be handled as efficiently as it would be
if the port were equipped properly. Quantified benefits from the proposed
cargo handling equipment are derived from faster ship-turnaround, resulting in
decreased ship waiting and service times with the project. Lower shore cargo
handling costs, another important benefit, were not quantified, and, to that
extent, the analysis is conservative. The general cargo handling equipment and
the container handling equipment have estimated ERRs of 23% and 18X
respectively.
3.37      Maritime Access:  Dredging Program (32% of project costs).  The
dredging program would provide maritime access and waterfronts to industries
located at the industrial park, allowing these industries to take advantage of
direct maritime transport through the already constructed access channels and
basins at the port. The feasibility of providing such waterfronts is dependent
upon the type and timing of industrial development at the port, which, in turn,
is linked to the timing and strength of the Mexican economic recovery. Because
of uncertainties with regard to this recovery and the pace of industrial
development, only the first tranche of the dredging program, which will provide
waterfronts to PMT, a pipe manufacturer, and Celasa, an oil drilling platform
manufacturer, has been subject to economic analysis at this time. Subsequent
tranches would be approved for financing under the project subject to
satisfactory technical, economic and financial analyses (para 3.05). In all
cases, the economic analysis took into account both dredging costs, to be
financed under the project, and berth construction costs, to be financed
directly by the industrial concern. If the waterfront for PMT were not
constructed, then maritime traffic generated by the plant would have to be
transported by truck to and from the TUM, where it would be transferred to
ships. Quantified benefits from both berth construction and dredging therefore
are: (a) avoidance of road transport and double-handling costs; and (b) avoid-
ance of ship waiting time at the TUM. This component has an estimated ERR of
22%. The industrial development at Celasa could not take place without a



- 26 -
waterfront, and, as such, this component was justified us'ng a producer surplus
approach. The value-added of Celasa's production was compared with total
investment costs (land, industrial plant and equipment, berth construction and
dredging costs, and part of the flood control costs), yielding an estimated ERR
of 18Z.
3.38      Tug (4% of project costs).  The project would provide for acquieition
of a 35-ton tractive power tug which would assist in vessel maneuvering,
berthing and unberthing within the harbor. The tug, which would be capable of
handling vessels of up to 100,000 dwt, is essentially required for safety
reasons. The type of tug to be acquired was selected after an anAlysis of
technical alternatives which took into account the type, number and size of
vessels expected to visit the port. In addition to safety considerations,
because the tug is more powerful than that currently in operation, vessels
would benefit from faster turnaround times. Further, without the project, the
port would have only one tug. If this were to break down, port operations
would be shut down as well, which would result in costly increases in ship
waiting costs. The tug was analyzed as part of the overall port since it is an
essential element in port operations. Therefore, an overall estimated ERR was
calculated for all transport-related project components (paras 3.35-3.37)
whereby all costs (including that of the tug) and quantifiable benefits were
compared. This yielded an overall ERR of 17X.
3.39      Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Park (3% of project costs).  The
small- and medium-scale industrial park would provide infrastructure and
related services to industrial concerns which would, in turn, provide inputs
and services to the major industries located at the Lazaro Cardenas industrial
port. It is also expected that companies which would use SICARTSA steel in
manufacturing would locate there. The investment in the park for small- and
medium-scale industries was analyzed by first projecting potential demand,
based on a market analysis, for prepared industrial land and then comparing
economic capital (including a share of flood control costs) and operating costs
with projected park revenues net of transfer payments and taxes. This
component has an estimated ERR of 23Z.
3.40      Environmental Components (14% of project costs).  The project
includes two components which address problems of environmental degradation
caused by municipal and industrial wastes. The FONDEPORT industrial sewer is
the first phase of an overall master plan at the industrial park to provide for
appropriate disposal of waste as the industrial park develops. Within the
overall plan, this first phase is the least cost solution; it provides for
lagoon-based treatment and not for sophisticated and costly treatment plants;
the lagoons would discharge into the Rio Balsas and not into the ocean, Which
would be justified only when the industrial park is more intensively utilized.
The FONDEPORT sewerage system to be supported under the project is therefore
considered appropriate for projected industrial demand in the short to medium
term. The cost of this component was included in the overall calculation of
project .osts and benefits which yielded an economic rate of return of 23%.
The solid waste management system is under study. The study will include
financial and economic analyses to ensure that the least cost solution is
selected.



- 27 -
3.41      Flood Protection (30% of project costs).  The economic evaluation of
the flood protection component analyzed a number of alternatives providing
different levels of flood protection in order to determine the optimum design
solution. Benefits were calculated by first determining levels of damages
which would occur at various flood discharges and then applying these damages
to probabilities of the flood's occurrence. The main quantified benefits were
avoidance of damage to industrial and port infrastructure and prevention of
production losses. With the project, the La Villita dam is also expected to
produce an increased energy output. The alternative with the highest net
present value of benefits provides protection for flows of up to 7,000 cms.
This level of flood protection has an estimated economic rate of return of 40%.
G.   Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
3.42      The main risks which could be associated with the project would be
shortfalls in the realization of forecast traffic and delays in completion of
ongoing industrial plant construction. Those components related primarily to
port traffic growth levels (e.g., road and rail access and cargo handling
equipment) are moderately sensitive to changes in costs and benefits, but only
major shortfalls in traffic growth levels would significantly affect these
components' viabilities (Table 3.2). The container handling equipment is the
most sensitive of the transport-related components to decreases in benefits. A
27% decrease in benefits (or traffic) would reduce the ERR of that component to
12%. Benefits from the road, rail and general cargo handling equipment would
have to decrease by 38%, 33% and 27% respectively for these components' ERRs to
be reduced to 12%. Since the traffic forecasts are considered conservative,
the risk of such major shortfalls occurring is not great. Since part of Lazaro
Cardenas' container traffic is expected to be diverted from Manzanillo, a
sensitivity test was made to determine the impact on the container handling
equipment component if this traffic did not materialize. If traffic were not
diverted from Manzanillo, the equipment would have an estimated ERR of 15%.
These components are moderately sensitive to increases in costs. The cost of
cargo handling equipment would have to increase by 35% for this component to
have an ERR of 12%. The costs of the road and rail components would have to
increase by well over 50% to reduce their respective ERRs to 12%.
3.43      The small- and medium-scale industrial park is also only moderately
sensitive to increases in costs or decreases in benefits. Benefits would have
to decrease by 37%, or costs to increase by 57%, for this component's ERR to
decline to 12%. The flood control's economic return is not sensitive to
expected changes in costs and benefits. Costs would have to increase by 405%,
or benefits to decrease by 80%, to lower this component's estimated ERR to 12%.
3.44      Among the project components, the greatest risks are related to the
dredging to create industrial waterfronts since the benefits are intimately
dependent upon the successful completion and operation of each industry.
Sensitivity analysis of PMT indicates that, even if initiation of production
were delayed by five years, the dredging works would still be economically
viable. The greatest risk is that associated with the oil drilling platform
manufacturer, considering the speculative nature of this type of enterprise.
If the first order for an oil drilling platform were received three years



- 28 -
behind schedule, this investment's ERR would decline to 12X. The risk is being
borne by the company involved and is being minimized by the division of the
dredging work into three stages. Stage one is needed for the construction
phase and for delivery of inputs; subsequent stages are needed to launch the
platforms. Stages two and three would not go forward if the company does not
receive contracts for the platforms. The economic analysis was made for all
three stages but only stage one is included in the first group of works being
financed by the Bank. The economic analysis would have to be reevaluated for
each tranche and before Bank approval is given. The risks of premature
investment in the dredging to create waterfronts is being further minimized by
the requirement that each company pay directly for the costs of such dredging.
Before any tranche is approved, the Bank would receive written agreement
between the company involved and the Government, indicating the relevant
financial arrangements.
3.45      Because the execution and operation of the proposed project will
require coordination among a large number of agencies falling under the
jurisdiction of three secretariats, there is a risk of administrative
complication and delay. The decision to create a monitoring and coordinating
group within the Industrial Ports Program Commission and to name SCT as lead
agency should minimize this risk. Nevertheless, a greater-than-average Bank
supervision effort will be required over the life of the project.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
A. Cost Estimates, Finance and Disbursements
4.01      A summary of the estimated costs for the proposed project components
is given on the following page, and a detailed breakdown of the costs by
component and year is given in Tables 4.1 and 4.2. Except as indicated in the
notes on the tables, final engineering is substantially complete. The sources
of funds for the local costs for each component are given in the financing plan
shown in Table 4.3.
4.02      Disbursements on the loan would be made against:
(a)   66% of total expenditures of civil works contracts;
(b)   100% of cost, insurance and freight for equipment and rails procured
from foreign sources and 100% of ex-factory cost for equipment and
rails procured from domestic sources; and
(c)   100% of the costs of professional services for technical assistance
and training and for training other than recurrent operational
training costs.



- 29 -
mEXICo
LAZARM  CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJFCT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS COST SItIARY
(USS Million)                  Z Total
--    I Foreign   Base
Local Foreign Total   Exchange    Costs
I. INVESTMENT CESTS
A. Road Access                      2.3      1.9   4.2           45        S
D. Rail Access                      0.2      0.9   1.0           aS        1
C. Maritime Akcess                  8.9    20.9  29.8            70       35
O. Esuipsent                        3.2      8.5  11.7           73       14
E. Collector Sewers                 1.S      1.5   3.0           30        3
F. System for Solid Waste Mst.      1.2      1.8   3.0           60        3
S. Industrial Park                  1.3      1.1   2.4           45        3
H. Flood Protection                 8.1    18.9  27.0            70       31
I. Technical Assistance             0.2      0.4   0.5           70        1
J. Supervision of Constr.           0.8      1.6   2.5           70        3
K. Training                         0.3      0.7   1.0           70        1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                27.9    36.2  86.1            68      100
Phusical Contingencies              3.1      5.9   9.0           66       10
Price Contingencies                 5.4    12.0  17.4            69       20
Total INCLUDINO C2NTIN6ENCIES         36.4    76.1 112.5            68      131
May 1984



- 30 -
4.03      Bank funds are expected to be disbursed over a six-year period
(Table 4.4) which is generally in line with the standard disbursement profile
for non-agricultural projects in Mexico which indicates that a seven-year
period is required to obtain full disbursement. In preparing the disbursement
estimate, the standard profile was modified to take into account the fact that
most of the project components are essentially completion of ongoing projects
and that substantial amounts of preparatory works have already been completed.
Work on the FONDEPORT sewerage system was initiated in October 1983. In order
to provide for disbursements on these works, retroactive financing of up to
US$1.5 million would be provided for civil works under the loan.
B. Execution and Procurement
4.04      The proposed project would be implemented by the various agencies
responsible for design and physical maintenance of individual project
components, with overall coordination by SCT. This procedure is, in principle,
similar to that used in earlier stages of the industrial ports program, during
1979-1983; it has, as its rationale, the continuity of responsibility from the
design stage --through bidding, contracting and supervision of construction-
to final acceptance and maintenance (or operation), all under the jurisdiction
of the same agency. The contract breakdown and budgetary allocations would be
made accordingly. The project implementation schedule is given in Chart 26010.
4.05      The executing agencies responsible for specific project components
are shown in Table 4.5. Within SCT, the Subsecretariat for Infrastructure has
been designated as the official with primary responsibility for coordination of
the proposed project throughout the implementation period. A general
coordinator would be appointed by the Subsecretary for Infrastructure in SCT to
oversee supervision of works being carried out by the different agencies. This
coordinator would be located in Lazaro Cardenas to facilitate identification
and resolution of problems which may arise during project execution.
4.06      Local competitive bidding procedures used by FONDEPORT (para 3.12)
are similar to those used by SCT, which have been reviewed by the Bank and
found to be generally acceptable. All contracts for civil works and
procurement of goods with a value of more than US$200,000 would be subject to
prior review and approval by the Bank. Contracts under US$200,000 would be
reviewed after the award. Procurement arrangements for items to be financed
under the proposed loan are summarized as follows.



- 31 -
-- US$ millions
Procurement Method
Project Element              ICB      LCB      Other     N.A.      Total Cost
Civil Works                86.4     3.8        -        -          90.2
(57.0)   (1.9)                          (58.9)
Equipment and rails        13.8     1.9       2.2       -          17.9
(10.6)            (2.2)                 (12.8)
Consultant Services,
Training and Studies      -        -         -       4.4          4.4
(4.4)       (4.4)
Total                     100.2      5.7      2.2      4.4        112.5
(67.6)   (1.9)    (2.2)    (4.4)        (76.1)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan, exclusive of front end fee. All figures include price and
physical contingencies.
4.07      Supervision of construction would be the responsibility of the
individual agencies listed in Table 4.5. For field supervision of major civil
works, for inspection of major pieces of equipment during manufacture and for
final acceptance tests upon delivery of equipment, the agencies concerned
would, where appropriate, retain the services of consultants acceptable to the
Bank. Further details with regard to the implementation of the environmental
and flood protection components of the project are given in Annexes 1 and 4
respectively.
4.08      The financing plan for the project is given in Table 4.3 and
smarized in the table below.
US$ millions  -
Funds Required                          Local     Foreign      Total    z
Proposed Project                      36.4       76.3        112.7    72
Debt Service during Period              -        42.9         42.9    28
Total Required                       36.4       119.2        155.6   100
Funds Available
Funds Generated Internally           47.1          -          47.1    30
IBRD Loan for Project                  -         76.3         76.3    49
Government Financing                 (10.7)      42.9         32.2    21
Total Available                      36.4       119.2        155.6   100
The project costs related to port operations and infrastructure, industrial
infrastructure and flood control would be recovered by charges levied by ESP,
FONDEPORT and the Government. Road and rail infrastructure costs would be



- 32 -
recovered by road user charges and, in the case of rail, through N de N
tariffs.
C. Special Account
4.09      In order to reduce the interval during which the Government would
finance the Bank's share of project costs with its own resources, the Bank
would make advance payments from the loan account into a Special Account, to be
opened in US$ in the Central Bank, and which would be available for reimbursing
the Government, through BANPESCA, for the Bank's share of the project cost.
The total amount in the Special Account would be that required for project
execution, but would not exceed US$6 million. BANPESCA would be entitled to
make withdrawals from the Special Account for payments incurred on
Bank-approved contracts. The withdrawal applications would be on the basis of
standard documentation.   Supporting documentation would not be submitted to
the Central Bank and the Bank, but would be retained by SCT, as coordinating
agency; it would be made available for inspection during audits (para 4.10) and
project supervision missions. The Bank would replenish the Special Account
upon request of the Borrower on the basis of the withdrawals made. A condition
of loan effectiveness would be the opening of the special account.
D. Accounting and Auditing
4.10      Under the project, the Bank would require four types of annual
audits: for (a) the Special Account in the Banco de Mexico; (b) ESP;
(c) FONDEPORT; and (d) the project accounts on which the statements of
expenditures are based. Procedures have been agreed to between the Government,
BANPESCA and the Bank which would govern the auditing of all Special Accounts
established for loans with BANPESCA.  The external auditor for BANPESCA would
carry out the required audit each year.  These procedures were confirmed at
negotiations.  For the accounts of ESP and FONDEPORT, there is a satisfactory
external audit carried out annually in addition to a system of internal
auditing checks.  Both ESP and FONDEPORT have highly competent accounting
staff, and their accounts are well managed and up-to-date.  It was confirmed at
negotiations that an external audit of ESP and FONDEPORT would continue to be
carried out annually in accordance with sound auditing principles by an
independent auditor, and that, beginning with the fiscal year ending December
31, 1984, the Government would forward the audit report of these entities to
the Bank not later than six months after the close of the fiscal year. In
addition to these accounts, CNCP would maintain annual consolidated accounts
for all entities operating in the industrial port, including the Government.
4.11      With regard to the auditing of Government project accounts, SPP will
carry out the control and verification of accounts and will report on such
verification annually. There are also General Directorates of Control in each
Secretariat, independent from the operational departments, carrying out
physical as well as financial audits of expenditures. The auditing procedures
are satisfactory, and the SPP is considered to be an appropriate agency for
carrying out such audits as it has under ongoing Bank loans for public sector
investment. The auditing procedures to be applied to the related project
accounts were confirmed at negotiations.



- 33 -
E. Semi-Annual Consultations and Project Monitoring
4.12      With regard to project monitoring, the Government would prepare
periodic reports providing information on progress in the execution of the
project, listing the status of each contract related to Bank-financed
components of the project; the status of disbursement requests and the schedule
of estimated withdrawals of the loan proceeds. Furthermore, in order to
monitor progress on the objectives of the project, the Government and the Bank
would hold semi-annual meetings in March and September of each year. The
Government would prepare reports on the items detailed in Annex 10.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the
following:
(a) the Government to take all appropriate measures to prevent
contamination of the Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Port area's
surface waters (para 2.28);
(b) evaluation methodology, criteria and procedures for justification
and Bank approval of investments under the dredging program
(para 3.05);
(c) submission, for Bank review, of studies and designs for the solid
waste management system by December 15, 1984 (para 3.07);
(d) the Government to enter into agreement with the municipality of
Lazaro Cardenas regarding arrangements for construction,
operation and cost recovery for the solid waste management system
(para 3.08);
(e)  the Government to regulate the La Villita and Infiernillo
Reservoirs so as to limit the water flow to 7,000 cms with a
flood return frequency of about 200 years (para 3.10);
(f) the scope and timing of professional services (para 3.11);
(g) the Government to allow ESP, by June 30, 1985, to collect storage
fees and retain an amount to cover cost of operating and
maintaining storage facilities (para 3.21);
(h) the Government to transfer equipment to ESP by December 31, 1984
(para 3.21);
(i) the Government to take all appropriate measures to permit ESP to
meet its financial targets (para 3.21);



- 34 -
(j) the costs of dredging to provide maritime access and industrial
waterfronts to be recovered from the beneficiaries of the works
(para 3.27);
(k) study of cost-related port dues to be completed by September 15,
1985; and preparation of an action plan for the progressive
achievement of the study's recommendations at Lazaro Cardenas
(para 3.30);
(1)  the Government to recover flood control costs from FONDEPORT
(para 3.30);
(m) accounts to be kept of Federal Government costs and revenues
at Lazaro Cardenas port (para 3.30);
(n) procedures for ICB, LCB prequalification, tendering and
contracting (paras 4.04-4.06); and
(o) annual external audit of Special Account and verification of
project accounts (paras 4.10-4.11).
5.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached with ESP on the following:
(a) ESP to produce, beginning in 1987, revenues sufficient to cover
at least operating expenses and that amount by which debt service
requirements exceed depreciation allowance. For 1985 and 1986,
ESP to produce revenues sufficient to cover working costs
(para 3.21);
(b) preparation of a cost and tariff study by September 15, 1985 and
an action plan for implementation of its recommendations
(para 3.21); and
(c) annual external audit (para 4.10).
5.03      During negotiations, agreement was reached with FONDEPORT on the
following:
(a) preparation, by December 15, 1984, of an action plan for Lazaro
Cardenas industrial park based on administration,
commercialization and promotion studies, and carrying out of the
action plan (para 3.27); and
(b) annual external audit (para 4.10);
5.04      The following would be conditions for disbursement:
(a) on each dredging subproject, satisfactory evidence of technical,
economic and financial feasibility (para 3.05);



- 35 -
(b) on the solid waste management component, signed an;. effective
agreements regarding construction, operation and cost recovery of
the system (para 3.08); and
(c) on the flood protection works, confirmation of the economic
viability of the component (para 3.10).
5.05      The following would be conditions for loan effectiveness:
(a) BANPESCA to enter into agreements with ESP, FONDEPORT and the
Government for on-lending of project funds (para 3.16);
(b) completion by PONDEPORT of the administration, commercialization
and promotion studies (para 3.27); and
(c) opening of the special account (para 4.09).
5.06      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan of US$76.3 million. The terms would be 15 years with a three-year
grace period.
May 29, 1984



- 36 -
TABLE 2.1
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Population of Principal Urban Centers, 1960, 1970 and 1980
(thousands of inhabitantp)
Average Amount
Growth (Z)
Urban Center                      1960          1970           1980 I/    1960-70 1970-80
Mexico City (Metropolitan Zone) 5,262          8,657         15,082          5.1      5.7
Guadalajara                        851         1,486          2,490          5.7     5.3
Monterrey                          708         1,236          2,052          5.7     5.2
Juarez                             262           407            650          4.5      4.8
Tijuana                            152           327            624          8.0     6.7
Puebla                             289           413            613          3.6     4.0
Leon                               210           365            605          6.1      5.2
Tampico                            176           275            460          4.6     5.3
Torreon                            259           325            449          2.3     3.3
Chihualua                          150           257            447          5.5     5.6
Mexicali                           175           263            414          4.2      4.6
Total Population                34,990        48,996         67,567          3.4     3.3
_/ Preliminary estimates
Source: Censo General de Poblacion.
March 1984



- 37 -
TABLE 2.2
Regioa,l D1stribzdtic of EwumIgc Ativft3y
STAOM~aEf                                              l
n   g   ns(175) lf 
Gm  F                  Gcms
Ar~Ri1ta  (1980)    VAleMd_________                                      z,c
SFAE
Anaea3ietm          5,471      507       0.8          499    0.3        112    0.5       1,601     0.3
Baja 0liforna      69,992L    1,227      1.8        3,139    1.7        334    1.4       7,881     1.6
BaJa  sxla Sur  73,475         221       0.3          457    0.2         42    0.2         969     0.2
q~ede              50,812      371       0.6          276    0.2         22    0.1         820     0.2
awh4la            149,982     1,562      2.3        8,012    4.4        8%     3.9      24,027     5.1
Colinm              5,191       341      0.5          500    0.3        569    2.5         857     0.2
Ctiaps             74,211     2,099      3.1          243    0.1         60    0.3        1,235    0.2
Chdhbuma          244,938     1,937      2.9        4,68D    2.6        695    3.0       10,064    2.1
Distrio Fede=l      1,479     9,371     14.0       55,779   30.5      3,269   14.1      140,Z22    29.6
pA2gO             123,181     1,160      1.7        1,521    0.8        2%     1.3        4,096    0.9
G.auesato          30,491     3,048      4.5        2,918    1.6        275    1.2        8,316    1.8
Qurrexo            64,281     2,174      3.2          398    0.2       l13    0.8          939     0.2
lIIdelp            20,813     1,516      2.2        3,562    1.9        590    2.5        9,716    2.1
Jiaoo              80,836     4,297      6.4       11,590    6.3      1,296    5.6       29,854    6.3
Mexico             21,355     7,532     11.2       36;246   19.8      4,064   17.5       95,455    20.2
ilcan              59,928     3,050      4.5        1,347    0.7        235    1.0        3,775    0.8
1meim               4,950       933      1.4        1,815    1.0        230    1.0        5,264    1.1
Nayarit            26,979       729      1.1          764    0.4         50    0.2       2,282     0.5
IlAXv 1Ico         64,924     2,464      3.6       2o,0o4   no.0      3,515   15.2       50,472    10.7
owca               93,952     2,515      3.7          711    0.4        163    0.7        1,805    0.4
Pebla              33,902     3,285      4.9        6,403    3.5        8L7    3.5       18,360    3.9
eearo              11,449      731       1.1        2,573    1.4        700    3.0       6,591     1.4
4Ldnraz Ro         5D,212       210      0.3           56    -           14    -           L54     -
San lulas Po1 s    63,068     1,672      2.5        2,324    1.3      1,082    4.7       5,676     1.2
51mb.cs            58,328     1,882      2.8        1,778    1.0        220    0.9       4,539     1.0
scira             185,052     1,498      2.2        2,350    1.3        474    2.0       6,309     1.3
TA                 25,267     1,149      1.7          165    -           56    0.2         579     0.1
luIi1ps            79,384     1,923      2.9        2,226    1.2      1,575    6.8       5,125     1.1
Tlsax               4,016       549      0.8          838    0.5        109    0.5       2,352     0.5
Veraczuz           71,699     5,264      7.8        7,456    4.1        951    4.1       19,266    4.1
Yucatan            38,402     1,033      1.5        1,342    0.7        198    0.9       3,529     0.7
7CacteC8S          73,252     1,146      1.7          522    0.3        71    0.3        1,024     0.2
ntSIL M1CD       1,958,201 -  67,396    100.0     182,831  100.0    23,160  100.0       473,148   100.0
1/ IndiJia ecctive ilmbtrlns bit adnie  petrolem lIn&try.
Scurce: Pbpulatiu,    sp Agmila FatadlstI 198D y X  mo Ge7ral de Poblacln y Vivemxb, 1980; Pesutados
Prellmin, Mm,          19L.
Foz, ae txngl   9PP, Oafl, X CeuIc TIstital 1975, edco, 1979.
Dacember 1983



- 38 -
~cD                                FMH 2.3
UZAR) C-     INSUEL PM   10
Indutrial Pbrts Prog    InesUs. L979-1983
(millimso of current Ipan -s)
1979    1981    1981   1922a/  1983 b/
SAEKP
Land AcquEstion                      -     780.0 1,28&1  7,881.3        -
Ifrascrmznue ad Yqpmeat             -       31.0   220.7    278.4       -
Rod Accs                             -      72.0   540.0    480.0      335.0
Urba Infrastructure and }Hws1        -      30.1   250.4    491.6       -
Stumies aid hhfrstratioc            86.9    35.9   305.9    301.6      16.0
Sub-Total                  86.9   949.0 2,578.3  2,332.9
scr
Rs11 A-es                            -      90.0   107.8      53.0     250.0
Rl  Mp                                   -     4X45       7312      -
Dredghr and fefloaters               -     252.0  1,249.1  4,736.2   1,076.4
qpdpmemt                             -       -       -       154.6     2M0.0
Gain Terimfl                         -     188.0   380.5    100.0   1,118.9
IAtiple Use Terdnal                  -       -      50.       75.0     285.2
-wit-e Sigu1lr                       -       -       -        71.0       6.0
Stuie  aid AInistr oc               61.3   100.0    95.8    189.9       -
::!                                 42.0   106.0   200.0    228.0      384.5
Foideport c/                        -       -       -         -        675.0
Sub-Tatal                   103.3   736.0  2567.7  5,680.9   4,347.0 e
SAWH
Water Suly   '-                            89.0 1,050.0    736.0       695.0
Tlhod Protectim                      -       -      152.2    500.0     472.0
S-eU, and Projct A                  -       60.0   149.5       1.7      -
Sub-Total                  -      869.0  1,350.7  1,237.7   1,167.0
-     54.8    61.9    250.0      100.0
SSA                                    -        -     108.0      33.1      25.0
SEIXE cl                               -        -       -        -        494.5
Ostion Terminal                      -       -      199.0  1,000.0
Naval Installations                  -       -      118.4      -
SaR1m Cmz T na1                      -       -     497.4  1,736.0
Snb-Total                  -        -     814.8  2,726.0   6,462.0
TMrL DINlSTEIR    tQ PCAI          190.2 2,608.8 7,484.6 12,271.0  12,610.5
US$ =Mlins euiva2ert                 8.3   13.4   305.5    223.1       105.1
NDt available                                                  0
a/ Cmdltted
b/ Budee
c/ ITzbi  erierxit   formrly under SADP
scurce: oEP
M iB84



- 39 -
N__OD                            ThN.E 2.4
LU    -   lIMS  Pr RV=
invesnit at Imro Caxders  IAus 1tal Port. 1979-1983
(Mllias of owxnt pesos)
1979    1980    1981   1982 al  1983 b/
AaFusitioc of Lm!                  -      258.7 1,067.2    575.6      -
}        efras~ucutr               -       -       93.2    174.3      -
Roa Acce6s                         -       52.0   120.0    200.0     215.0
Urin InfrautKre and HEcsbg         -        -     167.5    227.6      -
Studies and Afitnstrati           23.9      4.5   150.9     94.9       6.0
STota1                   23.9   315.2  1,598.6  1J2724
scr
RaflAccess                         -       50.0    57.1     18.0     200.0
Dredging and b&a1ters              -      180.0   507.7  2,134.4     525.0
Grain Temnaml                      -      188.0   380.5    100.0   1,118.9
Sifg   t                           -       -        -       11.0      -
I tLkpl Use Terdl                  -        --                        100.0
EFI4runt                           -        -       -        -       200.0
StdiFes and Ad}inistrati[xn        11.8    11.2   14.4      47.5      -
ClI                                10.5    26.5   50.0      57.0      -
Fbxxseport c/                      -        -      -         -       185.0
Sub-Total                22.3   455.7 1009J  2,367.9   2,550.0 c/
SAM
-iater Supply                      -      125.0   174.0    400.0       16.0
FIod Protectioc                   -        -      89.5    500.0     472.0
SmixIles and Projects              -       20.0    29.2      1.7      -
Sub-Total                 -      145.0   292.7    901.7    488.0
se                                    -      13.5    15.5      50.5      18.8
SSiA                                  -       -       27.0      8.3       3.7
SIPS                                  -       -       0.8       2.4       4.0
9XEcI                                 -       -       -         -       170.0
CLvil Works                                -       31.0      -
Stuixies ani Projects              -       -       87.4      -
Sub-Total                 _       -      118.4      -       217.0
TlML  LAZA3D CAMEU1AS             46.2   929.4 3,062.7  4,603.2   3,451.5
U3$ udlir-es equivlment            2.0    40.4   125.0      83.7      28.8
Not avalabLe
b xbIReted
of Imbies        iture  fozurly wder S&w
soe   QXP-
mhri 198s4



MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Historic Transport Investment
(rin mlllions of 1983 Mex$) 1/
Subsector     1977         1978         1979        1980         1981         1982         1983        1984
(Projected)
Highways     56,600       59,500       65,100      72,700       110,400      79,200      71,700       54,500
Railways     27,000       23,600       38,300      52,300        64,400      55,500      54,100       50,500
Ports 2/      3,400        3,200        6,700       15,300       33,200      29,200       11,900      11,700
Aviation 3    4,200        4.400        4.700       4J900         8,200       2,500       2,600        3,900
0
Total      91.200       90,700      114,800     145,200       216,200      166,400     140,300    120,600
US$ million
equivalent   760          756          957       1,210         1,802        1,387       1,169        1,005
1/ US$1.00 - Mex$ 120
2/  Excludes dredging except in 1983 and 1984 and PEMEX port investments.
3/ Only infrastructure. For equipment in 1983 Mex$ 30,586 million was spent and
Mex$ 9,900 million is budgeted for 1984.
Sources SPP, SCT and Bank estimates
May 1984
I.



- 41 -
MEXICO                              TABLE 2.6
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Total Traffic Through Mexican Ports by Major Commodity Groups, 1978-1982
(thousand tons)
1978       1979        1980       1981        1982
IMPORTS
General Cargo                   2,363       2,321      3,589       4,807      2,584
Agricultural Bulk               3,321       3,622      5,808       5,491      3,227
Mineral Bulk                    2,868       3,407      3,233       3,637      2,855
Petroleum and Derivatives       1,172       1,427        547         607      3,041
Other Liquid                      379         161        340         438        557
Other                                           -        444           1          1
Total Imports               10,103      10,938     13,520      14,982     12,265
EXPORTS
General Cargo                   1,414       1,421      1,134       1,040      1,232
Agricultural Cargo                 71          30          -           -         14
Mineral Bulk                    7,737      8,528       8,480       8,006      6,965
Petroleum and Derivatives      18,854      27,871     41,409      45,549     79,180
Other Liquid                    1,904       1,924      1,490       1,187      1,151
Other                              30           -         23          17         14
Total Exports               30,010     39,773      52,536     55,799      88,556
Cabotage (in plus out)
General Cargo                   1,508       1,723      1,854       2,066      2,123
Agricultural Cargo                160          39        232         273        627
Mineral Bulk                    5,375       6,676      7,768       7,939      6,988
Petroleum and Derivatives      27,637      36,266     47,980      49,305     39,040
Other Liquid                      545         622        465         409        563
Other                             166           -        221         264        281
Total Cabotage              35,391     45,326      58,519     60,257      49,622
TOTAL PORT TRAFFIC                75,595      96,036    124,575    131,038    150,443
Total Traffic - exclusive of
Petroleum and Derivatives      27,932     30,472      34,639     35,577      29,182
Source: SCT
February 1984



MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Lazaro Cardenas: Actual and Forecast Traffic, 1979-1989
(thousand tons)
ACTUAL TRAFFIC                               FORECAST TRAFFIC
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
MULTIPLE USE TERMINAL
Containerized General Cargo        0        0        2       10      46       69       93     111      132      157     187
Other General Cargot/              11      43      168      137     184      180      239     246      260      274     285
Grain                               0     174      281      337     458      590        0       0        0        0       0
Minerals                            0       28      41       29       12      65       69       76      84       92      99
Iron and Steel                   185       46        4      162     346      330      272     307      350      401     408
Sub-Total                    196      263      455     646   1,034   1,169       604      664      742     832      880
SPECIALIZED TERMINALS
SICARTSA (Bulk Minerals)         715      707      707      521     173      395      500     500      500      500     500
CONASUPO (Grain)                    0       0        0        0        0       0      600     630      670      710     750
FERTIMEX                            0       0       23        0       0        0      320     673   1,204   1,266   1,330
PMT                                 0       0        0        0       0        0        0      144     261      261     261
Celasa                              0       0        0        0       0        0       19       28      45      118      86
Pemex                             102     110      147      140      94      150      260      320     386      396      406
Sub-Total                    817      817     877      661      267      545   1,699   2,295   2,966   3,251   3,332
TOTAL LAZARO CARDENAS    1,013   1,080   1,332   1,307   1,301   1,714   2,303   2,959   3,1708   4,083   4,212
I/ includes bagged minerals handled as general cargo.
Source:  RPT; Annex 2, Tables I and 2.
March 1984



MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
Economic Rate of Return
Benefits       Costs
Base Case                                    Decrease by   Increase by
Economic Rate           Switching  Values           20%            20Z
of Return            Benefits    Costs            (Z)            (2)
Project Component
Road Access                                        20                 -38           60            16             17
Rail Access                                        19                -33            50            15             16
General Cargo Equipment                            23                 -25           34            16             14
Container Handling Equipment                       18                 -27           36            14             15
Maritime Access: PMT                               22                 -46           84            18             19
Maritime Access: Celasa                            18                 -37           59            15             16
Flood Control                                      40                 -80          405            43             44
Small and Medium Scale Industrial Park             23                 -37           57            17             18
Sensitivity Test: Delays in Industrial Activity
Component                               Assuption                                    ERR
Rail                       PMT and Celasa traffic does not materialize               17%
Maritlme Access: PHT       Initiation of PMT production delayed 5 years              13%
Maritime Access: Celasa  Initiation of Celasa Production delayed
3 years               12Z
4 years               10%
Source: RPT; Consultores en Ingenieria, Planeacion y Sistemas; and
Mission estimates.
May 1984



- 44 -
TABLE 4.1
LAM  CARUCUAS INDIISTRIAL PORT P9.CT
Detailed Cost Table
(US Millilal
Dreakdam ot Totals ncl. Cant
1USI NiDion)                Paraeters
Base Casts         Totals Includinm Contingenries     Local                Phs.
- -         For.  (Exc. btis I         Cot. For.  Gross  SUmma:'
1995 1996 187 1998 1989 Total 15 1986 1987 19B  19B9 Total  Exch. Taxesl  Taxes  Total Rate Exch. Tax Rate Account
I. INUESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Horks
Road Access a/                      2.1 2.1   -   -   -  4.2  2.5 2.7   -   -   -  3.2    2.4    2.1         0.8  5.2  0.15 0.45    0.15    RD
Rail klcess b/                      1.0   -   -   -   -  1.0  1.1   -   -   -   -  1.1    1.0          -     0.2  1.1   0.1 0.85    0.15    PA
Nalritie Access cl                  2.4 7.4 *.B 13.2   - 29.8  2.7 9.2 9.2 19.5   - 40.6   28.4    9.9        3.2 40.6   0.1  0.7   0.08    MA
Esuirsent d/  -                     6.5 4.6 0.6   -   - 11.7  6.3 5.2 0.7   -   - 12.7    9.3    1.9          1.5 12.7     0 0.73    0.12     ED
Collector Srens ei                  1.2 1.3 0.5   -   -  3.0  1.4 1.7 0.7   -   -  3.0    1.9    0.9          1.0  3.9  0.15  0.5   0.27      CS
System for Solid Maste lSt. fi      1.3 1.2 0.5   -   -  3.0  1.6 1.6 0.7   -   -  3.8    2.3    0.4          1.1  3.8  0.15  0.6   0.29      H
Industrial Park I/                  1.6 0.9   -   -   -  2.4  11 1.0   -   -   -  3.0    1.3   1.2           0.4  3.0  0.15 0.45    0.15 I    U
Flood Protection h/                 4.9 7.7 6.9 5.0 2.7 27.0  5.7 10.0 9.6 7.7 4.5 37.6   26.3   7.S          3.9 37.6  0.15  0.7    0.1    FP
Sut-Total Civil Marks                20.9 25.1 15.2 19.2 2.7 92.1 23.B 31.4 21.0 27.2 4.5 107.    72. 8   22.9    12.1 107.8
3. Engineering I Other Servicrs
Technical Assistance                0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1   -  0.5  0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1   -  0.6    0.4    0.2           -  0.6      0  0.7       0     TA
Supervision of Construction         0.7 0.9 0.5 0.2 0.2  2.5  0.7 1.0 0.6 0.3 0.3  2.9    2.0    0.9           -  2.9      0  0.7       0     SC
TrainLrd                            0.3 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1  1.0  0.3 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1  1.2    0.3    0.4           -  1.2      0  0.7       0    TIE
Sub-Total Engineerird 1 Other Services  1.2 1.3 0.8 0.4 0.3  4.3  1.2 1.5 1.0 0.5 0.4  4.7    3.3    1.4          -  4.7
Total IIIUESTENT COSTS                  2.1 26.4 16.0 18.6 3.0 86.1 S5. 32.3 22.0 77.7 4.9 112.5   76.1   24.3    12.1 112.5
Tota                                     22.1 26.4 16.0 18.6 3.0 96.1 25.1 32.9 22.0 27.7 4.9 112.5   76.1   24.3    12.1 112.5
Nay 16w 1994 16:25
aI   Preliminary engineering, including soils investigations by means of test pits, has been completed.  Detailed design
substantially complete. Current cost estimates are based on unit costs from semilar earth uovirg and paving contracts
currently under way at Lszaro Cardenas.
b/   Construction is currently in progress.  The loan will be used to replace rails taken from the stocks of DVF.  The costs of
the rails are current world uarket costs. Rails are exempt freo import duty and IVA.
c/   Maritime Access - Dredging costs have been estimted on the basis of actual bathimetric and topographic surveys, probings.
borings, and recently submitted hid prices for ongoing dredging contracts on the Pacific coast of Nexlco. EVA is Included
only for estimated costs of fuel, housing and subsistence.
dl   hased on December 1983 world market or local costs, as aplicable, and Include lSZ EVA and, -  applicable, Import dutles.
el   For the FONDEPORT sewerage based oan detailed engineering.
fi   EstImated costs are based on a preliminary plan for operation of a solid waste collection and disposal system  In a sanitary
landfill and through a toxic waste incinerator. The composition of the equipment and structures are based on current costs.
i    Engineering completed.  The eatiuated costs are based on current construction costs In the Lazaro Cardenas area.
hi   Detailed design  were completed for a such larger flood control project and advertised for bid in 1981.  Borings and problnga
have been completed along both sides of the proposed flood channel. The revised contract docments are substantially
complete for the scaled-down project. Unit prices have been estimated from updating of the 1981 bid prices, recent channel
rectification work at the Balsas River and recent earth-moving contracts in Lazaro Cardenas.
Source: CNCP and misslon estlmates
May 1984



MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Dredging Program
(thousands of m3)
TRANCHE                          1985         1986         1987         1988          TOTAL BASE ODST
(US$ millions)
Tranche I
(a)  CELASA (Stage 1)                        1900                                                        5.4
(b)  PMT                                       1000                                                      2.9
Tranche II
(a)  PEMEX                                            1000                                               2.9
(b)  CELASA (Stages 2 and 3)                               2000                                          5.8
Tranche III2                                                                180                          5.2
Tranche IV                                                                       2000                    7.6
29.8
Source: OGOM and FONDEPORT
March 1984



- 46 -
TABLE 4.3
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Project Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Funds Required 1/                      Local    Foreign    Total    Z
Project: FONDEPORT                       4.6        3.2        7.8     5
ESP                            3.4         9.3      12.7      8
Government                    28.4        63.8      92.2    59
Project Total                           36.4       76.3      112.7    72
Debt Service during Project                        42.9       42.9    28
Total Funds Required                    36.4      119.2      155.6   100
Funds Available
Internally Generated: FONDEPORT         10.4         -        10.4     7
ESP               6.6         -         6.6     4
Government 2/   30.1          -        30.1    19
Total Internally Generated              47.1         -        47.1    30
IBRD Loan for Project                              76.3      76.3    49
Government Financing                   (10.7)      42.9       32.2    21
36.4      119.2      155.6   100
1/ Though it is derived from the consolidated Fund Flow Statemeut (Annex 6,
Table 10), the above table relates only to the project components and does not
include other investments planned by the SCT, FONDEPORT and the ESP. Such
investments were, however, included in the financial evaluation.
2/ Does not include revenue from road and rail.
Source: CNCP and Mission Estimates
May 1984



- 47 -
TABLE 4.4
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Cumulative
Disbursements      Disbursements
for the           at end of      Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year                 Semester            Semester      Percentage
1985
December 31, 1984                   1.7                 1.7              2
June 30, 1985                       4.1                 5.8              8
1986
December 31, 1985                  11.4                17.2             23
June 30, 1986                      11.1                28.3             37
1987
December 31, 1986                  11.1                39.4             52
June 30, 1987                       7.3                46.7             61
1988
December 31, 1987                   7.4                54.1             71
June 30, 1988                       9.3                63.4             83
1989
December 31, 1988                   9.4                72.8             96
June 30, 1989                       1.1                73.9             97
1990
December 31, 1989                   1.4                75.3             99
June 30, 1990                       1.0                76.3            100
Source:  Mission Estimates
May 1984



- 48 -
TABLE 4.5
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Executing Agencies
Project Component           Responsible Secretariat         Executing Agency
Road access                           SCT                       DGCF
Rail access                           SCT                       DGVF
Dredging                              SCT                       DGOM
Equipment                             SCT                      ESP-LC
Sewerage (in industrial park)         SCT                      FONDEPORT
Solid Waste Management               SEDUE1/                Local Agency 2/
Park for Small and Medium Industries SCT                       FONDEPORT
Flood Protection                      SARH                       DGGI
_/ SEDUE responsible for feasibility studies.
2/ The identity *)f the local agency will be decided as part of the
feasibility study exercise.
Source: SCT and CNCP
May 1984



- 49 -
ANEX 1
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Environmental Conditions in Lazaro Cardenas
A. Background
1.        The Lazaro Cardenas region has experienced considerable industrial
and urban growth over the last two decades. These developments have been
accompanied by environmental degradation, and indications are that such
degradation will increaue markedly unless major efforts are made to reverse
the trend. This annex describes the existing environmental conditions in
Lazaro Cardenas. Because statistics regarding emission levels are virtually
non-existen., much of the following is based on the inspections made by the
Bank staff and consultants to CNCP.
B. SICARTSA
2.        SICARTSA's pollution history is well known to the Bank.  A review
made by Bank staff in 1979 described pollution problems related to tar, oil,
sulphur dioxide, hydrocyanic acid, benzene and dust emissions. Generally
speaking, the situation has not changed since that review.
3.        The dust situation at the pelletizing plant and the coke oven is
poor. At the pelletizing plant, pollution control devices operate improperly
and, at the coke oven, doors do not seal properly. For both, the result is
dust pouring out of the facilities. The tar and gases emanating from the coke
ovens are highly carcinogenic. Although data are not available, sulphur
dioxide emissions must also be excessive; during a preparation mission, it was
related by SICARTSA officials that the plant's Stretford sulphur recovery
system was not operating.
4.        A report prepared by consultants for the Government 1/ states that
SICARTSA alone is capable, on occasion, of violating Mexican quality standards
(which are relatively liberal in comparison with those of other developing
countries) for the entire Lazaro Cardenas region. Other large industries, with
records of pollution in other parts of Mexico, are currently installing
facilities (FERTIMEX) or planning installations (PEMEX) at Lazaro Cardenas. It
is likely that, without strict measures, pollution levels will get higher,
and/or the frequency of air quality violations will increase.
5.        SICARTSA, after repeated Bank requests, has not supplied any waste
water analyses. On observation, however, wastewaters appeared black, with
indications of oil and grease on the surface; they possessed a distinct
sulphurous odor. Wastewater treatment facilities at SICARTSA operate
improperly. In 1979, one of the two coke oven clarifiers was inoperative, and,
during a preparation mission for this project, one of the two biological
treatment tanks for coke oven wastewaters was not working. Sedimentation of
suspended solids does not occur in designated settling tanks, but in the
discharge channels, where it is scooped out and dumped outside SICARTSA
I/ Informe Ambiental Puerto Industrial de Lazaro Cardenas, 1983



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
property. Conflicting information was received on solid waste disposal at
SICARTSA. The consultant's report offered an estimate of 235,000 tons/month.
The appraisal team was given a current figure of 9,750 tons/month, which will
increase to 16,150 tons/month with the initiation of SICARTSA Phase II.
According to SICARTSA, all the solid waste is sold to cement manufacturers.
Nevertheless, a tour of the SICARTSA facility revealed piles of slag extending
over acres of property.
C. Municipal Wastewater
6.        The municipalities of Lazaro Cardenas and Guacamayas both have
primary treatment capabilities for 450 and 200 liters/sec respectively, and a
collector system which captures only about half of the wastewaters. Of this
treatment capacity, only 210 liters/sec at Lazaro Cardenas operate (with only
partial effectiveness). All other systems have been shut down for design
changes and repairs. Raw sewage is discharged into the right branch of the
Rio Balsas. Even theoretically, these systems nominally represent adequate
treatment capacity only for the forecast discharge in 1987. A more immediate
problem is the likelihood of continued shutdown of the treatment plant.
D. Solid Waste
7.        SICARTSA solid waste practices were discussed above; municipal solid
waste disposal is, to a large measure, practiced in a random, uncontrolled
fashion. The municipal disposal site was seen to be a disorderly, unhealthful
operation. As may be expected, not all wastes are ultimately deposited even at
this site; private collectors remove trash and dispose of it at unknown,
unregulated locations.
E. The Future
8.        Industrial growth in Lazaro Cardenas is about to accelerate.  The
SICARTSA II expansion, which will double steel capacity, is under construction;
a major FERT11EX facility is also under construction; and a PEMEX refinery is
planned. Numerous other industries are under construction, planned or
anticipated. Population growth accompanying this industrial development will
increase municipal pollution from automobile emissions, wastewater and solid
waste generation. Careful attention to erecting and operating both physical
facilities and institutional inirastructure for municipal and industrial
sources of contamination is necessary.
F. The Project: Implementation and Administration
9.        The proposed project includes components designed to address these
problems, including sewerage systems for industrial waste and the
implementation of a solid waste management system.
10.       Effective implementation of environmental components of the proposed
project will depend upon the organization, resources and personnel available
for contracting, operation and maintenance of the individual components.
Clearly the availability of trained staff, in appropriate numbers, will be a
key factor in the success or failure of these project components; particular
attention should therefore be given to the timely initiation of the training
component of the proposed project in the field of environmental protection. No



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
less important will be the organizational aspects of the solid waste management
system, and efforts should be made to develop local agencies with the rhysical,
financial and management resources needed for effective operation.
11.       For the wastewater collection and treatment component in the
industrial park area, for which FONDEPORT has responsibility, construction,
contracting and related administration are being handled through the central
office of FONDEPORT, while the existing local office of FONDEPORT in Lazaro
Cerdenas will be responsible for construction supervision. Operation and
maintenance of the sewerage system in the industrial park area will be under
the jurisdiction of the new entity to be established by FONDEPORT in Lazaro
Cardenas.
12.       The solid waste management component, currently being planned and
designed by SEDUE, will become the responsibility of a local agency. This
component of the project, which is to serve all industries located in areas
under the jurisdiction of FONDEPORT as well as industries and municipalities
outside the industrial park, would be implemented by SEDUE, whose Directorate
for Solid Waste Management would handle the contracting of construction for the
sanitary landfill, maintenance shops and offices and the acquisition of
equipment. The local agency which will take over operation, maintenance and
administration of the collection and disposal system will be determined as part
of the feasibility study exercise.
May 1984



- 52 -
AUEX 2
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Outline Methodology for Economic and Financial Analysis for Dredging Program
I. Introduction
1.        The dredging program, which has as its objective the provision of
access at the Lazaro Cardenas industrial port, has been divided into
tranches. The technical, economic and financial justification of each
subproject in each tranche would be submitted to the Bank prior to its
approval for financing under the proposed project. This annex outlines the
methodology to be used in the preparation of this analysis.
2.        To qualify for Bank financing, each subproject in the dredging
program should bave a minimum economic rate of return of 12Z. The
justification should include a financial analysis demonstrating that the cost
of the investment would be recovered.
3.        After initiation of the second tranche of the dredging works, there
would be a mid-term review of the pace of utilization of project funds and of
forecasts for future waterfront requirements to determine the appropriate
timing and dimension of subsequent tranches.
II. Technical Analysis
4.        The technical analysis should include the following elements:
(a) description of subproject;
(b) for dredging to create waterfront for new industrial concerns,
an analysis of alternative sites to ensure efficient use of
resources;
(c) analysis of utilization of dredged material;
(d) cost estimate; and
(e) implementation schedule.
III. Economic Analysis
5.        Three types of projects bave been defined under the overall Lazaro
Cardenas dredging program:
(a) deepening existing access channels, turning basins or berths;
(b) dredging to create direct maritime access to an industry which
is dependent upon direct access (e.g., a ship repair yard); and
(c)  dredging to create maritime access to an industry for which
such access is optional.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
6.        The following types of benefits and costs would be quantified for
the three cases mentioned:
(a) for dredging to provide deeper draft, benefits would be
transport cost savings through the utilization of larLar
vessels. The investment cost would be the economic cost of
dredging;
(b) for dredging to provide maritime access for an industry
dependent upon such access, benefits would be the
value added of the industry's production. The investment cost
would include the economic cost of the industry's plant,
equipment and other infrastructure, cost of dredging and berth;
and
(c) for dredging to create direct maritime access for an industry
for which such access is optional, benefits would be transport
cost savings, including (i) savings in the cost of transporting
inputs and products to/from the industrial site and the
Multiple Use Terminal (TUM); and (ii) ship waiting time
savings. Investment costs would include the economic cost of
dredging and berth construction.
7.        An analysis should also be made justifying proposed basin and
channel depths for the cases outlined in items 4(b) and (c) preceding.
8.        In calculating benefits from use of a larger vessel or ship waiting
time savings, 100% of savings attributed to Mexican flag vessels and to
chartered vessels should be taken. For foreign-owned liner vessels, only 50%
of projected benefits should be included in the analysis.
9.        All costs and benefits should be exclusive of taxes and import
duties.   Production should be valued at the international market price.
Fuel should be valued at its opportunity cost (e.g., international prices).
10.       The economic rate of return, net present value capital and first
year benefit/cost ratio should be calculated. Tests should be made to
determine the sensitivity of the subproject's viability to changes in major
variables such as cost increases, lower-than-expected traffic or production,
and lags in benefits.
IV. Financial Analysis
'A.       The financial analysis will be made to ensure that the
subcomponents' costs are being recovered adequately. The general principles
to be followed are:
(a)   the dredging specifically related to new industrial waterfronts
will be done by DGOM, together with dredging of access channels to
such berths;
(b)   the industrial concerns will finance directly the cost of berth
construction; and



- 54 -
AN1EX 2
(c)  whereas ships dues will be levied by SZT on vessels to cover the
capital and maintenance costs of access channels, the costs of
dredging of a specifically defined water area to the required depth
alongside dedicated quays should be recovered from the industrial
concern which benefits therefrom.
12.       The mechanism for recovery of costs from the industrial concerns
must be defined. Possible mechanisms include:
(a) direct payment by the industrial concern to the Government, for the
relevant part of the dredging, at the time that the work is
contracted; or
(b)   through FONDEPORT, which will include, in its lease agreement with
the enterprise concerned, an annual index-linked fee for recovery
of capital and maintenance costs of the dredged berth.
I3.       The Bank will require a letter of intent between the industrial
concern and either SCT or FONDEPORT regarding (a) the financial arrangements
to be made to recover the dredging costs as require6; and (b) the industrial
concern's program for berth construction as a condition for approval of each
subproject.
Nay 1984



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Details of Existing ESP Equipment
Type of            Number and         Manufacturer          Estimated
Equipment          Capacity           and Year              Remaining Life
Forklift Trucks   12 x 15,500 lbs.    Clark, 1981            4
2 x  8,000 lbs.     -      1974/5         1
2 x  7,500 lbs.            1974           1
6 x  6,000 lbs.    Yale,  1980           2
2 x  4,500 lbs.    Clark, 1975            1
Tractors            1 x  5,000 lbs.    Mercury, 1980         2
1 for containers   Ottawa, 1981          5+
Trailers          41 x  3,000 lbs.a/ JEC/Serv. Hidro,        5
1979/80
6 for containers   JEC, 1982             4
Cranes              5 x 20/23 tons     P&H, 1983             6
Container           1 x 32 tons        IHI, 1974            10+
Bulk Unloader       1 x 35 tons        IMENASA, 1983        10+
Pneumatic Unloaders      5             NEVERO, 1981          4
a/ Serviceable but not utilized
b/ Includes two owned by FIDEMAP
Source: ESP
May 1984



MEXICOI
UUIO CM          INTUSRIIL POT  MOJECT
EOUIPIINT
etailed Cost Table
(UH '000)
Ireakdown of Totals Imcl. Cant
(US '000)
Quantity                             law  Costs            Totals Includi,i CaMiemncin                  Local
Unit  95 1916 1967 Total Unit Cost   15    1966   1967   Total           195    196   17   Total   Fort Exch.                       Total
-       -aam.  m. a               a.3.m.. u.aa. mi   m ..                    ..   .----_.,.. .... . _ ..m.  an... m a
1. INIwSTM   COSTS
As RE-tU    UM. C-MI
Forklift Truck 3/5 ton        dbch     4    a    8    20     36.225    144I9   269.9 269.9   724.5    150,7  327.1 35065    834.3           584.0   250,3             834,3
Mobile Crnes 7/10 ton         each     2    2    -     4    170.465    340.    340.9      -   61,       354.6   384,8     -   739.3         517.5  22l,6              739.3
Trailer 20tt/20 ton           each     5    5    5    15      14.263     71.4    71.4  71.4   214.2    74.3    90.6  97.9   242.7           169.9   72.9              242.7
Trailer 40t/20t               each     2    2    -     4      19.044     38,1   36.1      -     76,2    396    43,0       -    82.6          57.9    24,6              92.6
Trackr  00  lbs,             each     2    2    2     6     31,775      63.5   63,5  63,5    190,6    66.1    71,7  78.2    216.0          151,2   64.8              216.0
Tractor W0  lbs.              eah      1    2    2     5      37,26      3743   74.5  74,5    136,3    38,8   U4   91,7    214,5            150,2    64,4             214.5
Pellets (th)                  each     I    -    -      1    73.382      73,4       -     -     73,4    76,3        -      -     76.3           -    76,3              76,3
Suh-Totul   A-KLK IIM. CAMG                                                76U.5  878.3 496,3  2,147,1   900.3   6J1H3 614,2  2,405.3        1,630.6   775.1           2,405.8
bber Tired Straddle Crew   eah         -    2    -      2    466,578            933,2     -    933,2        - 1,053.2      -  1,053.2     1.053,2       -           1,053,2
Toplifter 35t                 each     I    I    -     2    485,415    45,4   485.4       -    970.8   504.8   547.8      -  14052,7        736.9  315.5            1,052,7
Forklift Trck 3/5 ten         each     3    3   3      9      36.225    108.7   106.7 103.7    326.0    113,0  122.7 133.7   369.4          25Ss6  110,8              369,4
Forklift Truck  /10 ton       each     2    1   -      3       124.2   249.4   124.2      -    372.6   25W,3   140.2      -    399,5        319,    79,7             39005
Yard Tractor                  eah      4    -    -     4     85,595    342,4        -     -    342,4   356,1        -     -    356.1        267,1    99.0             356.1
amsis                         eah      9    -    -     8      19.044    152.4       -     -    152,4    158,4       -     -    151,4       109    47.5              158.4
hitchiir  Erine               each     I    -    -      I    197.375    197.4       -     -    197.4    205,3       -     -    205.3        205.3       -             205.J
Mobile Tower Crow 250t        each     I    -    -      1  2,142,45  2,142.5        -     - 2,142,5  2,22891        -     -  2t229,1      222981        -           24226,1
9hTotal COITAIIOS                                                        3,677.0 1,651,4 106.7  5,437,2  3,924,1 1,9639 133.7 51,21.6    5117.8   642,9                5,921.6
C. MAINTIWU    P EOUIPIET
Total Cost                    each     *    -    -     -                256,9   258,8     -   517,5    269.1  m2o         -    56ll        420.8   140.3             561.1
Su-Total NAINTUWEE SHOP ESUIPENT                                           259.9   2519.     -    517.5   269.1   m.o        -    561.1        420.9   1403              561.1
s TU95OAT
Total Cost                    each     -    -    -     -              1,769,9 .1769,9     -  3,539,7  1540.61,997.5      -  3J.6361      1,919.0 1.919,0           3,936.1
Sub-Total TUUGAT                                                         1,76.9S 19769.9     - 36539,7  1,540.6 1.W6765       - 3.;33,1      1i919.0 1.919,0           3,8;1
Total IIAMII1T1T WITS                                                       6,47512 4W556.3 606,0 11,641.5  6,734.2 5144,6 747.9 124626,6       99149.3 3,477.3          12,626.6
--zaaaaIaa:,_--.aaia.aamaa.. mama.......... _a.a Ma.aa.a MaM.... . a....,.
Total                                                                        6,475.2 4,558.3 606.0 11,6415  6,734.2 5,144.6 747.9 12,626.6       9149,3 30477.3           12,626.6   *
.am... .. m........  aa.ga3   aa:   l:   g.. 
Nay 16, 1"4 10136
Source:  RPT, ESP and mission  estimates.
May 1984



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Ship Forecast and Maximum Ship Size
Service                     Maximum Size
of Ship           1985       1990     1995
Containers                    1,200 TEU           48        102       166
Iron and Steel Products    16,000 DWT             34        52         60
Break-bulk general cargo   22,000 DWT             75       114        125
Special bulk carriers       60,000 DWT            15        62         79
Bulk carriers               90,000 DWT            35        40         45
Products Tankers            22,000 DWT            21         30       149
Crude Tankers               60,000 DWT             0       166        320
Total                                            228        560       994
Source: ESP and RPT Associates
May 1984



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Flood Protection
A. General
1.        The industrial port at Lazaro Cardenas is being developed in the triangular
delta of the Rio Balsas. Flooding occurred in the delta in 1976 in association with
Hurricane Madelaine, demonstrating that a potential existed for flood damage to
industries locating at Lazaro Cardenas. Subsequent planning for the industrial port
has included provisions for flood control works to reduce or eliminate the flood
risk. This annex summarizes the hydrologic and hydraulic characteristics of the
delta, the alternative plans considered for flood protection, the economic
justification for flood control, and the ongoing study needed to verify the economic
justification.
B. Hydrology
2.        The 110,920 km2 of the Rio Balsas drainage basin comprise the major river
system in south-central Mexico. The climatic characteristics range from semi-arid to
semi-tropical. Average annual rainfall over the basin is 978 mm, most of which is
concentrated during the months of August, September and October. The remaining
months are very dry.
3.        Two dam and reservoir projects for generating hydroelectric power are
located just upstream from the project area. La Villita, the smaller and most
downstream of the two, is located about 15 km from the sea. Discharges from the La
Villita powerhouse and spillway enter directly into the upper reaches of the delta.
The second dam, Infiernillo, is located about 70 river km from the sea. The
Infiernillo Reservoir has a dramatic effect upon the hydrology of the basin
downstream from the dam, spreading runoff formerly concentrated within a few months
over the entire year. The operating policy is to fill the reservoir at Infiernillo
by the end of the rainy season and to generate power so that the reservoir is nearly
empty at the beginning of the normal rainy season. Rainfall events that exceed the
regulating capacity of Infiernillo usually occur only in association with hurricanes
such as Beulah in 1967 and Madelaine in 1976.
4.        The operating policy of the two reservoirs calls for simultaneous operation
of the gated spillways at each dam. The result is that discharges at Infiernillo are
immediately reproduced at the spillw&y at La Villita and enter directly into the
delta. Because of the geometry of the basin, storm inflows from the intervening area
between the two dams will already have passed through La Villita before peak
discharges occur at Infiernillo, and the Infiernillo discharge can correctly be taken
as the flow entering the delta.
5.        The Rio Balsas divides into two branches about 1.5 km below La Villita.
The depth of the triangular-shaped delta is roughly 15 km measured from La Villita to
the coast, and the base is about 7 km, measured along the coast. The two branches of



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
the Rio Balsas have been named using a downstream-facing convertion; the Brazo
Derecho forms the western border. The flood control project is located along the
left branch, a braided, broadly meandering stream. The right branch is a smaller
single chanuel. There is one active cross-connecting channel below the dividing
point. SARH has recently completed construction of a diversion control structure on
the right branch of the river. The structure is designed to limit flood flows
entering the right branch to 300 cubic meters per second (cms). Prior to
construction of the diversion structure, an estimated 30% of delta flood flows passed
down the right branch. The structure is also designed to pass a minimum flow of 50
cms to the right branch for water supply and flushing.
C. Flood Potential
6.        The potential for flooding in any area is expressed by two parameters, the
flowrate and the probability of occurrence of that flow. The Comision Federal de
Electricidad (CFE) is the owner and operator of Infiernillo Dam and, as such, has
done all existing analyses of flood flows and return frequencies for the Rio Balsas
Basin. Records of stream flows have been kept since the mid-1950s, and a 28-year
period of record is now available. An update of statistical analyses, completed in
August of 1983, shows the return frequency for the Infiernillo Reservoir inflows to
be as presented in the following table, which gives the flood-frequency relationship
for the river basin above Infiernillo.
I-nflow-Frequency Relationship
Infiernillo Reservoir
Return Period            Peak Inflow            Volume
(years)                 (cms)               (1 cu.m)
10,000                  38,800               10,200
1,000                 29,500                 8,100
100                 22,500                5,900
50                 19,400                5,300
15                 16,300                4,100
7.        The corresponding relationship below Infiernillo is dependent upon the
operating policy of the dam. With the objective of optimizing utilization of the
dam, taking into account both electrical generating capacity and flood protection,
CFE studied a series of alternative operating policies. CFE selected an operating
policy for Infiernillo that provides some flood protection to the delta by lowering
hydropower storage level by 4 meters and gradually increasing spillway gate openings
as the pool level rises to its design operating level. The table following shows the
flood frequency relationship produced in the delta by this operating policy. The
policy was reviewed by both consultants to CNCP and Bank staff who concluded that it
represented a reasonable balance between, on the one hand, maximizing energy, and, on
the other, minimizing the risk of flooding in the Rio Balsas delta.



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
Flood Frequency in Rio Balsas Delta
Under the Selected Infiernillo Operating Policy
Return Period                              Peak Flowrate
(Years)                                     (cms)
10,0O0                                      10,000
1,000                                       9,000
467                                       8,000
216                                       7,000
103                                       6,000
50                                       5,500
15                                       5,000
The operating policy for Infiernillo is critical to flood conditions in the delta.
Alternate flood-routing scenarios indicate that, without the flood protection
measures provided in the selected operating policy, the peak discharge in the delta
would be increased by nearly 50%.
8.        The results of mathematical modeling performed in 1976 by the University of
Mexico's Institute of Engineering indicate that flood flows in the 10,000 cms range
would flood most of the delta, with depths of inundation ranging up to almost 2
meters above the natural delta terrain. Material dredged from the harbor basin has
been used to raise elevations in the industrial area to 4 meters above sea level.
This will reduce the depth of flooding in some areas and increase it in others. New
mathematical modeling studies by the Insitute of Engineering are under way to
determine, with more precision, the current patterns of flooding.
D. Proposed Plan
9.        The currently proposed flood protection plan on the left branch of the Rio
Balsas consists of channel rectification and levees which will provide protection
against flood flows up to 7,000 ems. The improvements are indicated on Map IBRD
17795. The channel rectification would consist of deepening and widening the
existing river channel from La Villita to a point near the village of San Francisco,
a distance of about 10 km. The flood control channel would stop at a distance of
about 4 km from the sea. The new channel width would be 250 meters, and the
elevation of the channel bottom would vary from +2 meters at La Villita to -2 meters
at the ocean outlet. Total channel excavation would be about 8.7 million cubic
meters. The levee on the left bank of the channel would begin at the high bank at
Zacatula and extend to the ocean outlet, providing protection at Zacatula, Naranjito,
San Francisco, and agricultural lands. The right-bank levee would begin at the Dique
Alcantarilla and extend to the ocean outlet, providing protection to the port and
industrial area.
10.       The levees would be built with material excavated from the new flood
channel. An impervious-core plug dike would be incorporated in the right-bank levee
where it crosses existing waterways, and riprap armor would be provided on both
levees, at changes in alignment, to protect against high-velocity scouring.
Riprap-protected overflow sections would be provided to protect against sudden
overtopping and levee failure.



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
E. Alternatives Considered and Economic Analysis
11.       Development of the flood control project through August 1983 focused on a
plan that would provide protection against a 1,000-year flood, and a complete, final
engineering design for a project that would provide protection against flows up to
13,000 cms was prepared. After an economic analysis of alternatives, the design was
reduced; the plan which would be supported by this project would protect against
flows up to 7,000 cms, providing a 200-year level of protection.
12.       In analyzing alternative plans, SARH tested various alternatives for levies
and channel rectification to protect against several flow rates. This work served as
a basis for a comparison by consultants RPT of the economic costs and benefits for
alternatives for flood flows of 3,000, 5,000, 7,000, 10,000, and 13,000 cms.
13.       The economic evaluation was based on the following quantified benefits:
(a) prevention of damages to industrial development;
(b) prevention of losses in industrial production;
(c) prevention of damages to populated areas;
(d) prevention of losses in agricultural production;
{e) prevention of damages to infrastructure;
(f) reduction of maintenance dredging;
(g) avoidance of damages to projects of smaller design;
(h) avoidance of delays in port operations; and
{i) increased power generation at La Villita.
14.       The benefits were determined by:
(a) determining the level of damage which would occur at each level of
flooding. For industrial damages to infrastructure and production,
investigations were made for each of the industrial plants which exist or
are under construction at the port;
(b) applying these benefits to probabilities (derived from the table in
paragraph 7) of flooding for different discharge rates; and
(c) comparing the net present value of these benefits (assuming a 30-year
period of analysis and an opportunity cost of capital of 12%) to the costs
of flood protection projects designed to avoid damages from floods of
varying discharges.
15.       Because of uncertainties over the pace of industrial development at Lazaro
Cardenas, only benefits from industries already constructed or under construction
were included in the analysis (e.g., FERTIMEX, NKS first stage, SICARTSA first and
second stage, CONASUPO grain terminal, Pemex tank farm, the ESP and PMT). Because of
uncertainties regarding the pace of completion of SICARTSA II, only that percent of
work already completed or committed (80%) was included in the analysis and only
production losses from the first stage operation were included. In this analysis,
RPT's estimates for benefits from industrial damage and increased power generation
were reduced by the mission by one third.
16.       A summry of the benefits for each plan which was investigated is provided
in the table following:



- 62 -
ANNEX 4
Summry of Present Value of Benefits
(1983 Mex$ billions)
Design Discharge (cms)l/
Benefit Category               5,000   5,500   6,000   7,000   8,000   9,000   10,000
Industrial Damages              3.4      6.2      7.1     7.5      7.7     7.8       7.9
Lost Production                 1.4      2.6      2.8      3.0     3.1     3.1       3.1
Urban Damages                   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.1     0.1       0.1
Agricultural Production         ..       ..       ..       ..      ..
Infrastructure Damages          0.2      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.6     0.6       0.6
Maintenance Dredging            0.1      0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2     0.2       0.2
Damages to Lesser Plans         0.0      0.4      0.4      0.4     0.4     0.5       0.5
Shipping Losses                 0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.1     0.1       0.1
Increased Energy Output         4.2      4.2      4.2     4.2      4.2     4.2       4.2
TOTAL                           9.3    14.1      15.2    15.8    16.4    16.6       16.7
1/ Levels up to which no flood damage would occur.
.. Indicates less than 0.05
17.       The estimated costs for the 7,000 cms and 13,000 cms plans have been
developed in detail. Final design drawings were used by SARH in making quantity
estimates, a.ud unit costs have been updated from October 1981 bid prices using
factors reflecting local wage increases and national price trends for each type of
work. A separate cost estimate, based on SARH quantities but using independently
derived unit costs, was prepared by SOROS Associates for CNCP. That estimate
corroborates the SARH work. Costs for the other alternative plans were prepared from
SARH preliminary design work done during the design of the 13,000 cms project. The
SARH unit costs were applied to the preliminary quantity estimates by RPT, and the
resulting figures were fit to a smooth curve.
18.       The net present values of the alternatives (discounted at 12%) are shown in
the table following.
Net Present Value of Benefits
(1983 Mex$ billions)
Design flow (cms)           5,000   5,500   6,000   7,000   8,000   8,000   10,000
Benefits                      9.3    14.1    15.2    15.8    16.4    16.6        16.7
Cost                          2.6      2.7     2.9      3.2     3.8     4.5       5.1
Net Benefits                  6.7    11.4    12.3    12.6    12.6    12.1        11.6



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
19.       The maximum net present value benefits occur for a plan protecting against
a flow of 7,000 cms. This alternative has an estimated economic rate of return of
40%. The benefit analysis is based on the assumption that flooding patterns are
identical to those occurring in 1976. Mathematical modeling of current conditions is
expected to show reduced levels of flooding. Because of the uncertainties regarding
the nature of flood patterns which might emerge from this exercise, a series of
sensitivity tests was made to determine whether the optimum plan would change under
various likely flooding scenarios. The table below indicates that the selected
design and its viability would not change even given extreme assumptions regarding
the likely outcome of the mathematical model.
Sensitivity Test: Net Present Values of Benefits
(1983 Mex$ billions)
Design Flow (cms)       5,000    5,500   6,000    7,000    8,000    9,000       10,000
Flood levels reduced
by 0.50 m              6.1     9.4       10.3     10.5     9.8       8.9       8.0
Flood levels reduced
by 0.50 m and NKS,
FERTIMEX and Pemex
not flooded            4.9     7.0        7.52     7.51    6.7       5.8       4.8
20.       Responsibility for implementing the flood control component of the project
will be with SARH. Within this organization, the Subsecretaria de Infraestructura
Hidraulica, Direccion General de Grande Irrigacion (DGGI) is the responsible office.
The DGGI is subdivided into six Subdirectorates. The Subdireccion de Proyectos
Especificos is responsible for the design of the proposed flood control component.
21.       Upon completion of design work, project responsibility is shifted to the
Subdireccion de Construccion, where cost estimating, bidding, contracting, and
construction supervision are carried out. Construction supervision will be done by
Lazaro Cardenas field office of the Departamento de Supervision de Obras de Control
de Rios. That office is now supervising construction of flood control works on the
right branch of the Balsas River including the diversion dam Dique Alcantarilla,
channel rectification on the right branch, and channel improvements on the Arroyo El
Barco, a tributary to the right branch.
May 1984



- 64 -
ANNEX 5
MCO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Details of Training Coponent
I. Training for ESP Operating and Administrative Staff
1.        The rapid growth of container traffic foreseen at Lazaro Cardenas over
the next few years will require the development of new skills in the operation and
maintenance of new specialized equipment, and in the administration of a modern
container terminal. Consultants to CNCP financed by Loan 1964-ME prepared a
Master Plan for the training of operating and administrative staff of the
industrial ports. A series of outline lesson plans for various port functions was
also prepared, but has neither been translated into Spanish nor adapted to local
use as yet.
2.        SCT has already constructed a building in Lazaro Cardenas to house a
National Training Center for Maritime and Port workers, which, when properly
equipped and staffed, will serve the whole of the country. Meanvhile, considering
the immediate needs of ESP and the contracting union, the project would include
procurement of equipment and development of instructors who would be able to give
courses at the training center.
3.        The objectives of the training program for ESP would be to:
(a) improve cargo handling procedures;
(b) increase cargo handling productivity;
(c)  reduce cargo losses and damages;
(d) improve maintenance capability for new and existing equipment;
(e) develop or improve machine handling skills; and
(f) strengthen and expand the existing CNCP training division.
II. Wastewater Plant Training
4.        The need for adequately trained staff to operate and maintain the
environmental components of the project is discussed in Annex 1. A training
program for FONDEPORT personnel will be required for the operation of the waste
water plants. Specific training programs for the municipal sewerage systems would
be developed after the feasibility studies are completed. These programs are
expected, however, to follow that proposed for FONDEPORT personnel.
III. Budgets and Implementation Schedules
5.        The training budget which would be supportee by the project is given in
Table 1 of this annex.
May 1984



- 65 -                                ANNEX 5
Table 1
EXCO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Training Program Cost Estimates
I. ESP Port Training
US$
A. Maintenance
1.  Training Workshop 120 m  @ $350/m2                     42,000
2.  Workshop Equipment                                    150,000
3.  Instructor (Local - 1 year)                            20,000
4.  Expatriate Technical Assistance - 6 months @ 8,000    48,000
SUB TOTAL                                                 260,000
B. Administration of Cargo and Containers
1. Classroom Furniture                                     15,000
2.  Audio Visual Equipment                                 25,000
3.  Adaptation and Translation of Learning                 15,000
material (Oakland)
4.  Models of handling gear and other equipment           150,000
5.  Instructor (1 year)                                    18,000
6. Expatriate Technical Assistance - 6 months              48,000
SUB TOTAL                                                 271,000
C.  Cargo-Handling Oerator Training
1. Equipment                                                 n/c
2.  Fuel and Materials                                     15,000
3.  2 Trainers x 6 months                                  18,000
4.  Expatriate T.A. - 4 months                             32,000
SUB TOTAL                                                  65,000
D. Preparatory TraininR of Trainers
Training Director (ESP) +
2 Chief Instructors
3 months abroad                                            50,000
Expatriate Assistance - 12 months                         120,000
SUB TOTAL                                                 170,000
II. FONDEPORT Training
Water Treatment Plants Training
12 operators @ 6 weeks course (in US)
Salaries                               18,000
Allowance                               50,000
Fares                                   6,000
Cost of Course @ 3250 per person       39,000
113,000            113,000
TOTAL BASE COST                                           991,000



- 66 -
AME  6
MEXICO
LAZARO CABDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Financial Analysis
I. The Empresa de Servicios Portuarios (ESP)
A. Structure and Performance to Date
1.        ESP, the port operating company, has been in existence since 1972. Its
principal shareholder is the Federal Government, which today holds 752 of the
shares, although its holding may be reduced to 51% according to the company's
charter. Its organization is shown in Chart 26028. SICARTSA holds 24% of the
shares, and a symbolic 1% is held by the ESPs of Mazatlan, Manzanillo and
Acapulco. ESP has no long-term liabilities. Its assets consist principally of a
tug and cargo-handling equipment. Summary balance sheets for recent years are as
follows:
Summary Balance Sheets, 1979-1983
(millions of current Mex$)
1979     1980     1981     1982     1983 I/
Net Fixed Assets                   16.24    =3Oo   ITEM    310.47        7b.
Other Assets                       8.73    42.87    76.52    63.85    128.00
Total Assets                       24.97    68.27   186.93   374.32    435.00
Total Liabilities                   8.73    17.91    23.20   208.74    167.00
Net Worth                          16.24    50.56   163.73   165.58    268.00
Total Liability and Net Worth      24.97    68.27   186.93   374.32    435.00
Despite the humble picture thus presented, ESP has, since 1975, been handling over
1 million tons of cargo annually. From 1979 through 1982, this cargo included
some 700,000 tons of coal for S-IARTSA, handled with the latter's own gantry
crane.
2.        Its work force today consists of some 710 employees, about 600 of whom
are contracted through the Stevedoring Union's organization on a "per-ton handled"
basis. On Its own staff, which deals with the administration, finance,
operational planning, and supervision and equipment maintenance of the port's
public facilities, it bad some 109 employees at the end of 1983. Summary
operational statements for recent years are as follows:
1/ Provisional Figures



- 67 -
ANNEX 6
Summary Revenue Statements 1979-1983
(millions of current Nex$)
1979     1980     1981      1982     1983 1/
Operating Revenue              41.65    67.05   122.07   205.57   387.00
Working Expense                32.96    53.81   122.34   190.72   369.00
Depreciation                    2.25      5.25    11.39     9.22      3.00
Total Expense                  35.21    59.06   133.73   199.94   372.00
Surplus (loss)                  6.4       7.99   (11.66)    5.63    15.00
Working Ratio                    79        80      100        93       95
Operating Ratio                  85        88      110        97       96
B.  Tariffs and Costs
3.        The Empresa has made efforts to keep its tariffs above its
fully absorbed costs for each specific service and, apart from 1981, has managed
to do so -as may be seen from the preceding operating ratios. The figures must,
however, be viewed with care since they contain hardly any capital costs. The
reason is that few of the capital assets used in port operations belong to ESP
(nor does ESP pay for their use), and those which do, appear in its books at their
depreciated cost.
C. Financial Projections
4.        The assumptions on which the financial projections are based are
presented in Appendix A of this annex, and projected revenue accounts, flow of
funds statements and balance sheets are presented in Tables 1 to 3 of this annex.
The target revenue accounts for the next five years and the relevant ratios are
summarized in the following tabulation:
ESP's Projected Revenue Statements, 1985-1989
(in millions of 1983 Mex$)
1985      1986       1987      1988       1989
Operating Revenue                  515        659       876        990     1,037
Working Expenses                   515        585       633        637       661
Depreciation                       219        254       256        212       214
Surplus (loss)                    (219)      (T80)      (13)       141       162
Working Ratio                       97         87        71         63        62
Operating Ratio                    142        127       102         86        84
The principal assumption with regard to revenues is that tariffs will be increased
by 352 in real terms in 1985 and will be maintained at that real level to achieve
1/ Provisional Figures



- 68 -
ANNEX 6
the target cash generation agreed to until 1987, when tariffs will be raised by
another 7.5% in real terms. This should be sufficient to cover all working and
maintenance costs, generating a surplus cash flow from 1987 onward to cover debt
service and leave something toward investments. Although this goal may seem
fairly modest, the transition from present revenue levels to the projected ones
during a period of high inflation will require great financial discipline and may
well encounter some political opposition, let alone user resistance to the tariff
increases required. Additional Government financing will be required through 1986
at any rate, even with the projected tariff increases (see Table 2 of this annex,
note 1).
II. Fondo Nacional para los Desarrollos Portuarios (FONDEPORT)
A. Present Financial Situation
5.        FONDEPORT is an independent Federal agency created in 1975 by the
Ministry of Finance and the Banco Nacional de Obras, with the object of developing
port lands and selling or leasing them. It has, to date, been instrumental in the
development and sale of lands in the country's fishing ports. At the end of 1982,
the Government transferred to FONDEPORT ownership of the lands for industrial
development adjacent to the ports of Lazaro Cardenas and Altamira. FONDEPORT has
since set up a special department for industrial ports at its head offices and
branch offices in Lazaro Cardenas and Altamira (Chart 26069).
6.        The audited balance sheets for 1981 and 1982 are summarized below:
FONDEPORT Summary Balance Sheet
(millions of current Mex$)
Assets                    1981         1982
Cash and Receivables    1,192          550
Fixed Assets             1,310        2,979 1/
Other Assets               37            10
i,539       3,539
Liabilities
Short Term Liabilities    248          399
Own Funds                2,292        3,140
2,539       3,539
I/ Based on valuation by the National Commission for Valuation of State Property.
7.        Operations have consisted largely of the development and sale of lands
transferred by the Government to FONDEPORT. Although FONDEPORT paid nothing for
the land, it was sold at prices determined by the Committee for National Property
Valuation, plus prorated development costs. Its most recent revenue statements
are sunmarized below:
FONDEPORT Sumary of Revenue Statements 1981-1982
(millions of Mex$)
1981     1982
Net Revenue from Sales and Interest         196      282
General Expenses                             66       97
Surplus                                   -i 



- 69 -
ANNEX 6
B. Projections for the Lazaro Cardenas' FONDEPORT Subsidiary
8.        In order to manage the industrial park of Lazaro Cardenes, FONDEPORT
intends to create a special, semi-autonomous entity. To this end, it has
commissioned studies on the administration, commercial development and promotion
of the Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Port, consulting with Bank staff with regard to
the terms of reference for these studies. These studies will not, however, be
completed before June 1984; decisions with regard to setting up the required
administrative body should be taken by the end of the year. Nevertheless, the
assumptions on which the financial projections for the FONDEPORT entity are based
(presented in Appendix A of this annex) were agreed upon with FONDEPORT's Director
of Industrial Ports. The following is a summary table of projected financial
results for the years 1984-1989, based on assumptions in Appendix A. More details
are presented in Tables 4-7 of this annex.
Summary of FONDEPORT Lazaro Cardenas Office Revenue Statement Projections
1984-1989
(millions of 1983 Mex$)
1984    1985     1986      1987    1988    1989
Revenues                         172     266       409      424      445     447
Working Expenses                 93      105       116      204      258     285
Depreciation                     86      108       125      134     145      147
Total Expenses                  179      213       241      338     403      432
Operating Surplus                -7       53       168       86      42       15
Working Ratio                    54       40        28       48      58       64
Operating Ratio                 104       80       59        80      91       97
9.        The two basic principal assumptions implicit in the projected revenues
above are (a) that rental fees for land will be collected as of this year on the
basis of leasing agreements to be signed with the relevant industries, beginning
at no less than 35 pesos/sq m per yearl/ and to be increased annually to keep pace
with inflation and (b) that such agreements will include provisions for full
recovery of dredging costs for specialized wharves. The working costs above
include annual transfers to the Government of dredging and flood protection costs
collected from industrial tenants.
10.       In addition to the lands assigned to heavy industry on or close to the
waterfront, FONDEPORT intends to develop an area of 120 hectares for smaller
industries and workshops which either have some functional relationship to the
heavier industries in the port area or serve the municipal area of Lazaro
Cardenas. The first stage of this development (40 ha) would be included under the
project. Development of this park for small and medium industries is based on the
results of a market and economic and financial feasibility study. The market
study and financial analysis recommended a monthly rental value of Mex$ 48.15 per
sq m2 which would be appropriate to meet demand for land, filling the initial 40
ha area over the first three years. Leasing contracts would have an escalation
clause to maintain the lease at its 1983 value in real terms. The financial
projections show that, in order to maintain a return of 102, the rental value
would have to be about Mex$ 44 sq m. The administrative framework through which
the park is to be managed will be determined as a part of the larger ongoing study
with regard to the administration of the whole of the industrial port area.
1/ The present charge for the only existing contract in Lazaro Cardenas, that
with PMT, is Mex$ 30.24/sq m but is subject to review every three years,
being recognized as only symbolic payment.



- 70 -
ANNEX 6
III. The Federal Government
11.       Two principal agencies of SCT have been involved to date in the
development of the industrial port: DGOM, which has constructed the breakwaters
and quays and dredged the channels; and DGODP, which has overall responsibility
for port operations, ship movements and the collection of port dues. Revenues
arising out of port dues in recent years have been as follows:
Federal Government Revenues
(millions of current Mex$)
1980     1981     1982     1983
Ships Dues                             0.9      2.4      1.8      35.5
Mooring Dues                           1.6      2.7       1.8      8.7
Wharfage                               6.1      6.8     10.9      10.6
Concessions, etc.                      0.6      0.9      1.2       1.2
Total                                  9.2     12.8     15.7    56.0
US$ million                            0.24     0.26     0.21      0.45
It is clear that the Government, in 1983, made drastic increases in ship's dues.
Coastal vessels today pay one-half of the international dues. The revenues to
date are inadequate to cover depreciation and interest on the sums invested by SCT
in port infrastructure. According to consultant estimates, the revenue in 1983
covered about 22% of annual depreciation, which amounts to Mex$ 250 million per
year at 1983 prices. The revenue thus collected goes to the Ministry of Finance
(SHCP) as part of the Federal Treasury receipts. There is no direct relationship
between what is collected and investments in ports, which are made through SCT's
annual budget allocations.
12.       Not included in the preceding table of revenues are storage fees, whicb
are for storage of cargo in excess of 15 days and are collected by the customs
authorities. Revenues for 1981 and 1982 were Mex$ 933,000 and Mex$ 1 million,
respectively.
13.       The administrative costs of running the DGODP office in Lazaro Cardenas
were about 16.8 million pesos in 1983. The accounts kept are of a single entry
budgetary nature and include only nominal depreciation of some of the port assets.
14.       In order to make financial projections (presented in Tables 8 and 9 of
this annex) to 1989, all the costs related to the Government's investments in the
industrial port have been taken into account. This includes depreciation (in
accordance with the useful lives of the assets) as presented in the 'Assumptions
used in Financial Projections" (Appendix A) and based on the revalued cost of the
assets concerned. Costs of investment in dredging for specific industries will be
recovered through FONDEPORT for its waterfront tenants as well as from SICARTSA,
ESP and FERTIM.  The latter already pays an annual concession fee, but it has
not been adjusted for inflation. Costs of flood protection investments will
possibly be recovered similarly from FONDEPORT and others by inclusion into an
annual port concession fee. The relative level of fees was calculated by



- 71 -
ANNEX 6
the annual maintenance costs of these works.   The cost of dredging access
channels is to be recovered through ships' dues. Construction of wharves is
recovered through mooring charges and wharfage, although these dues are today
inadequate to cover the revalued depreciation costs of past investments. The
analysis given in Tables 8 and 9 indicates that revenue from port dues would have
to be raised by 120X just to cover full operating costs (including revalued
depreciation). A summary of proforma projected revenue statements follows:
(in million 1983 Mexican Pesos)
1984    1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
General Revenue          397     433    519    721   1153   1228
Working Costs            103     107    110    154    283    283
Depreciation             249     256    282    314    406    442
Total Costs              352     363    392    468    689    72Z5
Surplus                   45      70    127    253    464    503
Operating Ratios          89      84      76     65    6W
May 1984



- 72 -
ANNEX 6
Appendix A
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
A. ESP
1.        Cargo and ship traffic projections are presented in Annex 7.  Products
have been regrouped to fit in with identifiable unit costs and revenues of ESP.
Unit costs and revenues were calculated on the basis of end of 1983 figures.
2.        Cargo handling and services to vessels will both be performed by ESP.
It will continue to handle cargo at the SICARTSA wharf and will handle the grain
at the CONASUPO terminal. At other specialized terminals, ESP will also handle
cargo unless concessionary agreements are arrived at with waterfront industries.
3.        All financial projections presented in this report have been made in
constant 1983 pesos or dollars because of the difficulty of obtaining agreed
forecasts of rates of inflation. Forecasts have also been made in current terms
based on best estimates and are available in the project file.
4.        ESP's computed cargo handling unit costs for labor have been reduced by
the following percentages during the project period to reflect the growing
efficiency resulting from more capital-intensive operations, cargo unitization and
real wage erosion:
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
5       7        9      10      10       10
5.        ESP's salary costs reflect the growth in the number of its employees
from 109 in 1983 to 232 by 1988.
6.        The operation of an additional tug which would be financed under the
project is assumed as from 1986.
7.        Depreciation costs have been adjusted as of 1984 to reflect the revalued
worth of existing fixed assets and the fact that aU equipment and superstructure
on the public wharves become ESP's property. Cost of new imported equipment
includes import taxes.
8.        To attain the target results, ESP revenues will be increased, in real
terms, by 35% for 1985 through 1986 and by another 7.5% for 1987.
B. FONDEPORT
9.        With regard to FONDEPORT, the following areas will be leased to
industries, in cumulative totals, in each of the years:



- 73 -
ANNEX 6
Appendix A
Hectares
Actual                         Projected
1983     1984     1985      19086    1987     1988    1989
475     567.2    720.4   1099.7   1134.1   1148.1   1150
10.       To bring historic investments to 1983 values, the following factors were
used:
1979    -    4.249
1980    -    3.276
1981    -    2.252
1982    -    1.680
1983    -    1.00
11.       Depreciation of                            Useful Lives
Buildings                                 30 years
Storage Sheds                              25 years
Infrastructure on Land                    50 years
Water Supply and Drainage                 50 years
Quays and Aprons                          40 years
Roads                                      40 years
Electricity Network                       30 years
Dredging Works                            90 years
12.       Maintenance and Administration Costs
Infrastructure                             1% of investment
Water Supply Network                       3.22 of investment
Roads                                     3.2n of investment
Electricity Network                        2.42 of investment
13.       FONDEPORT land-leasing charges will be 35 pesos per sq. m. per year at
1983 prices (or about US$3,000 equivalent per hectare) and will be pegged to
inflationary price increases. This estimate is very conservative in view of
periodic revaluations called for in FONDEPORT's proposed contracts.
C. Federal Government
14.       Storage revenues have been estimated on the basis of average revenue of
Mex$ 30/ton x 15 days x 5% of total TUM cargo; 50% of this revenue is retained by
ESP to cover costs of operating and maintaining storage facilities.
15.       To assure reasonable cost recovery, dues are assumed to be increased by
120% for 1985 and onward and retained at that level in real terms.
May 1984



MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Projected Revenues for E.S.P.. 1983 - 1989
(in million 1983 pesos)
1983         1984         1985         1986         1987         1988         1989
REVENUES
Cargo Handling                                 353          386          318          407          502          563          577
Related  Services                                23           25           21           27           33           37           38
Storage                                           0           19           23           31           41           53           61
Pilotage                                          0            3            4            5            6            6            7
Towage                                           11           13           14           18           22           24           25
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__-----------
Total  Revenue                                 367          446          380          48B          604          683          715
Adjustment  Factor                                1             1       1.36         1.35         1.45         1.45         1.45
Adjusted__________Revenues_________367                  __-_-446 ______15____659______7_____                    990_____    1037___
Adjusted  Revenues                             387          446          515          659           676         990         1037
------------------------------------------__------------------___----__-------__----------
Operating  Revenues    I/                            387          446          51S          659          876          990         1037  
-------------------------------------------------------------------__-------__---------------
Operating  Expenses: 
Working  Costs                                       364          497          500          570          618          622          646
Dredging  Fee                                           5           21           15           15           15           15           15
Depreciation               2/                           3         130          219          254          256          212          214
Total  Operating  Expenses                           372          648          734          639          889          849          875
--------------------------------------------------------------------__------__---------------
Operating  Surplus                                     15        -202         -219         -190          -13          141          162
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__---------------
RATIOS
Working  Ratio                                       .94         1.11          .97          .87          .71          .63          .62
Operating  Ratio                                     .96         1.45         1.42         1.27         1.02          .86          .84
--------------------------------------------------------------------__------__---------------
Notest
1/  1983  figures  are  provisional.No  change  in  tariffs  presumed  for  1984,apart  from  inflationary
adjustments.  35%  increase  in real  terms for  1985 and  another  7.5%  increase  for  1997
2/  Based  on  revaluation  of  assets  in  1984.  Very  small  figure  for  1983 was  adjustment                                             * 14
for  "over  depreciation"  previous  year.
Source: Consultant and Mission Estimates
;larch 1904



MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
E S P's   Flow of Funds   1984-1989    (in Million  1963 Pesos)
Sources                                                                1984       1985        1986        1987        1988       1989
Operating Surplus                                                     -202        -219        -180         -13         141         162
Depreciation                                                            130        219         254         256         212        214
Total  Internal  Resources                                              -72           0          74        243         353        376
Government Project Financing                                            473        477           95         33          62         147
lIRD Loan                                                               426        442         110          38          72        331  s
Supplementary Government Financing                           1/          79         116          45           0          0           0  "
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__-------------------------
Total  Sources                                                          908       1037         324         314         487        854
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__-------------------------
Applications
____________
Investments  (in Local Currency)                                       473         477          95          33          62         147
Investments  (in Foreign Currency)                                     428         442         11;J         38          72  '    331
Interest Payments                                                         0          28         56          63          64        101
Loan Amortisation                                                                                             0         29          29
Working Capital  Increase Required                                        7          90          63         29         134         154
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Total  Applications                                                     908       1037         324         163         381         762
_________________________________________________________________________________________-____________
Addition to Working Capital                                                                                151         106          92
------------------------------------------------------------_________________________
Notes:
1/ Government subsidy required because of insufficiency of revenue.
Sourceu  Consultant and Mission estimates
February 1984                                                                                                                        M- a



MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
--------------------------------------
E S P's Balance Sheet ProJectionS 1983-1989
(in Million 1983 Pesos)
1983     1984      1965      1986      1987     198B      1959
ASSETS
Cash 6nd Debtors                        117       133       116      154       190       213       218
Stores                                   11         6       117       152      150       140       137
Liquid Assets                           128       139       233      306       340       353       355
Other Assets                              0         0         0         0      151       106        92
Existing Fixed Assets                   344      1616     2517      3436      3640      3711      3846
New Assets in Construction                7       901       919      204        72       135       478
Total Gross Fixed Assets  1/            351      2517     3436      3640      3712      3846      4324
Less: Cum. Depreciation                  44       174       393      647       904      1116      1330
Net Fixed Assets                        307      2343     3043      2993      2980      2730      2994      5
Total Assets                            435      2482     3276      3299      3299      3189      3441
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH
Credi tors                               65        69        73        64       89        85        87
Long Term Debts                         102       428       870      980       926       901      1139
Reserves              2/                  1      1459      1459      1459     1459      1459      1459
Capital                                 267       526       874      776       623       744       757
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__---------------
Total Liabilities & Net Worth           435      2482     3276      3299      3299      3189      3441
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__---------------
RATIOS:
Liquidity Ratio                        1.97      2.01      3.19     3.64      3.82      4.15      4.08
Debt/Equity Ratio                       .38       .22       .37       .44      .41       .41       .51
Times Interest Earned                                    -7.81    -3.22       -.21      1.68      1.60    V I
------------------------------------------------------------------______-__________________
Notea  1/ Historic assets revalued in 1994 and depreciation adJusted accordingly                          w0
2/ From 1954, result of asset revaluation.
&gQCCE: Consultant and Mission Estimates
March 1984



MEXICO
-LIZAkO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
eFndeport Land AssiQnment Prciections                  (in Hectares)
LEASEHOLDER                 1903        1984       1905       1986       1967       1988        1989
Conasupo                      101        1u1        161        10c1       101         101        101
N K . S                       135        1'35i      1.5        135         135        135        1-35
P M T                          62         62         62         62          62         62         62
Conc. Nac.                      2          2          2           2          2          2          2
Pemex Dep.                    175        175        175        175         175        175        175
Cc1 asa                                   67         67         67          67         67         67
P.Med. Ind.                             15.2       30.4       44.7       59.1       73.5          75
Ast.Unidos                                          120        120         120        120        120
Polifos                                             1           18         18         la         18
Pemex Raf.                                                     365        365         365        365
Esc.Tec.Pesquera                           6          6           6          6          6          6
T M M                                                                       20         20         20
Cent.Cap.                                  4          4           4          4          4          4
____________+___----------    ---------------------------        ---------------------------
Total                        475      567.2      720.4    1099.7    1134.1   1148.5             1150
---------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__--
Source:   FONDEPORT
January 1984
..                                                                              I!FD



MEXICO
Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Port Project
Fondeport Revenue Statement Projections 1984-1989
(in Million 1983 pesos)
1984     1985     1986     1987      1988     1989
aevenues  1/                         172      266      409       424      445      447
Jorking Costs                         93       105      116      204      258      285
)epreciation  2/                      86       10o      125      134      145       147
rotal Costs   3/                     179       213      241      .338     403      4.32
- - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  ________  OD
)perating Surphta                      -7       53      168       86        42       15               1
RATIOS
Working Ratio                         .54      .39       .28      .48      .58      .64
Operating Ratio                      1.04      .80       .59      .80      .91      .97
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- -_
Notes:
1. Revenues based on 35 pesos /sq.m per year,(1983 pes0s maintained in real terms) f
vestments and recovery of waterfront dredging costs from relevant~ indutstries.
2. Based an revaluated investments ,to 1983 prices.    of fuds collected
.3.costs include payment by Fondeport to the Government o   ud   olce
from lessees for waterfront dredging and flood protection works.
Source: Consultant and Mission estimates'
February 1984
ii
VI.fQ



MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Fondeport Projected Balance Sheets 1965-1969
(in Million 1963 Mexican Pesos)
ASSETS                                  1985       1986      1967      1988      1989
Cash and Debtors                          87        134       139       146       147
Other S.T Assiets                         126       345       506       601       664
Fixed Assets                            9643     10260    11483    11766        11650
LessuCumI. Depreciation                   195      320        453       599       746
Net Fixed Assets                        9448      9940    10630    11169    11104
Total Assets                            9661     10419    11275    11916    11915
LIABILITIES AND NET WURTH
Creditors                                  12        12        18        18        22
Long Term Debt                           391        474       584       770       791
Reserves                                7920      7920       7920      7920      7920
Capital.                                1336      2013       2753      3208      3182
Total Liabilities & N.W.                9661      10419    11275    11916    11915
Ratios:
Liquidity Ratio                             7        11         8         8         7
Debt/Equity Ratio                         .04       .05       .05       .07       .07
Times Interest Earned                   -.24       1.33      3.44      1.32       .55
_ _ _ _ _ _ _- - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _i_
Source. Consultant and Mission Estimates .
May 1984
------------------------------------------------------------------------__---__------



MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Fondeport Flow of Funds Projections 1985-1989
(in Million 1983 Mexican Pesos)
SOURCES                                1985      1986     1987      1988      1989
Operating Surplus                        53       168       86        42        15
Depreciation                            106       125      134       145       147
Total Internal Funds                    161       293      220       187       162                     1
Government  Investment                  759       534      705       482        44
IBRD Loan                               301       83       118       203        38                     0
Total Sources                          1221       910     1043       872       244
APPLICATIONS
Investment (Local Currency)             759      534       705       482        44
Investment (Foreign Currency)          .301       83       118       203        38
Interest                                 30        40       49        65        77
Amortisation of Debt                                          6       17        17
Total Applications                     1090       657     80        767       176
Changes in Working Capital              131       253       163      105        68
Source  Consultant and Mission Estimates .                                                            |
May 1984



MEXICO
L.AZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Federal Government -Revenue and Expenditure ProJections 1984-198991/
----------------------------------------------------__-----------
(in Million Mexican 1983 Pesos)
1984      1985       1986       1987       1988       1989
Port Dues
Concessions                               1          1          2         2          3          4
Ship Dues                                59         75        97        122        141        155
Mooring                                  21         19        20         22         24         26
Wharfage                                 29         26        28         30         32         34
Storage  2/                              19         23        31         41         53         68
Rio Balsas Maint.                        31         31        31         69        192        192
-----------------------------_---------------------------------------__------__--------
Total DuesQ                             160        174       209        286        445        479
Adjustment Factor                      2.2        2.2        2.2        2.2        2.2        2.2
Adjusted Duess                         352        383        460        629        979       1054
w
Participation in Drudging
Fondeport                                14         1B        27         45         76         76
Fertimex                                  4          4          4          4         4          4
ESP                                      14         15         15         15        15         15
Sicartsa                                  8          8          a         17        48         48
CFE                                       5          5          5        11         31         31
Total Participation                      45         50        59         92        174        174
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__--------
Total Revenues                         397    .  433         519        721       1153       1228
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__--------
Expenditure
___________
Administration Costs                    103        107       110        154        283        283
Depreciation                           249        256        282        314        406        442
-----------------------------------------------------------------_---__------__--------
Total Expenditure                      352        363        392        468        689        725
Surplus                                  45         70       127        253        464        503
Notese 1/ Operations connected to items funded from SCT Budget.                                              0
2/Half of estimated Storage revenue - transferred by ESP.
Source Hission and Consultants Estimates
March 1984



MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Federal Government - Flow of Funds Projections 1984 - 1989
(in Millicn 1983 Mexican Pesos)
1984     1985      1986     1987      1968      1989
SOURCES
Internal FLund Generation
Operating Strplus                          45        70       127      253       464      503
Depreciation                              249       256      282       314       406      442
Total Internal Funds:                     294       326       409      567       870      945
Other Funding SoLtrces                                                                               O
_____________________
New Government Investment                  34      1373      1585     2353      1031      636
ISRF Loan                                 698      3091     3005      3596       421      150
Total Fuinds                             1026      4790     4999      6516      2322     19.31
APPLICATIONS
Interest Payments                           0       247      582       780      803       811
Loan Amortization                                     0         0      450       900      900
New Investments(Local Currency)           328      1453      1412     1690       198       70
New Investments(Foreign Currency)         698      3091     3005      3596       421      150
Total Applications                       1026      4790     4999      6516      2322     1931
Sources Consultants and Mission Estimates.
May 1984                                                                                            |
%0O



MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Consolidated Flow of Funds      1985  -  1989  (in million 1983 Pesos)
Sources                                                                       1985       1986       1987       1988       1999
Operating Surplus                                                              -96        115        326        647        68G
Depreciation                                                                   583        661        704        763        803
Total  Internal Resources                                                      487        776       1030       1410       14e3
l
Government Project Financing                                                 2745        3679       4339        975        525
IBRD Loan                                                                    3834       3199        3752        696        519
Supplementary Financing                                                                              286        489        452
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__--------------------------
Total Sources                                                                 7066       7653       9407       3569       2979
---------------------------------------------..--------------------__--------__---------------------------
Applications
____________
Investments in Local Currency                                                2745       3679        4339        975        525
Investments in Foreign Currency                                              3834       3196        3752        696        519
Interest Payments                                                              305        678       898         952        989
Loan Ar.ortisation                                                                                   459        946        946
Total Applications                                                           6884        7555       9407       3569       2979
Fund Surplus                                                                   192         98           0          0          0
Sourcet  Consultant and Mission Estimates.
May 1984                                                                                                                                       3
------ - -- ------------ -- - ---..---- ---- - --- -- --- ----- -------- --- -----__ ----- ---__ ------ ------- --- -
C



- 84 -
ANNEX 7
HEXiCO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
ESP Action Plan
A. Finances
1.        By June 30, 1985, all of ESP's assets would be registered, revalued
and depreciation-adjusted in order to be included in the 1984 Financial
Statements. After this date, assets would be revalued annually.
2.        Proposals for tariff adjustments would be made periodically to take
account of inflation beginning at the time of preparation of the annual
recurrent budget for 1985. The tariffs of June 1984 would be indexed at 100,
and a comparative index of tariffs as against movements in the national price
index would be reported periodically.
3.        A five-year traffic forecast would be reviewed annually and
appropriate adjustments made.  A rolling five-year investment plan would be
presented to the Bank, together with an annual draft operating budget, two
months before the beginning of each year.
4.        The following working and operating ratios targets would be
achieved:
1985    1986    1987      1988    1989
Working Ratio                97      87       71      63      62
Operating Ratio             142     127      102      86      84
5.        A cost and tariff study would be completed by September 15, 1985,
with assistance from CNCP.
B. Staffing and Planning
6.        Suitably qualified training staff for port operations and
maintenance would be appointed by April 1985.
7.        An action plan for training would be completed by September 1984,
and training courses for required skills would be initiated no later than
January 1985.
8.        A staffing plan for ESP would be prepared by July 1985 for
implementation over the remaining project period, and submitted to the Bank
for comment.
C. Maintenance Program
9.        The Planned Maintenance Program, as prepared by CNCP, would be
initiated during 1985.
May 1984



- 85 -
ANNEX 8
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Port Traffic Analysis
I.   Methodology
1.        The traffic forecasts utilized in the appraisal of the Lazaro Cardenas
Industrial Port Project were prepared by consultants to CNCP (RPT Economic Studies
Group) with financing from the Port Development Preparation Project
(Loan 1964-ME). The consultants' work was principally aimed at forecasting
traffic through the industrial ports. However, since a large part of this traffic
was expected to be that generated from the ports' hinterland and perhaps diverted
from other commercial ports in the national system, the analysis took, as a
starting point, total port traffic potential which was subsequently assigned to
the national port network. The general approach taken was to prepare commodity
analyses for major product groups expected to pass through the port system. In
general, and where data permitted, each product was analyzed in terms of
production and consumption, regional and national surpluses/deficits, and the
impact of these factors on foreign trade. The consultants also analyzed maritime
transport services, port capacity in the most important ports in the national port
system, ship type and size trends, and internal and international land transport
linkages. An evaluation of the scope and speed of containerization was made.
Port traffic was assigned to the national port system based on origin and
destinatioa of flows, port capacity, distance aud costs.
2.        This forecasting exercise was difficult because it was carried out
during a period of crisis in the Mexican economy. A slower-than-expected recovery
from the current recession would alter, of course, the short run traffic
forecasts. Furthermore, the new administration is still in the process of
reassessing its development plans, and the future of many industrial investments
planned or initiated during the last administration is still in doubt. In the
absence of information to the contrary, it was assumed that industrial plants
(steel, fertilizers, petrochemicals, cement) and expansions of mining already
under way would be completed, albeit with a one- or two-year delay. Most of the
traffic generated by these large complexes is readily identifiable with a
particular port, and care muat be taken to reassess the timing of such industrial
activity when planning for elpansions to meet that demand at the ports. In this
respect, the forecasts for Lazaro Cardenas have been adjusted to provide for
delays in completion of industrial activity there.
II. Lazaro Cardenas Port Traffic
3.   Traffic at the Lazaro Cardenas port can be divided into two main categories:
(a)  TUM traffic, handled by ESP, which is currently made up of iron and
steel, sugar, grain, containerized general cargo and break-bulk
general cargo (Table 1 of this annex); and
(b) Specialized terminals and industrial waterfronts, all of which,
with the exception of the SICARTSA specialized bulk mineral berth
and the FERTINEX berth, are adjacent to FONDEPORT land (Table 2 of
this annex).



- 86 -
ANNEX 8
A. TUM Traffic
4.   TUM traffic grew overall at a rate of 51% p.a. between 1979 and 1983.  This
large increase can mainly be attributed to large increases in grain and iron and
steel traffic. Overall traffic at the TUM is expected to decline from about one
million tons in 1983 to about 600,000 tons in 1985 when grain traffic is
transferred to the grain terminal (on FONDEPORT land), which is expected to open
in that yesr. Thereafter, TUM traffic is expected to increase by 9.8% p.a. until
1989. The traffic projections by main commodities are discussed in paragraphs
5-14 following.
Iron and Steel
5.        The first stage of the SICARTSA plant at Lazaro Cardenas has a total
capacity of 1.3 million tons p.a.   Construction of a second stage (SICARTSA II)
began in 1980; while this plant is currently expected to be completed in 1986 and
to reach full production (1.4 million tons) by 1991, its opening may be delayed
because of a need to curtail investments during and after the recession and
because of world market conditions. At Lazaro Cardenas, 355,000 tons of steel
were exported by sea in 1983. While 1983 was an extraordinary year because of the
sharp decline in domestic demand and the related increase in exports, it is
expected that SICARTSA wil export between 10 and 15% of its production over the
forecasting period, or 160,000 tons in 1984. In addition to export traffic, the
consultants expect coastal shipping traffic of steel products from Lazaro Cardenas
to Baja California, Guaymas, Mazatlan and Salina Cruz to develop. Between 1983
and 1989, it is expected that total steel and iron traffic through Lazaro Cardenas
will increase at an annual rate of 1.7% p.a.
iarite and other Minerals
6.        Barite, which is used in oil drilling, had, until recently, been mainly
imported by Mexico directly to oil producing areas in the Gulf and near Salina
Cruz. Recent development of large barite resources in Mexico's northwest and
southwe .t regions will substitute for some of these imports. This national
traffic is expected to pass through both Lazaro Cardenas and Guaymas ports
destined for Salina Cruz. Barite may also be exported, but these flows are
considered uncertain and therefore were not included in the base case traffic
forecasts.
7.        In addition to barite, it is expected that limited quantities of
minerals, such as bauxite, manganese, alumina and chrome will be imported through
Lazaro Cardenas for secondary industries located there.
Sugar
8.        Sugar imports represented about 10% of toal tonnage in 1983.  This flow
is not expected to continue after 1984 since it was directly related to a special
bilateral trade arrangement which will expire in 1984. Thereafter, sugar imports
will be handled through Gulf Coast ports.
NKS
9.        NKS, a foundry, originally planned on having a dedicated waterfront.
Traffic forecasts for the next five years ia-dicate that such a terminal would not



- 87 -
ANNEX 8
be justified, and it is therefore expected that NKS traffic will be transported
through the TUM. Between 1985 and 1989, some 50,000 tons of NKS's finished
products are expected to pass through the TUM annually.
Other General Cargo
10.       The category "other general cargo" is made up of goods which were too
diversified to allow for commodity type analyses. These were forecast using trend
analysis. The types of goods included in this category are machinery, industrial
equipment, spare parts, construction equipment, food and beverage, vehicles and
other manufactures. At Lazaro Cardenas, other general cargo, both that handled as
break-bulk and in containers, represented 21% of TUM traffic in 1983. Break bulk
general cargo grew rapidly between 1980 and 1983, from 9,000 to 40,000 tons, an
average annual increase of 64%. Virtually all break-bLIk general cargo in this
category was import traffic. Containerized general cargo increased by 23 times
between 1981 and 1983, from 2,000 to 46,000 tons. Containerized general cargo is
expected to continue to grow rapidly, while other general cargo handled as
break-bulk will experience only modest increases. Paragraphs 11-12 following give
details of total forecasts in this category, while paragraph 13 details specific
containerization forecasts.
11.       Nationwide, imports of commodities classified as "other general cargo"
are expected to be 6% below 1981 levels by 1985; these are then expected to grow
at a modest pace of 3.3% p.a. until the end of the decade. Lazaro Cardenas
traffic is expected to grow faster than the national average. This traffic can be
divided into three categories: (a) normal traffic which would be expected by
applying national growth rates modified by regional factors; (b) traffic generated
by the Lazaro Cardenas industrial port complex; and (c) traffic diverted from
Manzanillo and Acapulco. This latter category represents newly containerized
traffic generated by Mexico City which, without proper installations at Lazaro
Cardenas, would have been transported as break bulk through Manzanillo and
Acapulco. In total, other general cargo is expected to grow at 11% p.a. between
1983 and 1990. This is a marked decrease from past rates experienced in the early
1980s when import traffic increased by 114% p.a., and it is considered to be a
conservative estimate.
12.       Other general cargo exports are expected to grow nationwide at a faster
rate than imports (9% p.a.  after 1985), partly because they would start from a
lower base (362,000 tons in 1981) but also because the maritime mode is expected
to capture a larger share of this traffic as Mexican foreign trade diversifies.
At Lazaro Cardenas, exports of "other general cargo" handled both as break-bulk
and in containers, increased by 108% p.a. from 3,000 to 27,000 tons between 1980
and 1983. Such traffic is forecast to grow by 17% p.a. until 1990. Of the 83,000
tons expected by 1990, 85% will be containerized.
Container Forecasts
13.       Container traffic forecasts were made subsequent to the commodity
forecasts by first analyzing each commodity to determine the extent to which it
was "containerizable" and then forecasting the speed at which such commodities
would be bandled in containers. At Lazaro Cardenas, 65% of all containerized
tonnage is from the "other general cargo" category. Of this, 44% is expected to
be containerized by 1985, 70% by 1990 and 74% by 1995. This can be compared to
containerization rates on the Gulf coast, where 84% of all "other general cargo"



- 88 -
ANNEX 8
is currently containerized. Other commodities expected to be transported through
Lazaro Cardenas in containers include chemicals and non-ferrous metals.
14.       A forecast of the number of containers and twenty ft. equivalent units
(TEU) was made taking into account forecast average container loads, the balance
between imports and exports, the expected relation between 20 ft. and 40 ft.
boxes, and the number of expected empty boxes. This forecast is given in Table 3
of this annex.
B.   Specialized Terminals
15.       By 1986, it is expected that at least six specialized port terminals
will be operating at Lazaro Cardenas as detailed below:
(a)   SICARTSA bulk terminal will handle coal and coke operations.  These were
initiated in 1976. Total tonnage at this terminal is expected to remain
at some 500,00 tons per year as SICARTSA resumes coal imports;
(b)   Grain terminal will have an 80,000-ton storage capacity and an estimated
annual throughput capacity of 1.2 million tons. It is expected that
grain traffic, which consists of coastal shipping traffic from Guaymas,
will be transferred from the TUM to the terminal in 1985. This traffic
is expected to grow by 8.5Z p.a. between 1983 and 1989. There may be
years when local harvests fail and the grain terminal will be used to
handle large import movements. These extraordinary movements are not
provided for in the forecasts;
ic)   FERTIMEX berth is eroected to receive raw materials, mainly of
phosphoric rock, and to handle limited quantities of finished products
which will either be exported or distributed through coastal shipping.
Most of FERTIDEX's products are, however, expected to be handled mainly
by land transport. The FERTIMEX berth is expected to begin receiving
traffic in 1985;
(d)   PMT, a plant which will manufacture large pipes, is expected to begin
operations in 1986. Traffic at the terminal will consist mainly of
finished products transported by coastal shipping;
(e)   Celasa, an oil drilling platform manufacturer, will begin receiving
inputs in 1985. The first export of finished products is expected in
1987; and
(f)   Pemex tank farm is expected to begin operations in late 1985.
16.       The traffic forecasts for these terminals are given in Table 2 of this
annex. While forecasts have been made for all of these concerns and
installations, the relevant forecasts for the economic analysis are those related
to the grain terminal (which were used in the justification of the rail
connection) and to PMT and Celasa (which were relevant to the economic
justification of the project's dredging program). It should be noted that there
is uncertainty regarding the exact timing of initiation of operations by PMT and
FERTIMEX, which have been affected by the Mexican recession; the pace of work on
project completion has slowed, and initiation of production has been delayed.
The forecasts provide for a two-year slippage in completion of these plants.



- 89 -
ANNEX 8
D. Ship Forecasts
17.       Ship forecasts, based on tonnage forecasts as well as forecasts of the
size and type of ships which will handle the individual commodities, are given in
Table 4 of this annex. In 1984, the TUM is expected to receive 138 vessels, of
which 85 are for international traffic, while the specialized terminals are
expected to receive 28 vessels. By 1989, 230 vessels are expected at the TUN, of
which 177 are for international traffic. Some 169 vessels are expected at the
specialized terminals in that year.
May 1984



- 90 -
*                                      H~~~~~~~~~ECDa)                               M^l5  8
Table 1
,LA9 CAUS UnUA PM PRWEc
W~c   DIm 1e Wm
ltaro Cardeus Part Traffkm 7am
(thumud to)
ACHI  TRAFFIC                              s       RAU C
1979    1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1968   1989
HLTME ISE mN4 tm?
A.  XFRIS
CQmtainerjzed            0       0       1      10      27     22      30      35      41      48      57
OXierGem.ral Cargo       0       3       0       3      0       9      13      13      13      14      14
Iron and Sbeel         168      24       0     162    346    160    130    159    195    239    239
Tar                     17      22       5       0      13      0       0       0       0       0       0
Cheidcals                0       0       0       0      0      10      10      11      12      14      15
Other Agricultural       1       0       1       1       0      2       2       2       2       2       2
Sub-Total A            186      49       7     176    384    203    185    220    253    317    327
B. l}PI 
bomntinerze-d            0       0       1       0      19     47      63      76      91    109    130
Other General rmw        0       6      50      34      40     47      66      60      55      50      46
Minerals I/              0       0       0       0       0      0       1       3       6       9      10
Wheat                    0       0      48    317       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
cQrn                     0     110      63       0      0      70       0       0       0       0       0
Sorgub                   0      40    111       20      0      20       0       0       0       0       0
cuiPnt                   0       5      10       0      0      10       0       0       0       0       0
Cedwt]s                 10       0       0       0      0       0       9      17      24      32      39
SbsMDr                   0       0      61      70    110      37       0       0       0       0       0
NKS                     10       0       1       0      0       0      2S      28      28      28      28
Sub-Total B             10    161    344    441    169    231    167    181    204    228    253
C. O)ASrAL Sm1PDC
'Wheat (in)              0      24      47       0    458    500        0       0       0       0       0
Sorghmn  (in)            0       0       8       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0
Saffron (in)             0       0       4       0      a       0       0       0       0       0       0
Baryte (out) 1/          0      28      41      29     12      65      68      73      78      83      89
Steel and Iron (out)     0         0     0       0      0      170    142    148    155    162    169
KS (out)                 0       1       4       0       0      0      42      42      42      42      42
Otier                    0       0       0       0      11      0       0       0       0       0       0
Subr-otal C              0      53     104      29    481    735    252    263    275    287    300
D. lXXCL  M IRlAUFFIC
Qzitainers               0       0       2      10      46     69      93     111    132    157    187
Guera1 Cao8             11      15    127    108    172    ill;   170    170    176    182    186
Graln                    0     174    281    337    458    590          0       0       0       0       0
MlbsneaLa                0      28      41      29      12     65      69      76      84      92      99
Irn and Steel          185      46       4     162    346    330    272    307    350    401    408
Total 1TOM             196    263    455    646  1J034   1.169    604    664    742    832    880
I/ HanEled as mml cap 
S_e  Pr-
Api 1984



- 91 -
AMal 8
Table 2
IA= CNAS MURK  P    W
Lzaro Cares Port Traffic: Siaized Teminas
(thus    toos)
AC'IUAL TR1AW1C                           KIOAST TRAFFIC
1979   1980    1981    1982   1983    1984    1985    l986    1987   1988    1989
SPECIAIED T90LS
A. EXPORTS
Sicartsa (coke)         44      79       0      26       0      70      70      70      70      70      70
Fertimex                 0       0       0       0       0       0       0      72      48      24       0
PKr                      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      44      44      44
Celasa                   0       0       0       a       0       0       0       0       8      65      23
Sub-Total A             44      79       0      76       0      70      70     142     170    203    137
B. MI'ICS
Sicatsa (coal)         666    624      697    495       169     325    430    430      430    430    430
Fertimex                 0       0       0       0       0       0      20      40      118    197    277
Her                       0      0       0       0       0       C        0      16     29      29      29
Celasa                   0       0       0       0       0       6       19     28      35      51      58
Sub-'rotal B            666    624     697    495       169    325    469    514       612    707      794
C. aIASrAL 3IPPlc
Sicartsa                 5       4       10      0       4       0       0       0       0       0       0
O2aiBupo (in)            0       0       0       0       0       0     600    630      670    710      750
Fertimex (in)            0       0      23       0       0       0     300    450       920    920     920
Fertin.x (out)            0      0       0       0       0       0       0     111      118    125    133
PMr (out)                0       0       0       0       0       0        0     128    188    188       188
clcasa (out)             0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       2       2       15
Pex (in+ out)           102    110    147       140      94     150    260    320       386    396    406
Sub-Total C             107    114      180     140     98      150   1.160   1,639   2.184   2,341   2,401
D. 1TA&L SPECILIZED
TESDL                                                             -
SicarLsa               715    707      707    521       173    395     500    500      500    500      500
CwnasUPo                 0       0       0       0       0       0     600    630       670    710    750
Fertfrmx                 0       0      23       0       0       0     320    673   1,204   1,266   1,330
PMr                      0       0       0       0       0       0        0     144     261    261      261
Celasa                   0       0       0       0       0       0       1I     2       4       18      8
Celnes  O      O       O       O       O       O      :^~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  28  45  118   86
PeMEx                   102    110    147       140      94     150    260    320       386    396    406
TAL SPECULI
IDEtfINAIS              817    817      877    661      267     545   1,699   2,295   2,966   3,251   3,332
Source: NPT
April 1984



- 92 -
ANNEX 8
Table 3
EXCO
!AZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Container Traffic Forecast
Actual                      Forecast
1981     1982     1983       1985      1990      1995
Container Traffic ('000 tons)
Imports                            1        0        19         63       156        254
Exports                            1       10        27         30        64         91
Total Tons                   2       10       46          93       220       345
Number of Containers
imports
Units of 20 ft (full)                                     2,625     2,667    10,580
Units of 40 ft (full)                                     1,969     2,000      7,937
Units of 20 ft (empty)                                      263     4,483      1,058
Units of 40 ft (empty)                                      197     3,363        794
Total                                                  5,054    12 513    20.369
Exports
Units of 20 ft (full)                                     1,250     2,667      3,792
Units of 40 ft (full)                                       938     2,000      2,844
Units of 20 ft (empty)                                    1,638     4,483      7,846
Units of 40 ft (empty)                                    1,228     3,363      5,887
Total                                                  5,054    12,513    20.369
TOTAL CONTAINERS                                               10,108    25,026    40,738
Number of TEUs                                                 14.440    35,752    58,198
Source: SCT and RPT
February 1984



-93-
mIco                               ANNEK 8
Table 4
LAZARD CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Ship Forecast
(num,ber of vessels)
1984      1985      1986       1987      1988      1989
TUM: International Traffic
Containers                 35         48        57         68        81        96
General Cargo              22         32        ^9         27        26        24
Minerals                     0         0         0          0         1          1
Chemicals                    4         8        12         15        19        23
Iron & Steel               20         16        20         24        30        30
Sugar                       4          0         0          0         0         0
NRS                          0         3         3          3         3          3
Sub-Total             85        107       121        137       160       177
TUM: COASTAL
Baryte                      7          7         8          8         9         9
Grain                      25          0         0          0         0         0
Steel & Iron               21         18        19         19        20        21
NKS                          0        23        23         23        23        23
Sub-Total             53         48        50         50        52        53
TOTAL TUM                  138       155       171        187       212       230
- - .                              - _                  -         - _m
SPECIALIZED TERMINALS:
International Traffic
coal                         6         6         6          6         6         6
Coke                        7          7         7          7         7         7
Fertimex                    0          2        11         13        12        14
PFT                          0         0         2         10        10         10
Celasa                      0          2         2          3         6         4
Sub-Total             13         17        28        39         41        41
SPECIALIZED TERMINALS:
UDAST&L
Grain                        0        22        23         24        25        26
Fertimex                    0         13        25         48        48        48
PHT                          0         0        16         24        24         24
Pemex                       15        21        24         28        29         30
Sub-Total             15         56        88        124       126       128
TOTAL SPECIALIZED           28        73        116       163       167        169
7OTAL LAZARO CARDENAS      166       228       287        350       379        399
Source: RPT
February 1984



- 94 -
ANNEK 9
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
I.   Background
1.        The port of Lazaro Cardenas was first created to serve the steel
operations at the SICARTSA plant there; subsequent developments took advantage of
these initial port investments. FERTIMEX chose the site for development of a
fertilizer complex, which was also dependent upon maritime access. In 1979, the
port was designated as an industrial port, and large investments were made, both
in transport infrastructure and land development for industrial users. Between
1979 and 1983, investments (exclusive of SICARTSA, FERTIMEX and industrial
concerns) totaled some US$280 million.
2.        These investments were based largely on qualitative analyses of the
economic benefits to be derived from them. It was expected that the industrial
park area of the industrial port would attract primary and secondary industries
because of, inter alia, reductions in transport costs through provision of
maritime access and would, consequently, promote regional employment generation
and regional decentralization. The commercial port (terminal de usos multiples,
or TUM) would provide maritime access to industries which did not generate
sufficient traffic to warrant a waterfront parcel and would also add much needed
container capacity on the Pacific Coast for hinterland traffic. Once the decision
was made to go ahead with the development of the industrial port, planning efforts
focused on physical planning, and investments were not subjected to any systematic
economic analysis.
3.        CNCP contracted consultants (RPT Associates, UK) in late 1982, with
financing under the Port Development Preparation Project (Loan 1964-ME), to assist
in the preparation of economic studies and traffic forecasts for the Industrial
Port Program. The economic analysis presented here is based largely on the
analyses prepared by the consultants with modifications made by the Bank mission.
II. GenerablMetodology[
4.        The following project components were analyzed:
(a)   road access;
(b)   rail access;
(c)   cargo handling equipment;
(d)   maritime access;
(e)   tug;
(f)   small and medium scale industrial park; and
(g)   flood protection.



- 95 -
ANNEX 9
Of these, components (a) through (d) were justified mainly on the basis of
transport cost savings. The tug (item (e)) is primarily justified on safety
factor considerations. A producers' surplus approach was taken in the analysis of
the small and medium scale industrial park, while the flood protection component
was justified based on benefits to be derived from avoidance of flood-related
damage with the project.
5.        The economic analysis weighed alternative project designs in order to
ensure that each component was appropriate in terms of timing and scale. The
alternatives considered are given in more detail 4M the paragraphs which follow.
6.        The project's costs and benefits are largely dependent upon forecast
traffic, both that generated by the ports hinterland and that generated by
industrial activity in the port. The relevant forecasts are given in Annex 7 to
this report.
7.        Investment costs are exclusive of taxes and include physical
contingencies, engineering and supervision. Fuel is priced at its border price
(international price) of US$0.85/gallon for gasoline and US$0.80/gallon for
diesel. All costs and benefits are given in June 1983 prices.
III. Economic Evaluation of Project Components
A.  Road Access
8.        The project includes construction of a 7.5-km two-lane paved road, which
will provide access from the entrance to the FERTIMEX complex and the TUM to the
existing main road on the southern edge of Lazaro Cardenas. This component
represents 4.5% of total project costs. Currently, road traffic generated by the
TUM utilizes a service road which passes through SICARTSA land. This road was not
designed to handle the types of traffic which are generated by the TUM and
FERTIMEX. It is adjacent to the coal berth and two general cargo berths (mainly
used for discharging steel) on the SICARTSA side of the basin. Upgrading of the
road, including provision of security fences to secure this area, would utilize
needed space at these terminals. In addition, the road feeds into an area where
there is heavy truck traffic generated by the steel mill and, eventually, into an
already congested road system in the urban area. SICARTSA has allowed the port to
utilize its road during the construction phase on the understanding that the
access road, included under the project, would be built upon initiation of port
operations.
9.        Although SICARTSA could legally close the currently utilized road to
public traffic, it has been assumed, for the purposes of the economic analysis,
that, in the without case, the road would remain open.
10.       Quantified benefits are vehicle operating cost (including time) savings
from (a) reductions in road congestion, both within the SICARTSA plant and in the
urban roads through which the TUM and FERTIMEX traffic would pass without the
project, and from (b) avoidance of the SICARTSA road which, without the project,
would deteriorate since it was not designed to handle the traffic expected to be
generated by the TUM and FERTIMEX. Table 1 of this annex gives details of
existing road traffic already utilizing the SICARTSA road and the urban roads.
Table 2 gives estimates of traffic which will be generated by the TUM and



- 96 -
ANNEX 9
FERTIMEX, while Table 3 shows vehicle operating costs at various levels of
congestion. If the project road is not constructed, valuable space behind the
coal and general cargo port terminals would be lost, which would hamper port
operations and increase port handling costs. Benefits to be derived from
avoidance of these additional costs were not quantified.
11.       In the economic analysis, several alternatives were evaluated
separately: a four-lane highway with and without grade separations at the railway
crossing, and a two-lane highway, with and without grade separations. The
analysis indicated that the optimum solution was the two-lane highway with level
crossing given projected levels of traffic. The estimated economic rate of return
for this project component is 20Z.
B.  Rail Access
12.       Lazaro Cardenas is linked to the national rail network by a line which
runs north to Nueva Italia, where it connects with two main lines: the first
serving Morelia, Toluca and Mexico City; and the second serving Guadalajara,
Irapuato and other cities in the central and northern part of the country. The
line to Lazaro Cardenas is connected to a station south of the city as well as to
the SICARTSA berth and the TUM at the industrial port. The Lazaro Cardenas master
plan provides for rail connection to the right branch of the industrial park area
(where PMT and the grain terminal are located) and to the left branch (where NKS
and the Pemex storage tanks are located). Work has already commenced on these
connections, with that to the right branch the most advanced.
13.       The consultants analyzed the economic viability of both the right and
left branch connections, and concluded that the right branch rail connection was
justified, while the left connection would be premature, given the levels of
traffic expected to be generated over the short to medium term. The following is
the economic analysis of the right branch rail connection, which represents 1% of
total project costs (this includes the cost of rails but not related construction
costs. These latter are, of course, included in the economic analysis).
14.       The right branch rail connection included under the project is an 8.5-km
railway line which links the main N de M Lazaro Cardenas-Nueva Italia line to the
industrial area where the grain terminal and PNT are located and where Celasa
Industries may locate. The original master plan provided for a. marshaling yard
within the industrial port area. This yard has been omitted, and, in its place,
about half of the connection will be double line to provide for flexibility in
train operations within the port. The work on this line was initiated in 1982.
Currently, earthworks and bridge construction are under way.
15.       In analyzing the feasibility of the rail access, all rail-related
investments, including those already made, are included as an economic cost.
Economic costs include total cost of track construction as well as the cost of the
rail connection and patio at the CONASUPO terminal and the economic cost of
connections to PMT and Celasa.  The total economic cost of rail access is
estimated at Mex$ 1,035 million.  Of this amount, Mex$ 360 million is the
estimated cost of the rail infrastructure within the CONASUPO terminal area, and
Mex$ 60 million is the estimated cost of the rail connections to PMT and Celasa.
It is assumed that the connection to Celasa would not be constructed until 1989.
Additional operational costs at the CONASUPO terminal which would be incurred for
the project are estimated at Mex$ 24 million/year.



- 97 -
ANNEX 9
16.       In the without project case, it was assumed that cargo to be transported
from the industrial port to its final destination by rail would be off-loaded onto
trucks at the port and transshipped to rail cars at the Lazaro Cardenas train
station. Likewise, traffic destined to the industrial port would require
transshipment. Quantified benefits are: (a) reduction in transport costs by
avoiding the 10.5-km road journey between the rail station and the port;
(b) avoidance of the cost of double-handling; and (c) for grains, reductions in
grain losses. Rail traffic forecasts are given in Table 4 of this annex. This
component has an estimated ERR of 192. If PHT and CELASA traffic does not
materialize, this component would still be justified with an estimated ERR of 17x.
C.   Cargo Handling Equipment
Mi) General
17.       Port operations at Lazaro Cardenas were initiated in 1979 when two
berths vere completed adjacent to the SICARTSA complex. What is now called the
TUM was opened, for practical purposes, in 1981 when the three additional berths
(one of which is a container terminal) adjacent to the FERTINEX complex began
receiving traffic.  Civil works at the TUM (container yard, general cargo sheds,
container consolidation terminal) were virtually complete by the end of 1983, and
a quayside gantry crane was installed in 1981.   In 1979, some 306,000 tons
(exclusive of SICARTSA's bulk mineral traffic) were handled at the port. By 1983,
this figure had risen to 1.1 million tons, a 382 per annum increase. The TUM is
not, however, adequately equipped to handle current and forecast levels of traffic
(Annex 8). Background on the equipment component is given in Annex 3. This
component represents 9% of total project costs.
18.       The determination of equipment needs at the container facility was
based, inter alia, upon forecast traffic and the useful life of existing
equipment. In evaluating different equipment configurations, an optimization
analysis was made to ensure that the least cost solution was selected. The
following were taken into account in that analysis:
(a) terminal capacity, to determine technically feasible equipment
alternatives;
(b) space assignment within terminal for each alternative;
(c) number of units required to handle traffic; and
(d) capital and operating costs for each alternative.
19.       The types and amounts of equipment needed to serve general cargo were
determined based upon the level and handling type of forecast traffic, and the
number of available berths. None of the equipment which will be produced under
this project will serve the SICARTSA steel and iron traffic, for which adequate
specialized equipment is already available. Recommendations for equipment
included under the project were based upon this analysis of needs and the residual
life of existing equipment.
20.       Once the analysis of equipment needs was made, economic analyses were
made of the investment for the container equipment a-d the general cargo
equipment. In calculating the expected benefits, the cost of a ship day in port
was taken at US$11,800 for general cargo ships and US$21,000 for a 1,200 TEU
capacity container vessel. In calculating the economic return, only half of the



- 98 -
ANNEX 9
benefits from reduced ship time of foreign liner ships have been considered. Full
ship time savings have been considered for all Mexican liner and chartered
vessels. The economic analyses are based on the traffic forecasts given in
Annex 7 of this report.
(ii) Container Handling Equipment
21.       The container handling equipment component represents about 8X of total
project costs.  In analyzing the feasibility of this equinment, it was assu&ea
that, without the project, containers would be handled at a rate lower than that
which would be expected if the container facility were adequately equipped.
Specifically, the following assumptions were made:
(a) without the project, containers would be handled at a rate of 10 per
hour, with a 16-hour work day. This is consistent with current handling
rates at Lazaro Cardenas; and
(b) with the project, containers would be handled at a rate of 15 per hour,
with a 16-hour work day.
22.       Quantified benefits are the difference in ship waiting and se'rvice time
with and without the project. An additional but important benefit - savings i-l
shore cargo handling costs - was not quantified, and, to that extent, the analysis
is conservative. The economic rate of return of the equipment component, based on
these assumptions, is 18%.
23.       Part of the container traffic assigned to Lazaro Cardenas is that
generated by Mexico City and which is expected to be diverted from Manzanillo to
Lazaro Cardenas. If this traffic does not materialize, the container handling
equipment would still be justified, with an estimated ERR of 152.
(iii) General Cargo Handling Equipment
24.       The procurement of general cargo handling equipment will allow the port
to handle efficiently the volume and type of forecast traffic for which currently
available equipment is inadequate. In the economic evaluation of this component,
it was assumed that cargo handling productivity would be lower than that which
could be expected if the port were properly equipped. Efficiency levels with and
without the project were based on actual experience of handling rates at Lazarc
Cardenas and other Mexican ports for various types of traffic. The cargo handling
rates utilized follow:
Without Project          With Project
Barite                                        850                   1000
Chemicals                                     850                   1000
General Cargo                                 450                    500
NKS                                           765                    900
The equipment package included in the project is considered sufficient to handle
forecast traffic to 1988. Thereafter, traffic and benefits are held constant.
25.       Quantified benefits were derived from the difference in ship service
times quantified, and, as a result, the estimated ERR, of 23%, is considered
conservative.



-99-                                  ANNEX 9
D.   Maritime Access
(i) General
26.       Under the project, an overall four-year program of dredging to provide
deepwater waterfront to several current and potential industrial concerns has been
developed. This program represents 32% of project costs. Provision of dedicated
industrial waterfronts would allow industries to take advantage of already dredged
access channels. The feasibility of provision of such direct maritime access is
intimately dependent upon the type and timing of industrial development at the
port, which is currently uncertain. Much will depend upon the relative strength
and timing of Mexico's economic recovery. In order to provide flexibility in this
project component, only the first tranche of the dredging program has been firmly
identified and subjected to an economic analysis. The first tranche would provide
dredged waterfronts to PMT, a pipe manufacturer, and to Celasa, an oil drilling
platform construction company. The economic evaluation of subsequent tranches
would be presented to the Bank, based upon an agreed methodology, prior to their
contracting.
27.       The general methodology to be utilized in the evaluation of the dredging
subprojects is given in Annex 2. Three types of dredging projects have been
defined, each with its own cost and benefit streams:
(a) deepening existing access channel or berths;
(b) dredging to create direct maritime access for an industry which is
dependent upon such access (e.g., grain terminal); and
(c) dredging to create direct maritime access to an industry for which such
access is optional.
The benefits to be quantified from case (a) would be those generated by permitting
deeper draft vessels to utilize the facilities, e.g., transport cost savings.
Under case (b), an analysis of the viability of the industrial concern as an
integrated project would be required. The benefits from case (c) would consist of
the following: (i) savings in cost of transporting inputs and products to/from the
industrial site and the TUM; and (ii) ship waiting time savings. In addition, an
analysis should be made to determine that proposed drafts are justified given
vessel type projections.
(ii) PMT
28.       The PMT plant is almost complete, but there is some uncertainty
regarding the timing of initiation of production, which had been delayed because
of the recession. The most recent indications given by PMT are that production at
the plant will begin in 1986. Some 80% of PMT's output (160,000 tons in 1986,
increasing to 290,000 tons by 1990) is expected to be transported by sea, as are
10% of PMT's inputs. The economic costs of providing PfT with a waterfront
include the economic cost of dredging (Mex$ 350 million) and of berth construction
(Mex$ 2,400 million). Although the dredging would be financed under the project,
PHT would finance the berth construction directly. The costs of both dredging and
berth construction are considered as economic investments in this economic
analysis. If a waterfront were not provided, the maritime traffic generated by
PNT would have to be transported by truck to and from the TUM.



- 100 -
ANNEX 9
Quantified benefits from this component are: (a) road transport cost savings from
avoidance of truck transport to the TUM, estimated at Mex$ 261/ton; and (b)
avoidance of shipwaiting time at the TUM. The estimated economic rate of return
from this component is 22%. If PMT production and, therefore, benefits were
delayed by one year, the estimated ERR of the waterfront component would decline
to 19%. A five-year delay in PMT's production would result in an estimated ERR of
13%.
(iii) Celasa
29.       Celasa will manufacture large oil drilling platforms for the export
market, small steel structures and barges. Celasa is expected to begin plant
construction in 1985. The company plans on importing large steel pipes (up to 70
inches in diameter and 100 m in length) in prefabricated sections and other parts
for assembly at Lazaro Cardenas. These inputs must be imported because the
international market requires a quality of steel not yet available in Mexico.
These parts will be imported by sea in ships with a maximum draft of 10.5 m,
needing 12 m of dredged access. Because direct access to a waterfront is a
necessary condition for the launching of oil drilling platforms, a value added
approach was taken in the economic analysis. In this analysis, total investment
(Celasa's investment in plant and equipment, cost of land and cost of dredging and
berth construction and its share of flood control cost) was compared to the net
value added of production (the market price of the output less production costs).
Based on this approach, the overall investment has an estimated ERR of 18%. A
sensitivity analysis was made to test the effects of delays in initiation of
production of GU drilling platforms. If first orders for such platforms were not
received until 1989 (three years behind schedule), the investment would have an
estimated ERR of 12%.
E.  Tug
30.       The project provides for acquisition of a 35-ton traction power tug
which is designed to assist vessels up to 100,000 dwt inside the harbor during
maneuvering, berthing and unberthing operations. This investment represents 4% of
project costs. The type of tug to be acquired was selected after an analysis of
technical alternatives which took into account the type, number and size of
vessels expected to visit the port. The basic justification for acquisition of
such a tug is to improve safety conditions at the port, thereby avoiding costly
accidents. Besides safety benefits, the tug will also decrease ship mooring and
unmooring times because of increased tug traction capacity and, therefore, higher
speeds. Together, safety considerations and ship time savings more than justify
the investment. Because the tug is really an integral part of the efficient
operation of the port, the cost of this component was included in an overall
cost-benefit analysis of all the transport related project components (e.g., road,
rail and maritime access and cargo handling equipment). Together, these
components have an overall estimated ERR of 17%.
F.   Small- and-Medium Scale Industrial Park
31.       The small- and mediumr-scale industrial park, which represents 3% of
project costs, is oriented toward the provision of infrastructure and related



- 101 -
ANNEX 9
services for industrial concerns which would provide inputs and services to the
maJor industries located at the Lazaro Cardenas industrial port. It is also
expected that small- and medium-scale industriea which would use SICARTSA steel
inputs would locate at the park. The feasibility of the small- and medium-scale
industrial park was based upon a market study which determined demand for
industrial park land, and upon a financial and economic feasibility study. The
madrket study concluded that there was sufficient demand to justify completion if
at least the first phase of the park, or 40 ha. Some 16 ha of the industrial park
area are already committed. The market study indicated that industries which
would locate there would include food processing plants, mineral processing
plants, industrial clothing manufacturers, light metal structures and machinery
manufacturers, foundries, and a cement plant. Projected revenues were compared
with capital (including value of land and a share of the flood control costs) and
operating costs (net of taxes and transfer payments) at the park. The analysis
also included the small- and medium-scale industrial park's share of the flood
control costs. This component has an estimated economic rate of return of 23%.
G. Environmental Components
32.       The project includes two components which are designed to address
environmental problems of liquid and solid wastes. The FONDEPORT sewerage
component was reviewed by the mission, and it was concluded that the proposed
works are appropriate given the projected demand for waste disposal at Lazaro
Cardenas. Elements included under the project are the first phase of a larger
system which will eventually be built to accommodate industries as they develop at
the industrial park. Within the overall master plan, this first phase is the
least cost solution to the provision of adequate waste disposal for currently
existing industries. It calls only for lagoon treatment rather than more costly
treatment plants and provides for discharge into the Balsas river rather than into
the ocean. This phased approach is considered reasonable and appropriate. The
costs of the FONDEPORT system were included in the overall analysis of project
cost and benefits, yielding an overall project ERR of 23X (Table 4 of this
annex). The solid waste management system is currently being studied. The
study will include economic analyses to ensure that least cost solutions are
selected.
H. Flood Protection
33.       The technical alternatives and economic analvsis of this component are
discussed separately in Annex 4 of this report.
May 1984



- 102 -
ANNEX 9
Ta-ble1
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Access Road: Existing Traffic on SICARTSA Road
and in Lazaro Cardenas 1/
(vehicles per day)
Station                                    Cars     Buses     Trucks      TOTAL
Entrance SICARTSA Road                    4,125      251          654     5,030
Avenida La Mira -
near SICARTSA Entrance                  4,743      751          289     5,783
Libramiento Cuidad
Lazaro Cardenas -
near SICARTSA Entrance                  2,614      500        1,170     4,284
Libramiento Cuidad
Lazaro Cardenas -
near future Entrance to
Access Road                             1,313      118          529     1,960
1/ Counts taken in January 1984
Source: SCT
March 1984



- 103 -
ANNEX 9
Table 2
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Access Road - Traffic Forecast
1986          1990           1995
Road Traffic: Freight (tons)
A.   TUM
Containers                                 66             89            138
General Cargo                              88             89            111
Chemicals                                  27             63             46
Minerals                                   73            106            125
Paper                                       _              -             30
Sub-total                            254            347           450
B.   FERTIMEX                                  163            472            756
TOTAL                                417            819         1,206
_ ~ ~ ~ ~                               -
Road Traffic (vehicles per day)
Trucks                                    130            220            309
Buses                                     184            259            259
Automobiles                               612            864            953
Total VPD                            926          1,343         1,521
Source: RPT Associates and mission estimates.
April 1984



- 104 -
ANNEX 9
Table 3
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Access Road - Vehicle Operating Costs at Different Levels of Congestion 1/
Typical Service
Levels for a Road
in Good Condition      Car              Bus           Truck       Tractor-Trailer
Speed Mex$/km   Speed Hex$/km  Speed Mex$/km  Speed Mex$/kI
A - Free Flow       89    14.4       60    36.0       55   31.2      54   73.2
C - Stable          60    16.8       55    39.6       48   34.8      48   88.8
D - Unstable        45    19.2       38    50.4       35   38.4      30   94.8
F - Congested       25    25.2       25    66.0       25   44.4      25  110.4
I/ US$1.00 - Mex$120
Source: EPT and mission estimates
April 1984



LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRA  PORT PROJECr
Overall Project Economic Analysis
(mtllion 1983 MsS)
COST;                                                                           EM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KFITI
WALL                                     TOTALMI.L
EIPIWIT                   I TIME  AMC11I    NE1N                            TECCICAL IWEST                                         EWIlMl                    .MI1 E AECCEI      ESIP
------ i           rI       TASST         C                                   ---------------
KCIK   NIL   KNEA                        Wm                             1W3.   FLOW EIERA               I    NAI1T                 ASS  RAIL  ROM                           NIDBO                          i.   nloD   707                KY
IN       AESS    CRAIt  COITAIEI     TiM         CUM          FNT      PARK    CITR     SYSTE   1RA11IM    CosTS                   R1N1       CESS    CAM    C  TAIEA   TUG    MLASA             MT       PA      WO2.  KEFITS  It  MFiS
..... . ......_ . _.. _. ... _....___. _.__.. . _. __..._  ___  .______________
190                   n9                                                                                                   9                                                                                                               o       -n9
ItU                 17                                                                                                   157                                                                                                              0       157
1964                  56                                                                                                   14                                                                                                              0      -S5
1915       51        N1        54       31       211       66       2712        229       61        121        60      5654                           141                                    -302                                     -I1I    -1NI
1936         1        35        54       211       211      5IN          t3       106       06IO      131        43      nu                    t7       179        36        40               -3111        174                        -262 -10401
1937         I        N         54        26         1      3n1          10        it       U2         5t        3       4A                    34       II         34        52         11    -1437        447        50                -574   -S5
191          I        35         5        26         3       335         II        1        714        12        24      1194                  93       In        3a         49         15       91       5m          97                7471      U277
19           1        44         5        97         a         *         to       1t        397        12        12       439                 103       201         31       95         22     3166        713       IN                 4476      337
It"          I        N          S        37         9          9        to        14        is        12                 217                 11       254        n         143        31     -337         4        1N      30        4794      4577
19          I        3S         5       15         9          I        II       1U        7n         12                 2                   III       2Us        3         174        N      4394        979       1N       MO0   11701    11414
1m2          1        35         5        33         9         I         I        16        71        12                 213                 121       277        n        251        40      3150       941        13      3560       991       3303
I"3          I        N          5        33         9          9        1         It 1      i         12                 213                 IZ2       23          N       Z51         45     -344        91        1   31S0           501       4
1994         I        N          S        33         9          9        II   10             i1        12                 213                 121       302          3      251         51      04         92        133      3560  11434    i1221
199          I        N5         5        33        10          I        II        16        75        12                 214                 121       33         n        251         57      3319         4       131      2360      1111      o537
n              33         3        33        to         I        It         1         is        12                 214                 131       Su         31       21         io      :-SIS      CZ         131      MO       32         4
M99          I        3                   33        to          9        to                  7s        12                 193                 133       Su                  251         63      6043        46 I   1I         3560     1133    11230
It"          1        35                  33         if         9        IC                 7n         12                 193                 IS5       33                  251         U       3505       344                S606S u
It9                   31                  33       1t           I        t                   i         12                113                  139       336                 251         69     -44         34                 S60       4737      4544
204          I        3S                  33         t          9        II                  71        12                 In                   141      S3                   251        73      6731       3                  310    11M         J7M
201          1        35                  33         IS         9        1o                  71        12                 In                   144       33                  251        76      6927       U46                30    12140    1147
2042         1        31                  33         1f                  to                  75        12                14                  147       Su                              3o                 14 3U                        499         m735
23           I        33                  33         10                  IS                 7n         12                 14                   1S       3                               34 U4S                                 360      4974      4792
204          I        S5                  33         IS                  I                   75        12                 IU                   153       336                            a                  144                31U        43       4199
204          I        31                  33         to                  to                  71        12                 III                  154      336                             93                 hb                 3160      49I       4397
210                                                                                          7s 31S0                                                                                                                                    350       3160
20                                                                                           75                                                                                                                               310    SW0   n
29                                                                                           is                                                                                                                               31o0      30         o0
2019                                                                                         is                                                                                                                               356       316       Su4
2010                                                                                        7n                                                                                                                                356       356       356
2011                                                                                         71                                                                                                                               350       3160      sso
2012                                                                                         71                                                                                                                              3s6        3o        316o
2013                                                                                        7n                                                                                                                                3o        310       310
2014                                                                                         75                                                                                                                               316             M       O
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN2 232
li  Ieludes share of flood control costa attributed to Celasa and the smll-and madim-scale industrial park.
Source: RPl; Consultores en Ingenierta, Planeacion y Siatemael and mission eatimtes.
mey 198
I'll



- 106 -
ANNEX 10
IIXCO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Reporting and Monitoring Requirements
I.   Quarterly Reports
1.        Quarterly reports should be prepared which include the following
information:
(a) progress in project execution;
(b) updated procurement schedule;
(c) list of contracts awarded;
Cd) updated project cost estimate;
(e) status of disbursement requests; and
(f) schedule of estimated withdrawals of the loan proceeds.
II. Annual Reports
2.        The following reports should be completed by the Government for the
semi-annual consultations with the Bank.
To be prepared by
March 15 September 15
A. Industrial Port Program
(1) by port, past year expenditures
on infrastructure and equipment for
industrial and commercial ports       X
(2) finalized port investment budget
for upcoming year                      X
(3) status of Lazaro Cardenas dredging
program                                        I



- 107 -
To be prepared by
March 15 September 15
B. Financial Indicators
(1) status of progress of ESP
action plan                         X
(2) Lazaro Cardenas port traffic:
TUM and private 'berths             x
(3) Financial results: ESP              X
(4) Financial Results: FONDEPORT        X
(5) Lazaro Cardenas Superintendencia
de Operacion y Desarrollo Portuario
Financial results;                  X
(6) Status of port tariffs              x
C. Training Program                          X
CNCP, ESP and FONDEPORT training program
with detailed budget and implementation
schedules
D. Environmental Indicators for Lazaro Cardenas
(1) Air Pollution levels                           x
(2)  Water Pollution levels                         x
(3)  Solid Waste
May 1984



- 108 -
ANNEX 11
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRLAL PORT PROJECT
List of Documents in Project File
1.        "Accesos Carreteros" - Puerto Industrial de Lazaro Cardenas
Vol. 1 prepared by CNCP and its Consultants.
2.        "Accesos Ferroviarios" - Vol. 2 prepared by CNCP and its
Consultants.
3.        "Accesos Maritimas"  -  Vol. 3 prepared by CNCP and its
Consultants.
4.        "Equipamento"  -  Vol. 4 prepared by CNCP and its Consultants.
5.        "Environmental Program for the Industrial Port of Lazaro Cardenas"  -
in two volumes; Sept. 1983. Prepared by CNCP and its Consultants.
6.        "Prevision de Trafico Maritimo", in five volumes; January 1984.
Prepared by CNCP and its Consultants.
7.        "Estudio de Mercado y de Factibilidad del Parque de Pequena y Mediana
Industrial de Fondeport en Lazaro Cardenas, Michoacan" in four volumes
Feb. 1984. Prepared by Consultores en Ingeneria Planeaci6n y Sistemas,
S.A.
8.        "Rectificacion del Brazo Iszquierdo del Rio Balsas", in two volumes
August 1983. Prepared by CNCP and its Consultants.
9.        "Port Planning, Operation and Marine Services for the Industrial Ports".
Prepared by Gray Mackenzie. Sept. 1982.
10.       "Master Training Plan - Part 1".  Prepared by Port of Oakland.
Feb. 1982.
11.       "Marco Institucional" - Puerto Industrial de Lazaro Cardenas
Vol. 7 prepared by CNCP
12.       "Analisis Financiero" - Puerto Industrial de Lazaro Cardenas
Prepared by CNCP. January 1984.
13.       "Report on Planned Preventative Maintenance for the Industrial Ports".
Prepared by Gray Mackenzie. 1982.
May 1984



- 109 -
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Oogwnbtion of Secsetat for Coumunkodlon and Tuonsport (SCI)
t _~~~~~~~~~~a'
an  f          |_                      ll                    
maw0I~                                                                           wav  a  1 wL
Z-                 >7 1 f=F-7  I ,                                                  F1                 G
7-7= D7V -.77  1 40                                                                   DC |
DC OG V                              0 sll       Gb V      Gh                          DG b   I
5 | J D~~~~G b                                                                         Pun m  gg
1  R       i  O>DGIWPw        WOGb-VWO                        DGI    |
IDGVC             OI
QUG DGaD FwTco
DC m
*uw  w oQ2s0



MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHAuT OF THE EMPRESA DE SERVICIOS
PORTUARIOS.LAZARO CARDENAS SA
IOARDOF o  rfCrOSI
GENFAL MM4lR
JaNr coSNCcu CN 5. c CNCP
mm w&pnoNE=uO  IImO 
CCAFNS N r                                                               n 
IOPERAIMON                                  FIAC & ADIN                                   MAMAC 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MANAGER || ME                              WAE   
W008"-26028
So ce: CNCP



- 111 -
meaco
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Organlzallon of FONDEPORT
Rodof Doirctcrs
I  OG~~~~~~~I
Dbectorcoenerai
.agoIDe~odmetf   -          1-
De SotIons
kqd F-kS
soica FoNoND
MhmCh 1984



MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
Project ImplementatIon Schedule
CablndarYear           1984                  1985                  1986                  1987                  1988                  1989
C>uadef   11   2    3       4    i    2    3    4 1         2    3    4    i    2    3    4 1           2    3    4    1    2    3    4
A- CML WORKS
Raol Access                   .... ...
Miotime Access
Equipment
CollectorSewers                     .Um ..
System for Solid Wostl              *         **11_
Managernent
Industrl oJPoil( 6k                   U                                                                              l -
Flood Protection                6   se
B. OtHER ARVTCES
A
Technicol Assstance                                  =          -    -                     -           - =                  -          -          u
Supesion of Constrxtion                              -    -   =             =               -    - =    =    r                    - =    =
T
Training                                             -    -    -    -    -    -    -    - _    _            -    - _    _         - _        -
Legend                                                                          -Constructlon/Manufactute
'.gs'e'm'm'. - Feasibility Study                                                -Revbw
*mmcm mm. -   * Engineering/Procurement Documents                               - Technical Asistance
a"aNai -- Ptreqwuolfttion of Controctors/Monuaoctuters             _l_    - Sup sbon d Constdriclon
- -Edding Perod                                                       -Trainiing
World Barik-26010



- z z                   io-                    :                                                     lo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~io- 
\s_M1 ar~                                                                      K- UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA
Nogoles-Jue
\\   | r    M.  ta                   ._,_. /  \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C. . '.N
Y\ALIFORN/IA<aal @ ff_I IFORNI
NORT
3OD   1)tS  (,,   ))          X         1   A~~~~~~~~~~~~N.(o.ari -   
D.PAAS C/F/C-                         r..
C     N.                       N f U15
PA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Lzr Cadnv I| FICOCf A
2(r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ GlXr ICil
Aco
CA         .-1  TAA
KILOMETERS O     D,O     2D0    3CO      *OD     0C 
MILES 0           IX(         200           3400
jY -mo _ a_ oVd tw Iha ~wI m1 ofi _eo nt aww   _   d
mpy. ~ VW pt f Ihe vubw Bm -d ffw &*-WNW  -  C040-00% aua d W-
1I dl t                                                                              1 er   0* i0_
110                                                             IOD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 17796
iO0 90                          MARCH 19U 
CA
MEXICO
POPULATION AND INDUSTRIAL
DISTRIBUTION
\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'
Cd Acw.ao\ 
P..d.o, N  a
National capitol
N.,... 5o..g>\                                                               0    State capitals
U I / z A dt-" Ro^||   >                  q  -0    Principal cities or towns
Divided highways
Selected main roads
rem (  " {f   >M&-                                                               Railroads
-/    Ao J<RRivers
d<   Principal airports
-..  R  -- Slate inundaries
* Internatior,Sl boundaries
i'                                                    j                                                        Major Urban Centers
N                       ,' rr TAMAL1U1AS v1                           Molar Industrial Facilities             volues in thousands
-C) t _SX  ;)  Viudo0   Steel plants                                           50 ' 700
Iran ore mines            300  400l20   0
hi.  Petroleum refineries      200  150   f5I           0    0
W SAy  J   POT                     Btor                                Gas processing plants     100 ' 125    O125 e 150
Si rVI      OC,! /   \~  
otecos       _< d. Ma,..z
A. LuisPotSi   -    -     C. 
0                 C$d  vPIC
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
I             ~~~ro
uat-                          PM GUAEMLA
Ecy   0/   Co.~~~rpechc
elia~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d e
441 CHOA CAN  -'                                                                    /am"
h iONlpUncingo
Aco  ko ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    aoc                                                                 ELZ
Tapachulo                   ~HONDURAS
100                                                                q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9



1                                                           KJ-9  ~ UNITED    STATES    OF    AMERICA
N          1
f_d \                               --' 
Ci 
BAJ A    F.I                  Noiagas                            r     J      N
-CAlIFORNIA
U-0            vOgrF  -'vjoazsi\ \ 
'  T   t   C oh'\ :  z , . m  H  L' A   |
A -    .   X   '  u   . ,zErlhihuohw    Acid.
-   --     H_ar io tmilo                                            7             /R.
6AjA                                   Ob                                                 O A H    I I A.N.
CAI IFC,'NIA x ._X_XS,1)|\\\ 
-'UR"           w- or
-  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
-~  ~ ~ =' BAJ          ie6~         -a  ', C-~ 9   dfr, ..                                              '
i*                                 V                              C                 A
A0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
i Lozo<~~~~~~x'  '<..... : :.
A,La Paz                                 Durango                 CA ((A                   Cuuad
N-N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
Ml~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~o LESI IU0 100   20   3C
NN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~J
A       F IA AAN]  T
slo~~~~~~~~~~~~~"f Val
KJA 1:S5C,,I       T~
T.co.dnN                  ~~~~~~Cuernavoca
Lazo ~~~~~~~C~               '4'p.
KIOEER            ?      200      20~0    400      so                                                             -- 
MLSiz          Icad.     2iWbi e m         300l
~~ws coe.   .ai  .a~sz.zszan..aza.a



IBRD 17797
1600                                                                                i9                                     MARCH1964
- ERICA                                                                                              M E X I C O
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
AND INDUSTRIAL PORT LOCATIONS
30-
j-Cd Ac., ;..r.
Industrial parts
Pi      NN-                                                                                   Majof commercial ports
,!.<i,  ;  7,   National capitol
N. R.                                                                          @I   State capitals
fX  ,<0    Principal cities or tawns
(     ,f--  Divided highwao
-Slected main roods
Railroads
Rivers
,o, ,.,                                                               A,   Principol airports
M' ---e1re  -                                    .a4 _ _ Stote boundaries
=                   i      + Molomofos                                               International boundaries
Ciudod
Vicidri-
* t    /  Mow,a .F                                                                            - -  ;x c j * *5} f      raO
AO
Zocotecas             - Cd& Man,.
"to Sa\ ,       ;..LuisPoti t.    oec
oChilponcingo >-   ~'Axoco.$-- .                                                        -- -_
(.~ ~ ~~ Vt ./.rUAA i 
T *IJ* PhHONCoDURpecheAS
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 90 PJ,. A.OiNIAN
-    ,7Z65CO                            SaAdesIiti    d.Oh.
Cuern ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                          .~gntajme
Psierwo EscnAdddo7/ dUATEMALAim
~~~ChilpanckV6 ~ ~    ~        ~       ~       apchlo
IHONDURAS
300*                                                                   q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



0 
|                                  ~~~~~~M E X I C C 0 
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL  PORT PROJECT    hshasbeen
Fruwe Cormorawib 
krv*. on fth part a --
on theMmlgt stafus I-'
EXISTING  FACILITIES                                                                PROJECT:                       FUTURE
AND    PROJECT                                                                      RailRoads
- - --  Collector Sewers
/    Sewoge Treatment Lagoons
- Sewer Outfall
Mediurm and Small
Industrial Parks
River Rectification
;   GuACAMAYAS pv  -           i ,'                           EXISTING:
Selected Roads
f--.,C: DIQUE TAPON    SeRailroads
ZACATULA          -    Bridges
X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. - 
PETACALC\
.                                             LFRANCISCO
IP.M. T. ASTILLEROS
/  CARDENAS
N.K.S.
PEMEX
~~~~ / ~   ~       IARS
I.         /~~~4



IRD 17795
_. -         iio-             1o00            MARCH 1984
o._        , 2    4 5  ,oUNITED STATES OF AMERICA
-30-                                                       Mr.30
O        1        2         3        4        5 Kdoometers                                         ~
O              1              2              31M.I*s
M E X I C 0
map has ben prepared by The Warid Bank s staff excusivei* for Ihe convenrer'- -                          ME IC
readers and is exclusvdey for the iniernal ice of The World Baank and the tnternencu,.   - 20                                                20
arnce Corporation. The denominatons used and the baundanes show  on aths map do not                                     o                    rW
iy. on the pad of The Wlorld Bank and the interwiornal Finance Corporatmon. any judgment f
'he legal status of any terrifory or any endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.         1i, 0 Chdanas            C. i'
'!-                 100-          GUATEMALA
FUTURE MASTER  PLAN                                                                                      -  Selected Roads
La Villi/o Dom         -      I  Railroads
>  (  _   Bridges
Selected  Collector Sewers
Sewage Treatment Logoons
Sewer Outfoll
Medium and Small
Industrial Porks
UACAMAYAS                                                                          Former River Bed
DIOUE TAPON
2Oo /                                                                          / \  v ZACATULA
LA ORILLA
CO|N\A\    \   UPO >ZiEL NARANJITO
/  /  \   PEMEX                                P
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
w\s   SICART5A ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~FANI






