Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: P 7373 GUB
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVER'Y CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 18 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
April 17,2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1 = 610 CFAF
CFAF = US$0.00 16
GUINEA-BISSAU- FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      -  African Development Bank
BCEAO   -  Central Bank of West African States
BIGB      -  Banco Internacional da Guine-Bissau
CAS       -  Country Assistance Strategy
CFAF      -  CFA Franc
CPLP     -  Community of Portuguese Speaking Countries
DASP    -  Domestic Arrears Settlement Program
DRRP    -  Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration Program
ECOWAS -  Economic Community of West African States
ERRC      -  Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit
ESAF     -  Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU        -  European Union
GNFS    -  Goods and Non Factor Services
GNU       -  Govermment of National Unity
HIPC      -  Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IDA       -  International Development Association
IMF       -  International Monetary Fund
ITC       -  International Trade Center
MF        -  Ministry of Finance
NGO       -  Non-Governmental Organization
NPV       -  Net Present Value
NRRP    -  National Reconciliation and Reconstruction Program
PRGF      -  Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP      -  Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PFP       -  Policy Framework Paper
SDR      -  Special Drawing Rights
TMT       -  Technical Management Team
UN        -  United Nations
UNCTAD -  United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
WAEMU  -  Western Africa Economic and Monetary Union
Vice President:         Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:       Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:         Emmanuel Akpa
Task Team Leader:       Marcelo Andrade



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROPOSED ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ............................................... , .   i
I. INTRODUCTION ...............................................,,.1
II. GUINEA-BISSAU'S RECENT CRISIS ............................................... , . 2
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S NEAR-TERM PROGRAM ...............................................,.5
A. STRATEGIC VISION                             .5
B. MAIN ELEMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM                   .5
B. 1. PEACE BUILDING                          .5
B.2. REVIVAL OF THE ECONOMY                       .7
B.3. PURSUIT OF REFORMS                         .8
C. MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT .10
IV. FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT                ......................................... 13
A. CREDIT OBJECTIVES                . . .13
B. BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP              . . .13
C. RATIONALE OF IDA INVOLVEMENT AND THE BANK'S TRANSITIONAL STRATEGY... 13
D. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS IDA's ASSISTANCE       . . .14
E. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS        . . .14
F. ENVIRONMENTAL AsSESSMENT               . . .15
G. CONDITIONS FOR BOARD PRESENTATION            . . .15
H. CONDITIONS FOR CREDIT EFFECTIVENESS          . . .16
I. TRANCHING OF THE CREDIT          ..16
1. 1. CONDITIONS FOR FLOATING TRANCHE RELEASE    ..16
I. 1.1. GENERAL CONDITIONS .16
I. 1.2. CONDITIONS FOR THE RELEASE OF THE DRRP FLOATING TRANCHE .16
1. 1.3. CONDITIONS FOR THE RELEASE OF THE DASP FLOATING TRANCHE .17
J. BENEFITS AND RISKS           ..17
V. COLLABORATION WITH IMF AND OTHER DONORS .18
VI. RECOMMENDATION .18
ANNEXES
Annex A:     Social Indicators
Annex B:     Key Economic Indicators
Annex C:     Preliminary Estimate of Domestic Arrears
Annex D:     Status of Public Enterprise Reforms
Annex E:     Letter of Development Policy
Annex F:     Project Description Summary
Annex G:     Timetable for Key Processing Events
Annex H:     Bank Portfolio Performance and Management
Annex I:     Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex J      Statement of IFC
Annex K:     Guinea-Bissau at a Glance
MAP IBRD No. 24520
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
PROPOSED ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY C'REDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Amount:                   SDR 18 million (US$ 25.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                    IDA terms, with 40 years maturity, including a 10-year grace period.
Implementing Agency:     Ministry of Economy and Finance
Financing Plan:           IDA - US$ 25.0 million
Credit Description:      The main objective of the proposed Credit is to provide urgently
needed quick-disbursing finance to support the Government's
National Reconciliation and Reconstruction Program with a view to
laying the foundation for durable peace, resuming economic and
social development and reducing poverty. The specific objectives of
the program are to support peace building, promote the revival of the
economy and encourage the pursuit of reforms. The Credit will
complement similar support provided by the International Monetary
Fund (IMF), the African Development Bank (AfDB), the European
Union, France, Japan, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Sweden. The
IMF Board approved in September 1999 and January 2000 purchases
under the post-conflict emergency assistance totaling about US$5
million.
Benefits:                The proposed Credit would help finance budgetary expenditures to
execute the 2000/01 slice of Guinea-Bissau's reconciliation and
reconstruction post-conflict program. The following are expected
benefits: initiation of the demilitarization of the country by
demobilization of at least 500 ex-soldiers in the pilot phase of the
demobilization, reinsertion and reintegration program; delivery of
income relief to an estimated 2630 public sector pensioners whose
claims on government remain outstanding; revitalization of the
private sector by injecting financial resources through settlement of
sizeable public domestic arrears; maintenance of macroeconomic
stability by facilitating the orderly financing of exterial and internal
gaps; and improvement of public resource management. Successful
implementation of the Credit would also help clear the way for a
return to the HIPC Initiative path.
Risks:                   The proposed Credit is subject to three main risks: (i) the peace
process may unravel; (ii) the recently elected Government may not
i



follow through on the reform program; and (iii) the program may fail
because of insufficient institutional capacity. The design of the
program helps to mitigate these risks by: (i) offering immediate peace
benefits and giving to different socio-economic groups a stake in the
success of the peace process; (ii) helping to protect vulnerable groups,
such as ex-soldiers and pensioners, and offering incentives to the
Government to stay on track with the prospect of going back to the
HIPC Initiative; (iii) incorporating institutional support to critical
activities such as the DRRP, DASP, and public resource management;
and (iv) helping to mobilize donor supported technical assistance to
implement key measures of the Government's program.
Rate of return:           Not applicable.
Poverty:                  The Credit will contribute to reducing poverty by encouraging income
growth, including in rural areas where the bulk of the poor live, and
by complementing available resources to re-launch basic public
services, and provide income relief and opportunities to vulnerable
groups.
Environment Rating:       C
Project ID Number:        GW-PE-065725
Map:                      IBRD No. 24520
ii



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit (ERRC) to the Republic of Guinea-Bissau for SDR 18
million (US$25.0 million equivalent). The proposed Credit would provide urgently needed quick-
disbursing finance to support peace building, promote the revival of the economy and encourage the
pursuit of reforms with a view to laying the foundations for durable peace, resuming economic and
social development and reducing poverty. The Credit would finance eligible imports and the
counterpart funds from the imports would help finance expenditures to prepare the demobilization,
reinsertion and reintegration of ex-combatants including its pilot testing. The funds would also
finance the elimination of arrears to pensioners, and the revitalization of the private sector through
the reduction of sizeable arrears to domestic private suppliers.
I. INTRODUCTION
2.    Background. Guinea-Bissau gained independence from Portugal after a devastating decade-
long war (1963-74) which left the country with poor infrastructure and some of tlhle worst social
indicators in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). After another decade of a ruinous state-controlled strategy
and occasional political tensions, the Government
embarked on a comprehensive reform program in 1987.     Box 1: Guinea-Bissau - Basic Profile
Following a period of uneven reform efforts until 1993,  .  GNP per capita: US$ 175(1999)
adjustment efforts were stepped up considerably, ensuring   .  Population: 1.2 million inhabitants
successful implementation of the IDA-supported SAC II.'  (1999). About 80 percent lives in rural
This paved the way for a three-year Enhanced Structural  areas and 44 percent is under age 15.
Adjustment Facility  (ESAF) arrangement with  the        Annual population growth rate at 2.3
International Monetary Fund (IMF) in 1995. In parallel   percent.
*Largely  a  subsistence  economy.
with economic liberalization, a democratic transition was  Primary sector accounts for more than
initiated in 1991 to put an end to 17 years of a one-party  50 percent of GDP and 85 percent of
system led by PAIGC.2  Following the approval of a       employment. Rice is the main food
revised Constitution, which embodies the principle of a  crop. Cashew nuts and fishing licenses
multiparty system, the first multiparty elections in 1994  are the major export revenue sources.
returned to power President Vieira and the ruling party, PAIGC. However, the opposition obtained
38 out of 100 seats in National Assembly. After elections, democratization was affected by growing
instability within the party in power.
3.    Recent Performance. After 1994, the country performed in a generally satisfactory manner.
Reforms contributed to reducing large macroeconomic imbalances.   Domestic production,
particularly agriculture, accelerated with real GDP growth reaching more than five percent in 1997.
Exports expanded substantially, especially due to better prices for cashew nuts, the predominant
source of foreign exchange earnings. Inflation slowed down owing to a restrained public sector
I Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 2019-GUB) approved in 1989 and closed in 1994.
2 Partido Africano par a Independencia da Guine-Bissau e Cabo Verde



Guinea-Bissau
demand and the regained stability associated with the move to the CFA franc3. The private sector
was emerging and playing a more dynamic role in the economy. To address poor social indicators,
medium-term development programs for the education and health sectors were approved focusing on
improving primary service delivery. Completion of the third-year ESAF arrangement, in early 1998,
cleared the way for consideration by the Executive Boards of the World Bank and the IMF of the
Preliminary Document on the HIPC Initiative, in April 1998.
4.     Progress in Reforms.  In spite of delays in program  implementation, reforms gained
momentum during the period 1995 to mid-1998. Comprehensive tax reforms were introduced in
1998, entailing the adoption of a new generalized sales tax along with a streamlined new customs
tariff with five rates (0, 5, 10, 20 and 30 percent). Public expenditure management improved,
particularly by scaling down the development budget to a level consistent with the country's
absorptive capacity. On the current expenditure front, recurring civil service salary arrears were
eliminated in 1997 and controls tightened, particularly with the introduction of prior approval of
expenditure commitments. The size of the civil service was reduced by 11 percent, through payroll
audits and retrenchment, and its payroll was computerized. Public enterprise reforms progressed,
with six companies liquidated and eight others put up for sale. Banking laws and regulations were
revised and made consistent with those of the CFA franc zone.
5.     Poverty Situation. Guinea-Bissau is one of
the poorest countries in the world -- ranking 168th    Box 2: Guinea-Bissau - Social Indicators
out of the 174 countries included in the UN's
Human  Developent Index  of1999  (Social .   Illiteracy rate: 66%
Human  Development  Index  of  1999  (Social   .   Gross primary enrollment ratio: 62%, of which
Indicators, Annex A).  The most recent Poverty          female 45%.
Assessment (1994) found that about 88 percent of   .   Life expectancy: 44 years (1997).
the population lived on less than one dollar per day.   *   Infant mortality: 130 (per 1,000 live births)
The poor live predominantly in the rural area (85   .   Access to safe water: 53% of population.
percent); and are engaged mainly in agriculture,   .   Ethnic diversity: Fula (25%); Balanta (24%);
often as self-employed  (85  percent).  Income          Mandinga (14%); Mandjack (9%/6); Papel (9%/6);
poverty is high, as incomes and earnings per person     others (19%).
are low. Lack of access to basic social services is   .   Religious groups: Animists (65%); Muslims
an equally important determinant of high poverty:       (30%); Christian (5%)
about 94 percent of the poor live more than an hour
away from primary school, health center, food market, or bus/taxi. Progress since 1994 on the
macroeconomic and social program fronts had barely begun to make inroads on this poverty situation
when an armed conflict broke out in June 1998.
II. GUINEA-BISSAU'S RECENT CRISIS
6.     Roots of the Conflict. On June 7, 1998, an armed conflict erupted in Bissau, between forces
loyal to the then President Vieira and those loyal to the Joint Chief of Staff, Brigadier Mane. Most of
the army sided with its chief, under the self-proclaimed Military Junta. The immediate cause of the
mutiny was disagreement over responsibility for arms sales to Senegal's separatist Casamance
movement4. The conflict broke when ex-President Vieira dismissed the Joint Chief of Staff accusing
3 Guinea Bissau joined the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) on May 2, 1997.
4 Casamnance, with ethnic affinities with Guinea-Bissau and The Gambia, is in the south of Senegal.
2



Economic Rehabilitation Recovery Credit
him of allowing arms to be smuggled to the rebellion in Casamance5. However, the deeper roots of
the violent conflict in Guinea-Bissau lie in failed governance and growing domestic discontent.
Failed governance was reflected inter alia in the breakdown of the rule of law, limitecl accountability
and transparency of public sector management and inadequate handling of the problems of veterans
of war. Growing domestic discontent associated with a sense of exclusion on the part of important
segments of the population and a deepening power struggle within the party in power resulted in the
formation of a coalition against Vieira. This broad coalition against Vieira was unleashed by the
Casamance arms-trafficking affair.
7.    Evolution of the Conflict. Initially the fighting was mostly confined to the capital city,
Bissau. On June 10, 1998 the conflict acquired a regional dimension after the intervention of
Senegalese and Guinea-Conakry troops at the request of Vieira. Following a truce sponsored by the
Community of Portuguese Speaking Countries (CPLP) and the Economic Community of West
African States (ECOWAS) on August 26, 1998, the Military Junta took control of most of the
country in late October after fighting flared up again. In line with a peace agreement sponsored by
ECOWAS, signed in Abuja, Nigeria on November 1, 1998, a Government of National Unity (GNU)
took office on February 20, 1999. Forces of the ECOWAS peace monitoring group (ECOMOG)
were deployed, foreign troops were withdrawn in mid-March 1999, and legislative and presidential
elections were called for November 1999. Disagreements on the disarmament of the belligerent
forces again led to an outbreak of fighting on May 6, 1999 which culminated in the ouster of ex-
President Vieira. In accordance with the Constitution, the President of the National Assembly was
sworn in as interim Head of State on May 14, 1999. Vieira resigned from his post and left the
country on June 6, 1999, but the GNU, evenly composed of appointees of ex-President Vieira and the
Military Junta, remained in office.
8.    Current Situation. The situation calmed down after May 1999 and attention turned to the
task of reconciliation and rehabilitation. The internal political climate, although still quite fragile,
improved steadily. Free and fair elections were held on November 28, 1999 and a presidential runoff
vote took place on January 16, 2000. Opposition parties scored a landslide victory in both legislative
and presidential elections. Elected President Koumba Yala was inaugurated on February 17, and two
days later, the new Government was installed. The Cabinet, a broad coalition, involves members of
various parties represented in the National Assembly, but no one from the former ruling party which
now is the third political force in the country. In terms of security, despite the witlhdrawal of the
ECOMOG forces in mid-1999, the situation remains calm. However, the delicate situation along the
borders with Senegal and Guinea-Conakry is a matter of concern for the authorities. Even here,
anxieties are subsiding as the result of diplomatic efforts to improve relations with neighboring
countries. All these factors have increased the prospects for a successful transition to peace.
9.    Impact of the Conflict. In addition to the enormous human suffering, the 11-month conflict
shattered Guinea-Bissau's social and economic fabric. An estimated 11,000 landmines were laid by
the warring parties, 80 percent of which in the capital city area. The economy was severely
disrupted. Considerable dissavings occurred in the private sector and in all likelihood there was
some capital flight out of the country. Reforms came to a complete halt.
10.   The destruction of capital was extensive. The rule of law was eroded and property rights
severely violated. According to some reports, private capital losses due to property destruction,
requisition, confiscation, and extensive looting and lost business opportunities are estimated at about
5 The conflict broke out two days before a parliamentary commission's report on the Casamance arms-trafficking affair was to be
issued. The report, published a year later, cleared the former Joint Chief of Staff and implicated some of Vieira's closest
associates.
3



Guinea-Bissau
US$90 million. This has considerably weakened the private sector and exacerbated an already
difficult situation in the banking system. About 5,000 houses were seriously damaged or destroyed
in Bissau. Public capital was also targeted and looted, although to a lesser extent. Damages to the
airport, energy and water systems, health and education facilities, roads, markets, public enterprises
and administrative buildings are preliminarily estimated at US$ 25-30 million. In terms of human
lives, no reliable estimates of war casualties exist, although unconfirmed estimates range between
2,000 and 6,000. Amnesty International reported widespread abuses of human rights.
11.   The disruption of the economy was significant. Real GDP in 1998 contracted by about 28
percent, as production declined in all sectors. Agriculture production declined by about 17 percent,
particularly due to shortfalls in cashew nuts and cereals. Most of the formal industrial, trade and
service activities were interrupted in the last seven months of 1998. Closing of the banks and
nonpayment of most wages repressed the impact of the war on prices. In 1998, the annual average
inflation rate was about eight percent. The armed conflict adversely affected the country's balance
of payments. Marketing of cashew nuts was severely disrupted and merchandise exports collapsed,
declining from about US$49 million in 1997 to approximately US$27 million in 1998. Merchandise
imports contracted, especially in the second half of 1998. They declined from about US$73 million
in 1997 to an estimated US$52 million in 1998. Overall, the ratio to GDP of the current account
deficit, before capital grants, is estimated to have increased from about 9 percent in 1997 to
approximately 15 percent in 1998. Reduced economic activity and limited international transactions
were detrimental to the fiscal position. Tax and non-tax revenues, excluding grants, fell by the
equivalent of ten percentage points of GDP to about five percent of GDP, due to significant shortfalls
in fishing licenses and taxes on international trade. After June 1998, external debt service arrears
piled up, equivalent to almost ten percent of GDP. Arrears on salaries, goods and services, pensions,
and transfers were also built up totaling about CFAF6.4 billion, representing five percent of GDP.
12.   The dissavings in the private sector were also significant. Assuming that income reductions
imposed by the war were temporary, households tried to protect consumption. Families in quieter
areas hosted large numbers of internally displaced people (IDPs). While this solidarity avoided a
major humanitarian crisis, it imposed an enormous economic burden on some 90,000 families in
small towns and rural areas. Food stocks were reportedly depleted and some seed was consumed.
13.   The relocation of capital was substantial. All investments were halted due to the conflict.
Investor confidence collapsed due to a riskier environment for private capital and the cessation of
donor funds. Regarding human capital, at the peak of the conflict about one-third of the total
population was internally displaced, seeking safety away from conflict-ravaged Bissau. Similarly, an
estimated 7000 persons took refugee in neighboring Senegal, Cape Verde, The Gambia, Guinea and
in Portugal. Many of these refugees were professionals and educated people, which further
weakened the country's fragile human resource base.
14.   The implementation of reforms was interrupted.  In May 1998, the 1998-2001 Policy
Framework Paper was agreed upon. However, as the administration could not function after the
conflict erupted in June 1998, implementation of important tax, civil service, public enterprise,
education and health sector reforms could not proceed. The resulting uncertainty of the political
environment, debility of the security situation, diminished private sector confidence, and weakened
Government capacity constitute major setbacks to the country's development outlook.
15.   Conflict and Poverty. The armed conflict exacerbated poverty, at least temporarily, through
the reduction of incomes, interruption of basic social services, and deterioration in other determinants
of human welfare (security, rule of law, shelter). The displacement of large segments of the
4



Economic Rehabilitation Recovery Credit
population caused an interruption of rural income-generating activities (cashew harvests and related
trade, food crop farming and marketing, handicrafts etc.). The disorder, looting and pillaging of
assets in Bissau and secondary towns disrupted urban activities. The resulting decline in GDP of
about 28 percent undoubtedly deepened poverty further. In health, the conflict triggered problems of
hygiene6 sanitation and nutrition at the same time that normal basic services becarme unavailable
owing to the destruction of the service facilities. Similar destruction of educational facilities and
materials interrupted the 1998-99 school year.
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S NEAR-TERM PROGRAM
A. STRATEGIC VISION
16.   After assuming office in late February 1999, the transitional Government decided on a short-
term reconstruction effort lodged within a longer-term reform strategy aimed at promoting sustained
and broad-based economic growth, private sector development and poverty alleviation. A prominent
element of this strategy is the fight against exclusion. In consultation with stakeholders and assisted
by development partners, the authorities prepared a three-year National Reconciliation and
Reconstruction Program (NRRP) which was strongly endorsed by major development partners at a
Round Table held in Geneva in May 1999. The program aims at supporting peace building,
promoting the revival of the economy and encouraging the pursuit of reformns. The recently elected
Government endorsed the NRRP and is determined to ensure its execution through the budget and
within a sound macroeconomic framework. The new authorities consider that implementation of the
reconciliation and reconstruction program needs to be accelerated in 2000, in the context of the
medium-term macroeconomic framework presented below (and in Annex B).
17.   One important conclusion drawn by the Government from the recent events is that past
development strategies had weaknesses such as exclusion and inequities. For the future, they are
determined not only to attack poverty more rigorously, but also to correct for the past weaknesses. In
this context, the authorities are determined to formalize their ideas in a poverty reduction strategy
prepared in a participatory manner with the involvement of the National Assembly and the civil
society. As a first step, they plan to conduct an evaluation of poverty data currently available by
May 2000. This would be followed by a light household survey, designed with World Bank
assistance, to be launched before end-June 2000. The analysis would be followed by a consultation
process with broad segments of the population to share the findings of the analysis and develop the
fundamentals of a poverty reduction strategy. The full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper is expected
to be ready by September 2001. In the meantime, an Interim PRSP would be prepared to form the
basis of support under an IMF-financed Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) which the
authorities intend to request by mid-2000. The authorities hope they will be able to reach the HIPC
decision point at the time of IMF approval of the program.
B. MAIN ELEMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM
B.I. Peace Building
The Government considers national reconciliation as the cornerstone of the country's long-term
stability. In this context, the demilitarization of the country is a top priority. The demobilization
6 The authorities reported about 3000 deaths caused by meningitis.
5



Guinea-Bissau
reinsertion and reintegration program (DRRP) has been singled out as a fundamental element in
building an enduring peace.
18.   Demobilization, reinsertion and reintegration of ex-combatants. The civil war of
1998-99 exposed a critical shortcoming in the post-independence politics of Guinea-Bissau.
Whereas high-ranking party cadres have been provided with generous financial and in-kind
support for their contribution during the liberation war of 1963-74, the large number of rank and
file felt neglected by successive governments. This discontent fueled the recent conflict, with
many ex-combatants joining the ranks of the Military Junta to oust the government. As a result
of the conflict, the ranks of the security forces (armed forces, border guard, and police) increased
to financially unsustainable levels.
19.   The present size of the security forces is approximately 23,000.  The desired post-
demobilization strength of the security forces is 11,000, thus requiring the demobilization of
approximately 12,000 soldiers. The Ministry of Defense (for the armed forces and border guard) and
the Ministry of Internal Administration (for the police) will soon be undertaking a census and
registration to confirm the actual strength before the commencement of the DRRP. Preliminary
estimates indicate that the DRRP might cost between US$12-15 million.
20.   To limit the demobilization program to those who have taken up arms during the civil war
would give a premium to violence and invite those who did not join a fighting force to take up arms
in the future. The program's target group will, thus, be the totality of (ex-) combatants in the history
of the country. However, to limit the DRRP to reasonable proportions, assistance will only be
offered to the most vulnerable and poorest ex-combatants. These will be identified through a socio-
economic profile determining their demographic characteristics and needs. Furthermore, the DRRP
will differentiate this assistance according to the particular needs of each of the three distinct sub-
groups, namely liberation fighters, regular troops at the time the civil war broke out, and those who
joined during the civil war. Criteria to guide the demobilization process and to define vulnerability
criteria for eligibility to assistance under the DRRP will be established in decrees to be promulgated
before end-September 2000.
21.   Building on worldwide experience, the Bank has been assisting the Government in preparing
a comprehensive and transparent DRRP program in three phases: demobilization (formal discharge
from the security forces), reinsertion (transition to civilian life immediately following discharge), and
reintegration (achieving sustainable livelihoods). Upon completion of the preparatory work in
October 2000, the Government will implement a pilot demobilization of 500 soldiers, to test the
systems and management structures and to review the functionality of the program as designed.
Based on the lessons learned during the pilot, the DRRP will be refined and finalized, as necessary,
and approved by the Council of Ministers. The implementation of the full program begins thereafter.
The ERRC will, thus, assist the Government to prepare a credible DRRP, including its pilot testing.
The Government is determined to place in transition towards reintegration about 4,000 ex-
combatants by June 2001.
22.   The DRRP preparation comprises, among others, the profiling of soldiers to be demobilized,
the establishment of a financial management system with appropriate safeguards, the design of a
socio-economic reintegration fund, the preparation of a sensitization/community awareness
campaign, and the design of assistance to disabled ex-combatants. DRRP preparation will be
supported by external expertise.  A  basic principle throughout program  preparation and
implementation will continue to be the participation of government, civil society, and development
partners. To ensure proper program preparation and implementation, the Government will soon
6



Economic Rehabilitation Recovery Credit
promulgate a decree establishing the institutional framework for the DRRP, comprising an inter-
ministerial committee chaired by the Prime Minister, and an implementing agency, the Technical
Management Team (TMT). This institutional structure will be abolished upon completion of the
DRRP, about three years following the inception.
23.   The Government recognizes that transparency and accountability are critical to ensure the
successful implementation of the DRRP. It plans to adopt a sound Manual of IProcedures for
program implementation and to establish a financial management and procurement unit (FMPU).
The FMPU will be managed by a firm to be recruited internationally through competitive bidding. It
will manage program funds independently of the TMT. Accounts will be audited senmi-annually by
external auditors acceptable to IDA. In order to streamline administrative and financial procedures,
the Government indicated its intentions to ask IDA to act as administrator of a Trust Fund for pooling
donor contributions to the DRRP. The authorities plan to use a Multi-Donor Program Account in
Bissau to pass resources from the Trust Fund to the DRRP. The Government will cover its financial
contribution to the DRRP by using a significant part of the proceeds of the proposed ERRC.
B.2. Revival of the Economy
The authorities are keen to relaunch critical basic public services, which are at the core of the public
sector's role in fighting poverty. As a complement to this, they plan to help revitalize the private
sector by enabling it to recover its financial strength.
24.   Relaunch of Basic Public Services. The near-term goals of the poverty alleviation efforts
include re-establishing pre-conflict level of well being as soon as possible in a few targeted areas.
The first goal is to restore the delivery of education and health services, particularly at the primary
level. The second goal is to restore the sense of security and strengthen the rule of law, by
accelerating demining and reviving the judicial system. Demining would clear about 8,000 mines.
Revival of the judicial system would improve chances of protecting human and property rights,
including fair trials of prisoners currently under detention. The third goal is to assist poor people to
rehabilitate their homes, particularly those that have yet to resettle. An estimated 3800 houses are
expected to be recovered through participatory and transparent approaches, such as the ones used in
the 1200 houses already repaired that benefited about 25,000 people. The fourth goal is to
encourage a return by the rural population to their normal vocations, particularly by ensuring the
adequate provision of seeds and agricultural tools. To achieve its goals, the Government counts on
several donor-financed projects, including the Bank-financed Basic Education Support Project and
the National Health Development Program. The proposed credit would help to fill remaining gaps.
25.   Revitalization of the Private Sector. Restoring critical services will facilitate the recovery
of the domestic private sector. In addition, the authorities plan to assist the private sector recover its
financial strength through the settlement of a significant amount of domestic arrears. The authorities
are convinced that this initiative will boost output and generate employment. At the same time, by
restoring the Government's credibility, future transaction costs of the public sector might be lowered.
These arrears were built up due to the inadequate public expenditure procedures effective until end-
1997, a lack of compliance during the civil war with the guidelines established in December 1997,
and a lack of budgetary resources.
26.   The settlement of domestic arrears will be in line with the following principles: (i) arrears to
resident private creditors, including the commercial banking sector, and to civil servant pensioners
are the Government's top priority; (ii) salary arrears (three last months of 1998), which the
Government expects to settle with its own domestic resources, constitute a second priority; and
7



Guinea-Bissau
(iii) arrears to state-owned enterprises will be identified but settled only in the context of their
privatization or restructuring, with the exception of EAGB (power utility) which might require an
urgent injection of resources. Furthermnore, in a first round, the settlement will focus on arrears
related to payments already validated by the Treasury (rester a payer-RAP). In a second round, it
will focus on expenditures committed for which payment orders have not been issued (depenses
engages et non ordonnancies-DENO). Within the limit of available resources, the third round will
cover additional claims that still require recognition.
27.   A first estimate prepared by the Ministry of Finance indicates that domestic arrears totaled
CFAF 12.5 billion, as of May 31, 1999, about 9 percent of the estimated 1999 GDP (see Annex C).
The estimate will be refined through a comprehensive inventory of verified and validated domestic
arrears to be carried out in 2000. Following completion of the inventory, a Domestic Arrears
Settlement Plan (DASP) will be drawn up for approval by the Council of Ministers. The plan will
envisage their orderly payment and will review the expected social and economic impact of its
implementation. Before approval of the settlement plan, a pilot will be carried out consisting of
payment of CFAF 1.0 billion of verified and validated arrears, particularly those of the first round.
The authorities are determined to incorporate the lessons from the pilot in the plan to be approved by
the Council of Ministers.
28.   The Government is committed to ensuring that the settlement plan will be prepared and
adopted in a transparent and equitable manner. In this context, a Manual of Procedures will be
adopted to guide plan preparation and implementation, including criteria for verification and
validation of the creditor's claims. To ensure proper plan preparation and implementation, a decree
will soon be promulgated to establish an ad-hoc Commission and define its mandate and
composition. The Commission will work under the supervision of the Minister of Finance and will
have as its tasks: (i) leading the preparation of the settlement plan; (ii) verifying and validating the
claims submitted for its review; and (iii) supervising the treatment of the claims that it verifies and
validates, as well as authorizing payment from the Domestic Arrears Settlement Account to be
established for that purpose. Payments of arrears will be made after offsetting public debt with non-
contested debt to the government by the private sector, such as back taxes and debts to the liquidated
state-owned Banco de Credito Nacional. A representative designated by the Chamber of Commerce
will be a member of the ad-hoc Commission. The authorities will procure and make available to the
Commission advisory services to assist the preparation and implementation of the settlement plan.
The activities of the Commission will be audited semi-annually according to internationally accepted
auditing principles by an independent accounting firm recruited through competitive bidding on the
basis of terms of reference acceptable to the parties.
29.   The Government is aware that efforts to restore its credibility and improve public finances
will not succeed unless they are accompanied by corrective measures to avoid a new build-up of
domestic arrears. Particular attention will be attached to avoiding the accumulation of new arrears in
areas where they occur most often (house rental, airline tickets, embassies' expenditures, telephone,
electricity, and consumables). In this vein, the Government is determined to adopt a manual setting
out the expenditure justification requirements (Manuel des Pieces Justificatives). This Manual,
currently in an initial draft, will enter into application by end 2000.
B.3.  Pursuit of Reforms
The Government has decided that its near-term reconstruction effort should be lodged within a
longer-term reform strategy. In this context, the Government is committed to the pursuit of reforms
8



Economic Rehabilitation Recovery Credit
aimed at strengthening public resource management and improving the business environment for the
private sector.
30.   Strengthening Public Resource Management. The Government recognizes that rigor and
transparency of public resource management is essential for rebuilding the administration and
reestablishing legitimacy and public confidence in the Government. Since May 1999), efforts have
been targeted on improving revenue mobilization and public expenditure management. In the area of
revenue mobilization, two measures were adopted: centralization of revenues in the Treasury and
enforcement of the generalized sales tax (GST) and the streamlined customs tariff. This strategy
proved successful as tax revenues recovered, attaining 15 percent of GDP in 1999, which was about
the same level as in 1997. Part of these revenues, almost two percent of GDP, were taxes and fishing
licenses receipts due prior to June 1998. In the area of expenditure, the resumption of the prior
approval of expenditure commitments helped to keep them below the programmed limits.
31.   Regarding tax and customs reform, the implementation of the indirect tax and customs
reforms, which entered into effect in April 1998, represents a major cornerstone of fiscal reforms. It
comprised the introduction of a generalized sales tax (GST), with a rate at 10 percent, to be replaced
later by a value-added-tax. It also involved the modernization of the external customs tariff, with a
view to future convergence with the reform agreed at the WAEMU level. The structure of the excise
taxes was also revised. The authorities are committed to resuming implementation of tax reforms
and restoring effective management to the domestic tax and customs administrations.. The customs
and tax administration capabilities were seriously affected by the conflict, due largely to the
considerable loss of equipment and infrastructure. With IMF, Bank, and other donor assistance, the
GST will become operational in 2000 after the taxpayers' identification number (TIN) database,
critical to allow monitoring of large- and medium-scale taxpayers, is rehabilitated. Regarding
customs, the authorities consider its reform program a catalyst for growth of regional trade. In this
context, with WAEMU assistance, work is under way to revise tariffs and product classification with
a view to convergence with the common external tariff. The authorities are determined to set up the
new maximum tariff at 20%, during the second half of 2000. With Bank and UNCTAD, support the
computerized ASYCUDA system will be made operational by September 2000. The authorities also
plan to further reduce the total tax burden on cashew nut exports (currently 12 percent, including the
real estate tax on farmers of 2 percent) to 10 percent by 2001. The goal is to eliminate the cashew
export taxes as soon as revenue performance from the GST strengthens and a fair and efficient
presumptive tax on the rural sector can be developed.
32.   As for expenditure management, the Ministry of Finance finalized in January 2000 a review
of public expenditure procedures and identified measures to strengthen the budgetary execution. In
this context, in the second half of 2000, a decree will de adopted to establish the public expenditures
procedures regulatory framework. Moreover, extra efforts will be made to enforce commitment
procedures, improve control and reporting systems, and strengthen Treasury management.
Additionally, the reform of the public procurement system will gain momentum. To this end, an
action plan prepared with support from the Bank and the International Trade Center was adopted in
November 1999. The plan's objective is to establish the procurement regulatory framework and
make the system effective in five pilot ministries later in 2000.
33.   As for the composition of expenditures, the Government recognizes the need to reduce
security-related expenditures and ensure greater effectiveness of public spending. Over the period to
2001, the authorities are determined to change the allocation of resources to prioritize social sectors
and to create conditions, through the demobilization program, to reduce dermand on public resources
for security purposes (see Table 2). In this context, security-related recurrent spending is projected to
9



Guinea-Bissau
decline from 23 percent of primary expenditures in 2000 to about 19 percent in 2001; this would
bring the ratio of those expenditures to GDP to about 2.5 percent in the year 2001, approximately one
percent less than in the previous year.
34.   Aware of the importance to increase transparency and accountability in the budget execution,
the Government is committed to make public, twice a year, a report on the execution of the budget
during the preceding six months identifying the sources and uses of funds by main functional and
economic categories, and their relation to the approved allocations. This report will be circulated to
parliamentarians, political parties, and other interested entities within 45 days after every semester is
concluded. The first report will be issued for the first semester of 2000.
35.   Improving the Business Environment for Private Sector. Private sector activities are a
critical component of the authorities' reconstruction strategy given their impact on the revitalization
of the rural areas, relaunch of food production, recovery of export capacity and employment
generation. In order to accelerate economic development and support the growth of a more dynamic
private sector in Guinea-Bissau, the Governrment is determined to restore private sector confidence
by proceeding with the privatization of commercial public sector enterprises and increasing private
participation in the infrastructure sector. Over the period to 2001, the authorities are committed to
focus on the following actions: (i) completion of the ongoing privatization of commercial companies
and divestiture of Banco Internacional da Guine-Bissau (BIGB); (ii) reform of the electricity sector;
(iii) liberalization of the markets in telecommunications, ports, and aviation and introduction of
private participation in infrastructure sectors, in a transparent and competitive manner; and
(iv) establishment of a sound regulatory framework for each sector and setting up a competent and
credible regulatory institution to oversee the performance and contract compliance of the private
operators. Annex D summarizes the status of the privatization of commercial public sector
enterprises.
36.   During 2000, progress will be made in reforming the telecommunications and energy sectors.
In telecommunications, in parallel with negotiations to revise the content of the concession
agreement of Guinea Telecom (in particular articles concerning the exclusive rights for all
telecommunications services), the authorities intend to reform the regulatory and legal framework
with a view to its liberalization. These actions will be carried out against the background established
in the Telecommunications Sector Policy, prepared with Bank assistance and adopted by the Cabinet
in November 1999. Additionally, the bidding process for the cellular license(s) will also be
launched. With regards to energy, a draft law on electricity passed by the Government in November
1999 will be submitted for enactment by parliament during the first half of 2000. In addition, in
consultation with IDA, the Government is considering options to raise the efficiency of the water and
electricity sectors. Before October 2000, a decision will be made on the possibility of placing the
state-owned company Eletricidade e Aguas de Guine-Bissau (EAGB) under a long-term lease
contract with a private operator. In view of the disruptions to the privatization program caused by
the conflict, the Government will adopt by September 2000 an overall strategy for the privatization
of public enterprises and private participation in infrastructure. The strategy will include a time-
bound action plan.
C. MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
37.   Medium-Term Framework. The macroeconomic framework for the period 1999-2001 has
been agreed upon by the Government, the IMF and the Bank. Its objectives are to: (i) accelerate the
annual average real GDP growth rate to more than 8 percent in 2001; (ii) reduce inflation to less than
3 percent; and (iii) limit fiscal and external sector gaps to financially sustainable levels. Monetary
policy will be conducted at the regional level and aim at containing inflation at levels consistent with
10



Economic Rehabilitation Recovery Credit
the exchange rate peg with the Euro. The macroeconomic framework will be revisited each year in
order to ensure its sustainability and suitability to the growth and poverty reduction objectives.
Preliminary estimates (see Table 1) indicate that in 1999 significant progress has been achieved
towards meeting those objectives. Real GDP growth was 8.7 percent. Improved political stability
and excellent rainfall resulted in a stronger than anticipated rebound of agricultural output, with a
good harvest of cashew nuts contributing to record high exports of 64,000 tons. Better food supplies
helped to keep inflation in check. Good collection of customs duties and indirect taKes formed the
basis of an overall satisfactory fiscal performance. Notwithstanding the show of support by
development partners in Geneva in May 1999, disbursement of pledged assistance was slow in 1999.
This is expected to change during 2000 with the return to constitutional rule and democracy. The
investment-GDP ratio is, therefore, expected to increase sharply to about 26 percent of GDP by 2001
in view of the expected rise in the donor-financed reconstruction effort. With the expected sharp
increase in import demand and modest increase of exports, from the high level reached in 1999, the
external current account deficit (including grants) is projected to widen from almost 7 percent in
1999 to approximately 17 percent in 2000 and fall to 11 percent in 2001.
TABLE 1
GUINEA-BISSAU: SELECTED MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1996-2001
Actual         Est.  Prog.  Est.    Projected
1996     1997     1998    1999    1999    2000   2001
Growth Rates (% change)
Real GDP                                  4.6      5.4   -28.1      7.5     8.7    '7.6      8.5
Consumer prices (annual average)         56.6     49.1      8.0     6.0    -0.9      3.0     2.9
National Accounts (% of GDP)
Gross investment                         23.0     21.7     11.3    24.3    13.7    25.8    26.0
Private investment                      8.3       6.1      5.2     5.4     4.9     5.0    6.4
Gross domestic savings                    1.8      2.8    -8.9    -9.4    -5.4    -3.3       2.9
Balance of Payments (% of GDP)
External current account
Before capital grants                 -16.4     -9.3   -14.7   -31.4   -11.0   -27.7   -22.5
Including capital grants                -1.3      2.6   -14.7   -21.8    -6.6   -16.9   -11.3
Exchange rate (localJUS$)               405.7    583.7   590.0   630.0   610.0
Government Finance (% of GDP)
Total revenue, excluding all grants      12.4     15.3      5.5    11.7    15.1    14.0    14.3
Total revenue, including all grants      21.4     28.1      8.7    20.8    20.7    24.2    25.3
Total expenditures                       33.6     46.4    25.0    41.7    27.8    43.9    40.3
Current primary balance '/                3.3      5.5    -6.6    -1.9      2.5    -0.9      0.9
Overall balance (comm. Basis)
Excluding all grants                  -21.2    -31.1   -19.5   -30.0   -12.7   -29.9   -26.0
Including all grants                  -12.2    -18.3    -16.3   -20.9    -7.1   -19.7   -15.0
Debt Indicators (%)
NPV of debt/Export of GNFS 2/            1426     1532     1396    .        893     881     722
Scheduled debt service /Exports 3/        165       58      104      74      65      60      52
/Revenues excluding all grants less non-interest current expenditures.
2/Three-year average of exports of GNFS.
3/ Exports refer to exports of GNFS plus workers' remittances.
Source: Guinea-Bissau authorities and Bank and IMF staff estimates and projections
38.    The Budget and its Financing. Over the period 2000/01, domestic revenues are expected to
increase by one percent of GDP, compared to 1999 (which stood at about 13 percent, back taxes and
fishing licenses receipts excluded). In spite of these sustained revenue mobilization efforts, the
overall deficit, including all grants, is expected to deteriorate and remain large, averaging about 17
percent of GDP in 2000/01 (see table 1). The sharp deterioration of the fiscal position, reflects larger
11



Guinea-Bissau
demands on public resources, particularly for investment, to rebuild critical infrastructure, reestablish
basic social services, especially education and health services, and begin to restore security,
including through demobilization of those unlikely to remain in the army. Following consultations
with the IMF and the Bank, the recently elected Government will submit shortly a draft Budget for
2000 to the parliament.
39.    The Government's post-conflict program  over the period 2000/01 will require substantial
funding, well above the estimates of resource availability. Table 2 shows the projected financing gap
for the two years, amounting to approximately US$240 million. The residual gap is expected to be
financed by a combination of significant debt relief (about US$185 million), and new commitments.
In terms of debt relief, the Government has requested the Paris Club to reschedule, on highly
concessional terms, arrears at end-1999 and payments due in 2000. Similar terms are expected from
other bilateral creditors. Moreover, the authorities are seeking agreements with some multilateral
creditors to regularize substantial arrears through refinancing on highly concessional terms. In
addition, the authorities expect to mobilize about US$55 million in new commitments through
assistance such as the proposed ERRC, a new three-year PRGF with the IMF, adjustment support
from the EU and the AfDB, and financing provided by bilateral donors, including contributions to the
Multilateral Debt Fund and the demobilization program.
TABLE 2
GUINEA-BISSAU: BUDGET FINANCING GAP, 1996-2001
Actual         Estimated       ProjcCted
1996   1997    1998    1999   2000    2001
(CFAF Billion)
Financial Requirements                     54.8   88.2    22.4    36.0  172.0  84.4
Current expenditure                       17.4   24.0    22.9    25.8   30.3  30.8
Of which:
Interest payments                       7.3    8.6      8.3      8.7    7.8   8.3
Health                                  1.5    1.5      0.9      1.4    2.6   2.9
Education                               1.2    2.0       1.6     2.1     3.3   3.6
Security                                1.8    2.3      3.0      4.2    5.2   4.2
Demobilization expenditure                                                  3.0   4.0
Capital expenditure                       16.2   27.9      7.5    12.0   32.9  33.0
Net lending                                3.4   20.6    -0. I      0.0    0.0   0.0
Amortization of debt                      12.0   11.2    10.5    12.0   14.2  12.6
Change in arrears"/                        5.8    4.5   -18.4   -13.8   91.6   4.0
Of which: domestic                      -0.1    3.8    -5.6       2.0    4.0   4.0
Financing                                  54.8   88.2    22.4    36.0   49.1  60.6
Revenues                                  13.7   24.0      6.6    20.4   21.1  24.0
Total grants                               9.8   20.0      3.9      7.7   15.4  18.6
Current grants                            1.1    9.1      3.9     2.0    0.0   0.0
Capital grants                            8.7   10.9      0.0     5.7   15.4  18.6
Extemal financing identified              27.9   44.5      8.3      1.8   13.1  13.0
Domestic financing                         3.4   -0.3      3.6      6.1   -0.5   5.0
Financing Gap                               0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0  122.9  23.8
Financing Gap ($US million)                 0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0  201.5  39.0
Possible Debt Relief                                                       162.5  22.5
"+=reduction
Source: Guinea-Bissau authorities; and World Bank and IMF staff estimates and projections
12



Economic Rehabilitation Recovery Credit
IV. FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. CREDIT OBJECTIVES
40.   The proposed quick-disbursing Credit will support the implementation of the 2000/01 slice of
the national program of peace building, promotion of the revival of the economy, and the pursuit of
reforms. Specifically, counterpart funds generated by the proceeds of the proposed Credit
would: (i) support the preparation of a credible DRRP, including its pilot testing; (ii) bring income
relief to about 2,630 public service pensioners with outstanding claims on the government; (iii) help
to revitalize the private sector by contributing to settlement of sizeable public domestic
arrears; (iv) contribute to reestablishing the pre-conflict service levels in primary education and
health; and (v) assist the authorities to maintain macroeconomic stability by facilitating the orderly
financing of intemnal and external gaps and helping to implement public resource management reform
measures (revenue centralization, budget execution, public procurement reform). The proposed
Credit, whose Project Description Summary is attached as Annex F, supports the Government's
objectives as specified in the attached Letter of Development Policy (Annex E).
B. BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP
41.   The Borrower has full ownership of the program that the proposed ERRC will support, given
that: (i) the substance of the program comes from the country's own NRRP which was presented to
donors at the Round Table meeting in Geneva in May 1999; (ii) top government officials were
actively involved in the design of the program supported by the proposed ERRC; (iii) the Borrower
complied with the end-September 1999 fiscal targets agreed in the context of the IMF's Post-Conflict
Emergency Assistance; and (iv) the Borrower has swiftly implemented actions necessary for the
finalization of various components of the proposed ERRC. Staff consultations vvith political parties,
unions, and private sector appear to indicate a broad consensus on the priorities supported by the
proposed ERRC. Furthermore, Guinea-Bissau's authorities that emerged from the recent elections
have reviewed and endorsed the ERRC package, before its presentation for Board consideration. As
referred in the attached Letter of Development Policy, the proposed ERRC plays a critical role in the
implementation of the recently elected Government's program. Nevertheless, IDA will continue to
encourage the authorities to broaden consensus outside of the Government and to develop a
communication strategy to strengthen dialogue with civil society and build public support for
economic reforms.
C. RATIONALE OF IDA INVOLVEMENT AND THE BANK'S TRANSITIONAL STRATEGY
42.   The outbreak of conflict in Guinea-Bissau once again demonstrated the negative regional
dimensions of such crisis, in tenms of involvement of neighboring countries in the conflict and the
creation of a significant refugee problem. IDA's involvement in the rehabilitation and reconstruction
efforts of Guinea-Bissau is important for two reasons:
(i) at the country level, it would reactivate the economic and social refonrn program that was
derailed by the conflict and help the Government mobilize exceptional financing required for
priority post-conflict needs. It would also assist the achievement of the decision point for
HIPC eligibility for this very highly indebted country;
(ii) at the regional level, involvement would help prevent future eruption of violence in
Guinea-Bissau and would assist the country become a viable member of the WAEMU, which
13



Guinea-Bissau
Guinea-Bissau joined about two years ago. Given its low wage rates and agriculture sector
potential, the country could gain considerably from trade within this regional grouping.
43.   IDA's response to Guinea-Bissau's needs is consistent with the "Framework for World Bank
Involvement in Post-Conflict Operations" approved by the Board in May 1997, and revises the
strategy discussed in the 1997 CAS7. Preparation of a new CAS would be launched soon after
consultations with the recently elected Government. IDA's response has been prepared after
consultations with the Government, stakeholders and major development partners, such as the IMF,
the EU, the AfDB, the UN agencies, France, the Netherlands, Portugal and Sweden.
44.   IDA's response consists of a four-part strategy to assist Guinea-Bissau face its post-conflict
needs:
* Reallocation of uncommitted resources from ongoing operations to help finance urgent
social sector and infrastructure recovery activities. This would help redirect portfolio activities to
areas most affected by the conflict and cover priority needs of primary education and health,
roads and technical assistance. Moreover, during 2000, the International Finance Corporation
(IFC) plans to complete transactions that received Board approval before the conflict erupted,
involving investments in a new private bank and in the privatization of the country's only
insurance company.
* Special assistance, under the proposed ERRC, to contribute to macroeconomic stability and
support a first set of key measures focused on promoting inclusive policies, strengthening public
resource management, and improving the business environment for the private sector. In
particular, the project would target assistance to vulnerable groups and revive the private sector.
* Support to the energy and water sectors, during FY01, under an IDA-financed project
focused on restoring the production of electricity and water in Bissau and selected secondary
cities. This project would help to expand private sector participation in service delivery.
* Assistance to longer-term institutional development, during FY01, conditional upon
continued progress in consolidating peace and satisfactory implementation of the proposed
ERRC, would focus on public and private sector capacity building.
D. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS IDA'S ASSISTANCE
45.   The proposed Credit, is consistent with the findings of an Operations Evaluation Department
report8 which stresses that successful implementation of post-conflict reconstruction should include:
(i) early involvement in post-conflict support to policy formulation; (ii) supporting the achievement
of macroeconomic stability; (iii) a good assessment of damages and needs; (iv) flexibility in design
and implementation to respond to volatile and changing circumstances; and (v) diversification of
reconstruction into various sectors. These lessons have been incorporated into the design of the
proposed Credit.
E. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
46.   The Borrower will be the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, represented by the Ministry of Finance
(MF). Upon approval of the Credit, the Borrower will open a deposit account at BCEAO-Bissau.
7The last CAS was considered by the Board on June 10, 1997.
8 The World Bank's Experience with Post-Conflict Reconstruction, World Bank, Report No. 17769, 1998.
14



Economic Rehabilitation Recovery Credit
IDA will deposit the proceeds of the Credit in this account at the request of the Borrower. The
proposed Credit is expected to be released in three tranches, over a period of 12-18 months, and will
follow the simplified IDA procedures for adjustment operations (Februaiy 8, 1996).  IDA
disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases and, hence, there will be no procurement
requirements. In case the proceeds of the Credit are used for ineligible purposes, IDA will require
the Borrower to either: (i) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or
(ii) refund the amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed
amount of the Credit. Although an audit of the deposit account will not be required, IDA reserves the
rig]ht to require audits at any time.
47.   A Technical Committee will manage the program supported by the ERRC and monitor its
implementation and impact. The Technical Committee composed of senior staff from various
agencies, at the level of Director General, is chaired by the Secretary of State of Planning and
Budget. Quarterly implementation reports prepared by the Technical Committee will be submitted to
an Interministerial Commiltee chaired by the Prime Minister for analysis and decision before being
sent to the Bank. These reports will cover (i) progress on the jointly agreed key performance
indicators (Annex F); (ii) macroeconomic developments, especially budgetary outcomes; and
(iii) status of the deposit account. On a monthly basis, budget revenues and expenditures, reconciled
bank accounts and the statement of the ERRC's deposit account will be submitted to the IDA.
Regular IDA supervision missions will also monitor ERRC implementation, ancd coordinate with the
IMF and other major donors.
48.   The Borrower is determined to monitor the impact of its NRRP, particularly those elements
supported by the ERRC. In this context, periodic information will be submitted to IDA on the basis
of beneficiary surveys to be carried out, particularly in the areas of demobilization, reinsertion and
reinitegration of ex-combatants, settlement of domestic arrears, and clearance of arrears to pensioners.
F. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
49.   The proposed ERRC will have no adverse environmental impact. In accordance with
Operational Directive 4.01. the operation has been placed in category C, which does not require an
environmental assessment.
G. CONDITIONS FOR BOAR.D PRESENTATION
50.   The following conditions have been met by the Borrower, in a manner satisfactory to IDA:
(a)    Promulgation of Decree establishing the institutional framework of the DRRP (para. 22).
(b)    Approval by the Council of Ministers of an Action Plan to finalize the preparation of the
DRRP (para. 21).
(c)    Promulgation of a Decree establishing the ad-hoc Commission to lead the preparation
and implementation of the domestic arrears settlement plan (para. 28).
(d)   Approval by Cabinet of an Action Plan to reform procurement of public goods and
services (para. 32).
(e)   Transmission of a final Letter of Development Policy.
15



Guinea-Bissau
H:. CONDITIONS FOR CREDIT EFFECTIVENESS
51.    The Credit will become effective upon due authorization or ratification by all necessary
governmental action and IDA's receipt of a legal opinion of the Attorney General confirming that the
Development Credit Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
I. TRANCHING OF THE CREDIT
52.    The Credit will be disbursed in three tranches. The first tranche in the amount of US$12
million will be disbursed upon effectiveness. The advance for project preparation (PPF), in the
aimount of US$ I million, becomes due at effectiveness and will be repaid to IDA from the proceeds
of the first tranche. The two other tranches (floating) will be disbursed upon compliance with
conditions specified below. One floating tranche, in the amount of US$6 million, is tied to progress
in the demobilization, reinsertion and reintegration of ex-combatants. The other, in the amount of
US$7 million, is tied to progress in the settlement of domestic arrears. Recognizing the fragile
political and social situation in Guinea-Bissau, the Credit has avoided tranche release conditionalities
that could exacerbate social tensions. This approach seeks to give the Borrower flexibility in dealing
with complex issues at the appropriate pace. The proposed conditionalities focus on deliverables
critical for the successful implementation of major reforms supported by the credit. The conditions
are as follows:
][.1.   Conditions for Floating Tranche Release
I.1.1. General Conditions
53.    Before the release of either the DRRP or the DASP floating tranches, the Borrower must
provide evidence satisfactory to IDA that: (a) the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower
is consistent with the objectives of the Program, as per indicators agreed with IDA9. The following
indicators will be used to monitor the macroeconomic  framework:  (a.1) net credit to  the
Government by the banking system set at CFAF 2,242 million at end-June 2000'; and (a.2) primary
current budgetary balance"  set at minus CFAF 4,260 million at end-June 2000; (b) progress has been
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program as outlined in its Letter of Development
Policy; and (c) it has held one meeting with bilateral and multilateral donors to mobilize overall
support for its Program.
1.1.2. Conditions for the Release of the DRRP Floating Tranche
54.    The DRRP floating tranche will be released after the following conditions have been
complied with by the Borrower, in a manner satisfactory to IDA:
(a)    adoption of the Manual of Procedures for the implementation of the DRRP, in
consultation with IDA (para. 23).
9   For the purpose of monitoring program compliance beyond June 2000, the Borrower and IDA, in consultation with the
IMF, will agree on revised targets for end-September and later, if needed, for the same indicators mentioned above.
0  The indicator will be adjusted downward for smaller than projected reduction of domestic payments arrears; the target will
be adjusted upward for lower-than-anticipated external assistance.
I   Defined as revenue, excluding all grants, less non-interest current expenditure.
16



Economic Rehabililation Recovery Credit
(b)    promulgation of decrees defining, respectively, criteria for demobilization and
vulnerability criteria for eligibility to assistance under the DRRP (para. 20).
(c)    establishment of an independent financial management and procurement system, in
consultation with IDA (para. 23)12
(d)   implementation of a pilot phase of the DRRP involving the demobilization of 500
soldiers (para. 21).
(e)   finalization of the DRRP and its approval by the Council of Ministers (para. 21).
1.1.3. Conditions for the Release of the DASP Floating Tranche
55.   The domestic arrears settlement plan (DASP) floating tranche will be released after the
following conditions have been complied with by the Borrower, in a manner satisfactory to IDA:
(a)    adoption of the Manual of Procedures for the implementation. of the DASP, in
consultation with IDA (para. 28).
(b)    completion of a comprehensive inventory of verified and validated domestic arrears
(para. 27).
(c)    approval of DASP by its Council of Ministers (para. 27).
(d)    implementation of corrective measures by the Ministry of Finance to avoid build up of
new domestic arrears (para. 29).
J. BENEFITS AND RISKS
56.   Benefits: The proposed Credit supports a set of key measures aimed at building peace,
promoting the revival of the economy and reactivating needed reforms. By supporting expenditures
that protect vulnerable groups and restoring economic activities, the ERRC helps to offer immediate
peace benefits, essential for the success of the national reconciliation process. The proposed Credit
would help finance budgetary expenditures to execute the 2000/01 slice of Guinea-Bissau's
reconciliation and reconstruction program, with the following expected benefits: (i) initiation of the
demilitarization of the country by demobilization of at least 500 ex-soldiers in the pilot phase of the
demobilization, reinsertion, and reintegration program; (ii) delivery of income relief to an estimated
2630 public sector pensioners whose claims on govemment remain outstanding; (iii) revitalize the
private sector by injecting financial resources through settlement of public domestic arrears;
(iv) maintenance of macroeconomic stability by facilitating the orderly financing of external and
internal gaps; and (v) improvement of public resource management. Successful implementation of
the Credit would also help clear the way for a return to the HIPC Initiative path.
57.   Risks: The proposed Credit is subject to three main risks: (i) the peace process may unravel;
(ii) the recently elected Government may not follow through on the reform program; and (iii) the
program may fail because of insufficient institutional capacity. The design of the program helps to
mitigate these risks by: (a) offering immediate peace benefits and giving to different socio-economic
groups a stake in the success of the peace process; (b) helping to protect vulnerable groups, such as
ex-soldiers and pensioners, and offering incentives to the Government to stay on track in view of the
12  The financial management and procurement system should be established in accordance with the terms of reference agreed
on October 13, 1999, as per Annex 2 of the Agreed Minutes.
17



Guinea-Bissau
prospect of going back to the HIPC Initiative; (c) incorporating institutional support to critical
activities such as the DRRP, DASP, and public resource management; and (d) helping to mobilize
donor supported technical assistance to implement key measures of the Government's program.
58.   Thus, the program supported by this Credit is risky. However, the alternative of withholding
post-conflict assistance carries much bigger risks of a return to renewed hostilities and unraveling of
the democratic process. This would be dangerous not only for Guinea-Bissau but also for a sub-
region which has seen its share of violence, instability and growing poverty.
V. COLLABORATION WITH IMF AND OTHER DONORS
59.   The Bank has worked closely with the IMF and the donor community to help the country
design and implement its post-conflict reconciliation and reconstruction program. In April 1999, a
joint Bank-IMF assessment mission helped the Government design its 1999 macroeconomic
program. In order to support the authorities' program, in September 1999 and January 2000 the
Board of the IMF approved two purchases under the Post-Conflict Emergency Assistance totaling
US$5 million. Moreover, Bank and Fund staff have worked closely during preparation of the
proposed ERRC. Additionally, the Bank played an active role in a well-attended UN-sponsored
Round Table held in Geneva on May 4-5, 1999, which discussed the Government's National
Reconciliation and Reconstruction Program. Donors endorsed the orientations and priorities of the
Giovernment's program and pledges were in line with the requested support totaling over US$200
million. While the renewed instability on May 6-7, 1999 slowed the disbursement of pledged
assistance support, donor assistance was critical to help the country address urgent humanitarian
needs, successfully organize the general elections and clear priority external debt arrears to
multilaterals. With the return to constitutional rule, and the endorsement of the NRRP by the new
authorities, donor support is expected to pick up in 2000 along the lines pledged in Geneva in 1999.
In this context, assistance is already being provided or under preparation from the EU, the AfDB, UN
agencies, France, Japan, the Netherlands, Portugal and Sweden. In order to assist the country rebuild
its capacity, a coordinated program of assistance has been put in place with combined inputs from
bilateral and multilateral donors, particularly in the areas of tax reforms, customs administration,
budgetary and debt management, and procurement reforms.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
60.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed Credit complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
'Washington D.C.
April 17, 2000
18



ANNEX A
PAGE 1 OF 1
GUJEA-BISSAU: SOCIAL INDICATORS
Latest single year                    Samne regionIncorme toup
1970-75         1980-85          1992-97               Sub-         Low-
shasm        income
Africa
POPLTATION
Total population, mnid-year (millions)               0.6             0.9              1.1              612.4       2,035.6
Growth rate (% annual average)               3.6              2.0             2.3                 2.2          1.7
Urban population(% of population)                   15.9            18.4             22.5               32.3         28.4
TotalfeLtilityrate(births perwoman)                  5.4             6.0              5.8                 5.5         4.0
POVERTY
(94) of population)
National headcount index                                               ..               ..
Urban headcount index
Rural headcount index                         ..              ..
INCOME
GNP per capita ((US$)                               200              180             230                 510          350
Consumerpriceindex(1995=100)                                          ..             225                 118          122
Food price index (1995=100)                           ..              ..
INCOME/CONSUMPTION
DISTRIBUTION
Gini index
Lowest quintile (% of income or                       ..              ..
consumption)
Highest quintile (% of income or                                      ..
consumption)
SOCIAL INDICATORS
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE
Health (% ofGDP)                                      ..              ..              1.1                2.5          1.0
Education (% of GNP)                                  ..              ..               ..                4.3
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)                ..             0.7
NET PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT RATE
( ofage group)
Total                                         59              56
Male                                         ..             74
Female                                     ..              38
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER
(%Ofpopulation)
Total                                         ..              31               53                 47           69
Urban                                        ..              21              38                  74           80
Rural                                      ..              37               57                 32           66
IMMUNIZATION RATE
(% underL 12 nonths)
Measles                                       ..              35               51                  58          74
DPT                                            ..             18               63                  53          76
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)                 ..              24               23
Life expectancy at birth
Yvears)
Total                                         37              39               44                  51          59
Male                                        35              38               42                  49           58
Feniale                                     39               41              45                  52           60
MORTAUTY
Infant (per thousand live births)            183             164              130                 91           82
Under5((perthousandlivebirths)               316             290              220                 147          118
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                  528             535              469                428          274
Female (per 1,000 population                 513             517              416                375          255
-Matemal (per 1,000 live births                      ..             900              910
1999 World Development Indicators CD-ROM, World Bank



ANNEX B
PAGE 1 OF 3
GUFNEA-BISSAU - KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product   100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture a/           54.2   53.6   61.7    62.6   62.7   62.6
Industry a/              10.9   15.0   12.5    12.1   12.1   12.1
Services a!              29.0   29.6   24.7    23.8   23.8   23.8
Total Consumption         98.2   97.2  108.9   105.4  103.3   97.1
Gross domestic fixed      23.0   21.7   11.3    13.7   26.8   26.0
Investment
Government investment    14.8   15.6    6.2       8.8   21.8   19.6
Private investment        8.3    6.1    5.2       4.9    5.0    6.4
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS) b/          10.5   21.0   14.9    23.7   24.2   22.3
Imports (GNFS)            31.8   39.9   35.1    42.8   54.3   47.3
Gross domestic savings      1.8    2.8   -8.9    -5.4   -3.3    2.9
Gross national savings c/  6.6   12.3   -3.4       2.7   -0.9    4.9
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product   270.5  268.5  205.6   222.8  246.9  276.0
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per   226.6  223.6  164.6   175.2  192.3  210.7
capita (US$, Atlas
method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1986
prices)
Gross domest. product at    4.6    5.4  -28.1     8.7    7.6    8.5
market prices
Gross Domestic Income     5.1    1.0  -27.7       3.8   10.5    8.7
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%,
calculated
from 1986 prices)
Gross domest. product at    2.2    3.1  -29.7     6.3    5.2    6.1
market prices
Total consumption         0.2    4.6  -24.0       6.0    7.7    4.4
Private consumption       1.0    2.9  -23.5       1.7    1.1    3.0
a GDP components are estimated at factor cost.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.



ANNEX B
PAGE 2 OF 3
GUINEA-BISSAU - KEY EcoNoMic INDICATORS
(Continued)
Balance of Payments
(US$m)
Exports (GNFS)               28.5   56.4   30.6   52.7   59.7   65.2
Merchandise FOB            21.5   48.5   26.7   48.1   51.0   55.2
Imports (GNFS)               86.1  107.0   72.3   95.3  134.1  133.1
Merchandise FOB            56.8   73.1   52.1   59.7   92.6   91.4
Resource balance            -57.6  -50.6  -41.7  -42.6  -74.4  -67.9
Net income receipts         -18.4  -14.3  -14.1  -14.3  -12.8  -13.6
Netcurrenttransfers          31.7   39.7   25.5   32.3   18.9   19.3
(including official current
transfers)
BOP Grants                 3.1   16.0    6.7    3.3    0.0    0.0
Fishing licenses          13.7   13.8    1.3   13.6   12.2   12.5
Current account balance     -44.3  -25.1  -30.3  -24.6  -68.3  -62.2
(before official capital grants)
Disbursement (net)           34.6   39.6   -7.3   -6.9   25.1   31.7
Capital Grants              40.7   32.2    0.0    9.8   26.5   31.0
Offic. Long-term loans (net)    -6.1    7.4   -7.3  -16.7   -1.4    0.7
Disbursement            22.4   25.7   10.5    3.0   21.5   21.3
Projects             16.6   25.7    6.5    3.0   21.5   21.3
BOP Support           5.8    0.0    4.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Amortization            28.5   18.3   17.8   19.7   22.9   20.6
Other capital (net, including  -10.1  -14.9   13.2    3.8   -7.0   -2.1
errors and omissions)
Overall Balance              -19.8   -0.4  -24.4  -27.7  -50.2  -32.6
Financing
Change in reserves d/        -8.9  -25.0   -1.0    1.8   -7.7   -6.4
Debt rescheduling obtained    46.9    9.5    3.8    0.0    0.0    0.0
Change in debt-service arrears    -18.2   15.9   21.6   25.9  -143.5    0.0
Financing Gap                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  201.4   39.0
(Possible debt relief)                                    162.5   22.5
Memorandum items
% of GDP at current market
pnices
Resource balance             -21.3  -18.8  -20.3  -19.1  -30.1  -24.6
Current account balance      -16.4   -9.3  -14.7  -11.0  -27.7  -22.5
(before official capital grants)
Cufrent account balance       -1.3    2.6  -14.7   -6.6  -16.9  -11.3
(after official capital grants)
d. Includes use of IMF resources.



ANNEX B
PAGE 3 OF 3
GuINEA-BIssAu - KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
(Continued)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
Market prices) e/
Current revenues                      13.5   21.1    8.7    16.6   14.0   14.3
o/w: Taxes f/                          6.8    8.0    3.7       7.7    7.8    8.0
Nontax receipts                    6.7   13.1    5.0       8.9    6.2    6.3
o/w: Fishing licenses g/         5.1    5.7    0.7       6.1    4.9    4.5
Currentgrants h/             1.1    5.8    3.2      1.5    0.0    0.0
Current expenditures                  15.8   15.5   18.9    19.0   20.1   18.3
Current account surplus (+)           -2.3    5.6  -10.2    -2.4   -6.1   -4.0
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure and net lending   17.8   30.9    6.1       8.8   21.8   19.6
Capital expenditure                   14.8   17.8    6.2       8.8   21.8   19.6
o/w: Foreign financing             13.6   16.5    3.2       5.5   18.9   18.6
Demobilization                                                         2.0    2.4
Overall Balance including current grants  -20.1  -25.3  -16.3   -11.2  -29.9  -26.0
Overall Balance including all grants  -12.2  -18.3  -16.3    -7.1  -19.7  -15.0
Financing
Official capital grants                7.9    7.0    0.0       4.1   10.2   11.0
Net external borrowing                 9.0   20.8    8.7       4.1    5.6    0.2
Domestic financing                     3.2   -2.7    7.6       3.0   -3.0    0.7
Financing gap                          0.0    0.0    0.0       0.1  -81.6  -14.1
(Possible debt relief)                                             65.8    8.2
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market             16.0   23.2   30.0    28.6   29.5   29.4
prices)
Growth of M2()                        51.6  106.1    0.3       6.9   14.1   11.5
Price indices( 1987 =100)
Merchandise export price index        84.9   86.3   87.2    86.8   87.0   87.0
Merchandise importprice index        138.9  137.8  126.1   119.6  123.9  125.0
Merchandise terms of trade index      61.1   62.6   69.1    72.5   70.2   69.6
Consumer price index (% growth rate)  56.6   49.1    8.0    -0.9    3.0    2.9
GDP deflator (% growth rate)         48.6   35.5    7.6       3.1    3.0    3.0
e. Central government
f. In 1999, back taxes representing almost one percent of GDP were collected.
g In 1999, about 14 percent of fishing licenses resulted from collection of 1998 revenues.
h. In 2000 and 2001, currents grants are expected to be mobilized to fill the budget gap.



ANNEX C
PAGE 1 OF 1
GUINEA-BISSAU: PRELIMINARY ESTIMATE OF DOMESTIC ASRREARS
(as of May 31, 1999)
(In millions of CFA Francs)
Resident creditors                                    12,276.1
Private                                          11,879.2
Banks                                              766.3
of which BIGB:                                    766.3
Private enterprises                              5,415.6
Of which:
ANCAR                                           817.7
GRUCAR                                         1,985.9
PETROMAR                                        768.0
Household                                        5,697.3
Pensions                                         16i9.3
Wages /I                                       2,041.4
Wages '2                                         997.2
Rents                                          2,489.4
Public                                              396.9
GUIPORT                                              60.9
PETROGUIN                                             4.7
EAGB                                               249.0
Others                                               82.4
Non-resident creditor                                    200.2
Airlines                                            200.2
TOTAL                                  12,476.3
* I= before Dec. 1997
2= Oct., Nov. Dec. 1998
Source: Guinea-Bissau authorities (Ministry of Economy and Finance)



ANNEX D
PAGE 1 OF 1
GUINEA-BIssAU: STATUS OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORMS, APRIL 1998
Ccimpanies                                                          Ownership/divestment status
Companies liquidated or extinct
1.  ENAVE (poultry)                                                 Legally extinct in 1980 with incomporation of SUINAVE.
2.   Titina Sila (processed fruits)                                  Out of business in 1988.
3.  EGA (automobile maintenance)                                    Liquidated in 1994.
4.   GUINAVE (shipyards)                                             Liquidated in 1995.
5.   GUINEMAR (shipping)                                            Liquidated in 1995.
6.  JAPG (port authority)                                           Liquidated in 1995.
7.   SILO DIATA (urban transportation)                              Liquidated in 1995.
8.   FARMEDI (phammaceuticals import and distribution)              Liquidated in 1996.
9.   TAGB (airline)                                                 Liquidated in 1997.
Fully privatized companies
10. Leite Blufo (dairy)                                             Fully privatized in 1992.
1].  Fibrica Espuma (mattresses)                                    Fully privatized in 1993.
12.  CMV (automobile maintenance)                                   Fully privatized in 1995.
13.  SOCOTRAMVBafatA (wood processing)                              Fully privatized in 1996.
14. CICER (brewery)                                                 Fully privatized in 1996.
15.  SUINAVE (pork and poultry)                                     Fully privatized in 1996.
16.  GUINEGAZ (gas distribution)                                    Fully privatized in 1997.
17. DICOL (petroleum products distribution)                         Fully privatized in 1997.
Companies operated by private management 2/
1. Fibrica dePlatsicos (plastics)                                  Under leasing contract
19. Estancia Balnear de Bubaque (hotel)                             Under management contract
2(. Hotel Hotti-Bissau (hotel)                                      Under management contract
21. Hotel Muh de Maio (hotel)                                       Under management contract
Companies put up for tender
ZZ. Complexo Frigorifico Bolla (frozen foods)                       Tender opened in 1993; no bids received; interim lease.
Z3. Granja Agricola de Gambiel (sugar)                               Tender opened in 1995; no bids receive.
24. CAIC (agro-industry)                                            Buyer selected; negotiations beirng finalized.
2:5. FOLBI (wood products)                                          Buyer selected; negotiations being finalized.
26. GUIMETAL (metalworks)                                            Buyer selected; negotiations being finalized.
27.  SOCOTRAMIBissau-Gambiel (wood works) 1/                         Buyer selected; negotiations being finalized.
28.  SOCOTRAM                                                        Buyer selected; negotiations being finalized.
29. SOCOTRAM/MACA Oogging) 1/                                       Identified buyer walked out; to be readvertised.
Companies to be divested in 1998
3D. Cerimica Bafati (ceramics)                                      Tender to be opened by end-June 1998.
Cther Public enterprises
31. ENAG (airport services)
32. INACEP (printer)
33. OMETAL (metalwork)
34. PETROGUIN (petroleum exploration)
35. RODOFLWVIAL (river transport) 3/
36. EAGB (electricity and water)
37. Hotel 24 de Setembro (hotel)
Cther nixed companies
38. BIGB (bank)                                                      26 percent of capital state-owned; 49 percent Portuguese.
39. FRETAMAR (shipping)                                              70 percent of capital state-owned; German company owns.
40. ESTRELA DO MAR (fishing)                                         51 percent of capital stateOowned; Russia owns balance.
41. GUIALP (fishing)                                                 51 percent of capital state-ownei; Algeria owns balance.
42. GUINE-TELECOM (telecommunications) 2/                            49 percent of capital state-owned; under concession contract
43. NAVIPESCA/SEMAPESCA (fishing)                                    35 percent of capital state-owned after privatization in 1991.
44.  Armazens do Povo (commerce)                                     29 percent of capital stat-owne lafter privatization in 1992.
45.  GUIPORT (port services) 2/                                      25 percent ofrcapital state-ownei; under concession contract
46. TRANSTER (urban transportation)                                 25 percent of capital state-owned; Portuguese company owns balance.
Soarce: Managing Unit for the Reform of Public Enterprises (UGREP), Ministry of Finance
1/The former state enterprise SOCOTRAM war divested through separate sales of its regional operations divisions
2/ Three types of private management arrangements have been employed:
(a) leasing under which profits/losses accrue to the lessee; (b) management contracts, under which profits/losses accrue to tx gtate and (c) concession contracts.
which are joint ventures for extended periods in which the states hold a minority position.
3/Former road operations divested in 1995.



Annex E
Page 1 of 12
WP.c      D CA  GUINC-NISAU
MINISTCRIO DA ECONOMIA E FINANCAS
gabb,ate do JiULaiw
BissasL March 21,2000
Mr. James D. Wolfen;obn
President
The World Bank
Washington D.-C
Mr. President,
On behalf of the Govermnent of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, 11 have the honor to
address to you the following Letter of Development Policy for the Economic
Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit.
This Letter of Development PoLcy, examined attentively and adopted by our
Govemmmnt, confirms the main commitments of the Govemment undcr the Economic
Recovery Rehabilitation Credit, in particular those associated with the macrocconomic
and financial fiamework, the preparation of a comprehensive demobiliiation. reinsertion
and reintcgration of ex-combatants program, the relaunch of basic public services. the
improvament of public resource management and the creation of a favcirable business
environment for private sector development, including the implementalion of a sound
settlement program of the Govement's domestic arrears.
The Govenment believes tOat the policies and measures described in our Letter of
Development Policy play a critical role in th realzation of its objectives of promoting
national reconciliation and reconstruction wd fighting povety, and reaains ready to
adopt additional measures wvtich prove to be essential to this end. The Govermnent is
commited to respond favorably to all requcsts for information on the part of the
Intemational Development Association relating to the implementation iof these mcasures
and polcies.
Please accept, Mr. President, the assurances of my highest consiLcration
Yours     021         AX06
CAIXA POffAL. 07  -  I SS  U    TM O  u -t0s zo211  -FAX 201 e






ANNEX E
PAGE 2 OF 12
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I. BACKGROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
1.   While Guinea-Bissau has achieved considerable economic progress in recent years (reform
of the economy resulting in sustained real GDP growth and generally improving external and
internal financial viability especially over the period 1993-97), the benefits of this progress were
not broadly shared by the population at large. Indeed, important segments of the population have
felt excluded from the mainstream of the economy over an extended period. These feelings were
at the core of the grievances that led to the armed conflict that shook our nation from mid-1998
through mid-1999. Our Government and people are now keenly aware of the need to correct the
limitations in previous development strategies.  In this context, we drafted a National
Reconciliation and Reconstruction Program (NRRP), which, in broad terms, addresses the
problem of exclusion while intensifying the fight against poverty. This program was presented
to Guinea-Bissau's development partners at an UNDP-sponsored Round Table Conference in
Geneva during May 4-5, 1999, where it received an overwhelming endorsement. The main
elements aim to support peace-building activities, promote the revival of the economy and assist
in the continued pursuit of reforms. Our recently elected Government endorses the NRRP and is
determined to step up its implementation.
2.   This Letter of Development Policy summarizes the NRRP's priority actions we wish to
implement during 2000-2001 and for which Government is requesting IDA's minancial assistance
in the amount of SDR18 million (about US$25 million). This support wvould complement
bilateral and multilateral assistance to our country, already being provided or under preparation,
including the post-conflict assistance from the IMF. Our hope is that IDA's support will help the
country to reach the decision point under the HIPC Initiative soon and also play a catalytic role
in mobilizing additional resources.
A. POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS
3.   The advent of democracy in 1994 led to the end of one-party rule set in place since the
independence in 1974 and the launch of a process conducive to the democratization of public
institutions. Yet, very rapidly efforts aimed at consolidating the democratic process were
thwarted by a chain of resistance having as a backdrop bitter infighting within the ruling party.
Despite the regime's democratic openings after the 1994 elections, a series of factors led to a rise
in discontent among various social groups. These were mainly persistent obstructions to the
process of building a proper lawful state by the regime's more conservative factions, bad
governance, lack of transparency and accountability. The most vulnerable segments in particular
felt the brunt of this state of affairs. To worsen matters even further, a complex affair of arms
trafficking towards the separatist rebellion in Casamance broke out. The laun,..hing of an inquiry
on this subject aimed at ascertaining responsibilities and the associated suspension of the Joint
Chief of Staff polarized positions and triggered the June 7, 1998 uprising. War veterans from the



ANNEX E
PAGE 3 OF 12
liberation struggle saw this as a good occasion to express their discontent and thus joined in. The
conflict, which started as a mutiny, turned very rapidly intQ a popular uprising with the arrival of
foreign troops called upon to support President Vieira. War became widespread and engulfed
the whole country.
4.  Joint efforts by the Community of Portuguese Speaking Countries (CPLP) and the
Economic Community of West African Countries States (ECOWAS) led to the signing of a truce
on August 26, 1998. Yet, that truce was short lived because hostilities resumed in October 1998.
The Military Junta took control of most of the country later in the imonth. Thanks to the
intensive mediation efforts of the international community, a peace agreement sponsored by
ECOWAS, was signed in Abuja, Nigeria on November 1, 1998. A Government of National
Unity (GNU) was inaugurated on February 20, 1999; forces of the ECOWAS peace-monitoring
group (ECOMOG) were deployed, foreign troops withdrawn and legislative and presidential
elections called for November 28, 1999. Unfortunately, hostilities broke out again on May 6,
1999 and led to the toppling of the ex-President. In keeping with the Constitution, the President
of the National Assembly was sworn in as interim Head of State on May 14, 1999. The ex-
President resigned and left the country on June 6, 1999. However, the GNqU continued in office.
5.  In June 1999, a Political Transition Pact was signed by all parties, the Military Junta, and
the Government to establish the work program for the period leading up to the elections. The
internal Dolitical climate in the country, albeit still fragile, has by and large stabilized. Free and
fair legislative and presidential elections were held in November 1999. A presidential runoff
volte took place on January 16, 2000. Opposition parties obtained an unambiguous victory. On
Felbruary 17, 2000, President Yala was inaugurated and, two days later, the new Government, a
broad coalition, was installed. Despite sporadic acts of banditry and the continued instability on
ou:r northern and eastern borders, we are convinced that our efforts to improve relations with our
neighbors will allow us to have a successful transition to peace and democracy.
a ECONOMIC DEVELoPMENNS
6.   Prior to the recent conflict, Guinea-Bissau had been making satisfactory progress on the
new policy path adopted in the early 1990s. Major reforms had been undertaken to strengthen
fiscal management; rehabilitate the banking system; and increase the scope for private sector
expansion by liberalizing the economy while reducing the size of the public sector. In mid-1997,
to strengthen our two-pronged strategy to correct public finance imbalances and adjust the
economy, the country joined the West African Monetary and Economic Union (WAEMU) thus
beginning its integration into the sub-region. Joining WAEMU would (i) ensure greater
monetary stability and protection against speculative pressures on ithe exchange rate, (ii)
establish a more rigorous monetary and financial discipline so as to foster the acceleration of
maLcroeconomic corrections and the creation of an environment more favorable to investments,
and finally (iii) improve the quality and services of the banking sector through a more rigorous
cointrol to enhance its credibility.
7.   On the eve of the conflict, our macroeconomic indicators were already showing positive
sig;ns. The GDP growth rate reached 5.4% in 1997 and trends observed during the first quarter
of 1998 underpinned forecasts of a rate of around 5.1%. Inflation had been brought under
control. The annual inflation rate, as measured by the CPI, was 16.8% at end-1997 as compared



ANNEX E
PAGE 4 OF 12
with 65.6% at end-1996 and a further deceleration was confirmed during the first quarter of
1998. Public finance improved thanks to joint efforts in revenue-collection and rationalization of
public spending which in turn brought about satisfactory results in terms of' convergence of
budgetary performance vis-a-vis norms set in the context of WAEMU multilateral surveillance.
Acknowledgement of this performance led to the preliminary evaluation of Guinea-Bissau's
possible eligibility for assistance under the HlPC Initiative. This evaluation by the World Bank
and RMF Boards took place in April 1998. Hence, 1998 started under good auspices. Prospects
for consolidation of that performance were shattered, however, by the outbreak of the conflict
that paralyzed the country for many months. The war affected all sectors and dealt a severe blow
to economic and social expansion.
8.   Economic activity suffered a dramatic shock during the conflict. Agricultural production
is estimated to have plunged by about 17 percent; formal industrial, trade and service activities
were interrupted; overall, real GDP is estimated to have dropped by about 28 percent in 1998.
Cashew nut output declined in 1998 by an estimated 30 percent; and exports declined
accordingly, from 21 percent of GDP in 1997 to 15 percent of GDP in 1998. Commercial
imports stopped altogether in the period June-November 1998, allowing only for essential food
and other critical non-food items to be supplied under humanitarian assistance and largely in
response to United Nations appeals issued in July and December 1998. By June 1999, the Office
for the Coordination of Humanitarian Assistance (OCHA) reports this assistaLnce had reached
about $22 million.
9.   The emerging private sector, which had started to play a more important role in economic
activities before the war, was greatly affected by the destruction of infrastructure, significant
looting and loss of human capital. War-related losses in the private sector are estimated at over
US$90 million. Other key sectors such as water, electricity and telecommunications sectors
suffered serious damage as well.
10. Worst of all, at the social level, the war was a traumatizing experience for the population,
especially youth, women and the elderly. Poverty worsened and the social fabric was shattered.
The conflict took a heavy toll: around 350,000 people were displaced, about 5000 residential
houses were destroyed; equipment and household savings were lost. Essential social services,
education and health were dealt a setback. Many schools and their equipment. were destroyed.
All this put in jeopardy two consecutive school years. The health system was deeply affected as
the pharmaceuticals depot; the public health laboratory, the anti-tuberculosis center, the
epidemiological service facilities and the premises of the Ministry of Health all sustained great
damage. Many of the country's few doctors left the country weakening coinsiderably health
service capabilities. The impact became evident during the meningitis bout that plagued the
country's eastern region, when about 3,000 people died.
C. CURRENT CHALLENGES
11. The conflict caused extensive physical damage and also brought into the open the
grievances of the belligerent forces, especially those of the ex-combatants who fought for the
liberation of the country during the 1960s and early 1970s, and have felt abandoned. Moreover,
there is a general sense that there has been inequity in the distribution of benefits of progress
made so far by our economy. Therefore, we now face the challenge not only of reconciling our



ANNEX E
PAGE 5 oF 12
people but also of dealing with the errors of the past, addressing the concerns of those whose
sense of exclusion and injustice in our midst led them to take up arms. At the same time, we face
the urgent task of repairing the damage both to infrastructure and institutions, while pursuing
policies that would permit the return to normalcy, the revival of the economy and the reduction
of poverty. All of these have to be tackled at the same time as we strive to install a new
democratic administration dedicated to the rule of law, fair play and promotion of the interest of
all Guineans.
12. Recent events in our country revealed the urgency of formulating in a clear manner our
poverty reduction objectives and strategies. To this end, our Government is determined to
formulate a comprehensive medium-term program to be prepared in a participatory manner with
an active involvement of our National Assembly and civil society, including local communities.
A. detailed work program will be established soon. Our first step is to prepare an evaluation of
poverty data currently available. Afterwards, before end-June 2000, a household survey will be
launched in order to assess the situation on the ground. Our goal is to prepare a participatory
poverty diagnosis; therefore, stakeholder consultations will be organized to share the household
survey findings, to deepen our understanding of poverty and its causal links and to initiate the
formulation of comprehensive and well-focused strategy. All these activities will aim at
pireparing a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) by September 2001. We are also
dietermined to prepare an interim PSRP, by mid-2000, which would form the basis of assistance
that our Government foresees to request from the IMF under the Poverty Reduction Growth
Facility (PRGF). Hopefully, our efforts would allow the arrival at the H[IPC decision point at the
time of the PRGF consideration.
H. NATIONAL RECONCILIATION AND RECONSTRUCT'ION PROGRAM
13. Our Government decided to focus its actions in three major areas in its quest for peace,
national reconciliation, and reconstruction. These areas are: (i) Consolidation of Peace and
National Reconciliation, (ii) Mitigation of the Conflict's Social and Economic Effects, and, (iii)
Pursuit of Reforms.  The first area centers on return to democratic rule, demobilization,
reinsertion and reintegration of ex-combatants, reactivation of vital stalte functions. The second
area involves the revival of the social sectors and the economy through resettlement of displaced
populations, recovery of social infrastructures, revitalization of the private sector and revival of
rural economy. Finally, the third area centers on strengthening institutions, promoting good
governance and sustainable development, and fighting poverty.
A.. CONSOLIDATION OF PEACE AND NATIONAL RECONCILIATION
14. After eleven months of a violent conflict which exposed military problems and social
claims our Government places peace consolidation, national reconciliation and social cohesion at
tihe forefront of its preoccupations. It is in such a context that the demobilization, reinsertion
and reintegration of ex-combatants has to be seen.



ANNEX E
PAGE 6 OF 12
DEMOBILIZATIoN, REINSERTION AND REINTEGRATION PROGRAM (DRRP)
15. Objectives. The DRRP has two main purposes:(i) to eliminate a serious social problem
and permanent focus of social and political tension; and (ii) to alleviate the burden that a larger
armed and paramilitary force resulting from recruitment by the two belligerent parties places on
public finances. Under the DRRP, it. is expected that the military and paramilitary forces,
currently estimated at around 23,000 soldiers, decrease to 11,000 in three years. A census will
soon be carried out, before DRRP starts, to confirm the exact number of men under arms.
16. Principles. The DRRP is aimed at all categories of soldiers and ex-combatants, including
ex-combatants from the liberation war, ex-soldiers from the Portuguese armned forces, ex-
conscripts in the 80s, unemployed youth that joined the Military Junta and militias that fought
alongside loyalist forces (aguentas) to the ex-President. With this approach our goal is to avoid
rewarding recourse to arms, while being non-discriminatory. However, the progran will benefit
only the most vulnerable, to be selected on the basis of demographic characteristics and needs
and aspirations.  In addition, assistance will be differentiated according to whether the
beneficiary is a: liberation fighter, regular troop at the time the civil war; or jioined during the
civil war. Benefits to be granted will take into account any contribution under other programs.
Decrees will be promulgated before end-September 2000 establishing the criteria for the
demobilization and vulnerability criteria for granting assistance under the DRRP.
17. Execution phases. The program comprises three different phases. First, demobilization,
during which the objective is to formally discharge the soldiers from military or paramilitary
ranks. After, reinsertion, when the objective is to assist the demobilized in their return to a
civilian life. Finally, reintegration, whose objective is to assist achievement of a sustainable
livelihood. The DRRP's actual implementation will be preceded by a preparatory phase. An
action plan to guide the phase has been adopted in October 1999 by the Council of Ministers.
According to this plan, a census of target groups will be completed, a data base of potential
beneficiaries will be created, their socioeconomic profiles will be established and a range of
benefits and their respective access criteria will be defined. The creation of a find for social and
economic reintegration will also be reviewed. Our Government is committed to ensure that
target beneficiaries and populations will play an active role in the DRRP preparation, execution
and evaluation. Following the preparatory phase, an experimental demobilization of 500 soldiers,
planned for October 2000, will take place. On the basis of lessons learned from the pilot process
the DRRP will be finalized before its approval by the Council of Ministers. If all conditions are
met, our Govemment is determined to demobilize and place in transition towards reintegration
around 4,000 ex-combatants by June 2001. As there will be a steady progression from
demobilization through reinsertion to reintegration, our goal is to complete (lemobilization by
late 2001 .We expect that the DRRP will last three years, at the end of which we will dismantle
structures created for its implementation.
18. Institutional Framework. In October 1999, our Government established the DRRP's
institutional framework. It comprises a National Council on Demobilization, Reinsertion and
Reintegration (NCDRR); a Technical Management Team (TMT), and Zone Units on
Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration. The Prime Minister heads the National Council,
the coordinating body involving Govemment agencies, civil society representatives and donors.
The TMT will implement the DRRP and report to the Council.



ANNEX E
PAGE 7 OF 12
19. Financial Management. Our Government is determined to ensure that the DRRP will be
managed in a transparent and accountable manner. To this end, a soumd Manual of Procedures
;For program implementation will be adopted. Moreover, financial management will be ensured
by an independent civil body, the Financial Management Procurement Unit (FMPU) whose rules
will follow internationally acceptable principles. The FMPU, managed by a firmn with relevant
iinternational experience, will report to the Minister of Finance. There will be semi-annual
independent external audits of FMPU-managed accounts. In spite of our decision to use a
significant part of ERRC-generated resources to finance the prograrn, our Government has also
initiated discussions with donors towards securing their contribution to its funding. In this vein,
we would like to set up a Multi-Donor Trust Fund, with IDA as Administrator, to pool resources
:for the DRRP. A Multi-Donor Program Account established in Bissau would then receive and
disburse these funds. Shortly, we plan to hold consultations with donors to firm up these
arrangements.
]B.   MITIGATION OF THE CONFLICT'S SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC EFFECTS
20. Bearing in mind Guinea-Bissau's current post-conflict situation, our gove:rnment deems it
urgent to embark on an initiative aimed at (i) re-launching essential public services, especially at
the primary levels, and with attention to impacts on poverty; and, (ii) revitalizing the private
sector.
21. Re-Launching Essential Public Services. Our Government's goals in this area are to
restore basic public services to pre-conflict levels as soon as possible. In particular, efforts are
lbeing targeted to education, health, housing, infrastructures, rural economy and demining. The
high priority placed on those sectors reflects the need to halt the degraclation of living standards.
:22. In the education field, our top priority to restoring education services, particularly at the
primary level. Our efforts have already enabled the resumption of education services and the
salvage of a school year. In spite of great difficulties, particularly schoolbooks, shortages were
overcome thanks to Swedish assistance. Furthermore, other donor support also helped to initiate
the rehabilitation of a significant number of classrooms. Still, a great deal remains to be done to
recover urgently needed infrastructure. Works are necessary in many schools, -and the
rehabilitation of institutions like the National Center for Training in Administration, the teacher's
training school and the National Institute for Development of Educ.ation will also need to be
undertaken.
:23.  In the health sector, our priority is to prevent major epidemics and promote a rapid
recovery of infrastructure damaged during the conflict. Preventive steps have been taken to fight
major epidemics, with particular emphasis on meningitis, poliomyelitis and measles. The fight
against AIDS has been resumed and we are determined to intensify it. With assistance from
:Sweden, the Netherlands, the EU and the World Bank, the government envisages to recover
during 2000 the pediatrics unit, the national laboratory and the central drugs depot, as well as
priority primary health centers
:24. In the housing sector, our objective is to recover the maxinium number of dwellings
'before the onset of the next rainy season. In 1999, in two months, about 1200 houses were
rehabilitated allowing about 25,000 persons to be resettled. This was achieved by joining efforts
of our citizens, NGOs and the Dutch assistance. Building on this experience, support to the



ANNEX E
PAGE 8 OF 12
recovery of about 3800 houses damaged during the conflict will be mobilized to facilitate the
resettlement of people, which are still displaced.
25. Our Government is aware that an effective fight on poverty requires increasing economic
growth, and promoting employment creation. Our hope is that through the settliement of internal
arrears (see paras. 29-34) enterprises will resume their operations and create job opportunities
for the most vulnerable segments of society, namely youth and women. Moreover, the
rehabilitation of infrastructures, partially under AGEOPPE's supervision, will also help create
jobs, contribute to improve living conditions and build up the populations' ability to face up the
crisis.
26.  Gradually, our peasants are overcoming the effects of a significant demographic pressure
arising from the conflict, which was particularly important with regards to food reserves that
dropped dramatically. Our efforts to revive the rural economy are targeted to ensure the timely
distribution of seeds and tools, to support the construction and/or recovery of over fifty wells,
and to restore education and health services in the countryside. While a record cashew nut
harvest in 1999, which allowed record exports of 64,000 tons, had a considerable positive impact
on the peasant's means of subsistence, the reopening of borders with neighboring countries will
hopefully encourage further the resumption of trade links. This will be beneficial for the peasant
population, particularly in the east and for fruit-growers in the south.
27. Hostilities ceased but, unfortunately, access to some areas (schools, health centers and
agricultural fields), mostly around Bissau, remain closed to populations due to landmines laid
during the conflict. Using national efforts and competence, about 20% of the 11,000 landmines
have already been cleared, opening corridors between Bissau and the outlying areas, especially
rural areas. However, approximately 8000 mines are still scattered. In July 1999, our
Government established the Interministerial Committee on Mines and Explosives (CIMME),
which is composed of several ministers, NGOs and international organizations. A plan of action
is being currently finalized with UNDP assistance. Demining resumed in March 2000 with some
material and equipment made available by Germany. However, more support is needed
particularly for the detection of anti-personnel mines covered with plastic. The Government
hopes that with the international solidarity the lives of our people, particularly the children, will
be spared.
28. Revitalizing the Private Sector. The armed conflict caused extensive damage of
infrastructure and equipment and substantial losses to the private sector. Our government
considers essential to support the revitalization of the private sector. In this context, to improve
its financial capability sizable domestic arrears to resident private sector businessmen will be
settled. To this end, a coherent plan will be prepared during 2000. Our government is also
negotiating with its external partners, Portugal and BOAD in particular, credit lines to strengthen
the private sector.
DOMESTIC ARREARS SETTLEMENT PLAN
29. Objectives. The settlement of domestic arrears has two main objectives: (i) redress public
finances and reestablishing the government's own creditworthiness; and (ii) revitalize private
sector, activities and encourage the creation of employment.  As of May 31, 1999 our



ANNEX E
PAGE 9 OF 12
preliminary estimates indicate that domestic arrears could be as much as CFAF 12.5 billion,
abbout 9 percent of the 1999 GDP. These debts result mainly from the following sources: (i) the
inadequacy of public expenditure procedures in force until late 1997; (ii) the non-observance,
during the armed conflict started on June 7 1998, of guidelines established in 1997 regarding
public spending; and (iii) lack of budget resources to cover expenses incurred between January
ancl June 1998. Almost 50 percent of the above-mentioned overall debt amount were contracted
with resident private suppliers, including banks.
30. Our Government is determined to prepare a Domestic Arrears Settlement Plan (DASP) for
approval by the Council of Ministers, in 2000. Our goal is to implement the plan in the next 18-
24 months. Our plan will determine its expected social and economic impact and identify
measures to be implemented without delay to prevent the reappearance of similar situations in
the future. The Plan's implementation will be preceded by an experimental phase during which
one billion CFA francs in arrears will be paid in compliance with directives established in a
Manual of Procedures to be approved in advance. Lessons from this experimental phase will
help improve the plan before its final adoption.
31.  Principles. In terms of payment, our priority is to settle outstanding payments at Treasury,
followed by expenditure committed and not yet paid by the Treasury. In this context, debts
incurred between January and June 6, 1988 will be paid first, followed by debts contracted
before December 31, 1997. Finally, debts arising from the conflict, covering the period June 7,
1998 to May 31, 1999 will be dealt taking into consideration our resource availability. In
addition, arrears to resident private suppliers (including commercial banks) and civil servants
pensioners will be the top priority of our Plan. Salary arrears, their importance notwithstanding,
will be paid with the government's own domestic resources. Debts contracted with public
enterprises will be recognized but settled only in the framework of their restructuring and
eventually privatization, excluding EAGB, which requires an urgent injection of resources.
32. Preparation and Implementation. Our Government is determinecl to ensure that the Plan
is prepared in an orderly, transparent and equitable manner. In this context, our preliminary
estimates of domestic arrears will be confirmed through a comprehensive inventory of domestic
arrears to be finalized in 2000. A decree will be promulgated soon to establish the mandate and
composition of an Ad-Hoc Commission which will lead the domestic arrears settlement process.
The Commission will report to the Minister of Finance and will integrate the private sector
through a representative designated by the Chamber of Commerce.
33. Our Government will take all necessary steps to ensure that the Commission will have
freedom of action to enable the process to be governed in strict observance of the settlement plan
approved procedures and public accounting norms. The Manual of Procedures for settlement of
doimestic arrears will be approved by the Minister of Finance in 2000, after consultations with
stakeholders. The ad hoc Commission will submit quarterly financial and technical reports to
the Minister of Finance, and a committee appointed by the Prime Minister will evaluate the
Commission's work periodically. Semi-annual audit of the ad-hoc Commission's financial
operations will be undertaken by an independent international financial firm, recruited on the
basis of competitive bidding procedures.
34. Settlement Criteria. The ad hoc Commission will verify and validate arrears on the basis
of criteria to be defined in the Manual of Procedures, bearing in mind the country's regulations



ANNEX E
PAGE 10 OF 12
and norms, particularly those dealing with the contracting of debts. The ad hoc Commission will
validate all arrears before authorizing any payment. Dossiers that are not validated will be
returned to the line ministry and relevant creditors with a justification. All payments will be
carried out through the banking system and from a Domestic Arrears Settlement Account that we
intend to establish for that purpose. The Government is committed to channel a significant part
of ERRC-related resources to that account and to complement its effort additional support will be
sought from donors.
C.  PURSUTr OF REFORMS
35.  Our Government has decided that the short-term reconstruction effort should be anchored
within a longer-term reform strategy aimed at promoting sustainable econoimic growth and
poverty alleviation. In this context, a macroeconomic framework has been agreed upon by the
Government, the IMF and the Bank which points out the following objectives for the period
1999 to 2001: (i) to achieve an annual real GDP growth of more than 8.0 percent by 2001; (ii)
to reduce the annual average rate of inflation to less than 3 percent by 2001; and (iii) to limit
fiscal and external sector deficits to financially sustainable levels. Our preliminary data on 1999
suggests that satisfactory progress was made towards meeting the above mentioned objectives.
Real GDP seems to have picked up to 8.7 percent, compared to an initially projected 7.5 percent.
The main source of growth was a better than expected recovery of agriculture, mainly cashews
and cereals. Progress in returning to normal levels of food supplies helped to keep inflation
under control. Fiscal developments were better than programmed, culminating successful efforts
in enforcing collection of customs and tax revenues, including back taxes, and keeping
expenditure pressures on hold.
36. Our Government is aware that substantial donor support to accelerate the implementation
of our reconciliation and reconstruction program calls for reforms to address past weaknesses in
public resource management and to remove constraints to private sector growth. Our efforts will
be targeted to accelerate budgetary reformns with a view to (i) improve budget transparency and
accountability; (ii) strengthen tax and customs administration and deepen tax reforms; and (iii)
tighten expenditure management and change its pattern to increase effectiveness. Furthermore,
to foster private sector growth, while maintaining past progress in liberalization, our priorities
will focus on stepping up privatization of state-owned enterprises and improving utility and
infrastructure service delivery through private participation and liberalization.
37.  In the area of budgetary accountability and transparency, we intend to monitor adherence
to financial controls and budgetary procedures and increase public awareness of budgetary
developments. With regards to the former, the Court des Comptes and the Inspection Generale
des Finances will be strengthened and an audited final budget account (loi de reglement) will
start to be submitted annually to the National Assembly, starting with the budget for 2000. As
for public awareness, from June 2000 onwards, our Government will make public, twice a year,
budget execution reports identifying sources and appropriations of resources aand their relation
with approved allocations. Moreover, to encourage an orderly Budget 2001 execution, its budget
law will be adopted before end-2000.
38.  In terms of fiscal and customs reforms, which services were seriously impaired during the
conflict, our priority has been to restore priority services and resume reforms approved in 1998.



ANNEX E
PAGE 11 OF 12
Special emphasis has been placed in 1999 on centralization of fiscal revenues. Eleven revenue-
collecting entities outside the Ministry of Economy and Finance have been brought under the
latter's control. Collection of the generalized tax on sales (IGV), was reintroduced in May 1999.
Moreover, introduction of Bairros Fiscais (local tax-collection offices), helped to increase tax-
collection. Soon we will complete the recovery of the Taxpayer's Identification Number
computerized system, critical to make the IGV fully operational. At customs, the simplified
tariiff system (0, 5, 10, 20 and 30 percent) was reestablished. With a view to convergence
towards the common external tariff, in the framework of the WAEMU, during the second half of
2000, our tariffs will be revised downwards and the maximum rate set at 20 percent. We are
also determined to encourage exports by reducing the overall tax burden on cashews. Moreover,
we will strengthen customs administration, by recovering the Sydonia computerized system and
making it operational by end-September 2000. This will also allow the timely publication of
statistical data on external trade.
39. As for expenditure management, with external assistance, we finalized recently an audit to
current procedures, and corrective measures will be adopted to ensure greater rigor and reduce
corruption. A decree will soon be approved by the Government to formally establish procedures
for expenditure execution and a manual (Manuel des Pieces Just:ificatives) will define
documentation required to justify public expenditures at each stage cf that process. These
measures will be adopted by end-September 2000. Additionally, expenditure monitoring and
repiorting will be improved. This will be achieved with stricter controls of prior approval of
expenditure commitments and Treasury payments on the basis of appropriate budget accounting
arrangements. In order to fight corruption, with assistance from the World Bank and the
International Trade Center, we approved in November 1999 an action plan to reform the public
procurement system. Our objective is to establish the legal framework and launch, late in 2000,
an experimental phase in five pilot ministries.
40. Aware of the need to improve their effectiveness, our Government will also carry out the
reprioritization of public expenditures, in view of expected improvements in the country's
security situation and progress in the DRRP implementation. In this context, beginning in 2001,
we expect to start reducing the share of defense and security spending in total primary current
expenditures. Progressively resources will be reallocated for social sectors, and maintenance of
the road, water, sanitation and energy networks. These improvements will also be critical to
create a more propitious environment for expanded private sector growth.
41 With regard to the privatization of public enterprises, the process wvill be resumed and our
efforts will focus on ensuring that transparency and fairness become the rules of the game.
Offers for sale will be advertised and bidders treated in an even way. Bid opening will be made
in public, in the presence of media and the professional evaluations carriied out without political
interference. The Government undertakes to approve an action plan, by September 2000, to
divest commercial enterprises still in its portfolio.  This plan will define a strategy and
implementation timetable. The action plan will also address the need to reverse high costs and
low reliability of utilities (electricity and telecommunications) and improve the quality of port
and aviation services delivery. In these sectors, our goal is to promote in a competitive manner
an increased private sector participation, establish appropriate legal and regulatory frameworks
and create a competent and credible institution to supervise performance of private sector
operators. In this vein, a draft law on electricity will soon be submitted to the Parliament for
enactment. The Government, with IDA support, is considering options to raise the efficiency of



ANNEX E
PAGE 12 OF 12
the water and electricity sector. This includes the possibility of placing EAGB under a long-term
leasing arrangement with a private operator. A final decision will be made before October 2000.
Changes in the concession terms governing activity by both GUlNE-TELECONM and GUIPORT
are already under discussion with a view to their reform and liberalization. Given the importance
of strengthening the banking sector, the Government will accelerate the divestiture of the Banco
International of Guinea-Bissau (BIGB) reducing its shares to a token presence.
mII. PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
42. A Technical Committee will oversee the ERRC program to monitor its implementation and
impact. The Committee is chaired by the Secretary of State of Planning and Budget, and
comprises several Government agencies represented at the Director General level.  The
Committee will submit quarterly implementation reports to the Interministerial Committee
chaired by the Prime Minister, before disseminating information to all parties concerned. In
order to ensure monitoring the ERRC implementation, the reports will focus on the key
performance indicators agreed with Bank staff. Our Government is aware of the importance of
ERRC resources in the context of the budget execution and will adopt measures required to
ensure that they will finance its implementation according to established budgetary rules and
procedures.



ANNEX F
PAGE 1 OF 3
GUINEA-BIssAu: ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
PROJECr DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
NARRAIWE             KEY PERFORMANCE   MONIToRiNG AND ASSUMPIONS/RSKs
SUMMARY                   INDICATORS                 EVALUATION
DEVELOPMENT
Peace             1.  4000 ex-combatants re-      *   Monitoring reports
consolidated,         inserted in civilian life.      and survey
economy revived
and reforms       2.  Income relief to 2630 public   *   Monitoring report
resumed               sector pensioners delivered,    and survey
3.  Turnover and employment of  *   Survey
a sample of enterprises owed
arrears increased.
4.  Report on public finances  *   Reports
made public twice a year.
5.  Macroeconomic program on   *   Document
track (2) (3)                  Evaluation
OUTPUTS
1. Demobilization,  la.   Action Plan for DRRP's    *   Cabinet decision    *   Free and fair elections
remisertion and   preparatory phase approved (1).                            realized and no
reintegration                                                                renewal of hostilities
program (DRRP)   lb.   Decree for DRRP            *   Decree
of ex-combatants  institutional framework                                *   Newly elected
prepared and      promulgated (1).                                           administration follows
tested                                                                       through on program
lc.   DRRP manual of           *   Document
procedures agreed with IDA (2).    evaluation         *   Sufficient institutional
capacity
Id.   Independent fnancial     *   Document
management and procurement          evaluation
system established (2).                               *   Resumption and
satisfactory progress of
le.   Census of the military and  *   Document            World Bank portfolio
pararniltary finalized.             evaluation            implementation
If.    Decree on criteria for  *  Decree
demobilization of soldiers
promulgated (2).                                      *   Bilateral and
multilateral donor
1g.   Decree on eligibility    *   Decree                 support secured
criteria to DRRP assistance
promulgated (2).
lh.   Pilot involving          *   Document
demobilization of 500 ex-          evaluation and
combatants completed (2).          swvey
Ii.    DRRP approved by        *   Cabinet decision
Cabinet (2).                   _                                                1



ANNEX F
PAGE 2 OF 3
NARRATIVE                KEY PERFORMANCE    MONITORING AND                        ASSUMPTION/RISKS
SUMMARY                  INDICATORS                  EVALUATION
2. Basic services        2a Percentage of primary    *   Surveys and assessment
relaunched               health care centers in full      of Bank-financed Health
operation2 back to 32%.         and Education projects
2b. Gross Primary Enrolment
rate back to 62%.
3. Private sector        3a. Decree establishing Ad-    *   Decree
revitalized              Hoc Commission for DASP
promulgated (1).
3b. Manual of procedures for   *   Document evaluation
the DASP agreed with IDA
(3).
3c. Pilot involving settlement  *   Document evaluation
of arrears of CFAF 1.0 billion  and survey
completed.
3d. Comprehensive inventory   *   Document evaluation
of domestic arrears
established (3).
3e. Final domestic arrears  *   Cabinet decision
settlement plan approved (3).
3f Measures to avoid new    *   Regulation
build up of arrears
implemented by ME (3).
4. Public resource       4a. Generalized sales tax,  *   Document evaluation
management strengthened   including the taxpayers
identification system,
operational.
4b. TEC at 20% maximum      *   Regulations
tariff implemented.
4c. Decree establishing     *   Decree
procedures of public
expenditures adopted.
4d. Accurate and timely     *   Reports
reporting on monthly
budgetary developments
delivered.
4f Actin Plan to reform     *   Cabinet decision
procurement adopted (1).
4g. Procurement regulatory  *   Document evaluation
framework approved.
4h. Budget for 2001 timely  *   Budget law
approved.
2 Full operation involves availability of one nurse, one midwife, adequate supply of essential drags, vaccines and
contraceptives.



ANNEX F
PAGE 3 OF 3
NARRATIVE SUMMARY  KEY PERFORMANCE                              MONITORING AND   ASSUMPTIONS/RISKS
INDICATORS                          EVALUATION
5. Business environment for    5a. Total tax burden on cashew exports   *   Regulation
private sector improved    reduced to 10%.
5b. Telecommunications Sector Policy    *   Cabinet decision.
adopted.
5c. Overall strategy for privatization  *   Cabinet decision
and private participation in
infrastructure reforms, including a time-
bound action plan, approved.
5d. Electricity law submitted to    *   Document
Parliament.                              evaluation
(1) Conditions for Board presentation.
(2) Conditions for DRRP Floating Tranche Release.
(3) Conditions for DASP Floating Tranche Release.



ANNEX G
PAGE 1 OF 1
GUINEA-BISSAU
EcoNoMIc REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
TIMETABLE FOR KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare the project:  7 months
Project Prepared by:                Government/World Bank
Pre-Appraisal Mission               September 1999
Appraisal/Negotiations              November 1999
Board Presentation                  May 2000
Effectiveness                       June 2000
Project Completion                  December 2001
The Task Team members for preparation of the Economic Recovery Rehabilitation Credit
were: Marcelo Andrade (Task Team Leader, AFTM5), Markus Kostner (Consultant,
SDVPC), Heidi Mattila (Sr. Private Sector Development Specialist, PDSPS), Siaka Bakayoko
(Financial Analyst, AFTS2), Bertrand D. De Chazal (Sr. Financial Analyst, AFTS2), Bernard
Abeille (Principal Procurement Specialist, AFTS2), Hassane Cisse (Lawyer, ]LEGAF), Jose P.
Kastrup (Lawyer, LEGAF), Steve Gaginis (Disbursement Officer, LOAAF), Jose Janeiro
(Disbursement Officer, LOAAF), Jennifer Edwards (Project Officer, AFT]2), Ellen Cohen
(Operations Officer, AFTI2), Boileau Loko (Consultant, AFTM5), and GI&ucia Ferreira
(Team Assistant, AFTM5). The Quality Assurance Team consisted of Nat Colletta (Sector
Manager, SDVPC) and Emmanuel Akpa (Sector Manager, AFTM5). The Country Director
is Mahmood A. Ayub.



ANNEX H
PAGE I OF 1
NU,               - Slill  .. ELECT  ti rIN DICA it ORS OF
BANK PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE AND MANAGEMENT
As of February 28, 2000
Indicator                         1997         1998        1999      2000
Portfolio Assessment
Number of Projects Under Implementation a                    5              5         3         5
Average Implementation Period (years) b                     3.6          3.28      2.57         5
Percent of Problem Projects by Number a C                   20            20        100        40
Percent of Problem Projects by Amount a C                22.46         22.34        100    40.63
Percent of Projects at Risk by Number a d                   20            20        100        40
Percent of Projects at Risk by Amount a d                22.46         22.34        100    40.63
Disbursement Ratio (%) e                                 42.91          39.68      0.84      7.66
Portfolio Management
CPPR during the year (yes/no)                              Yes            No        No          -
Supervision Resources (total US$Million)                  0.44           0.61      0.11      0.43
Average Supervision (US$Million/project)                   0.09          0.12      0.04      0.09
Memorandum Item                                   Since FY 80 Last Five FYs
Proj Eval by OED by Number                                  16             3
Proj Eval by OED by Amt (US$ millions)                   177.72        40.58
% of OED Projects Rated U or HU by Number                  31.3         33.33
% of OED Projects Rated U or HU by Amt                   25.02          10.59
a. As shown in the Annual Report on Portfolio Performance (except for current FY).
b. Average age of projects in the Bank's country portfolio.
c. Percent of projects rated U or HU on development objectives (DO) and/or implementation progress (IP).
d. As defined under the Portfolio Improvement Program.
e. Ratio of disbursements during the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank's portfolio at the
beginning of the year: Investment projects only.



ANNEX I
PAGE 1 OF 1
GUINEA-BISSAU
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
OPERATIONS PORTFOLIO
As of February 28, 2000
CLOSED PROJECTS - 16
Difference Between
Board               Last PRSP                  Original Amount in US$ Millions        Expected and Actual
Date            Supervision Rating                                                     Disbursements
Fiscal   Development   Implementation
Project ID      Active Projects        Year       Objectives        Progress       IBRD    IDA    Cancel.   Undisb.   Original   Frm Rev'd
P00101 1    Technical Assistance    1992             S                S             0       7.2      0.0         0.7         0.5          0.5
P001002    Social Sector            1993             S                S             0       8.8      0.0         0.2        -0.1          0.0
P035915    Transp. & Urban Infrast.  1995            S                S             0      22.0      0.0         1.9         4.3          0.0
P001015    Basic Education          1997             U                U             0      14.3      0.0        13.3         8.4          0.0
P035688    NationalHealth           1998             U                U             0      11.7      0.0        11.2         5.1          0.0
Develop. Prog.
TOTAL                                                                   0      64.0      0.0        27.3        18.2          0.5
a/ Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



ANNEX J
PAGE 1 OF 1
GUINEA-BISSAU
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of February 28, 2000
(Amount in US Dollar Millions)
FY Aipproval       Project Name            Loan    Equity       Quasi  Participation
1994         AEF Agri-Bissau                0.44       0.00       0.00          0.00
1998         BAO                            0.00       0.35       0.00          0.00
1998          Guinea Seguros                0.00       0.13       0.00          0.00
Totall Pending:                              0.44      0.48       0.00           0.00
Note: Values do not reflect off-balance sheet items such as guarantee and risk management products.



Annex K
Guinea-Bissau at a glance                                                               4/14  of2
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                               Guinea-  Saharan      Low-
Sirsau    Africa  Income       Development diamondtl
1999
Population, mid-year (rnlHhons)                      1.2       628     3,515                Life expectancy
GNP per capta (Aas menhod, USS)                      175       480      520
GNP (AKas method, USS billions)                     0.21       304     1,844
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                       2.3       2.6       1.7
Labor force (%)                                      1.9       2.6       1.9     GNP                             Gross
per                           primary
Moat recent estmate (latest year available, 199399)                              capia                       enroliment
Poverty (% of population below naional poverty line)   -
Urban population (% of totalpopulaKon)                23        33       31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      44        51       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 Ihe birhs)               130        91       69
Chiid malnutrition (%  fchikken under S)              23        ..        ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of populaKon)                 53        47        74
Illiteracy (% opopulaon age 154)                      66        42       32
Gross primaryenrollment (% ofschooagepopulation)      62        77       108                 Gutns-I3/ssau
Male                                                79        84       113                 Low-Incwme group
Female                                              45        69      103                                             1
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989      1998      1999
Economic rtiWos
GDP (USS billions)                         0.17     0.21      0.21      0.22
Gross domestic investment/GDP              21.8    39.0       11.3      13.7
Expots of goods and services/GDP              ..     8.9      14.9      23.7                    Trads
Gross domestic savings/GP                     ..     1.7       -8.9     -5.4
Gross national savings/GDP                    ..     7.1      -3.4       2.7
Currenit account balance/GDP                 ..     -31.6     -14.7    -11.0
Interest payments/GP                          ..     1.8       3.2       6.4     Domesti                    Investment
Total debUGOP                                          ..    376.5    349.2      Savings
Total debt service/exports                   ..    61.7       22.0      12.0
Present value of debl/GDP                     ..      ..    261.7    186.7
Present value of debt/exports                ..       ..   1817.6    804.6
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998      1999   1999-03
(awage annual growth)
GDP                                 3.2     0.9   -28.1        8.7       7.1                   Gulne&-flssau
GNP per capita                      0.9    -1.7   -30.5        2.5       5.1                  Low-Inbcomegroup
Exports of goods and services      -4.2    13.1   -35.8       61.1       4.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989      1998      1999      Growth of investment and GOP(%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                51.6    50.2       62.4      63.6    20
Industry                                    19.9    16.9      12.7      12.3      o
Manufacturing                               ..      7.6       9.3       8.6   -20       95              7         91
Servces                                    28.5    33.0       24.9      24.2   r40
Private consumption                           ..    87.1      99.6      95.7    0-s
General govemment consumption              22.2    11.2        9.3       9.7              -    G0      - -GW
Imports of goods and services              41.5    46.2       35.1      42.8                                         __G
(average annual growth)                 1979-89  1989-99      1998     1999     Growth of exports and Imports I%)
Agricuiture                                 3.2      3.6      -17.3     10.2   t50
Industry                                    0.7    -1.3       -40.0      4.8   100
Manufacturing                               ..    -0.1      -40.0       4.8
Services                                    4.4    -1.7       -35.6      6.2    so
Private consumption                         -0.5     3.7      -21.8      4.0      o
General government consumption              6.5      0.7      -24.4     28.3                                        9 r7
Gross domestic investment                   9.9   -11.3       -41.3    -24.6   -so
Imports of goods and services               1.4    -3.4       -24.6     20.1              -Exports   -*Imports
Gross national product                      2.8      0.6      -28.9      4.9
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex K
Page 2 of 2
Guinea-Bissau
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domeswc prfces1979    1989                                      1998     1999      Inslation (CY)
(% change)                                                                         e0
Consumerpnces                                         80.8       8.0      -0.9    40
Implicit GDP deflator                         4.3    99.3        7.6       3.1
(% otGDf0, ~~~~~~~~~ cu,metgmn~~~~~~~~~                       20
Govenment finance                                                                   0       -  --_
(% of GDP, Inclucd3s cuirnt grants)                                                 o      94   95   95   97   98   99
Current revenue                               0.0    18.8        8.7      16.6    -20
Current budget baliance                       0.0      0.4     -10.2      -2.4             *-    GDP deflator    C  CPI
OveraH surplus/deficit(exc. cap. grants)      0.0   -32.5      -16.3    -11.3               _
TRADE
(US$ dillions)                              1979    1989        1998     1999       Export and import levds (USS mill.)
Total export (fob)                                      14        27        48     100
Groundnuts                                    .        7        23        45
Otherfood                                      .       2         1         .      s
Manufactures                                  ..       ..    eo ..    20
Total imports (cit                             ..       79        63        67      40
Food                                                  16        17        28
Fuelandenergy                                          9         6        11      20
Capital goods                                         20        11        16       0-
93  94  95   96;  97  98   99
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..    127          93       92
Import price index (1995=100)                   .      80        107       101                  a Exports       Imports
Temms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    158          87        91              _-
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS$ "Ilons)                               1979    1989       1998      1999     Currant account batance to GDP (%)
Exports or goods and services                N/A        19        31       53 
imports o goods and services                 N/A        98        72        95
Resource balance                              NA       -80        42       -43      -.
Net income                                   NIA       -12       -14       -14    _10
Net current transfers                          ..      24         26        32
Current account balance                       N/A      -67       -30       -25
Financing items (net)                           .       73        31        23    -20
Changes in net reserves                         2       -6        -1         2     -25
Mmwno:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)         ..      22         39       34
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)              0.5    27.8      590.0    610.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(USS milons)                                                                       Composition of 1998 dert (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          N/A      N/A       774       778
IBRD                                         0        0          0        0
IDA                                           1     120        226      237                         G .
Total debt service                              2       12         7         6   |: Z6
IBRO                                         0        0          0         0
IDA                                          ..        1         3        3
Composition of net resource flaws
Ofiial grants                              31       42          7        13
Offcial creditors                             9      35         -7        -7         E. C
Private creditors                            ..       ..         3         5                                    :47
Foreign direct investment                    ..       ..         0        0
Portfolio equity                             0        0          0        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                  9       28         11         0     A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 1      22          5        11     B-IDA    D-Otherrnuldateral  F-Private
Principal repayments                         ..        0         2         2     C - IMF                     G - Short-ternm
Nettfbws                                      ..     22          4         9       -
Interest payments                            ..        1         1         1
Net transfers                                ..      21          3        8
Devekopment Economics                                                                                                4/14100



MAP SECTION






IBRD 24520
/    ON3'                     10-0'                    151                      5X                       ,450,
SENEGAL
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00  A 0. -50 NG, 
ATLA CNTIC                     2                     V                    f                  a        O
OCEAN                            '~  /, c                                                                                                             GUINEA |
Th   onocoheAs  prpsd C
eod~~>4nsi1ve   .o  the  co'  , ,enco  N440LA
ofi rondbsrben odp3'N ,fo,r ,,~               /nd  't \od C'sboblb
Lotoso ofs7e ol Tahe World b  Soo  r.lt A o g           Si 8SNS  Rio GrdoedeugA   * 
oc/ thSEGA S}OA do no   2   ;e  thy/+PR  EGOBUDRE
proof ofT nWonldhoo  OS.  JAG As~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i4. 
such hnoodbrleo.   -  so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
UN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EINBUGOE
GFifbHIA  _   MALI   \   -   CQMQ                   g      :;/                                             INTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES  llw -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTENAIOSLBOUGAIE
~~~~AM5IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- GUIN;el Wbrlha-%'m 2'     -4                                                                                                    UNABSA
G|E,GUINEA /                                  
of~ Jqer    hind    ,~ .,>   o e goA 0rdo ,
on I"o~~~~~~~~                                                                                    I                             
'a,  r .  ar  8 w IEo RA                              .,0IS J5A25G5A0                                                                       0 05C50b
ATLAP4TIC  LEN        C6TE                                                                                                             I      I      I
OCeAN         LIBERIAlssr                                                                  Isw             n         .                                          MARCH 1993
GUI  A R C H I F E i A G 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAC 19



