Report No. PID8401
Project Information Document
Project Name                     Guinea-Bissau-Economic Rehabilitation and
Recovery Credit
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       GW-PE-065725
Borrower                         Government of Guinea-Bissau
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Economy and Finance
C.P. 67, Bissau, Guinea-Bissau
Phone: (245) 203211; Fax: (245) 201626
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           November 5, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         November 15, 1999
Projected Board Date             January 2000
Country Background
1. After 1994, Guinea-Bissau performance evolved in a generally satisfactory
manner. Reforms contributed to reducing large macroeconomic imbalances.
Domestic production, particularly agriculture, accelerated with real GDP
growth reaching almost six percent in 1997. Exports expanded substantially,
with cashew nuts responding well to changes in the incentive framework.
Inflation slowed down owing to a restrained public sector demand and the
regained stability associated with the move to the CFA franc. To address
poor social indicators, medium-term programs for the education and health
sectors were approved focusing on improving primary service delivery.
Completion of the third-year ESAF arrangement, in early 1998, cleared the way
for consideration by the Executive Boards of the World Bank and the IMF of the
Preliminary Document on the HIPC Initiative, in April 1998.
2. Progress since 1994 on the macroeconomic and social fronts had barely
begun to make in roads on the poverty situation when an internal armed
conflict broke out on June 7, 1998. Following the last round of hostilities in
early May 1999 and the resignation of President Vieira, the situation has
gradually returned to normalcy. A transitional Government is running the
country. The chairman of the Parliament was appointed interim Head of State
on May 14, 1999. Legislative and presidential elections are called for
November 28, 1999. In addition, relations with neighboring countries are
improving increasing the prospects for a successful transition to peace.
3. In addition to the enormous human suffering, the 11-month conflict
shattered Guinea-Bissau's social and economic fabric. The destruction of
human, social, private and public capital was extensive. The economy was
severely disrupted and real GDP in 1998 contracted by about 28 percent. At
the peak of the conflict, about a third of the total population was displaced.
The armed conflict deepened poverty further, through the reduction of incomes,
interruption of basic public services, and deterioration in other determinants



of human welfare. The country's fragile human resource base has been severely
weakened posing additional problems for the reconstruction effort.
Credit Objectives and Description
4. The proposed IDA Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit (ERRC)
would, in parallel with funding from other multilateral and bilateral donors,
support the implementation of the 2000/01 slice of the Government's National
Reconstruction and Reconciliation Program (NRRP). In particular, the credit
will be closely coordinated with the IMF's Post-Conflict emergency assistance
approved by the Fund's Board in September 1999. The NRRP was prepared by the
transitional Government, after assuming office in late February 1999, in
consultation with stakeholders and assisted by development partners. The
Government's NRRP aims at supporting peace building, promoting the revival of
the economy and encouraging the pursuit of reforms and was strongly endorsed
at a Round Table held in Geneva in May 1999. The Government is determined to
execute its program within a sound macroeconomic framework.
5. The Government considers national reconciliation a fundamental element to
support peace building. In this context, the demobilization, reinsertion and
reintegration program (DRRP) of ex-combatants has been singled out as
essential for the country's long-term stability. With Bank assistance, the
Government is preparing a comprehensive, transparent and well-targeted DRRP.
To this end, the institutional framework of the DRRP and an action plan for
its preparatory phase will soon be adopted. The Government is determined to
adopt sound financial management and procurement procedures, as they are
critical to ensure the successful implementation of the DRRP. With a view to
streamlining administrative and financial procedures, the Government intends
to establish a Multi-Donor Fund for contributions to finance the execution of
the DRRP. In addition, the Government is committed to channel an important
part of the proposed ERRC resources as its counterpart contribution to the
DRRP implementation.
6. In order to promote the revival of the economy, the government is
determined to focus its efforts on re-launching critical basic public services
and revitalizing the private sector. Regarding the re-launching of critical
basic public services, the near-term goal is to re-establish the pre-1998
level of well being within the next 18-24 months in a few targeted areas, such
as primary education and health particularly in the rural areas, which are at
the core of the public sector's role in fighting poverty. While by supporting
to restore critical services the credit facilitates the recovery of the
domestic private sector, the ERRC will target the revitalization of the
private sector through the reduction of sizeable government arrears to
domestic private suppliers. This initiative is expected to boost output,
generate employment and improve the private sector's financial strength. At
the same time, by restoring the Government's credibility, future transaction
costs of the public sector might also be lowered. The orderly settlement of
arrears will be carried out in the context of a comprehensive and transparent
plan, under preparation, which will establish priorities and modalities for
their validation and will be accompanied by strict measures to avoid their
future recurrence.
7. The near-term reconstruction effort should be lodged within a longer-term
reform strategy. In this context, the Government is committed to the pursuit
of reforms aimed at strengthening public resources management and improving
-2 -



the business environment for private sector. Reforms with a view to
modernizing the country's tax system will be continued. Effective management
of the domestic tax and customs administrations will be restored. Expenditure
commitment procedures will be enforced and resources shifted to priority
social sectors, treasury management strengthened and a comprehensive public
procurement reform will be launched. Transparency of budgetary management
will be enhanced with a Government report on its execution being made public
twice a year. In order to accelerate economic development and support the
growth of a more dynamic private sector in Guinea-Bissau, privatization of
public enterprises will continue, markets in infrastructure sectors
(telecommunications, ports, aviation) will be liberalized, and private
participation in infrastructure (PPI) will be introduced in a transparent and
competitive manner, with parallel establishment of a sound regulatory
framework for each sector.
Project Implementation
8. A Technical Committee chaired by the Minister of Economy and Finance will
manage the program supported by the ERRC and monitor its implementation and
impact. Building on progress during preparation, a basic principle throughout
program implementation will continue to be an active participation by
stakeholders, non-government organizations and other development partners.
Quarterly implementation reports prepared by the Technical Committee will be
submitted to an Inter-ministerial Committee chaired by the Prime Minister for
analysis and decision before being sent to the Bank. Credit design and
implementation is being prepared by a Government team working with Bank staff.
The Government team is chaired by the Secretary of State of Treasury.
Project Financing
9. The proposed IDA credit of an equivalent of US$25 million is tentatively
scheduled to be disbursed in several tranches, following the Bank's simplified
disbursement procedures for structural adjustment operations. After an
initial tranche disbursed on effectiveness, additional tranches would be
disbursed based on satisfactory progress in the implementation of the program.
Poverty Category
10. The proposed credit will contribute to reducing poverty by encouraging
income growth, including in rural areas where the bulk of the poor live, and
by complementing available resources to re-launch basic public services. The
credit will also provide income relief and opportunities to vulnerable groups
(ex-soldiers and pensioners).
Environmental Impact
11. The proposed credit is not expected to have any negative environmental
impact. The credit has been placed in Category C, which does not require an
environmental assessment.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
- 3 -



Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 3, 1999.
- 4 -



