Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3349-GUB
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 22, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3349-GUB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 2000, between Republic of Guinea-Bissau 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a 
letter, dated March 21, 2000, describing a program of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to achieve rehabilitation and recovery of the 
Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association 
has decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the 
Borrower by making the Credit in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) with the modifications thereof set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to 
the Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”;
(b)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
“If the Association shall at any time receive less than the 
full amount then due and 
payable to it under the Development Credit 
Agreement, the Association shall have the right 
to allocate and 
apply the amount so received in any manner and for such purposes under 
the 
Development Credit Agreement as the Association shall in its sole 
discretion determine.”
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section  2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.”;
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of 
the Credit from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and of 
these 
General Conditions”;
(e)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be  agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred 
to in the Preamble to the  Development Credit Agreement, the performance 
by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”;
(g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06 and 9.07; and
(h)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second 
Page  3
sentence, the word “radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new 
sentence at the end of the said Section to read: “Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“BCEAO” or “Agence Nationale de la BCEAO-Bissau” means the 
Central Bank of Western African States in Bissau established pursuant to 
Article 5, Law 1 of March 24, 1997;
(b)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)
“First Tranche” means the Tranche (as hereinafter defined) 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (1) in the table set 
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower 
beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31;
(e)
“DRRP Floating Tranche” means the Tranche (as hereinafter 
defined) of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (2) in the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(f)
“LDP” means the Letter of Development Policy referred to in 
Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement;
(g)
“MF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;
(h)
“DASP Floating Tranche” means the Tranche (as hereinafter 
defined) of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (3) in the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(i)
“DRRP” means the Borrower’s Demobilization, Reinsertion and 
Reintegration Program;
(j)
“DASP” means the Borrower’s Domestic Arrears Settlement 
Plan; 
(k)
“Tranche” means any of the following: the First Tranche, the 
DRRP Floating Tranche and the DASP Floating Tranche; and
(l)
“CFAF” or “CFA Franc” means Franc de la Communauté 
Financière Africaine, the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen 
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and 
(c) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and 
thereafter maintain in BCEAO, a deposit account in CFAF on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the 
Page  4
Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit 
Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Association shall have 
determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if 
the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited 
to the Credit Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as  may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request ; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 
2010 and ending February 1, 2040. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on February 1, 2020, shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
Page  5
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above 
by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of 
the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after 
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events 
set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that 
there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time 
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on 
any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the date of the Association’s 
request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
Page  6
have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
the Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério das Finanças
C. P. 67
Bissau
Guinea-Bissau
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
MEF 
257 MEF B1
201626
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
Page  7
By /s/ Henrique Silva
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Pamela Cox
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and Excluded Expenditures
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this 
Schedule, the table below sets forth the amounts allocated to specific 
Tranches to be withdrawn from the Credit Account:
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated
   % of the
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Categories
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
First Tranche
   7,800,000
100%
(2)
DRRP Floating Tranche   4,300,000
100%
(3)
DASP Floating Tranche   5,100,000
100%
(4)
Refunding of Project
     800,000
Preparation
Advance
TOTAL
  18,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, and for 
purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the 
Credit shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
(a)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b)
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract 
which any national or international financing institution or agency other 
than the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to 
finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
(c)
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or 
subgroups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower:
Page  8
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco 
substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated 
materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum
group metals (except watches and 
watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold
ores and concentrates) 
(d)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or 
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption;
(e)
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for 
purposes of this paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” 
means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under 
the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the 
Borrower is a party);
(f)
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is 
not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied 
from, such territories or (b) on account of any payment to persons or 
entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(g)
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the 
Association determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged 
in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit 
during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation.
3.
Withdrawals may be made by the Borrower in respect of Categories 
(2) and (3) respectively of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule at 
any time when the Association shall be satisfied after an exchange of 
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence 
Page  9
satisfactory to the Association, that the requirements of Part A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been fulfilled, and the actions 
described in Part B for Category (2) and Part C for Category (3), 
respectively, of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association.
4.
If after any of the exchange of views referred to in paragraph 3 
above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the 
requirements of Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or the actions 
taken under Parts B or C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the case may 
be, are not satisfactory and, if within ninety (90) days after such 
notice, the Borrower shall not have met the requirements of Part A of 
said Schedule 2 or taken the actions under Parts B or C of said Schedule 
2, as the case may be, then the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part 
thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 of this Agreement
Part A:
General Requirements for Tranche Releases
1.
The macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent 
with the objectives of the Program and is satisfactory to the 
Association, as per indicators agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association.
2.
The Borrower has achieved progress satisfactory to the Association 
in the carrying out of the Program as outlined in the Letter of 
Development Policy.
3.
The Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association 
that it has held one meeting with bilateral and multilateral donors to 
mobilize overall support for its Program.
Part B:
Conditions for the release of the DRRP Floating Tranche
1.
The Borrower has adopted a Manual of Procedures for the 
implementation of the DRRP, satisfactory to the Association, as described 
in Paragraph 19 of the LDP.
2.
The Borrower has promulgated Decrees with the definitions of 
demobilization and vulnerability criteria, satisfactory to the 
Association, which shall be utilized to determine citizens of the 
Borrower who may be eligible for assistance under the DRRP, as described 
in Paragraph 16 of the LDP.
3.
The Borrower has established an independent financial management 
procurement system satisfactory to the Association and hired its 
principal manager as described in Paragraph 19 of the LDP and in 
accordance with the Terms of Reference (TOR) agreed on October 13, 1999, 
as per Annex 2 of the agreed Minutes.
4.
The Borrower has carried out a pilot phase of the DRRP involving 
the demobilization of 500 soldiers, as described in Paragraph 17 of the 
LDP.
5.
The Borrower has finalized the DRRP and approved it through the 
Council of Ministers, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, as 
described in Paragraph 17 of the LDP.
Page  10
Part C:
Conditions for the release of the DASP Floating Tranche
1.
The Borrower has approved through its Council of Ministers and 
adopted the DASP, satisfactory to the Association, as described in 
Paragraph 30 of the LDP.
2.
The Borrower has adopted a Manual of Procedures for the 
implementation of the DASP, satisfactory to the Association, as described 
in Paragraph 33 of the LDP.
3.
The Borrower has carried out a comprehensive inventory, 
satisfactory to the Association, of verified and validated public 
domestic arrears, as described in  Paragraph 32 of LDP.
4.
The Borrower has identified and implemented through MF corrective 
measures, acceptable to the Association, to avoid built up of new 
domestic arrears, for the period described in Paragraph 30 and 39 of LDP.
