Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23391
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28220)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR7.1 MILLION (US$10.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
January 11, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2001)
Currency Unit = Taka
Taka I = US$ 0.0175
US$ 1 = Taka 57.00
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           Asian Development Bank
BME           Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation
CBA           Center-based Approach
DCO           District Coordinator
DNFE          Directorate of Non-formal Education
EFA           Education for All
GOB           Govemment of Bangladesh
IDA           International Development Association
INFEP         Integrated Non-formal Education Program
NFE           Non-formal Education
NFEP          Non-formal Education Project
NGO           Non-Govemnment Organization
NORAD         Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
PIMU          Project Implementation Management Unit
PMED          Primary and Mass Education Division
SDC           Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
SIDA          Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
TLM           Total Literacy Movement
TSSU          Technical Support Services Unit
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:  Frederic T. Temple
Sector Manager/Director:  Emmamnel Y. Jimenez
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Irajen Appasamy



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
Non-Formal Education Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              12
6. Sustainability                                                                  13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   14
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                  17
9. Partner Comments                                                                18
10. Additional Information                                                         18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              30
Annex 8. Borrower Contribution to the ICR                                          31
Map - IBRD 31704
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P009560                                      Project Name: Non-Formal Education Project
Team Leader: Irajen Appasamy                             TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: January 11, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Non-Formal Education Project                  L/C/TF Number: IDA-28220
Country/Department: BANGLADESH                                         Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: EL - Literacy/Non-Formal Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/23/95                              Effective: 05/24/96           05/24/96
Appraisal:  04/10/95                                 MTR: 06/30/98             05/06/99
Approval:  02/27/96                               Closing: 06/30/2001         06/30/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  Government of Bangladesh/Directorate of Non-Forrnal Education
Other Partners: Asian Development Bank and Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                          Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     Frederick Thomas Temple                  Paul Isenman
Sector Manager:      Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                      Barbara Herz
Team Leader at ICR:  Irajen Appasamy                          Audrey Aarons
ICR Primary Author:  Irajen Appasamy
Yoko Nagashima
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Peiformance: S
Borrower Peiformance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Context. The Non-formal Education Project (NFEP) is the first non-formal education (NFE) project in
Bangladesh in which IDA was involved, though some earlier IDA-financed education projects had non-formal
education sub-components. This Implementation Completion Report covers the whole of NFEP (cofmanced in
parallel by ADB and SDC). The NFEP targeted young illiterate adults in the 15-24 years of age group. The
development objective and design need to be assessed in the context of: (a) the relatively high levels of
illiteracy in Bangladesh among children, adolescents, and adults (with an estimated adult literacy rate in 1996
as low as 35 percent); (b) the Government's strong commitment to NFE as witnessed by the increasing share
of the NFE sub-sector expenditure of the total education development expenditure - from below 2 percent in
FY1992/93 to 9.4 percent in 1999/2000; (c) the Government's objective of Education for All (EFA) to achieve
62 percent literacy by 2000; (d) the need to develop an institution capable of delivering improved, large-scale
NFE programs; (e) the favorable social climate in NFE provision due to a high demand, and in catering to
women who were invariably left out from the formal education system; and (f) the Government's decision to
finance the delivery of educational services through NGOs as an essential foundation for bringing higher
quality programs to national scale.
The objective of the project was to assist the Government in achieving EFA by improving and expanding NFE
to reach illiterate young adults (15-24 years), particularly females. Specifically, the project was to strengthen
NFE by: (a) institutionalizing Integrated Non-formal Education Program (INFEP) into a Directorate of
Non-formal Education (DNFE) staffed by qualified personnel able to function in related tasks such as
planming, training, monitoring and evaluation; and (b) expanding and improving NFE programs to reach,
through NGOs and the local district administration, an estimated 2.5 million adult learners, of which at least
1.3 million was expected to be women.
The project objectives were consistent with the IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bangladesh,
discussed by the Board on November 9, 1995, which emphasized, inter alia, the need to foster 'participation of
the poor in the growth process by extending access and improving the quality of basic education and primary
health and family planning services at a sustainable cost." Recognizing the country's large illiterate
population and poorly skilled labor force, IDA's support for NFE would complement its support for formal
education. The project objectives were also coherent with the Government's EFA objective by the year 2000,
and its development priorities to establish a Directorate of Non-formal Education, and to strengthen its
cooperation with NGOs in delivering NFE programs (Perspective Plan, 1995-2010).
These objectives were realistic as there was need for a strengthened permanent NFE structure to implement a
larger-scale NFE program. The objective of utilizing existing NGOs was practical given the large number of
experienced NGOs offering NFE programs across the country that had distinguished themselves through their
innovative capacities and past success in providing relevant curriculum to a large illiterate population while
maintaining a low dropout rate. The objectives also reflected the shift of priority of the NFE target age groups
from the out-of-school children to young adults (age 15-24).
Cofinancing. Initially, IDA's intention was to support GOB with a sizable credit for a comprehensive NFE
project.. However, given the lower priority IDA attached to NFE at the time, and the need to ensure that the
newly established DNFE would not be drained by different donor requirements, IDA decided to cofinance
NFEP with the Asian Development Bank (ADB) as lead agency, the Swiss Agency for Development and
Cooperation (SDC), and GOB. Thus, IDA joined the ADB/SDC appraisal mission in April 1995; there was
no separate IDA Staff Appraisal Report - IDA adopted ADB's project documentation with some minor
modifications as a Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 14843-BD). The financing plan for the total estimated
-2 -



project costs of US$51 million was as follows: ADB - US$26.7 million, IDA - US$10.5 million (equivalent
to SDR 7.1 million), SDC - US$3.8 million, and GOB - US$10 million.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised during implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
Project design was relatively simple, with only two components: (1) Institutional Development; and (2)
Expansion and Improvement of Non-formal Education. The project covered 50 upazilas from 32 districts in
all six Divisions. Detailed sub-components and comments on their design are described below.
1. Institutional Development (Estimated Cost: US$14.6 million)
(a) Establishment of a National Council for Primary and Mass Education. The establishment of this
Council, to be chaired by the Prime Minister, was proposed in the project as recommended by a Government's
task force. Its purpose was to formulate policy, and undertake overall planning and coordination for primary
education and NFE. This Council was also to provide guidance to the Primary and Mass Education Division
(PMED), which DNFE was to report directly to.
(b) Establishment of a Directorate of Non-formal Education (DNFE). The establishment of the DNFE
through institutionalizing the then existing INFEP along functional lines with 57 professional staff, was
proposed to: (a) plan and undertake the delivery of sizeable quality NFE programs, (b) monitor and evaluate
these programs, and (c) develop NFE curriculum and materials, and assess achievements. Four units were to
be created within DNFE: (i) Planning, Programming, Monitoring, and Evaluation; (ii) Operations; (iii)
Technical Support Services Unit (TSSU); and (iv) Finance and Administration. DNFE headquarters
construction and procurement of equipment (ADB-funded) and vehicles (IDA-funded) were also proposed.
(c) Staff Development. This was proposed to enhance DNFE's staff capacity to: (a) plan, manage, monitor,
and evaluate program expansion, and (b) support program development and quality instruction, through
technical assistance, local training, fellowships and regional study tours. A training system within TSSU as a
professional infrastructure for all teacher training would be developed.
2. Expansion and Improvement of Non-formal Education (Estimated Cost: US$36.3 million)
(a) Delivery of NFE
This sub-component was to support the delivery of a nine-month basic literacy program, and a three-month
post-literacy program to about 2.5 million young adults (15-24 years old), with a target of 50 percent female
learners. The course (in Bangla), focusing on literacy, numeracy and life skills, was to be provided to learners
at flexible hours in community-provided locations. NGOs, preferably those with integrated programs, were to
be contracted based on a fixed unit cost of Tk 450 (US$12) per learner to deliver the program through
recruitment of teachers and supervisors for a year's duration and instructional materials provision. Thirty-two
districts in the six divisions were to be selected according to literacy rates below 45 percent, availability of
capable NGOs, community demand, and accessibility. NGO selection was to follow established rules under
INFEP by the Subvention Committee, to be chaired by a senior PMED official, with representatives from
various key ministries and agencies. Also included were workshops and management training for NGOs.
(b) Quality Improvement
This sub-component was aimed at improving program quality through research and evaluation of existing
training programs, curriculum and materials for young adults through the involvement of teachers, learners,
- 3-



and communities to ensure that the NFE program would meet participants' needs. Various post-literacy
materials were to be developed to sustain learners' skills, and research studies to be conducted to improve
literacy teaching methods and post-literacy content. The Technical Support Services Unit (TSSU) was to be
responsible for contracting and managing such services. Close monitoring and evaluation of NGOs and
leamers were also envisaged.
(c) Alternadve NFE Models and Social Mobilizadon
This sub-component consisted of pilot programs to develop about 10 alternative NFE models and approaches
for meeting special needs, and support the ongoing upgrading of the overall quality, and social mobilization.
Further piloting of Total Literacy Movement (TLM) was to be carried out in two districts, and evaluated,
within Year 1. Books support to the Government-financed TLM or to other voluntary groups was also
planned for. A five-year social mobilization plan was to be developed to create a demand for NFE. In
addition, at least four different social mobilization materials were to be developed and produced. At least 10
districts were to receive financial assistance for social mobilization activities.
Design Assessment
Activities for both components were clearly linked to achieving the above objectives. With regard to
Component I, the Government's decision to develop a permanent NFE organization was appropriate. There
was need for a greater focus on the development of an overall vision and direction for the NFE sub-sector.
Therefore, it was vital then to establish a Council to take a lead in this (see Section 4.2(a)). The design built
on, and expanded, the 1992 NFE program, INFEP, funded by the Government, UNICEF and UNDP. In
addition, it drew on important lessons from past education projects in Bangladesh (Community Schools
Project, 1981-1988 and General Education Project, 1990-1996). Some key lessons stressed the need to: (a)
support a permanent NFE institutional structure from the outset; (b) strengthen capacity in program
management, monitoring, program upgrading and research; and (c) develop NFE closely with NGOs and
communities. The design of staff development was appropriate since it was envisaged at appraisal that
DNFE's capacity would be strengthened, with long-term technical assistance, as NFE program operations
expand gradually. However, when the Government decided in Year I of the project to cover about 34 million
learners during 1996-2001, this impinged upon the original staff development design.
With regard to Component 2, the proposed arrangement of DNFE acting as an apex institution entrusted with
managing, enabling and catalyzing program delivery, and NGOs as program executing agencies was in line
with the Government's long-term strategy for NFE delivery. Furthermore, focusing on the 15-24 years old age
group rendered the project's goals realistic, since this was the age group where the impact would be greatest;
also, it made the project manageable. The design of the three sub-components was drawn from lessons from
IDA-financed literacy projects in several African countries and Indonesia, namely that: (a) literacy instruction
combined with teaching practical skills (e.g. health and family life skills) is more likely to succeed; (b) NGOs,
while being effective literacy providers, need additional training to execute donor-assisted projects; (c)
documenting effective practice requires systematic research and capacity-building of literacy providers; and
(d) the impact of literacy programs can be improved with better targeting, especially youths denied the
opportunity to complete their studies through the formal education stream. The design of pilot programs for
alternative models to test cost-effectiveness of different NFE program delivery models was appropriate, for it
was understood that the Government would expand NFE programs in phases, based on lessons from these
pilots.
3.4 Revised Components:
Neither of the two components was revised during project implementation.
- 4 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
At the time this project was prepared, formal "Quality at Entry" criteria were not in effect. Nevertheless,
quality at entry for the project was satisfactory based on the following: (a) consistency with the CAS goals of
reducing poverty, and enhancing women's role in development; (b) clear focus of benefits on the poor in rural
areas (using specific targeting measures to select districts with high illiteracy rate, and by implication, high
poverty rate); (c) project design, which considered previous NFE experience, lessons learned, and needs for
further capacity-building in planning, management and monitoring; (d) relatively high degree of
NGOs/community involvement in project planning, delivery and monitoring to promote stakeholder ownership;
(e) availability of agreed project performance indicators at project start-up; and (f) measures to minimize
identified risks and to improve program sustainability (i.e. development of detailed project implementation plan
to assist project management, of post-literacy materials to ensure sustainability of literacy, suitable training
development, relevant materials to strengthen instructor's capability and to ensure regular learner attendance).
Furthermore, project design was in line with IDA's current safeguard policies. In retrospect, an in-depth
assessment of project readiness and financial management, though not required then, would have further
enhanced quality at entry.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outconme/achievement of objective:
Overall, the outcome and achievement of project objectives were satisfactory. Through the project, a total of
2.9 million learners (2.5 million under the Center-based approach - CBA), of which 1.4 million (57 percent of
total) were women, took part in NFE programs. Of those learners under the CBA, it is estimated that 90
percent have completed the literacy program successfully. The project contributed toward the government
target of raising the adult literacy rate from 35 percent in 1996 to 62 percent by year 2000. Although it is
difficult to gauge the project outcome accurately, it is generally reckoned by many that the project has
impacted heavily the lives of poor neo-literates, especially women who have been observed to participate more
fully in social and economic activities. At the end of the project, PMED has estimated that the literacy rate
was 64 percent. The institutionalization of INFEP into DNFE was overall satisfactory, despite initial delays in
staff appointment and high staff turnover.
4.2 Outputs bv componenits:
A detailed assessment of outputs by sub-component follows. Annex I gives details on project perfornance
against key project indicators.
Component 1: Institutional Development
(a) Establishment of a National Councifor Primary and Mass Education
Achievement under this sub-component was unsatisfactory. The National Council for Primary and Mass
Education was established in November 1996 with 38 members from the Government, private providers and
NGOs. However, contrary to the SAR expectations that the Council would meet at least annually, the Council
met only once during the entire project period. Much of the overall planning and coordination work was
carried out through the regular Annual Development Plan (ADP) Review meetings chaired by the Secretary,
PMED, and the Monthly Review meetings chaired by the Joint Secretary, PMED. Yet, policy formulation
with broad representation from various government and non-government agencies did not occur as envisaged
at appraisal.
-5-



(b) Establishment of a Directorate of Non-formal Education
This sub-component is rated satisfactory. The project institutionalized successfully the existing Integrated
Non-formal Education Program into a well-established Directorate of Non-formal Education in 1995 as a
permanent body responsible for NFE activities. A Director-General led DNFE, with 144 staff at headquarters
(of which 56 professionals) and 256 staff in the 64 districts (one District Coordinator (DCO) and three support
staff in each district). As covenanted in the Development Credit Agreement, DNFE staff have been transferred
to the revenue budget. In addition, DNFE deployed the services of 42 contract staff (20 Core trainers, 20
Monitoring Associates, one Financial Specialist, and one Management Development Trainer). Eleven of the
MAs are working in the NFE-2 project. As planned, a Project Management Implementation Unit was also
established with 12 staff, led by a project director.
Organization and Manazement
As envisaged at appraisal, four interdependent units, each led by a director, were created within DNFE: (i)
Planning, Programming, Monitoring, and Evaluation; (ii) Operations; (iii) Technical Support Service; and (iv)
Finance and Administration (see Section 7.6). With SDC-fmanced technical assistance, a long-term Technical
Assistance Unit attached to PIMU, enhanced DNFE's capacity to plan, manage, and monitor NFE programs.
DNFE implemented four different NFE projects for US$277 million during 1996-2001, targeting about 34
million leamers. However, this rapid expansion had its shortcoming too, in that it stretched DNFE's capacity
to its limits, especially during the second half of project implementation.
Significant delays in recruiting key staff hindered project management and monitoring of the NFE programs
during early project implementation. In addition, DNFE suffered from a high turnover among its professional
staff (mostly deputed ones) since project inception. Each of the 36 key positions (e.g. Director General,
Directors, Deputy directors and Assistant Directors) has been fulfilled by an average of four officials during
the five-year implementation period. Therefore, it was difficult to retain trained professional staff in their
positions for long, and there was a constant need to train new staff. Nonetheless, DNFE managed to carry out
its activities by relying heavily on a few knowledgeable and competent core staff.
With regard to financial management, the finance section is now fully staffed. Various training programs for
the finance staff have been carried out in order to develop their capacity, especially in relation to operating an
accounting software package. With the introduction of a computerized accounting system for the preparation
of financial statements, the financial management capacity of DNFE has progressed a step further.
Physical Facilities
With ADB funding, construction of DNFE's headquarters building was completed in December 2000. Land
acquisition proved difficult (which included a litigation), and caused significant construction delays. Likewise,
procurement of office equipment and vehicles for DNFE headquarters and DCO offices were completed, albeit
with substantial delays. Despite procurement training, substantial delays occurred in procuring equipment and
vehicles financed by ADB and IDA, respectively. For instance, the May 2000 supervision mission indicated
that after IDA did not provide its "no objection" to the bid evaluation report in the first round of bidding, it
took nearly a year for DNFE to invite fresh bids, evaluate them and award the contract for the remaining eight
vehicles. Frequent staff changes also affected DNFE's procurement capacity.
Management Information Svstems
With SDC-financed technical assistance, an NFE-MIS was established as a part of the Benefit Monitoring and
Evaluation (BME) System, and became operational with appropriate staff, equipment, and database modules.
However, the impact of MIS could have been greater if it were used fully to improve program quality and
develop strategies for program delivery through systematic data analysis, and rigorous monitoring and
evaluation (see Monitoring and Evaluation under Component 2 below).
- 6-



(c) Staff Development
This sub-component is rated satisfactory. DNFE implemented staff development with SDC-fmanced
technical assistance designed to strengthen its capacity in NFE approaches, training, curriculum and materials
development, program development, finance system and management, and computer literacy. It met the major
physical targets for staff development. Training on skills in NFE approaches was provided for 55 staff, 32
District Coordinators (DCOs), 20 Core Trainers, and more than 120 Master Trainers. Key PMED/DNFE
staff received external fellowship training in the following six areas: (a) NFE program development (9
person-months), (b) curriculum development (3 pm); (c) teaching methodology (10 pm); (d) NFE and literacy
(10 pm); (e) educational material development (10 pm); and (f) research organization (10 pm). PMED/DNFE
official participated in six foreign study visits (14.5 pm) in the following areas: NFE policy and planning,
benefit monitoring and evaluation (BME) system, post-literacy and continuing education, NFE delivery and
TLM. As planned, Core Trainers developed teacher training within TSSU, trained Master Trainers, and
supervised teacher training.
On-the-job and in-house training was provided to DNFE staff on different aspects of NFE approaches, fnance
system, management, MIS, monitoring and evaluation and computer skills. Core Trainers and DNFE staff
were trained in adult learning theory, techniques for literacy instruction and teacher training. Workshops for
about 245 representatives of participating NGOs were conducted in the following areas: management
development, and financial, supervisory and project management. In-country training was completed on
finance system development, management and supervision, computer skills, network and database
management, and MIS.
Notwithstanding the above, there was need for a systematic training plan, especially for the overseas training,
to gain maximum benefits from trained staff and to ensure they remain engaged in DNFE much longer than
was generally the case. In fact, few staff who had overseas training have remained at DNFE. On the other
hand, it is noteworthy that many participating NGOs' staff who had received training under the project are still
working in the NFE sub-sector. Furthermore, while the Technical Assistance Unit assisted DNFE in staff
development as well, a dynamic mechanism to ensure maximum knowledge transfer was lacking. With rapid
program expansion, it also meant that DNFE's coordination of staff development became more difficult since
a number of project implementation management units were set up, formiing parallel structures. Finally,
although it is difficult to determine the extent to which the staff development sub-component contributed to
DNFE's institutional building, it is reasonable to assume that this sub-component has brought some benefits to
the NFE sub-sector as a whole.
Component 2: Expansion and Improvement of NFE
(a)    Delivery of NFE
This sub-component is rated satisfactory. The project delivered NFE to about 2.9 million learners through
three approaches (see box below): Center Based Approach (CBA), Total Literacy Movement (TLM), and
Primer Distribution Approach (PDA). The project target was about 2.5 million learners under the CBA alone.
Of the 2.9 million learners, about 57 percent were females, thus exceeding the target of 50 percent female
leamers. DNFE had to reduce the duration of the NFE program by two months partly due to harvest time and
the rainy season. Against a target of 100 NGOs, DNFE contracted altogether with about 400 NGOs to deliver
the NFE program through the CBA during the project period. The number of participating NGOs increased
from 95 in Phase 1 to 264 in Phase 5. As planned, DNFE carried out two TLM pilots - in Faridpur and
Nilphamari districts. Through the PDA, covering over 255,000 learners, 124 philanthropic voluntary
organizations (PVOs) and government TLM representatives received primers. The table below gives a
breakdown of learners covered according to NFE delivery method, phase, and gender.
- 7 -



Actual Coverage of Learners under NFEP
Phase 1   Phase 2   Phase 3   Phase 4A   Phase 4B   Phase 5    Total
CBA: No. of NGOs                  95       138       196        206        157        264
CBA: No. of Centers            6,075    14,550    14,700     12,675      10,680    23,505      82,185
Male                        2,238     5,936     6,376      5,364      4,988     10,740      35,642
Female                      3,837     8,614     8,324      7,311      5,692     12,765      46,543
CBA: No. of participants     182,250   436,500    441,00    380,250    320,400    705,150    2,465,550
Male                       67,140   178,080         0    160,920    149,640    322,200    1,069,260
Female                    115,110   258,420    191,28    219,330    170,760    382,950    1,396,290
% of female                 63.2%     59.2%         0      57.7%      53.3%      54.3%       56.6%
249,72
0
56.6%
TLM: No. of Centers            6,001                                                             6,001
TLM: No. of participants     180,010                                                          180,010
Male                     48,936                                                            48,936
Female                  131,074                                                           131,074
NFE-PDA: No. of participants                                                                  255,337
Total Participants                                                                           2,903,897
Source: DNFE, August 2001.
NFE Approaches under NFEP
(1) Center-basedApproach. This approach uses NGOs to implement NFE programs on behalf of DNFE in pre-
determined areas and number of learning centers. Partner NGOs are selected for subvention according to criteria
agreed by the Government, experienced NGOs and donor agencies. These include NGO capacity and NFE
management experience, proximity to the project area, and fund management record. A Subvention Sub-committee
chaired by the Director General, DNFE scrutinize NGO proposals and submits findings to an inter-ministerial
Subvention Committee chaired by the Secretary, PMED, which approves the final list of NGOs. Partner NGOs
have flexibility in conducting the baseline survey, recruitment of facilitators/center-teachers and supervisors,
selecting learners, providing additional teaching materials, and carrying out local monitoring and evaluation of
program activities. The course runs for 10 months (6 months of basic literacy and 4 months for post-literacy).
(2) Total Literacy Movement. This approach mobilizes the whole community through extensive campaigns to achieve
total literacy in a district. After a survey of the district's literacy rate, one center is established for every 30
illiterates. The Deputy Commissioner plays a central role in the program. A TLM Association is formed to run
extensive motivational campaigns and to undertake a pilot program supported by DNFE through primers. Once
DNFE and PMED are satisfied that the district and the Association is fully prepared to carry out the main TLM
program, DNFE releases funds for training and learning materials. The program lasts nine months (6 months of
basic literacy and 3 months for consolidation of acquired basic literacy).
(3)  Primer Distribution Approach. This approach uses free primer and guide book distribution by DNFE to small
voluntary and philanthropic organizations involved in NFE programs of their own, and sometimes upon request,
training packages, with the aim of developing the capacity of these organizations.
Management of NFE Deliverv
DNFE was successful in managing program delivery, in providing resources and taining, and in assisting
- 8 -



participating NGOs through local training and monthly governmentlNGO meetings. DNFE was particularly
successful in building a good operational relationship with various NGOs, and in decentralizing NFE program
delivery, with District coordinators playing a pivotal role. To make up for implementation delays DNFE had
to increase the number of CBA learners in Phase V by more than half over the previous phase. NGO selection
criteria, which have worked well on balance to ensure a transparent process, could have been enhanced
through ensuring greater NGO competition and accountability. Similarly, more active NGO participation in
planning and designing of programs could have helped improve further the quality of NFE programs. Monthly
GO/NGO meetings were utilized effectively by both parties to coordinate programs, exchange views and
information, and solve problems NGOs encountered in program delivery.
However, some NGOs mentioned that DNFE did not allow them sufficient time to prepare for program
delivery, and therefore they had to operate under tight schedules. Another difficulty was that the unit cost per
leamer determined at project appraisal proved to be too low, which led to financial difficulties, especially for
the small, local NGOs; many of them did not have additional financing sources. DNFE sought approval from
ADB/IDA/SDC to increase the leamer unit cost. Eventually, the actual unit cost per learner under the CBA
was increased to Taka 600 (an increase of 21 percent), and under the TLM, to Taka 396 (an increase of 96
percent). It was felt among some NGOs that literacy programs would have been more effective if they were
tied with some form of credit programs or income-generation activities.
NGO role and Performance
As planned, DNFE contracted NGOs to deliver its CBA program. Overall, NGO performance was
satisfactory. Participating NGOs: (a) carried out baseline surveys of program areas; (b) recruited supervisors
and teachers for the duration of the literacy program and arranged for their training; (c) selected learners; (d)
provided additional teaching materials; and (e) monitored and evaluated program activities locally. They
liaised directly with district coordinators, and provided them, inter alia, with progress reports and annual work
plans. They received core materials from DNFE, and followed a standard DNFE curriculum. With NGO
participation, DNFE was able to reach a large number of learners systematically. Most participating NGOs
were able to manage the literacy programs effectively under DNFE's guidance. Besides, owing to their
involvement in other activities, such as income-generation and credit programs, some of them were able to link
neo-literates to such activities successfully. Thus, participating NGOs have brought about important results,
and they are reckoned as a key element in DNFE's strategy to deliver NFE programs.
Impact of NFE Programs
A tracer study of NFEP indicated that neo-literates from Phase 1 of the NFE program have shown increased
participation in economic activity, such as cash-saving, loan-seeking, and other development programs. Many
of them, especially women, have taken on sole responsibilities for: custody of money for household expenses,
decisions on household expenses, clothing purchases, and seeking medical attention. Use of birth control
methods also increased among the leamers. Further, an SDC-fmanced study (Systems Capacity Analysis of
the DNFE, 1999) indicated a positive impact on the target population in raising gender awareness. However,
an assessment of the full impact of NFE program would require a comprehensive tracer study covering all
phases of the NFE program under the project.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Overall monitoring of NFE program delivery by DNFE and DCOs was satisfactory. NGO performance was
monitored regularly through MIS and progress reports. Participating NGOs' quarterly action plans and
progress reports to DNFE were satisfactory. Whilst these NGOs have provided detailed evaluation for each
NFE phase through testing of core competencies, there was little incentive at DNFE to validate MIS and
monitoring data, and to aggregate them at district and project level. This consolidation and evaluation of data
-9-



would have helped improve planning and decision-making.
Training of Teachers. Supervisors and NGOs
The project surpassed its physical targets for training programs under this sub-component. It contributed to
the improvement of program delivery, and monitoring and supervision at the local level through the training of
5,479 supervisors against a target of 5,000, and 82,185 teachers, against 79,000. Management training was
also provided to 147 representatives of participating NGOs (about two per NGO), thus exceeding the target of
50 NGOs.
Core Trainers and Monitoring Associates
Contract staff (20 Core Trainers and 20 Monitoring Associates) played a key role in enhancing NFE program
delivery through training delivery and monitoring on random basis. It was felt that, because of wide area
coverage, more monitoring associates were needed, though NGOs and other DNFE officials monitored the
program as well. Only 25 MAs were currently working in June 2001. However, a pool of NFE delivery
expertise has been instituted, which could be tapped relatively easily for future NFE activities. Furthermore,
core trainers' training of participating NGOs has enhanced NGO capacity for delivering NFE.
(b) Quality Improvement
This sub-component is rated satisfactory. As planned, core competencies for NFE program covering four
broad skill areas (reading, writing, arithmetic and life skills) have been validated in 2000 during a national
workshop. The end-of-course achievement tests, first developed by TSSU in 1997, were revised three times
during the project period to meet program needs. There is a further need, though, to address learner and
commnunity perceptions and expressed needs based on experience of field-testing of curriculum materials. The
revision of the NFE curriculum was completed through a series of workshops in 2000. The three primers used
previously, Chetona 1-3, were revised and condensed into two primers. Teacher guides and teaching-learning
aids were developed under the project. Development of the NFE materials package, including primer, guides
and instructional materials was done based on need assessment and field-testing. Development of 23
post-literacy materials was covered under the Non-Formal Education (NFE-2) Project.
Teacher Training Oualitv
The content and duration of training programs for teachers and supervisors were revised in September 1999 to
meet better the needs of refresher training and post-literacy orientation. Based on Mid-Term Review
recommendations, DNFE increased the duration of the programs from a total of 15 days each to 20 days for
teachers, and 23 days for supervisors. In addition, to make the training programs more effective, an
adjustment was also made for Master Trainers to train both the supervisors and teachers, instead of the
previous cascade training by Master Trainers to supervisors, who trained the teachers in turn. Results of an
in-house study on the Mastery of the NFE teachers indicated that more than 60 percent of these teachers were
qualified and were successfully delivering NFE program to the learners, meeting the appraisal target.
Drop-out Rate. Pass Rate and Learning Achievement
DNFE MIS, based on NGO reports, indicates a low dropout rate around four percent (due in part to measures
taken to attract leamers and keep them motivated), and a high pass rate of around 90 percent. In terms of
leaniing achievement, given that some NGO program validation is still pending, and the baseline data have not
been compiled, it is difficult to gauge average learner achievement accurately for the project as a whole.
However, it is generally reckoned that the average learner score was more than the appraisal target of 50
percent achievement of core competencies. As part of the requirement of learner evaluation, a study on
learning achievement indicated an average score of 69.5 percent (67.4 percent for female and 72.3 percent for
- 10 -



male). Despite higher attendance of female learners in literacy classes, female learning achievement appears to
be slightly lower than that of males, possibly due to previous schooling experience of male learners, and
greater exposure outside the home. Thus, there is a critical need for an in-depth study on learner achievement
under the project.
Research and Studies
Four studies, against an appraisal target of three, were conducted under the project: (a) Annual Evaluation of
Learner's Achievement; (b) A study on Teaching Methods to Maximize Student Learning in NFE; (c) Social
and Economic Impact of Participation in NFE Program (Tracer Study); and (d) Research on Teaching
Reading Using Bengali Phono-graphics Methods. The tracer study was funded by IDA, and the three other
studies were sub-contracted to consultants under SDC technical assistance. It is unfortunate that because
many of these studies were done so late in the project period, their findings and recommendations could not be
applied towards improving further the NFE program under the project.
(c) Alternative NFE Models and Social Mobilization
This sub-component is rated unsatisfactory. One of the pilot programs was to introduce TLM in two districts
to gain insights on TLM strength and weaknesses. Thus, TLM was implemented in Faridpur (ADB-funded)
and Nilphamari (IDA-funded) districts, but DNFE did not undertake, as planned, an evaluation of these two
TLM pilots.' In fact, after just a year of project implementation, the Goverunent decided to use the TLM
approach widely, under the direction of the Deputy Commissioner (a highly influential position at the district
level); the learner unit cost was much less than that of the Center-based Approach.
Alternative NFE Models
Compared with the plan to contract with NGOs to carry out ten alternative NFE models and approaches to
NFE delivery, DNFE contracted with two NGOs for two models only. These were: (a) "Each One Teach
One" Approach by Dhaka Ahsania Mission (DAM); and (b) "Profession-based Program" approach by the
Association for Social Advancement Programme (ASAP). It was unfortunate that the results of these two
alternative models were not used for program improvement in special needs.
Social Mobilization
Whilst the planned five-year work plan of social mobilization activities was not formally developed, different
social mobilization activities were identified such as rallies, cultural plays, and TV episodes. A number of
social mobilization activities took place using various types of media, including national daily newspapers,
weekly magazines, and national television. In addition, centrally developed materials, such as posters,
calendars and billboards were distributed to project districts. Although some impact of these various social
mobilization programs was evidenced in the increased number of program participants, the full impact would
not be known until a comprehensive evaluation of these programs is conducted.
Notes:
1/ Leah C. Gutierrez, "Report on the Tracer Study of Bangladesh Literacy Program Participants of Phase- I," April 13, 1999. This
IDA-funded study examined the likely impact of literacy training on the lives of NFEP participants using pre-collected data. It
recognized limitations in the pre-collected samples/data and study methodology, and advised caution in generalizing the survey
results to the population of participants.
2/ Some evaluation studies, however, on other TLM projects were contracted by DNFE during the project implementation period:
(1) Dr. Kazi Saleh Ahmed, "Study on Evaluation of Total Literacy Movement in Lalmonirhat," May 15, 1996; and (2) Uniconsult
Intemational Limited, Bangladesh, "An evaluation of the Total Literacy Movement in the Chuadanga District," November 13,
1997. These studies reportedly had some limitations in terms of cost-effectiveness and financial implications.
- 11 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No NPV or ERR were calculated for this project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a substantial institutional development impact; the existing INFEP was successfully
institutionalized into a permanent Directorate of NFE. The project also contributed to DNFE's
capacity-building with SDC-fmanced technical assistance. DNFE is now regarded as an institution capable of
planning and managing effective NFE delivery on a large scale (see section 4.2, Component I (b)). With the
appointment of DCOs at district level as an extended arm of DNFE, some decentralized capacity has been
created. Moreover, capacity-building has been reinforced at the grassroots level with the involvement of
NGOs in NFEP. Participating NGOs have built up their own capacity with DNFE training, and with the
experience gained under the project. In future, given close cooperation, the DNFE-NGO partnership can
thrive in delivering large-scale quality NFE programs.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or impleotenting agency:
Two external factors affected project implementation substantially. First, as the NGO was the key vehicle for
implementing NFE programs, the availability of a large pool of capable and committed NGOs in Bangladesh
made it feasible to reach about 2.9 million learners in 32 districts. A second (negative) factor was the
disastrous floods of 1998, which disrupted program delivery and monitoring of activities for about six months.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The following factors subject to government control had a substantial impact on project implementation and
outcome:
*  Government's continued strong commitment in achieving EFA, improving literacy with particular
emphasis on women, and adoption of decentralized delivery mechanism.
•  Government's decision to expand NFE program rapidly, thus exceeding DNFE's capacity to manage
and monitor the program effectively.
*  Delays in recruitment of key staff (e.g. Monitoring Associates, System Analyst, and Finance Officer)
and high staff turnover undernined capacity-building of DNFE.
* Delays in Government's approval of Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance meant that DNFE
could not benefit from the TA from project start-up.
*  Delays in approving Project Proforma (PP) revisions.
*  Delays in land acquisition for DNFE headquarters building due to an unforeseen land litigation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
- 12 -



The following factors had a substantial impact on project implementation and outcome:
*  Close coordination and frequent commnunication among DNFE, DCOs and NGOs through monthly
meetings and regular field visits facilitated project implementation.
*  Weak procurement management capacity led to inordinate procurement delays.
*  Delays in assessing the impact of rapid expansion of NFE programs on institutional capacity and the
overall quality of the program.
*  Sheer dedication of certain individuals within DNFE was a contributing factor to project outcomes.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total actual project cost is estimated at US$37.7 million - 74 percent of the SAR project cost estimate of
US$51 million (see details in Annex 2). Since a large portion of project costs was in local currency (estimnated
at 92 percent in the SAR), the depreciation of the Taka against the US dollar accounted for 80 percent of the
decrease of project cost in US$ terms. In addition, some planned activities, such as evaluation of TLM pilots
and testing of alternative NFE models, and external training did not materialize fully, thus reducing project
costs.
Disbursements against the IDA Credit were SDR 5.9 million (US$7.9 million equivalent). The pattern of
disbursement reflects delays in project implementation activities, as 70 percent of the IDA Credit was
disbursed during the last two fiscal years of project implementation. Funds availability was not an issue as all
partners were strongly committed financially since appraisal.
Regarding funds flow, although counterpart funding was not a major problem, prompt disbursements to NGOs
may have been an issue, as some NGOs reported delays in receiving payment against claims. But, given that
the main outlay for the project was for NFE program delivery, and given the need for NGOs to comply with
DNFE procedures for submitting reports and claims, such delays were understandable. Moreover, there was a
consensus among the larger NGOs that the funding mechanism for NFE program delivery under the project
was satisfactory.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of this project is rated "Likely." The key factor for the project's sustainability is GOB's
continued strong commitment to NFE. This was evident in the increasing share of the NFE sub-sector budget
of the total education development budget (9.4 percent in 2000, from 4.3 percent in 1996), and GOB's
commitment to implement four NFE Projects (NFE-1 to NFE4) to meet the Government's objective of
increasing the adult literacy rate to 80 percent by Year 2002 (The Fifth Year Plan 1997-2002). GOB is also
implementing the Post-literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development Project (financed by IDA
and SDC), and is undertaking shortly a sixth project, the Second Post-literacy and Continuing Education for
Human Development Project (about US$100 million), with financing from ADB, the Department For
International Development (DFID), and some other partners.
Another key factor is the strengthened institutional capacity of implementation agencies. Under this project,
INFEP was transformed successfully into a permanent government structure, DNFE. Actual implementation
of the NFE program was decentralized to districts level, with NGOs responsible for program delivery.
Although there is still room for improvement, a working mechanism was set up to involve participating NGOs
and communities in planning, implementation and monitoring of NFE programs through regular meetings
- 13 -



among stakeholders. In addition, although DNFE suffered from high staff turnover during project
implementation, substantial expertise has been developed and nurtured within NFE system as a whole -
centrally at the level of DNFE technical and operations units and contractual staff, and locally at the level of
DCOs and NGOs.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project is part of GOB's NFE program which will continue beyond the project period. To achieve the
target of 34 million learners, additional financing for the NFE program has been provided by DFID, NORAD,
SIDA, UNICEF, and USAID (about US$105 million). GOB has financed its own project (NFE-4) for about
US$185 million, besides providing counterpart funding of about US$40 million to the other three projects.
However, some critical issues require urgent Government attention to ensure successful implementation of
future NFE programs, given the rapid expansion of DNFE activities. These are: (a) further strengthening of
DNFE's institutional capacity, especially in improving decision-making, in monitoring and evaluation and
program coordination; (b) additional support for DCOs and NGOs in program management and delivery; (c)
development of post-literacy and continuing education; and (d) development of long-term NFE strategies. One
of DNFE's main long-term challenges is the need to deliver high quality post-literacy programs linked to
continuing education, and income-generation activities to reduce poverty.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Bank performance in lending was satisfactory. Before March 1995 when IDA took the decision to cofmance
the project with the ADB and SDC, the IDA team had spent almost three years in sector dialogue and
preparation of lending support. Working closely with the Government, this team emphasized the need to
rationalize NFE sub-sector policies, to develop a realistic, implementable and sustainable program, and to
develop an effective monitoring mechanism. A feasibility study and background studies were prepared with
assistance from national and international consultants. The IDA team team also stressed the need to
strengthen Government-NGO partnership, and to involve NGOs and community representatives in program
development, planning and monitoring. This laid the groundwork for collaboration between the Government
and NGOs. The IDA team also played an important role in donor coordination, and worked closely with
agencies involved in the Mass Education Project, such as UNICEF, UNESCO, and UNDP.
Eventually, IDA took the decision on cofinancing NFEP with ADB as the lead agency, and SDC. Cofinancing
was thought to be beneficial from the point of view of not overburdening a newly established entity (DNFE)
with different donor requirements, and that by having joint missions, donors would reduce supervision costs.
Thus, IDA staffjoined the ADB/SDC appraisal mission in April 1995. IDA adopted ADB's project document
as Staff Appraisal Report (with some minor changes), but prepared its own Development Credit Agreement
and Memorandum of the President.
The project design developed by the appraisal team was realistic and well-documented in the SAR. Project
management requirements were calibrated with DNFE's expected capacity. Project documentation was
effective in providing clearly stated objectives which could be translated into a workable program with a
realistic timeframe. It provided practical project performance indicators and a monitoring mechanism, with
detailed descriptions of staff development programs and Terms of Reference for the Technical Assistance Unit.
However, although the design was realistic for NFEP, it did not anticipate the rapid expansion of the NFE
programs and the unforeseen demands on DNFE.
- 14 -



Project reviews and peer reviews were effective during project preparation. They provided valuable
comments, inter alia, on the absence of a Government long-term sectoral strategy and planning for the NFE
sub-sector, and the impracticality of design of the National Council, which subsequently did hinder project
implementation. Unfortunately, these comments were not heeded at the time. Moreover, land acquisition and
key staff appointment ought to have been made conditions for project effectiveness, if not Board; this would
have minimized project implementation delays.
7.2 Supervision:
IDA's supervision performance was satisfactory. All partners worked well together. Seven annual joint
supervision missions were conducted with ADB and SDC, and were led by ADB. The joint supervisions were
well-coordinated and comprehensive. They were also effective in addressing issues related to weak and
stretched implementation capacities at DNFE and PIMU soon after project effectiveness, and advised the
Government for timely actions in key staff appointment and capacity assessment to ensure the overall quality
of the program.
It would have been more beneficial if some missions had a special focus on certain key themes, such as NFE
delivery, qualitative impact of NFE program, project management (including procurement, disbursements and
financial management), and capacity-building. Similarly, supervision teams would have benefited greatly from
the participation of experienced staff members in NFE and in project management at critical moments in
project implementation. For instance, this would have been appropriate during the June 1998 mission, when
the project faced a number of project implementation issues, and during the Mid-Term Review mission, when
the mission needed to review the project scope, design, and implementation arrangements and make key
recommendations for the remainder of the project period. As insufficient budgets were committed to
supervision (see Annex 4), it was difficult to have a well-balanced supervision team.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the above, overall IDA performance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparation was satisfactory. The Governnent's strong commitment in
developing an NFE program was evidenced in the establishment of five task forces which developed
proposals for five key project preparation issues: (a) project coverage; (b) project management; (c)
instructional delivery methods; (d) program coordination; and (e) monitoring. Substantive involvement of
NGOs in project preparation was endorsed by the Government, and NGO representatives took part in the
project preparation task forces. However, an absence of long-term development objectives of NFE
sub-sector and delivery strategies, and weak Government's capacity to coordinate proposed
donor-supported activities, led to the delays in the project preparation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory based on the following factors: (a) the
newly-elected Government in June 1996 continued to give priority to the education sector, including
non-fornal education - thereby avoiding discontinuity in NFE strategies and programs; (b) it provided
adequate counterpart funding for the project; (c) it provided general guidance to PMED; and (d) it made a
significant improvement after the Mid-Term Review to achieve project objectives. However, substantial
delays occurred in covenants compliance, for exarnple, the constitution of the Project Coordination
Committee, and key DNFE staff appointment, which adversely affected project implementation initially. In
addition, land acquisition for DNFE headquarters was delayed by more than a year, causing delays in other
- 15 -



project implementation activities. Moreover, the Government ought to have addressed adequately the issue
of frequent project staff transfers throughout the project period.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
DNFE's performance was generally satisfactory despite staffing and staff tumover difficulties, especially
during the first half of the project period. It made significant progress in planning, program delivery, and
monitoring and evaluation since February 1999. It also built a reasonably strong relationship with
participating NGOs. Monthly Govemment-NGO coordination meeting and meetings with the project
directors of the four NFE programs took place regularly. PIMU regularly prepared quarterly progress
reports on the NFEP. DNFE took into account the findings and recommendations of the MTR.
With the expansion of DNFE's activities straddling four projects, management attention to NFEP
diminished, thereby affecting project management adversely during the second half of the implementation
period, particularly with changes in the Project Director position in the PIMU. Without enough guidance,
the PIMU was unable to carry out the project on its own, especially since decision-making was highly
centralized in PMED and DNFE. In addition, that the PIMU and the Technical Assistance Unit were not
physically located in DNFE exacerbated the situation. Whilst DNFE made good use of the technical
assistance, not enough attention was devoted to ensuring that counterparts were assigned to technical
advisors to ensure proper skills and knowledge transfer, as witnessed in part by the need in January 2001 to
extend the services of some consultants after the TA Unit had disbanded in December 2000. The TSSU
was most affected by this since it had the most contract staff or consultants, which weakened its capacity.
Perfornance among DNFE units was uneven. Whilst DNFE was strong in planning and implementation, it
was weak in monitoring and evaluation. The TSSU performed its technical duties well, particularly in
teacher training and curriculum revision. Financial management was weak initially since DNFE had
difficulty in recruiting a qualified financial specialist, but was later strengthened with the appointment of a
seasoned financial management specialist. Besides, a sound fnancial and accounting system (now in place)
was needed since project inception. DNFE's comprehensive Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation system
comprising an NFE-MIS has been operating relatively well. However, DNFE ought to have increased the
MIS unit's capacity to validate data. Moreover, the expansion of DNFE activities has caused the MIS to
become fragmented, and staff are overburdened by competing demands. This points to the urgent need to
integrate all information systems into a single, comprehensive MIS.
DNFE complied generally well with project progress reporting and auditing requirements. PIMU issued
promptly thorough quarterly progress reports on project activities. The Foreign Aided Project Audit
Directorate (FAPAD) carried out financial audits of the project promptly, and DNFE submitted them to
IDA accordingly.. For ADB audited reports and accounts, however, the June 2001 mission indicated that
some audit observations had not been addressed fully. All the audit observations, identified by IDA as
material, were resolved through tripartite meetings among PMED, PIMU and FAPAD.
Although most procurement activities were completed, protracted delays occurred especially in procuring
vehicles and computers. Progress could not be made as planned in procuring services for new social
mobilization activities to generate NFE demand, special research projects, and evaluation of NFE
programs. These delays were due partly to inadequate procurement capacity and exposure of DNFE's staff
to IDA procurement procedures.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory based on its commitment, ownership and
performance during project preparation and implementation in a sub-sector requiring innovative
- 16 -



interventions, and its achievement of project objectives and fulfillment of almost all major project
indicators. The Borrower achieved these despite initial delays, DNFE' s strained capacity, and high staff
turnover.
8. Lessons Learned
Project preparation:
*  To ensure program quality, it is important to have in place a comprehensive government vision and
strategy, a robust assessment of institutional capacity, and a clear understanding of additional
resources required.
* A high-level council under the direct leadership of a Prime Minister proved impractical and met only
once. A lower level council able to meet at least annually would have been a better arrangement.
* To ensure cost-effectiveness and timely preparation of key activities, donor coordination should be
given greater importance, and preferably, led by the government, to avoid overburdening government
entities.
* Where a project specifically targets female education, appropriate performance indicators should be
incorporated to monitor progress towards this objective, e.g. female teachers trained and hired, design
of relevant curriculun and development of teaching/learning materials.
* Where construction of new physical facilities is a key component of the project, land acquisition
should be, at the very least, a condition of project effectiveness to avoid implementation delays which
may adversely impact other project activities.
*  Appointment of key staff should be at least a condition of project effectiveness, to avoid delays in
project management, planning and monitoring, and financial management and reporting.
* Staff development activities should be scheduled and carried out in the early part of project
implementation to ensure that the project benefits to the maximum from staff training programs.
Project Implementation:
*  Systematic monitoring and formative evaluation of NFE programs are essential for ascertaining: (i)
the leaming outcomes of each program; (ii) the acquisition and retention of skills by populations
served; and (iii) the precise contribution of the NFE program in the education and work sectors.
Particular emphasis needs to be put on improving the existing information base for management of the
evaluation results and for effective utilization of the database for program improvement.
* Turnover of trained staff should be minimized through an effective human resource development
strategy to enhance institutional capacity and to ensure sustainability.
* Selection of NGOs should be based on clear, transparent criteria, e.g., a good track record, effective
management, and selected NGOs should be involved all program planning and design.
* Co-financing can be rewarding in terms of cost effectiveness and government management, but
planning and staffing in project supervision can become difficult, partly due to timing constraints.
* Where there is need for long-term technical assistance, to optimize capacity-building it is important to
ensure continuous skills transfer from the technical assistance unit to the relevant government entities.
- 17 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
DNFE has informed IDA that it has reviewed the Draft Implementation Completion Report, and agreed with
its content. Below is a summary of its contribution to the ICR (afull assessment is in Annex 8).
The overall project objectives and activities were comprehensive. GOB proposed the project based on
experience with the Integrated Non-formal Education Program, and in line with the National Plan of Action in
1992 to achieve Education for All (EFA), aiming by 2000 to: (a) raise the adult literacy rate from 35 to 62
percent; (b) establish an NFE directorate; and (c) attain close cooperation with NGOs. The project was to
provide NFE to illiterate young adults (15-24 years), particularly females. Components were: (1) to assist in
transforming INFEP into DNFE; and (2) to expand and improve NFE programs to reach an estimated 2.5
million targeted learners (of which 1.3 million women). On the whole, the project has achieved its objectives.
It has reached 2.9 million learners with NGO participation. Covenants compliance was satisfactory. Actual
project costs were US$37.7 million. Lessons learned are that: (1) rapid growth of NFE program can lead to
lower quality; (2) staff continuity is crucial for skills transfer; (3) continuity of key personnel is critical for
project implementation. Donor performance was satisfactory.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(Verbatim)
ADB
Thank you for giving us the opportunity to review and comment on the subject draft ICR. We found the report
thorough and informative, and we concur with the satisfactory rating of the Project. We have no further
comments on the draft ICR.
Note: ADB plans to do afinal assessment of NFEP, and to complete its Project Completion Report by June-July
2002.
SDC
SDC is pleased to receive the draft ICR on Bangladesh -Non-Formal Education Project (NFE- 1). SDC was
cofinancier of this project along with the World Bank (WB) and the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The
SDC grant was specifically provided for Technical Assistance (TA). SDC is satisfied with the report that has
aptly highlighted the achievements and the lessons learnt. SDC hopes that the recommendations will be
followed up by concemed agencies, and lessons will be incorporated into future NFE efforts.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Whilst we did not seek NGO comments directly in view of the difficulty and complexity this entails, this ICR
reflects NGO inputs obtained during field visits and meetings with a group of NGOs at CAMPE (Campaign
for Popular Education), a coordinating NGO.
10. Additional Information
The following persons contributed to the preparation of this ICR: Irajen Appasamy (Task Team Leader),
Yoko Nagashima (Consultant), Bertha Mburugu (Program Assistant), and Nazma Sultana (Program
Assistant). We received substantive comments as follows: from Ms. Alexandria Valerio, Peer Reviewer
(Education Specialist, AFTH1); from Mmes. Hena G. Mukherjee (Lead Education Specialist, SASHD), Ana
Jeria (Senior Human Resource Specialist, SASHD), and Mr. Mohammed Allak (Education Planner, SASHD);
and valuable external comments from Dr. Hon Chan Chai and Dr. Shiva Raj Lohani.
- 18-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR               Actua/Latest Esfimate
2.5 million leamers reached with NFE  2.5 million leamers in Project districts, with  2.5 million leamers in Project districts
programs by end of project period, of which  1.3 million women, pass literacy test  participated in the NFE programs through the
about 50% female                                                         Center-based Approach, of which 1.4 million
(57%) were females. Additional leamers
covered under the two Total Literacy
Movement (TLM) pilots were 180,010 (73%
female), and under the Primer Distribution
Approach, 255,337
Directorate of Non-formal Education (DNFE)                               The Directorate of Non-formal Education
established and institutional capacity                                   (DNFE) was established in 1995, with 145
developed                                                                staff at headquarters (57 professional staff)
and 256 staff (1 District Coordinator and 3
support staff) at the district level. Capacity
building program implemented. Process of
transferring DNFE staff to revenue budget
80% complete (now awaiting approval of
Establishment Ministry)
Improved and expanded NFE program for  Improved and expanded NFE program for  Improved NFE programs delivered to young
young adults (15-24 years) in 30 districts  young adults (15-24 years) in 30 districts.  adults (15-24 years) in 30 districts
Achievement of core competencies by  Achievement of core competencies by  A study of leaming achievement on core
leamers at the end of one-year program  leamers at the end of one-year program  competencies indicates an average score of
69.5 percent (67.4 percent for female and
72.3 percent for male). Other sources.
including field monitoring reports and field
observations, indicate achievement between
60-70% of core competencies by NFE
leamers
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                  Projected In last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimab
1. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(a) Establish National Council for Primary                               (a) National Council for Primary and Mass
and Mass Education. Membership and                                       Education established on March 4,1996, and
functions defined and approved, and annual                               its membership (38 members trom various
meetings held                                                            agencies, including NGOs) and functions to
formulate guidelines for PMED and to fix up
targets, objectives and strategies have been
approved. Membership was revised in
November 1996 in accordance with
GOBIIDA/ADB/SDC guidelines. The Council
met only once on June 26, 1997
(b) Establish a Directorate of Non-Formal                                (b) Directorate of Non-formal Education was
Education (DNFE)                                                         established in 1995
(i) Appoint 57 professional staff at HQ;                                 (i) 57 posts were created; 56 professional
staff were appointed;
(ii) Govemment allocation for NFE increased                              (ii) Government aNocation has constantly
5% annually;                                                             increased, and is currently 9.4% of the
Annual Development Plan in Education;
(iii) Strengthen systems for planning,                                  (iii) Planning, management and administrative
organizabon, management and administration                               systems were established and strengthened;
of NFE delivery; and                                                     and
-19 -



(iv) Establish and operationalize NFE-MIS                               (iv) NFE-MIS was established and in
and Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation (BME)                              operation. Software for processing MIS
fomis developed and in use. BME
technology developed and in operation
(c) Develop physical infrastructure: DNFE                                Construction of DNFE HQ building has been
HQ building constructed, fumished and                                    completed, but available space can only
equipped                                                                 accommodate staff only. Therefore,
additional space will be required to
accommodate the NFE academy. 33
photocopiers, 50 computer sets, fumiture,
and 36 vehicles were procured and are in use
(d) Develop staff capacity
(i) Establish systems and methods for                                   (i) Leamers have been consulted during the
involvement of beneficaries in program                                   revision of the curriculum, primers and
design and development, training, quality                               instruction materials. NGO experience is
improvement, monitoring, and evaklation of                               shared in monthly GO/NGO meetings
NFE programs
(ii) Strengthen in-house capacity for different                         (ii) NGO database, NGO contracding and
aspects of NFE                                                           some other studies have been done in-house
by concemed staff
(iii) Skills in NFE approaches and training                              (iii) Training for 55 staff, 32 district
upgraded for about 60 staff, 32 district                                 coordinators (24 person-months) and 120
coordinators, 20 core trainers, and 20 master                            master trainers provided. Five core trainers
trainers                                                                 were trained in adult literacy theory and
technical strategies for literacy instruction
and teacher training. Six study tours were
conducted on curriculum development,
teaching methodology, NFE and literacy
development, educational materiats
development (Thailand 1998), and research
organization. In addition, nine officials took
short courses on education/training in NFE.
Six officials visited Malaysia to acquire
practical knowledge on NFE development in
April 2001 (2 person-months)
l iv) Skills in NFE program development.
(pgraded for 6 HQ spaff                                                 (iv) NFE program development course taken
by 6 HQ staff in Canada in 1998 (9 person-
months)
(v) Skills in finance systems and
management devebped and upgraded for 4                                   (v) Financial and management training for 30
HQ staff                                                                 HQ staff (6 person months), and for 70 NGO
staff were provided
(vi) Computer skills upgraded for about 60stfweepoid
HQ stafe                                                                 (vi) 60 HQ staff received computer training
(29 person-months), and training on website
development. In addition, 20 core trainers
and 32 district coordinators received
computer training. Training on basic
computer was imparted to all PIMU and
DNFE staff.
2. IMPROVED AND EXPANDED NFE
DELIVERY
(a) Improve quality
(i) Identify core competencies for NFE adult                             (i) Core competencies covering four broad
program and develop end-of-course                                       skill areas identified, and end-of-course test
achievement test                                                         in place
(ii) Revise NFE training program, curriculum                            (ii) NFE training program, curriculum and
and textbooks/materials and develop at bad                              textbooks revised. Supplementary reading
3 different types of post-literacy materials                             materials for neo-literates identified, procured
and distributed. 23 pilot post-literacy models
- 20 -



have been implemented under N4FE-2 project
(iii) 3 research studies to support program                                (iii) 4 research studies undertaken: (a)
improvement undertaken                                                     Annual evaluation of learner's achievement;
(b) study of teaching methods; (c) tracer
(iv) At least 60% teachers demonstrate                                     study; and (d) research on teaching reading
mastery and confidence on teaching
methodology and the materials they teach                                   (iv) More than 60% of the teachers were
found competent to deliver NFE
(v) More than 50% achievement of core
competencies by leamers at the end of the                                  (v) A study has shown that average leaming
score is 69.5 percent (female: 67A percent
course                                                                     and male: 72.3 percent)
(b) Support to NGOs for NFE delivery
(i) About 100 NGOs finandally assisted to                                  (i) About 400 NGOs were contracted in all
carry out NFE delivery                                                     throughout the project period to deliver NFE
delivery
(ii) About 50 NGOs received management                                     (ii) 147 NGO representatives participated in
training                                                                   management workshops
(iii) NGO contracts let as per work and action                             (iii) NGO contracts were monitored regularly
plans                                                                      as required.
(iv) NGO perfomiance monitored and results                                 (iv) Ranking of NGOs is based on
made available monthly as per work and                                     performance indicators available in MIS,
action plans                                                               District coordinators and Monitoring
Associates' reports
(v) Data and targets available on schedule as                              (v) Data and targets are available in MIS
per work and action plans                                                  reports.
(vi) About 5,000 supervisors and 79,000                                    (vi) 5,479 supervisors and 82,185 teachers
teachers trained by the end of the Project                                 were trained
(vii) About 2.5 million leamers reached with                               (vii) Target achieved at the end of Phase 5
NFE programs by the end of Project                                         (last phase)
(c) Pilot altemative NFE models, approaches, -
materials
(i) Total Literacy Movement (TLM) pilot tested                             (i) TLM pilots implemented in two Districts:
in 2 districts during first year                                           Faridpur and Ntiphamad
(ii) About 10 altemative NFE models piloted                                (ii) Two altemative models piloted by two
by NGOs                                                                    NGOs (Dhaka Ashania Mission and
Assocation for Social Advancement
Programme)
(d) Social Mobilization
(i) Five-year social mobilization plan                                     (i) Social mobilization activities identified
developed
(ii) Financial assistance provided for social                              (ii) Centrally-developed materials distibuted
mobilization activities                                                    to Project districts
(iii) At least 4 different social mobilization                             (iii) Social mobilization materials developed
materials developed and produced                                           and produced, including posters, calendars,
diaries, TV serials, hoarding, and newsletters
End of project
-21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Component (US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     Actual/Latest /a    Percentage of
Components                    Estimate         Estimate           Appraisal
A. FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT
1. Buildings, Land, and Civil Works                  1.36              1.67          123%
2. Furniture and Fittings                            0.18              0.14          81%
3. Equipment                                         0.36              0.30          84%
4. Service Vehicles/Motorcycles                      1.00              0.47          47%
Sub-total                          2.89               2.59          90%
B. TRAINING
1. Local Training                                    0.10             0.003           3%
2. Local Fellowships                                 0.01              0.00           0%
3. Overseas Fellowships and Study Visits             0.38              0.18          47%
Sub-total                          0.50               0.18          37%
C. CONSULTING SERVICES
1. International Consultants                         1.38              1.23          89%
2. Local Consultants                                 0.69              0.65          94%
3. Contracted Staff                                  0.47              0.43          91%
Sub-total                          2.54               2.31          91%
D. NFE Improvement/Expansion
1. NFE Program Delivery                             28.49             25.86          91%
2. Pilot Programs                                    2.06              0.96           47%
3. Sub-Contract Services                             0.68              0.31          46%
4. Workshops for NGOs                                0.10              0.07           70%
Sub-total                         31.33              27.20          87%
E. IMPLEMENTATION/RECURRENT COSTS
1. Service Vehicles/Motorcycles                     0.35               0.38          109%
2. Building, Furniture and Equipment                 0.10              0.00           0%
3. Directorate of Non-Formal Education Salaries      2.34              2.29          98%
4. Project Implementaltion Mgmt. Unit Salaries       0.18              0.21          122%
5. Materials and Office Supplies                     0.35              0.73          210%
6. Rental Accommodation Expenses                     0.38              0.30           81%
Sub-total                          3.69               3.92          106%
Baseline cost                                   40.95             36.20           88%
Taxes and Duties                                   1.10              0.96           87%
Contingencies:
Physical                                           2.01               0.00           0%/0
Price increase                                     6.13               0.56           9010
Sub-total                          8.14              0.56            7%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                50.19              37.71          75%
Source: DNFE, August 2001.
a/ Because of exchange rate fluctuations, actual figures may vary in small, negligible amounts.
-22 -



Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Procurement Method /a
Expenditure Category            ICB         NCB          Other       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                                  0.00        0.00        0.00         3.05         3.05
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Vehicles & Equipment                   1.82        0.00         0.00        2.24         4.06
(1.82)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (1.82)
3. NFE Program delivery                   0.00        0.00         8.13       23.51        31.64
(0.00)      (0.00)       (8.13)      (0.00)       (8.13)
4. Pilot Programs                         0.00         1.01        0.56         1.56        3.13
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.56)      (0.00)       (0.56)
5. Training & Fellowships                 0.00        0.00         0.00        0.48         0.48
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0o00)
6. Consulting Services                    0.00        0.00         0.00        2.07         2.07
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
7. Operating & Recurent Costs             0.00        0.00         0.00        6.57         6.57
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                              1.82        1.01        8.69        39.49       51.01
(1.82)      (0.00)       (8.69)      (0.00)      (10.5l )
Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (ActuaVLatest Estimate /b)
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Procurement Method /a
Expenditure Category            ICB         NCB          Other       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                                  0.00        0.00         0.00        1.67         1.67
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Vehicles & Equipment                   0.47        0.00         0.00        0.45         0.92
(0.47)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.47)
3. NFE Program delivery                   0.00        0.00         7.13        19.67       26.80
(0.00)      (0.00)       (7.13)      (0.00)       (7.13)
4. Pilot Programs                         0.00        0.00         0.30        0.96          1.26
(0.00)      (0O00)       (0.30)      (0.00)       (0.30)
5. Training & Fellowships                 0.00        0.00         0.00        0.25         0.25
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Consulting Services                    0.00        0.00         0.00         1.88         1.88
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0o00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
7. Operating & Recurent Costs             0.00        0.00         0.00        4.94         4.94
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                             0.47         0.00        7.42        29.82       37.71
(0.47)      (0.00)       (7.42)      (0.00)       (7.90)
Source: DNFE, August 2001.
Notes: (a) Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
All costs include contingencies.
(b) Because of exchange rate fluctuations, figures could may in small, negligible amounts.
- 23 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Latest /b           Percentage of Appraisal
Component /a     IDA   GOB ADB     SDC   Total IDA    GOB ADB     SDC   Total IDA    GOB ADB    SDC    Total
FacilitiesandEquipment  1.82  1.01  1.03  -     3.86 0.474 1.126  0.99   -    2.59  26%  111%   96%    -     67%
Training                 -   0.11   -    0.48   0.59   -   0.003   -  0.251   0.25    -    3%     -   52%    43%
Consulting Services     -     -     -   2.54   2.54    -     -     -   2.31   2.31    -     -    -    91%    91%
NFE programs           8.69  2.48 20.36  0.74  32.27 7.422 1.675 17.59  0.44  27.13  85%  68%   86%   59%    84%
Project Implementation
and Recurrent Costs    -   6.43  5.32   -    11.75    -  4.663 0.769   -     5.43   -    73%   14%    -    46%
TOTAL         10.51 10.03 26.71  3.76  51.01 7.896 7.467 19.35  3.0  37.714  75%  74%   72%   80%    74%
Source: DNFE, August 2001.
a/ According to SAR format; the breakdown by Component (I) Institutional Development and (2) NFE program expansion
and improvement is not available; it is estimated that for (1) Institutional Development, SAR costs amounted to
US$ 14.6 million compared with actual of US$ 10. Imillion (69 percent); and (2) NFE program expansion and improvement,
SAR costs amounted to US$36.3 million compared with actual of US$27.6 million (76 percent).
b/ Because of exchange rate fluctuations, the figures may vary in small, negligible amounts.
- 24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
-25-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
October 1-8,                2    One education specialist, and one
1991                            consultant
January 6-16, 1992          3    One education specialist, and two
consultants
May 24 - June 5,            2    One education specialist and one
1992                            consultant
September 17-25,            1   One education specialist, and one
1992                            general educator
March 27-31, 1993           1    One general educator
April 12 - May 9,           1    One human resource economist
1993
August 21-30,               1    One education specialist
1993
November 7-28,              5    One education specialist, two
1993                            general educators, and two
consultants
January 27-30,              1   One education specialist
1994
August 6-28, 1994           4    One education specialist, one
human resource economist, one
educator, and one public
administration specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
April 6-25, 1995            4   One education specialist, one
project specialist, one
program officer, and one
counsel
Supervision
September 21-26,            3   One disbursement specialist,       S             S
1996                            and two education specialists
April 24-27, 1997           4   One human resource specialist,     S             S
two education specialists, and
one auditor
September 10-17,            3   One education specialist, one      S             S
1997                            disbursement officer, and one
financial management specialist
June 2-9, 1998              2   Two education specialists          U             S
January 1-15, 1999           1  One education specialist           U             S
May 6-16, 1999               4  One education specialist, one      S             S
disbursement officer, one
financial analyst, and one
procurement specialist
October 1-11, 2000          4   One consultant, one procurement    S             S
- 26 -



specialist, one research analyst,
and one financial analyst
June 4-19, 2001              5   One operations analyst, two        S             S
consultants (education & M&E),
one procurement officer, and one
disbursement officer
ICR
Same as above                     Same as above
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  |                Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              113.5                       314.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                    47.2                       117.7
Supervision                            150.77                       182.8
ICR                                    10.0 /a                     32.0 /a
Total                                  321.47                       647.3
a/ Includes forecast (actual costs as at December 31 was 8.45 staff-weeks or US$23.942).
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
ZMacro policies                        O H   O SU O M   O N  * NA
Sector Policies                      O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
Physical                              *H OSUOM ON ONA
Z Financial                            O H   * SU O M   O N  O NA
X Institutional Development            0 H   * SU O M   0 N  0 NA
ZEnvironmental                         O H   O SU * M   O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction              O H   *SUOM      O N  O NA
Z Gender                         *H OSUOM ON ONA
[I Other (Please specify)        O H   O SU O M   O N  * NA
X Private sector development           0 H   0 SU * M   0 N  0 NA
X Public sector management             0 H   0 SU * M   0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)              O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
-28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
• Lending                                          OHS OS       Ou    OHU
? Supervision                                      OHS *S       O U   O HU
Z Overall                                          OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
Z Preparation                                      OHS OS       O U   O HU
X Government implementation performance            O HS * S     0 U   0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                OHS *S       O U   O HU
F Overall                                          OHS OS       Ou    O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Aide Memoires of Appraisal and Supervision Missions. IDA/ADB/SDC. 1995-2001.
Association of Canadian Community Colleges (ACCC), ACCC Draft Final Report - ADB/SDC NFE TA
Project, TA 2534-BAN, Canada, February 18, 2001.
Association of Canadian Community Colleges (ACCC), Institutional Development of the Directorate of
Non-formal education (DNFE) in Bangladesh - Final Report, ADB TA No.2534-BAN, Canada, June 15,
2001.
Development Credit Agreement (Non-formal Education Project) between the People's Republic of Bangladesh
and the International Development Association, Credit Number 2822-BD. World Bank. March 5, 1996.
House of Consultants Ltd., Non-formal Education Project (NFE- 1) Directorate of Non-formal Education
(DNFE) Mid-term Evaluation Draft Report (Main report, Vol-I, and Vol-2), March 25, 1999.
John Comings, Bangladesh feasibility study for Non-formal education (no date).
Dr. Kazi Saleh Ahmed, "Study on Evaluation of Total Literacy Movement in Lalmonirhat," May 15, 1996.
Leah C. Gutierrez, Report on the Tracer Study of Bangladesh Literacy Program Participants of Phase -1,
April 13, 1999.
Mohammad Abdul Jabbar, Report on the Tracer Study of Bangladesh Literacy Program Participants of Phase
1, BME Consultant, January 1999.
PAL-DPC Consortium, Institutional Development of the Directorate of Non-formal Education Final
Evaluation Report, TA 2534-BAN, October 2001.
Project Status Reports (PSR Nos. 1-12). 1996-2001.
Rudolf Schoch, Mohottige Upali Sedere, and Zia Us-Sabur, Systems Capacity Analysis of the Directorate of
Nonformal Education, Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC), March 1999.
Uniconsult International Limited, Bangladesh, "An evaluation of the Total Literacy Movement in the
Chuadanga District," November 13, 1997.
The World Bank, "Bangladesh Education Sector Review, Volumes I and II," The World Bank Bangladesh
Dhaka Office, 2000.
The World Bank, Memorandum and Recommendation of the President. World Bank, February 2, 1996.
The World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report. World Bank, February 2, 1996.
- 30 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower Contribution to ICR
BANGLADESH - Non-Formal Education Project
Borrower/Implementing Agency Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
(Unedited version)
1.   Introduction
The Non-Formal Education Project (NFE Project) was established by the Government of
the People's Republic of Bangladesh in January 1996 with co-financing of Asian Development
Bank (ADB Loan No. 1390 BAN-SF for SDR 17.592 million equivalent initialiy to US$ 26.700
million and finally US$ 23.350 million) and International Development Association (IDA Credit
No. 2822- BD having initial allocation of SDR 7.100 million equivalent to US$ 10.500 million
and subsequent final re-allocation of SDR 5.900 million equivalent to US$ 7.897 million) with
a grant for technical assistance (TA Grant No. 2534- BAN for US$ 3.768 million) financed by
the Swiss Agency for Development and Co-operation (SDC) and administered by ADB. The
Government allocation to the Project was earmarked as Taka 399.448 million equivalent to
US$ 10.00 million in the original Project Proforma (PP) approved by the ECNEC on 09 Aug
1995 and was finally refixed at Taka 422.813 million equivalent to US$ 7.830 million
approximately in the 2nd revised PP approved by the DPEC on 09 April 2001. The project
completion date was initially 31 December 2000 and finally extended to 30 June 2001. The
Loan/Credit closing date as per Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was 30 June 2001.
The total amount of Project cost in terms of US Dollar was initially estimated at US$ 51.00
million, which finally stood at US$ 42.845 million as per following financing arrangements:
Financing Plan (US$ million)
Source Initial Allocation  %  Final Allocation  %
ADB       26.700     52%       23.350    54.5%
IDA      10.500     21%       7.897      18.4%
SDC       3.768      7%       3.768      8.8%
GOB      10.040      20%       7.830     18.3%
Total     51.008     100/      42.845     100%
The overall Project was comprehensively outlined and identified with concerned objectives,
project activities and project financial planning in the Report and Recommendation of the
President to the Board of Directors, Asian Development Bank (RRP: BAN 27034).
2.    Project Objectives and Scope
The Government proposed the project on the basis of acquired experiences from Integrated
Non-Formal Education Program launched under 4th Five year Plan of the country. The
Government's National Plan of Action finalized in 1992 to achieve Education for All (EFA) by
the year 2000 contained the following objectives amongst others: (a) raise the adult literacy
rate from 35 percent to 62 percent; (b) establish a Directorate of Non-Formal Education
(DNFE); (c) attain close cooperation with NGOs.
In that context, this project (NFEP-I) was designed to assist the Government in achieving EFA
by improving and expanding NFE to reach illiterate young adults (15-24 years), particularly
- 31 -



females, by covering 50 thanas in 32 districts in the country's six divisions by the year 2001.
The Project's scope comprised two components: (i) Assisting in the institutionalization of the
INFEP into DNFE. staffed by qualified personnel able to function in related tasks such as
planning, training, monitoring and evaluation; and (ii) Expanding and improving NFE
programs to reach an estimated 2.5 million learners of the targeted age group, of which at
least 1.3 million to be women, through NGOs, the local administration and the book
distribution program.
3.     Project Description
The various components of the project have been grouped into the following three main
parts:
(i)   To strengthen institutional capacity for NFE, the project would:
(a)   assist in setting up a National Council for Primary and Mass Education and NFE;
(b)   establish DNFE;
(c)   develop physical infrastructure; and
(d)   provide staff development at DNFE.
(ii) To support expansion and Improvement of the NFE program for adults, the project would support:
(a)   NFE delivery to young adults;
(b)   quality improvement;
(c)   pilot Alternative NFE model,, approaches and materials; and
(d)   social mobilization activities.
(iii) Others
(a)   SDC- supported Technical Assistance;
(b)   Procurement;
(c)   loan covenants; and
(d)   audit reports.
4.     Achievement of objectives
The Project has achieved its major physical and non-physical objectives to a large extent.
The project's overall physical completion stands at about 99 percent and financial completion
stands at about 88 percent. The project has fully liquidated the ADB Imprest Account of US$
2.500 million and the IDA DOSA Account of US$ 0.700 million before the project completion
date.
5.     Output by Components
(i)   Strengthening Institutional Capacity for NFE
(a)   Establishment of a National Council for Primary and Mass Education
The National Council for Primary and Mass Education, established in November 1996 with 37
members, held its first meeting, chaired by the Prime Minister, in March 1997. The Council
decided that district and upazila administration would be more actively involved in the
implementation of NFE programs in their respective areas. Similarly, the Project Coordination
- 32 -



Committee (PCC), headed by the Secretary. PMED, also met once in September 1998.
Although the Council and the PCC could not meet more than once, regular ADP Review
meetings held under the chairmanship of the Secretary, PMED and monthly review meetings
chaired by the Joint Secretary (Development), PMED provided necessary support and
guidance to the NFE sub-sector.
(b)   Establishment of DNFE
DNFE was formally established in 1995 with 145 staff at headquarters (57 professional staff)
and 256 staff (1 DCO and 3 support staff in each district) in 64 districts. DNFE was able to
transform the INFEP project implementation set-up into a well-structured, staffed and
organized government institution. DNFE was particularly successful in devising effective and
efficient strategies for literacy service delivery with decentralization of responsibility of
literacy operations to district administration and contracted NGOs. It has also managed going
to scale from ENFEP with loss than 200,000 learners a year to more than a million learners
through its four NFB projects. For example, just Phase 5 of the Project covered 705,150
learners through 264 NGOs. The NFE budget as a percentage of the sectoral ADP budget for
education has increased from 3.2% in 1992 to 9.4% in 2000. DNFE has managed to attract
donors for its NFE programs. Besides, to serve the needs of the neo-literates, a Post-Literacy
and Continuing Education (PLCE) project supported by IDA and SDC is already effective, and
an ADB-supported project is expected to become effective by end-2001. Staff, equipment
and database modules, inter-office LAN connection have also been set up. WAN could not as
yet be set up.
DNFE, including the district offices, were funded under the development budget. The
institutionalization process is now complete with the transfer of DNFE to the revenue budget.
(c)   Development of Physical Infrastructure
The construction of DNFE's headquarters building was completed in December 2000, and the
Directorate has already been shifted from the rented premises to the newly constructed
building as envisaged under the Project. The quality of civil works was found satisfactory.
Construction of additional floors to meet the additional space requirement, including the
proposed NFE Academy could not be undertaken due to time constraint. DNFE will explore
the possibility for financing of additional construction work under the proposed second
Non-formal Education Project to be funded by ADB.
The new DNFE building is fully furnished and equipped. During the project period 36 service
vehicles, 33 photocopiers, SO computers were procured and distributed. All project districts
have received one 3-door vehicle, one photocopier and one computer. All these are being
fully used.
(d)   Development of staff capacity
DNFE implemented the staff development program under the TA Project to strengthen its
capacity for different aspects of NFE, including skills in NFE approaches, training, curriculum
and materials development, program development, finance systems and management, and
computer literacy. Skills in NFE approaches and training have been upgraded for about 55
staff, 32 DCOs, 20 Core Trainers, and more than 120 Master Trainers. Eight PMED/DNFE staff
received external fellowship training in NFE program development and education materials
development. Thirty-one PMED/DNFE officials participated in six foreign study visits in NFE
policy and planning, Benefit Monitoring Evaluation (BME) system, Post-literacy and Continuing
- 33 -



Education, NFE delivery and TLM. On-the-job and in-house training has been provided on
different aspects of NFE approaches, finance systems management, MIS, monitoring and
evaluation and computer skills. The Core Trainers and DNFE staff have been trained in adult
learning theory techniques for literacy instruction and teacher training. Management training
of participating NGOs has been conducted. Under the local fellowship program, training on
finance system development, management and supervision, computer skills, network
management, database management and MIS was completed.
(ii) Expansion and Improvement of NFE Delivery Program
(a)   Delivery of NFE
In total, the Project covered 2.9 million learners through three approaches (Center-based
Approach- CBA, Total Literacy Movement - TLM and Primer Distribution Approach- PDA).
Against a target of 2.5 million learners, a total of 2.46 million learners have been covered
through the CBA in five phases. Of these, more than 57% of the participants were females.
A breakdown of the participants by phases and gender is shown below:
Coverage of Learners by Project 1 by Phases
Phase 1   Phase 2  Phase 3   Phase 4A   Phase 46  Phase 5    Total
CBA: No. of NGOs          95       138      196        206       157       264
CBA: No. of Centers    6,075     14,550   14,700     12,675    10,680    23,505       82,185
Male                  2,238     5,936     6,376     5,364     4,988    10,740       35,642
Female                3,837     8,614     8,324     7,311     5,692                 40,543
CBA: No. of Participants  182,250  436,500  441,000  380,250  320,400   705,150     2,465,550
Male                 67,140    178,080  191,280   160,920    149,640   322,200    1,069,260
Female              115,110   258,420   249,720   219,330    170,760   382,950    1,396,290
% Female               63.2      50.2     56.6       57.7      53.3      64.3         56.6
TLM: No. of Centers    6.001                                                           6,001
TLM: No. of Participants  180,010                                                    180,010
Male                 48,936                                                         48,936
Female              131,074                                                        131,074
NFE-PDA: No. of
participants                                                                         2-55,337
Total Participants                                                                 2,903,977
For the CBA about 400 NGOs were contracted using subvention procedures in the different
phases. The number of participating NGOs increased from 95 in Phase 1 to 264 in Phase 5.
Two TLM pilot programs were implemented by the local administration in Faridpur and
Nilphamari districts. Through the PDA approach, 124 philanthropic voluntary organizations
(PVOs) and government officials received primers and covered 255,337 learners. Due to lack
of any guidelines, effective use of the primers could not be ensured. A total of 5,479
supervisors and 82,185 teachers were trained and deployed across 32 districts. Altogether
147 NGO representatives participated in. the management training. DNFE monitored NGOs
through District Coordinators (DCOs) and Monitoring Associates. It is worth noting that the
overall role of DCOs was crucial for ensuring effective program delivery through NGOs.
(b)   Quality Imrrovement
Core competencies for NFE Program covering four broad skill areas (reading, writing,
arithmetic and life skills) were identified and validated in 2000 during a national workshop.
The course achievement tests, first developed in 1997, were revised three times during the
- 34 -



project period to meet the program needs.
As recommended by the Mid Term Review (MTR) mission, the NFE training program for
teachers and supervisors was revised in September 1999 in terms of duration and content.
The duration of this training, including refresher training and post-literacy orientation, was
extended from 15 days (10+3+2) to 20 days (12+3+5) for the teacher and 15 days
(10+3+2) to 23 days (14+4+5) for supervisors.
The revision of the NFE curriculum was completed through a series of workshop in 2000. The
current three NFE primers (Chetona, levels 1-3) were condensed into two primers. Teacher
guides and teaching-learning aids were also developed. The NFE materials package, including
primer, guides and instructional materials were tested currently. Regarding the development
of post-literacy materials the service contract was cancelled in view of the implementation of
23 pilot post-literacy and continuing education program under the NFE-2 project.
The following four studies were undertaken to support program improvement: (a) Annual
Evaluation of Learner's Achievement; (b) A Study on Teaching Methods to Maximize Student
Learning in NFE; (c) Social arid Economic Impact of Participation in NFE program (Tracer
Study); and (d) Research on Teaching Reading Using Bengali phono-graphics Method. As
most of these studies were completed recently it was not possible to use the findings for
further NFE Program improvement.
An in-house study on the Mastery of the NEE teachers was conducted in September 2000.
This study indicates that in general most of the teachers are qualified (SSC and above), and
have been successful in delivering NFE to the learners.
DNFE MIS, based on NGQ reports, indicates a low dropout rate (less than four percent) and a
high pass rate exceeding 90 percent. After validation this percentage would be lower by about
ten percentage points. A study of learning achievement indicated an average score of 69.5
percent (67.4 percent for female and 72.3 percent for male). Despite higher attendance of
female learners in literacy classes, female learning achievement appears to be slightly lower
than that of males, possibly due to previous schooling experience of male learners, and
greater exposure outside the home. A number of ad-hoc studies, field monitoring reports and
field observation also support a 60-70% achievement of core competencies by the NFE
learners.
(c)   Alternative NFE Models, Approaches and Materials
One of the Pilot programs under the Project was the introduction of TLM in two districts:
Faridpur and Nilphamari. TLM has been replicated all over the districts, based on the
implementation experience during INFEP (1992-1996). The purpose of the pilot was to gain
insights on the strength and weaknesses of TLM in the first year of project implementation.
The Project planned to evaluate the pilots under the TA Project. Due to delay in approval of
the Terms of Reference for the study, this study could not materialize.
The Project also planned to pilot ten alternative models and approaches to NFE delivery
suitable to the context and needs of the learners. Two NGOs were contracted to carry out two
pilots: Dhaka Ashania Mission (DAM) and the Association for Social Advancement Programme
(ASAP). The approaches tested were "Each One Teach One", by DAM and "Profession-based
Program," by ASAP. Both NGOs completed the pilots. Whilst these two approaches could not
be used during the Project period, they merit being considered for replication in areas where
they can best be applied.
- 35 -



(d)   Social Mobilization
A media consultant supported DNFE in drawing a five-year work plan of social mobilization
activities in October 2000. As part of social mobilization activities a number of news features
and five newsletters were published in the national daily newspapers and weekly magazines.
A TV serial of 13 episodes was also broadcast by the national television. Besides, project
districts were provided centrally developed materials, such as posters, calendars and hoarding
signs.
(1ii) Others
(a)   SDC-supported Technical Assistance
The total estimated cost of the TA component was USS 5.781 million. SDC agreed to provide
USS 3.786 million for all TA activities except local training and fellowships. The Asian
Development Bank (ADB) based on the agreement between ADB and SDC on May 29, 1996
has administered the TA Grant (TA No. 25#4-BAI#) financed by SDC. Of the total SDC grant
of USS 3.768 million, ADB contracted USS 3.511 million to the Association of Canadian
Community Colleges (ACCC)I Canada, and the balance remained with ADB. The total amount
disbursed was around USS 3.001 million, which accounts for about 80% of the total SDC
commitment.
The contract with ACCC was completed on 31 December 2000, and ACCC submitted the draft
final TA Report in. February 2001. ADB provided comments and feedback on the report.
ACCC needs to submit the final report as soon as possible.
On the whole, the implementation of the TA Project progressed well. The TA Project generally
achieved its overall objectives. Out of the planned 248 person-months of consultant services,
including the extended period (70 international and 178 national), only 237.5 person-months
(70 international and 167.5 national) were utilized. Compared to the target of 20 Core
Trainers, 24 have actually been hired, and only 15 remained until December 2000. For
Monitoring Associates (MAs) compared to the original target of 10 MAs, 26 have been actually
hired, and 14 remained in service until December 2000.
The actual 270,6 person-months of staff development almost matched target of 276
person-months. Since funds for the local training and fellowships were approved only during
the MTR in May 1999, most of the local training programs were held late. All six planned
local fellowship programs have been implemented, benefiting 93 participants. Altogether six
study visits were organized for 31 participants. Foreign fellowship were awarded to eight
persons in two courses (19.5 person-months against the target of 60 person-months)
There were some revision in the TORs for the consultant services and staff development
activities.. The scope of activities was changed in some areas to reflect the recommendations
of the MTR and other Supervision Missions. The MTR recommended to extend the services of
TA team and consultants, and allowed to use SDC fund to support local training and
fellowships. The MTR Mission also redesigned the role of TA team leader on the basis of
following guidelines: (i) further strengthening the planning, monitoring and evaluation
capacity of DNFE; (ii) strengthening TSSU's capacity; and (iii) initiating the process of
handing over the TA activities to relevant sections. in DNFE. The other variation from the
original design included: (a) replacement of the Audiovisual Education Technician by the
Finance Specialist; (b) addition of a Media Consultant for social mobilization activities, using
- 36 -



fund from specialist subcontract services; (c) appointment of a Computer Systems Consultant
instead of a Computer Systems Analyst and (d) appointment of a Management Development
Specialist to assist the TA team in facilitating and transferring management skills to DNFE.
Altogether 17 subcontract services -were planned under the TA Specialists subcontract
activities have been much delayed from the original implementation schedule, which have
undermined the utility and validity of these activities. The review of the status of
implementing subcontract services under the TA showed that of 17 subcontract studies, 14
studies were completed before the end of the TA project in December 2000, one study on
post-literacy material was cancelled, two studies on evaluation of TLM did not commence at
all (due to late approval of TOR by PMED). Various reports prepared under the TA project are
not documented. The endings of studies under the TA project were not disseminated
systematically among the stakeholders.
The TA Team initially played a good role in strengthening the capability of DNFE both at
headquarters and district levels. They provided good training to Core Trainers, Monitoring
Associates and DCOs. However, the performance of the TA team was not found satisfactory
by the Joint review mission (ADB/IDA/SDC) in October 2000 in meeting the redesigned
guidelines recommended by the MTR Mission as mentioned above. The TA team was partially
successful in effective transfer of skills and remaining TA activities to DNFE as recommended
by the October Review Mission.
After the completion of the contract with ACCC on 31 December 2000, at PMED's request,
ADB, in consultation with SDC, has engaged DPC-PAL Association from 01 January to 30 June
2001 to administer the services of Financial Specialist, Core Trainers and Monitoring
Associates, organize monthly orientation! review meetings with NGOs and DCOs, arrange a
short study visit for DNFE stag and undertake a final evaluation of the project. Under this
extended TA, a study visit to Malaysia was organized in which six PMED/DNFE officials
participated. DPC-PAL Association have submitted their final evaluation report direct to the
ADB in October 2001.
(b)   Procurement
The Project completed almost all procurement activities of both the ADB Loan and IDA Credit.
In all 36 vehicles were procured under the Credit. In view of the late stage of the Project,
IDA could not accede to the project's recent request for a. waiver to procure a five-door
vehicle for one district. Regarding other activities viz. (a) social mobilization activities to
generate demand for NFEP (b) special research projects, and (c) evaluation of the efficiency
of NFE programs, progress could not be made as planned due to procedural delay and time
constraint.
(c)   Loan Covenants
Although delayed in some cases, major loan covenants were complied with.
(d)   Audit Report
The Project has already given replies to, the audit observation in respect of the ADB Loan for
FY 1996/97, FY 1997/98, 1998/99 and FY 1999/2000 through PMED. PMED held several
tripartite meetings to resolve outstanding audit observations. The matter will be closed in
due course. There were no major outstanding issues in respect of audits for the IDA Credit.
- 37 -



6.    Cost and Financing
The total project estimated cost (ADB Portion) in terms of US dollar was about 23.350 million
USD as of 30 June 2001. The actual total expenditure as on that date came to around 19.350
million USD which is about 82.87% to total estimated cost. Fund flow to ADB Imprest
Account was restrictive during the last six months period of the project, for which the project
faced difficulty in implementing the last and largest Phase 5 NFE delivery program (July
2000- June 2001 inclusive of teachers' and supervisors' training period).
The total project estimated cost (IDA portion) in term of US Dollar was about 7.897 million
USD as on 30 June 2001. The actual total expenditure as on that date came up to around
7.896 million USD which is about 100% of the total estimated cost. Fund flow to the project
was smooth.
SDC grant of USD 3.768 million was administered by ADB and expended firstly by ACCC,
Canada and lastly by DPC-PAL Associates. Final figures of utilization of the Grant are
available with ADB, Manila. Provisional figures as could be gathered by the Project indicate
actual utilization of around 3.00 million USD which is close to (80%) the total Grant.
The Government's participation to the Project in terms of US Dollar was estimated at a total
of 10.00 million USD in the original PP, which was subsequently revised to 7.830 million USD
in the 2nd revised PP. Actual expenditure amounts to around 7.467 million USD, which is
close (95.36%) to the total estimated cost. Funds flow to the Project was satisfactory.
7.    Sustainability
The Project has made a positive contribution towards achieving its development objectives by
establishing DNFE with well-trained and able staff strength, providing infrastructure, such as
construction of DNFE headquarters building, procurement of service vehicles, office
equipment etc. for headquarters and district offices, extending professional and computer
training,, holding seminars conferences workshops etc, upgrading of NGO accounting and
management system, training of field level teachers/supervisors/master trainers, etc. DNFE
has already undertaken four more NFE projects viz. Project-2 with foreign assistance from
NORAD SIDA and USAID, Project-3 with foreign assistance from UNICEF, Project-4 covering
TLM throughout the country with 100% government contribution and Project-5 with foreign
assistance from IDA and SDC for post-literacy and continuing education (PLCE). Another
Project (Project-6) for PLCE is under process of negotiation with ADB. DNFE has thus created
a permanent footing in the government administration to assist the Government in achieving
education for all. So the Project will be sustainable on long-term basis.
8.    Borrower's Performance
The project was identified and outlined in the SAR of the ADB and World Bank in 1995 and
highlighted in RRP of ADB with project objectives and financial planning. The project
components such as institution building, expansion by NFE program and reaching the project
target of about 3.00 million learners through CBA, TLM and PPA were implemented with the
help of the concerned agencies of GOB. They were found justifiable and acceptable.
Completion of the components has provided facilities to the common masses of Bangladesh.
GOB's performance during implementation can be considered satisfactory. Although there
were changes of government during implementation of the project, their commitment to the
project did not change. To implement the project, the government provided necessary
money and positive decision. The components of the project were completed in time except
- 38 -



for a few procedural delays and time constraint.
9.    Lessons Learned
(a)   Rapid growth of NFE delivery Program: The rapid growth of DNFE activities as
witnessed by the number of learners covered under Phase 5 of the Project resulted seemingly
in a deterioration in quality achievement.
(b)   Continuity of consultants role: Discontinuation of consultancy services 6 months'
before completion of the project created tremendous pressure on the project in performing
project completion work.
(c)   Continuity of Key personnel: Frequent change of govemment deputed officials
specially key personnel, hampered and delayed the smooth functioning of project
implementation work.
10.   Evaluation of Performance of the donors
Donor's performance from identification to completion of the project was satisfactory. The
donor-borrower relationship was all along good. Supervisory Missions were very professional,
objectively oriented and based on understanding of the Borrower's institutional capabilities
and the donor's policies and procedures. During the project implementation, the
donor-borrower relationship was beneficial and productive. Both parties responded positively
to the practical needs that arose during implementation. Implementation problems were
correctly identified and adequately assessed. Necessary advice was given to the
implementing agencies and follow up actions were adequate. The timing of Supervision
Mission was appropriate and time spent for this was sufficient.
1.    Kazi Farid Ahamed, Director (Planning), DNFE
2.    Muhammad Anwarul Haq, Ex-Financial Specialist
3.    Md. Abdul Rouf Shah, Deputy-Director (Finance)
- 39 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 3170A
9'2'
BANGLADESH
AANCHAOAI?"l                                 NON-FORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
0 .
PROJECT COVERAGE
-26- /                                            (I   )
R.",                                                                                                             26-
Vgm.
DINAJPL-P        Ra'yp.,
RANG"                                                                               0     25     O    75
KLOMETERS
Gbibandho
GAW440M
,OVPURPOI
:,:                1 i   . -,  SERM
NAOGAON     -                                              j -            6)   s,,,-0mganI                                       25--
25'                                                                     IJ
R A   J;S,.R'A    H   I                          r                                                   SYLHET
Nuroka-a
BOGRA                                                                              aSylhet
JAMALPVR
S Y   L)H   E T
D H A K
I                             MOULVI UZAR
RAJSNAHI                      5eraiganjo ).             11
%                             MAL40W         WuM
oNatwe                                  I                                             Bazar
NATORE        SERAXL4W
L
I langc;l     Y,
GAZiPUR        7,                      f
PASNA
NARUNG, p'LWAAl(.                                             2A -
24                                                                                                                             I N  D I A
KUSHFIA
3on-k-ijL     DHAKA`   'v
bv
AIA'll
Ch.adlhga
lk,     j
L;, CHUADANGA 11
ihem-dah,                                                COMIUA
a                 FAROM                          -VW."
A)UNSMItGANI.-oY
1,MENADAM                                 _1           I   - -  Com-11-3,\
MAGURA
1.11      SARiAMM     CHANDIPUR',
KHAGVACHARI
'__'-A>;Jessore0     J Narail !;ll      MADAWk                 - 1. j             .   I                   I
: m
I N D I A
JESSORE       NARAJL
NJ         0-.. A.-I.             ----                                              23- -
23-                       1      K H   U  L    A                                                          : F.ni
L          N
wx.,F;k--,       :   FENI
BARMAL          A        -OAKMAI;'
"'Khulno
5atkh-r0 ",KHUL                                                         "-C%"H   I T T         0   ;q G
SATKNIM 1.
V
J.
CMTrAGOW
I SA L
%         PI'      11 BHOLA
coua
JA
JAMWNA
r
j" &ANAARRAN
%
BANGL4ES'_H'
J
ir IC---                   z                     Bc,
M.! -op    p.Cj,.cej b, he 1.1p De;.q., U.., of T.a L%  bo,.k
The b.,.rCjo,-d:                3ml o-, orhe, .05mono- shc-n
o 'P- op IC    -PI, c',, pc, Po" ok The %%odd 6o.k G,a-..p or.,
o. hA          ,d jr.      z. ),.. cridor:eme.-a
.3cc pror.:e c-I ;.ch
L
DECEMBER 2001



