Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14843-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 2, 1996
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region






PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             People's Republic of Bangladesh
Implementing Agency:   Primary and Mass Education Division (PMED)
Beneficiary:          The Directorate of Nonformal Education, PMED, which will provide support
to Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) delivering "second chance"
education to 2.7 million illiterates.
Poverty:              Program of Targeted Interventions. This Project would reduce poverty by
improving educability and productivity of young illiterate adults in the 15-24
years age group. The beneficiaries will be selected from the 30 districts
having the lowest literacy rates which, by implication, are also likely to be the
poorest districts. At least half the beneficiaries will be women. The literacy
programs will be delivered mainly by NGOs working with the communities
on poverty reduction.
Amount:               SDR 7.1 million (US$10.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard with 40 years maturity
Commitment fee:       0.50% on undisbursed credit balance, beginning 60 days after signing subject
to decision on IDA's waiver policy.
Onlending terms:      Not applicable.
Financing Plan:       The total project cost is US$51 million equivalent of which ADB will provide
US$26.7 million equivalent, IDA will provide US$10.5 million equivalent,
Swiss Development Corporation will provide US$3.8 million equivalent and
the Government of Bangladesh will provide US$10 million equivalent.
Net Present Value:    Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:               Report No. 14843-BD. IDA is using the ADB equivalent Green Cover Staff
Appraisal Report.
Economic Rate of
Return:               Not applicable.
Project Identification
Number:               9560






BANGLADESH
NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT (BD-PA-9560)
IDA is cofinancing the Nonformal Education Project with the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) as the lead agency. A joint appraisal was conducted in
April 1995 and IDA participated in the technical negotiations of ADB's Loan in
August 1995. The ADB Loan was approved September 25, 1995. Negotiations for
the IDA Credit were completed on January 21, 1996 and a Board date is proposed
for February 27, 1996.
The attached ADB project document "Report and Recommendation of the
President to the Board of Directors on a proposed Loan to the People's
Republic of Bangladesh for the Nonformal Education Project" dated September
1995 was cleared by IDA's South Asia Region for use as the Staff Appraisal
Report. This was agreed with ADB.
The document has a World Bank Staff Appraisal Report Cover and
project ID number. A standard IDA Credit and Project Summary page has been
inserted. Currency equivalents and acronyms are inside the ADB cover.
Please note when reading the ADB document that references to the
"Bank" refer to ADB; and that reference to IDA financed components and
procedures are referred to in the text as "IDA". Also note, that for
procurement of vehicles and NGO services to be financed from the IDA Credit,
IDA procurement procedures apply.



I



RRP:BAN 27034
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR THE
NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
September 1995
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~   - 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of 1 June 1995)
Currency Unit             -               Taka (Tk)
Tk1.00                                    $0.0249
$1.00                                     Tk40.1 0
For the purpose of calculations in this Report, a rate of $1.00 = Tk4O.0O has been used. This
was the rate prevailing at the time of Project Appraisal.
ABBREVIATIONS
BME        -      Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation
BOU        -      Bangladesh Open University
BRAC       -      Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee
CPE        -      Compulsory Primary Education
CSP         -     Community Schools Project
DGIS       -      Directorate General for Intemational-Cooperation
DNFE       -      Directorate of Nonformal Education
EFA        -      Education for All
GEP         -     General Education Project
GSS         -     Gono Shahajjo Sangsta
IDA        * -    Intemational Development Association
IDEAL      -      Intensive District Approach to Education for All
INFEP      -      Integrated Nonformal Education Program
MIS        -      Monitoring and Information System
MTR        -      Midterm Review
NFE        -      Nonformal Education
NFPE       -      Nonformal Primary Education
NGO        -      Nongovemmental Organization
NORAD      -      Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
NPA        -      National Plan of Action
ODA        -      Overseas Development Administration
PIMU       -      Project Implementation Management Unit
PMED       -      Primary and Mass Education Division
SDC        -      Swiss Development Cooperation
SIDA       -      Swedish Intemational Development Cooperation Agency
TA          -     Technical Assistance
TLM         -     Total Literacy Movement
TSSU        -     Technical Support Services Unit
UNDP       -      United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF     -      United Nations Children's Fund
NOTES
(i)        The fiscal year of the Govemment ends on 30 June
(ii)       In this Report, V refers to US dollars.



CONTENTS
Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                                ii
MAP                                                                     iv
I.    THE PROPOSAL                                                       1
II.   INTRODUCTION                                                       1
Ill.   BACKGROUND                                                        1
A.    Subsector Description                                        1
B.    Govemment Policies and Plans                                 6
C.    External Assistance to the Subsector                         7
D.   Lessons Learned                                               7
E.    The Bank's Sectoral Strategy                                 8
F.    Policy Dialogue                                              9
IV.   THE PROJECT                                                        9
A.    Rationale                                                    9
B.    Objectives and Scope                                        10
C.   Cost Estimates                                               14
D.    Financing Plan                                              15
E.   Implementation Arrangements                                  15
F.    Environment and Social Measures                             19
G.   Technical Assistance                                         20
H.   Policy Issues                                                20
V.    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION                                             21
A.    Socioeconomic Analysis                                      21
B.    Social Dimensions                                           24
VI.   ASSURANCES                                                        24
VIl.   RECOMMENDATION                                                   25
APPENDIXES                                                              26



I



LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                People's Republic of Bangladesh
Project Outine    :    The Project will support the urgently needed provision of nonformal
education (NFE) to disadvantaged, illiterate young adults,
particularly females, and institutional development for NFE as part
of the country's poverty reduction and human development
strategy.
Classification          Primary                 :     Poverty reduction
Secondary               :    Women in development
Environmental Category       C
Rationale              In spite of the Government's policy toward the eradication of
illiteracy, a large number of adults remain uneducated. Without
specific actions to provide increased opportunities for a 'second
chance,0 there will be about 20 million illiterates in the age group
15-24 by the year 2000. The low level of literacy and life skills is a
major contributing factor to the perpetuation of poverty. There is
therefore an urgent need to increase opportunities for illiterates to
obtain NFE. The Project has been formulated within the Bank's
overall strategic objectives of poverty reduction and improving the
status of women, and the Govemment's development framework
to attain the national Education for All (EFA) targets. The Project
w4ill complement the Bank's previous investment in primary
education in Bangladesh by ensuring that the educationally most
disadvantaged segment of the population, particularly females, will
have an opportunity to gain literacy and life skills to improve their
socioeconomic situation.
Objective and
Scope             :    The Project will assist the Government in achieving EFA by
improving and expanding NFE to reach illiterate young adults,
particularly females. Specifically, the Project will strengthen NFE by
(i) assisting in the institutionalization of the Integrated Nonformal
Education Program into a Directorate of NFE (DNFE) staffed by
qualified personnel able to function In related tasks such as
planning, training, monitoring, and evaluation; and (ii) expanding
and improving NFE programs to reach an estimated 2.5 million
learners of the targeted age group through nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs) and the local district administration. The
Project will form part of the Govemment's overall NFE development
program to be supported by different extemal agencies.
Cost Estimates          The total cost of the Project is estimated at $51.0 million
equivalent, including taxes, duties, and contingencies, of which an
estimated $4.3 million, or 8 percent, is foreign exchange cost,
including $0.8 million of service charge on the proposed loan. The
local currency cost is estimated at $46.7 million equivalent, or 92
percent of the total cost.



Financing Plan                                                   ($ million)
Source    Foreign   Local   Total    Percent
Cost   Cost   Cost
The Bank             1.3   25.4   26.7       52
Intemational Development
Association         0.8    9.7   10.5      21
Swiss Development
Cooperation         2.2    1.6    3.8       7
The Govemment         -    10.0   10.0      20
Total                4.3   46.7   51.0    100
Loan Amourn
and Terns         :    The equivalent in various currencies of Special Drawing Rights
17,592,000 from the Bank's Special Funds resources, with an
amortization period of 40 years, including a grace period of 10
years, and a service charge of 1 percent per annum.
Period of Ufilizaffon:  Until 30 June 2001
Executing Agency  :    Directorate of Nonformal Education
Implementation
Arrangements            The Executing Agency will be responsible for planning, organizing,
and implementing the Project. The Project will be managed by a
Project Implementation Management Unit to be established within
the Executing Agency.
Procurement       :    All Bank-financed procurement for the Project will be in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines forProcurement. Civil works
contracts will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding,
following Government procedures acceptable to the Bank. Each
contract for the supply of equipment for packages in excess of
$500,000 will follow international competitive bidding procedures,
and international shopping procedures will be used for packages
valued at $500,000 or less except for fumiture, minor equipment,
and materials to be procured through local competitive bidding.
Minor items costing less than $50,000 equivalent will be procured
under direct purchase procedures in accordance with the
Govemment procedures acceptable to the Bank. Procurement for
the International Development Association (IDA) components will
follow IDA's procurement guidelines.



(iii)
Consultng
Senrices                Sixty person-months of international consultants and 138 person-
months of domestic consultants will be required to support the
institutional development of DNFE in all aspects of its NFE delivery
system. All consultants will be selected and engaged in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants.
Estimated Project
Completion Date         31 December 2000
Project Benefis
and Benefclarlee        DNFE will be capable of delivering NFE on a larger scale, including
trained staff at the central and local levels, improved NFE training
and teaching methodologies, and mechanisms for system
evaluation. The expansion of NFE programs will benefit an
estimated 2.5 million illiterate adults, particularly females. The NFE
programs will impart literacy, numeracy, and life skills to the
beneficiaries. NFE programs for adults will improve their
productivity and enable them to take advantage of income-
generating activities, social services, and self-improvement
activities. In the long term, the Project will have intergenerational
effects as well as positive impact on health, nutrition, and family
planning.
Technical
Assistance              The Swiss Govemment, acting through Swiss Development
Cooperation, is expected to provide a technical assistance grant
in the amount of $3,768,000 to finance the following Project
components: (i) all of the consulting services required under the
Project; (ii) local contract staff and contract services for a variety of
research and quality improvement projects as well as NFE
development, montoring, and evaluation; (iii) alternative studies on
methods, materials, and approaches; (iv) training workshops for
NGOs; and (v) regional extemal fellowships for about 33 senior
staff in a variety of NFE disciplines.



iv
/  >          a9°~~~8E                                                                                       92'E
g;  ANCHAGAR        >_
THAKURGAONG  -AJ        N   -
1ThAKURGAON,   NILPHAMAFI                                                     BANGLADESH
.         _y  I               ,\LA4A*JNIRHAr {   'k                NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT                                              26°N
.     ,\f.    I                               Project Coverage
DINAJPUR   \   RANG    _
~ LIRIGRAM.J
'I-K          \\ I'             '
N_s,\'                It
GAIBANDHA    7      .             .                         .
f              \JOVPURHAT' _                                      )
J       NACQAC- N                             \  SHERPUR   J                     a. v    SUNAMGAN4                          *.
./ \. jt    : NAOGAON   j-K                                      
C:            >                0                    >-1 EOGM 80  JAiA LPUR   JNETRKONA                 /        SYLHET /, 'j
!r /.owAeoAr4J',        N                            1   .J    *,j  -} ...........SMYMENSINGH      )  r '
N. '.  RAJSIAHI   ,                                                                                       cLIA4
_NATORE \.  M I             /    TANAIL                      KtSHORGANJ  - HAEIGANJ                 /
I         PAEHA   I-  /               J    SAZIPLR    S                  C        "' J
PASNA                                            N 
\ \ KIJSRA N^  *                    ~                       / o i - >HNARSHINGDI /  /,
iJENERPUR    r _ _  - -                                r~~Di'KA    N - BRAHIMA1BARIA
/             -- \MANIKGANJ     r*       A                   r
I :   i   \   RAJBARI  iA -                NAR4*4G4NJ <"                                         ,
Il/CHUADANGA/           j                            -    /         J 2          f
JHENAIDAN  \        4, ~~~~'  MUNSHICAIW           COMILLA)                                
J HE NAH AGUM            FARIOPUR      /N.                               N                    j
{           r t   i--'   -   :\SARIATPUAN  -Z CHANDPLIJR  i ' .    (           \    .
N f  ARAIL ?      /JKHAGRACNHAI
.     JESSORE    \       - GOPALGANJ  N             (        /            r a  (  7(>! . ..f     
| I   - _ _'              ) N       /                    -\LAKSHNMIPUR     /  FN        r
_ f )-  -  SARISAL        .NOAKHALI                 -'
/ERWPUR\                                                              RANGAWA77
,SATKHIRA, KHULNA I               /                               1 -\,
-         \O'       , ,'-''                                                           !AGERHAT\    A U '  1  N
/   r   /                          I                             Iy- ./  PATUAKHAU I
S                                     /  B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HOLA 
N     /               \    j   -/   //                                                                     NjBOU \\     
7 r                  1 i BARGUNA   1$                                             j 
/ ',( .-                .r       :          /                             CHITTAGONG _
22°N                           \    i         \                                                    I \ 
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
I                                                 N f  i  @                    _ -  BANOARANf
/
0      25     50      75     100        coxit..
Kilometers
Project Area                         i              )
/;3t I I    R I'    !. i: I    f, (3   /- 3  ®     National Capital
Major River
- -   District Boundary
---- -- International Boundary                    '
(Boundaries not necessarily authoritabve)
89°E                                                                                          92°E
95 1981 R



1. THE PROPOSAL
1.          I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a
proposed loan to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the Nonformal Education Project.
II. INTRODUCTION
2.          In 1993, the Bank provided technical assistance (TA)' to prepare a project for
nonformal education (NFE) in Bangladesh. The Bank undertook loan fact-finding in November-
December 1994, and appraised the Project in April 19952 The Intemational Development
Association (IDA) and the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) are expected to cofinance the
Project. Close consultations and coordination with officials of the Government, other funding
agencies, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and expected beneficiaries have been
ensured throughout the process. This report is based on the TA report, the Fact-finding and
Appraisal Missions, and the work of Government officials.
III. BACKGROUND
A.    Subsector Description
3.          Unlike many developing countries, Bangladesh has a largely homogeneous
society with a common cultural and linguistic identity. The fact that Bangla is spoken throughout
the country is particularly advantageous in the spread of literacy and basic education. A large,
diverse, and dynamic community of NGOs are engaged in economic and social development;
nonetheless, Bangladesh is one of the poorest countries in the world, with a per capita income
of about $220. The proportion of hard-core poverty (consumption of less than 1,805 calories per
day) fell from 30.7 percent in mid-1970 to 24.9 percent in the 1980s, but the absolute number
of persons in hard-core poverty has risen because of the increase in population and is now
estimated at 30 million. A key factor contributing to poverty in Bangladesh is the smallness of
the literate population base, especially among women, which poses a serious constraint to
Government efforts to curb the population growth rate and increase labor productivity and
efficiency.
4.          Females are particularly disadvantaged. Contrary to the situation in most of the
world, the life expectancy for women in Bangladesh is lower than that for men. The mortality rate
for girls (aged 1-4) is 21 percent higher than that for boys. The tradition of early marriage
adversely effects women's status and welfare and has a negative impact on women's access to
education and on their health, as girls begin bearing children at a very young age. Girls have
had less access to basic education opportunities and have dropped out faster than boys,
resulting in the present low literacy rate for females, 23 percent, compared with 44 percent for
males.
I     TA No. 2013-BAN: Nonformal Education Project, for $250,000, approved on 14 December 1993.
2     The Mission comprised G. Forsberg (Education Specialist, Mission Leader); J. Boyd (Senior Counsel, OGC);
W. Costin (Project Specialist, AWEH); N. Huda (Project Officer, BRM); Y. Uehara (Social Sect6rs Specialist,
PW2); A. Aarons (Task Manager, IDA); F. Munger (Staff Consultant, AWEH): and R. Schoch (Consultant,
SDC).



2
5.           Past low investments in primary education have been one of the major reasons
for limited access to basic schooling for the majority of the rural population, especially women.
In the last two decades, Bangladesh has adopted various efforts to define and address the
quantitative and qualitative gaps that have kept universal primary education a distant goal. These
initiatives include commitment to Basic Education for All (EFA)' by the year 2000, the General
Education Project (GEP)2, compulsory primary education (CPE), and an Integrated Nonformal
Education Program. To further emphasize the importance of basic education, primary and mass
education were separated from the Ministry of Education to form a Primary and Mass Education
Division (PMED) in 1992. PMED is headed by a Secretary who reports directly to the Prime
Minister. The Govemment has also put increased emphasis on the role of NFE to complement
universal primary education.
1.    Nonformal Education
6.           In the Bangladesh context, NFE is defined as intentional, purposive instruction that
(i) occurs outside the formal Government school system, and (ii) incorporates flexibilities in the
organization and management of the program and the curriculum. Currently, most NFE in
Bangladesh is provided through NGOs or other voluntary organizations either in programs
focusing on NFE only or within broader development projects. It is estimated that in 1994, about
1.7 million learners, aged 6-14 years, and 0.6 million adults were receiving some form of NFE
conducted by NGOs and other voluntary organizations in addition to a few Government
institutions and other line ministries. The program categories generally fall into the following
groups: early childhood education (4-5 years), nonformal primary education (6-10 years),
nonformal education for older children (11-14 years), adult literacy, continuing education, and
integrated literacy programs with income generation and agriculture extension. Experience so
far indicates low dropout rates and high attendance and completion rates. Dropout rates are
generally below 10 percent and around 3 percent for the primary education programs. These
factors are attributed to the flexible NFE structure, relevant program content, and the close
supervision of centers. Adult dropout rates tend to be higher according to a 1992 survey of NGO
programs-around 20 percent for males and 9 percent for females.
7.           To implement the Government's EFA program, an Integrated Nonformal Education
Program (INFEP) was started in 1992 with funding from the Government, UNICEF, and UNDP.
INFEP is a project under PMED, designed to pilot a comprehensive NFE system that will
complement the formal system. A major component of this project is education equivalent to
formal grades I and 11 to children who never enter or who drop out of the formal system. Other
components are preprimary education for ages four to five, programs for older children aged 11-
14, adult education with a focus on the 15-35 age group, and continuing education. INFEP is
Basic education for all includes early childhood education, primary education for children, literacy and life
skills for youth and adults; it may extend to secondary education in some countries.
2     GEP, a $310 million project, was initiated in 1992 and aims to increase access to and improve the quality
and management of primary education; it has also a small NFE component. The cofinanciers are the
International Development Association (IDA), the Bank (Loan No. 1026-BAN[SF]), Directorate General for
Development Cooperation of the Netherlands (DGIS), Swedish International Development Cooperation
Agency (SIDA), United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP),
United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA), and Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
(NORAD).



3
also supporting a Total Literacy Movement (TLM) pilot program. TLM is a campaign and
volunteer-based approach. TLM provides a six-month literacy and three-month postliteracy
program to illiterate learners aged 11-45 and is implemented through district-level committees
including Government development agencies, the private sector, local elites, voluntary
associations, and the community. This mass mobilization of all sections of society is the driving
force for the approach.
8.         INFEP has designed a curriculum development process and curriculum outlines.
Textbooks and teachers' manuals have been developed and produced for the preprimary,
children's, and adults' programs. In addition to literacy and numeracy, the materials cover life
skills such as health, nutrition, hygiene, family planning, civic rghts, and income generation. A
distribution system for materials has also been established. Preservice training and ongoing in-
service training for teachers are in place. The NFE programs are delivered by INFEP itself and
by NGOs that receive support from INFEP for teacher and supervisor honoraria, training, and
materials. District coordinators and supervisors monitor the NFE programs. In 1995, INFEP and
NGOs were running about 25,000 NFE centers in 64 out of 460 thanas,' with a total of about
750,000 learners. Over 120 NGOs are involved in the INFEP program. In addition, TLM is being
tried out in about 8,000 centers in one district, covering about 200,000 learners.
2.    NGOs in Nonformal Education
9.          Compared with their counterparts in many other developing countries, NGOs in
Bangladesh are far more numerous (an estimated 13,000), faced with the task of tackling
enormous poverty, supported by foreign funds, prepared to expand the size of their operations,
and have distinguished themselves through their innovative capacity. Most NGO development
work in Bangladesh is based on building solidarity among the poor through group formation,
consciousness-raising, savings and income generation. Women represent the most exploited
section of the population and have therefore been given priority in NGO programs.
10.         Most NGOs see NFE as an essential component of poverty reduction programs.
The EFA campaign adopted by the Government has been strongly supported by NGOs and has
stimulated initiatives in a number of areas, including the formation among NGOs of the
Campaign for Popular Education (CAMPE), a resource organization for basic and adult
education. A CAMPE survey (1993) identified 186 NGOs as having at least two years of
experience in literacy programs, and another 140 had conducted some previous programs.
Some NGOs have developed their own NFE materials and training, while others use formal
primary education materials or materials developed by INFEP. The effectiveness of the major
NGOs has been evaluated by bilateral and multilateral organizations. At their best, NGO
programs have had real and direct relevance to the needs and aspirations of the learners,
demonstrated by classes with high attendance and low dropout rates. This has been achieved
through the development of needs-based curriculum, participatory teaching methodologies, and
materials that start with the experiences of the learners and the communities where they live.
NGOs' expertise has been shared with INFEP in the development of curricula, materials, and
training programs.
The administrative level below the district.



4
11.         NGOs' potential sources of funds are (i) the community, (ii) their own income-
generating activities, (iii) aid agency funds channeled through the Government, and (iv) direct
aid agency funds. Because NGOs have generally found it difficult to raise funds from the
communities where NFE centers are established, they have instead asked them to provide
accommodations for the classes and simple items such as mats. These provisions also serve
as an expression of community demand and commitment. Some larger NGOs have income-
generating capacity from marketing and revolving fund activities, which can be used for
education purposes. For example, over 40 percent of the Bangladesh Rural Advancement
Committee (BRAC) revenue comes from internally generated funds. It is estimated that NGOs
receiving INFEP support contribute about 10 to 15 percent to NFE delivery themselves. Because
of their effectiveness and innovation, NGOs have received increasing levels of overseas grant
funding.
3.    Key Issues in Nonformal Education
12.         Since 1992, INFEP has rapidly expanded NFE programs. The development of the
range of programs now being implemented-early childhood, basic, adolescent, and adult
NFE-has demanded a major commitment of expertise over a relatively short period. Its present
organizational structure, staff, professional expertise and resources are, however, inadequate to
deliver large-scale, quality NFE programs. Another issue is the need to shift the priorities of the
NFE target groups. Presently the major focus of NFE provision is on out-of-school children;
however, a declining primary school age group coupled with introduction of CPE requires a
gradual shift in focus from children to young adults.
a.    Institutional Capacity of INFEP
13.         The present INFEP consists of 46 professional and 78 support staff located in
Dhaka. In addition there are 64 professional and 128 support staff located in 64 district offices.
None of the professional staff responsible for technical support to NFE had any previous
experience with NFE before joining INFEP and because of its temporary project structure, INFEP
has had difficulty in recruiting qualified staff. To implement a larger-scale and multiagency-
assisted NFE program, a strengthened permanent NFE structure is needed, to be organized on
a functional basis and with clear terms of reference. Additional staff are also needed, particularly
in the areas of administration and monitoring and evaluation to ensure accountability of NGOs
and efficiency of programs.
14.         INFEP lacks experienced specialists in NFE in the areas of curriculum and
materials development and training and has therefore relied on experienced NGOs for assistance
in program development. With only a very small group of on-the-job trained specialists to
develop and implement a major curriculum and materials development project as well as to carry
out mass-scale training of NFE supervisors and teachers, the quality of NFE programs has
suffered. There is also a shortage of expertise for monitoring and evaluation and for support to
supervisors and district coordinators to improve the quality of supervision and teaching at NFE
centers and develop measures to assess learning achievement. A permanent organization will
need research capacity to test ideas, options, materials, methods, and appropriate patterns for
NFE delivery to provide the basis for continuous improvement.



5
b.    Quality of Programs and System Monitoring
15.         While there are examples of good teaching at NFE centers, there are also many
examples showing that teachers' training has been ineffective or inadequate. Adult literacy
classes present particular problems because of a very wide range of ages among learners,
learning problems outside the experience of the often young teachers, and the motivation of tired
people at the end of the day. Evaluation and review of the present training methodologies,
curriculum, and materials, and development of postliteracy materials after the initial two years
of implementation are essential. Furthermore, since the training lasts for only about 20 days,
close supervision and support of teachers are crucial. Currently, most supervisors are young
male graduates, often in their first employment, lacking prior training and experience in teaching
in general and NFE in particular. The design and nature of the training they receive need revision
and improvement. Research and development are also needed to provide the necessary
foundations for an efficient NFE system, especially research applied to the practical problems
of preparing good materials and teaching methodologies.
16.         Related to the need to strengthen institutional capacity is the need for an effective
NFE monitoring system, including a data base, to meet the issue of accountability for NFE.
Overall data regarding current and previous providers of NFE are not available. The
establishment of an effective information system will be crucial to planning and monitoring a
larger national NFE program. Basic information on NFE centers, teachers, students, repeaters,
dropouts, and achievement is needed to be fed into a central management information system.
There is a lack of a reliable system for assessment of learning achievement. Core competencies
have not been identified and measurement of learning outcomes is left to the subjective
judgment of the teachers. Systems monitoring also involves accountability, particularly (i) the
extent to which the system is delivering education as defined by the learning outcomes, and (ii)
financial accountability of those receiving funding for NFE. The effectiveness of NFE monitoring
for such accountability needs strengthening. More effective procedures within INFEP to cope with
the increasing number of NGOs are essential. Independent monitoring procedures that provide
a continuing, separate, and random check on NGO and learner performance are also necessary.
C.    Target Groups
17.         In spite of earlier attempts to reduce adult illiteracy since the early 1970s, the
literacy rate has increased only from 26 percent to 35 percent during the period 1974-1991. On
the basis of the current population and literacy rates, and the assumption of an efficient primary
school system, an estimated 6 million children (8-14 years) and 20 million adult learners (15-24
years) will require education outside the formal system by the year 2000. To meet the EFA goals,
the Government's modified planning targets for NFE programs are (i) 0.64 million children (8-10
years),' (ii) 2 million adolescents (11-14 years), and (iii) 20.8 million adults. In 1994, about 1.7
million 6-14 year-old children and 0.6 million adults were provided education by NFE programs.
With current NFE resources (about 4.3 percent of the total education development budget), it
will take decades to reach the anticipated EFA target of 23 million, even if NFE institutional
capacity is enhanced. Therefore, increased resources need to be immediately directed at NFE
Through the implementation of compulsory primary education, PMED anticipates that all 6- and 7-year-olds
will be enrolled in primary schools and dropouts will start only at the age of 8.



6
program delivery. These resources, however, need to be phased to match institutional capability
and to ensure the quality of the programs.
18.         Currently, NFE implemented through NGOs is geared towards the 6-1 0 and 11-14
age groups to ensure that most children will obtain basic education and not add to the vast
number of adult illiterates. The 6-10 age group is, however, declining, and the Government
intends to provide formal schooling for 95 percent of the 6-10 age group and reduce the dropout
rate to 30 percent by the year 2000. The existing level of NFE provision may therefore already
be adequate for the younger children over the next five years, provided the formal system
achieves its targets. Some support will still be needed for the 8-10 and 11 -14 age groups, since
a small percentage will still not enrol and at least 30 percent will be dropouts even in the year
2000. Therefore, a shift of priorities from children toward the illiterate young adults, aged 15-24,
will be necessary for the period 1996-2000. Currently, about 10 million are illiterate in this age
group. NFE for the 15-24 age group is economically and socially more justifiable than for older
learners since they will at this stage start a family and take up work, they are keener to attend
classes than older age groups, they have fewer children and therefore more time, and for them
no provision other than NFE will be available. Within the 15-24 age group, there should be a
focus on females since about 77 percent of the women are illiterate in Bangladesh.
Intergenerational effects (i.e. literate mothers will send their children to school), health and family
planning, and labor productivity through access to training and employment are also likely to be
optimized for this group.
B.   Government Policies and Plans
19.         The major objectives of the Government's Perspective Plan (1995-2010) are
poverty reduction, human development and women's participation in development. The
strategies include expansion and improvement of basic education, continuation of CPE, and
support for a gender sensitive educational system. In 1992, a Task Force on Primary and Mass
Education was set up with high-level representatives from the different ministries and
departments and NGOs to recommend policies and strategies for primary and mass education
and finalize a National Plan of Action (NPA) for EFA by the year 2000. The NPA set out four
specific objectives: (i) raise the gross enrollment ratio in the primary school from 76 percent to
95 percent, (ii) raise the female gross enrollment ratio from 70 percent to 94 percent, (iii) reduce
the dropout rate at the primary level from 60 percent to 30 percent, and (iv) raise the adult
literacy rate from 35 percent to 62 percent. In addition, it recommended the establishment of a
Directorate of NFE (DNFE) and close cooperation with NGOs. These objectives were
subsequently included in the Perspective Plan.
20.         To reach the illiterate population who are outside the school system, NFE has
been identified as an important means toward fulfilling the national targets. With the Government
priority on NFE, the responsibilities of INFEP have become increasingly more important. This led
to a proposal to reorganize INFEP into DNFE in 1995. Upgrading INFEP to a DNFE will (i)
provide higher level status to the NFE subsector; (ii) allow DNFE as a Government organization
to recommend policy, strategies, and programs for NFE; (iii) allow the organization to be funded
from the revenue budget, rather than from the development budget; and (iv) provide permanent
status and job security to staff who presently are reluctant to pursue a specialist career in NFE.
The NPA for EFA also stressed the importance of the partnership between Government and



7
NGOs for provision of NFE.' It is recognized that NGOs can play a key role in the delivery of
NFE to the disadvantaged population by their ability to (i) Identify, mobilize, and involve
beneficiaries, particularly in social preparation and community organization; (Ii) establish effective
working relations with the poor; (iii) stimulate a sense of self-reliance and democracy; (iv) provide
a decentralized management system; (v) share methodology and materials, In particular inputs
to postliteracy and continuing education prograrns and materials; and (vi) develop innovative
programs.
21.         The Govemment's increasing priority to education is illustrated by a growing share
of revenue and development expenditure. Public expenditure as a proportion of the gross
domestic product has increased from 1.5 percent in the mid-1980s to 3.0 percent in 1994, but
is still below the Asian average of 3.3 percent. In the late 1980s, public spending on education
was low and remained at around 13 percent of the total revenue expenditure and 5 percent of
the total development expenditure. With higher priority attached to education in the last few
years, these proportions have increased since 1992 to around 17 percent and 14 percent,
respectively. NFE is currently funded under the development budget. The development share
for NFE is low, accounting for only 4.3 percent of the total education development budget for
FY1 995/96. The Government allocations to NFE have, however, increased by over 100 percent
during the last three fiscal years.
C.   External Assistance to the Subsector
22.         External assistance to NFE is currently channeled through the Govemment to
INFEP or directly to NGOs. The assistance to INFEP has so far been small. About $20 million
has been provided since 1992, which is about 10 percent of the extemal assistance directed at
primary education through GEP. The low level of extemal NFE funding to the Government is
partly a result of INFEP's project nature and limited institutional capacity. The largest source of
funding for INFEP has been UNICEF. Assistance has also been provided by SIDA, UNDP, and
NORAD. In addition, DGIS and SIDA have provided funds for NFE under GEP (Appendix 1). The
largest proportion of funding has been for program delivery to the 6-10 and 11 -14 age groups,
delivered through NGOs, as well as for development of curriculum, materials, and training
programs. Bilateral and other international organizations also provide support directly to NGOs.
The extent of this assistance is difficult to quantify because of the large number of agencies
involved and difficulty in obtaining data that separate direct funding to NGOs from funding
provided through various Government projects.
D.   Lessons Learned
23.         The Bank has assisted the Government in the education sector since 1978. During
the first ten years, the Bank assisted with three loans In educational equipment development,
secondary science, and NFE to increase the quality of and access to education. The Community
Schools Project (CSP),2 which was completed in 1988, was the Bank's first project in NFE and
The Bank is currently providing technical assistance to strengthen Government and NGO cooperation
through TA No. 2088-BAN: Insttutonia Strengthening for Government-NGO Cooperaton, for $325,000,
approved on 27 April 1994.
2     Loan No. 510-BAN(SF): Community Schools Project, for $13.5 million, approved on 21 April 1981.



8
provided low-cost skills training for the rural population in about 400 schools. Since 1990, the
Bank has provided six loans: Primary Education Sector, Rural Training, Higher Secondary,
Rehabilitation of Damaged Schools Facilities, Bangladesh Open University (BOU), and
Secondary Education Development Projects. The BOU Project, using a distance education
approach, will complement the capacity of existing primary, secondary, higher, and nonformal
education. BOU will complement DNFE training of trainers and preparation of instructional
materials.
24.         The Project Completion Report (1989) and Project Performance Audit Report
(1990) for CSP, which was most closely related to the proposed Project, noted that the project
had limited success in promoting NFE and in providing the rural poor with employable skills. The
limited success was attributed to implementation failure rather than to lack of interest among the
potential beneficiaries. For example, the appointment of consultants took place two years after
the commencement of the project, which had a negative effect on the design of training and
course curricula. The Project Implementation Unit lacked staff and there was a frequent change
of project directors. Another important reason was that the institutional mechanism necessary
for effective management and administration was not established. Other limitations were that the
approach had not previously been tested in Bangladesh and community links were absent. The
rationale and design for the Project draws on this past Bank experience by supporting a
permanent institutional structure from the start and by building on NFE with close NGO and
community involvement.
25.         The development of the Project has also taken into account the NFE experience
under GEP. The experience has indicated the need for (i) efficient and flexible administrative
procedures and operating structures; (ii) effective monitoring of the processes of NFE provision;
and (iii) maximization of the diverse contributions of NGOs, both large and small. In addition, the
Project has drawn on the extensive experience of NGOs conducting NFE in Bangladesh. This
has indicated the need for (i) the establishment of grass-roots needs and involvement; (ii)
supervision as the most important factor of performance success; and (iii) continuing review and
upgrading of methodologies and materials, based on emerging experience and evaluation. To
address these issues, the Project is designed to support DNFE with upgraded expertise and
flexibility in terms of organization of programs, NGOs as main implementors, and strengthened
monitoring and evaluation capacity.
E.   The Bank's Sectoral Strategy
26.         The Bank's education policy, articulated in Education andDevelopmentin Asia and
the Pacific (1991), has identified NFE as a subsectoral priority to reduce illiteracy and
complement the formal education system where the latter is not capable of meeting the demand
for education, particularly of women and disadvantaged groups. The Bank's recent Education
Sector Assistance Strategy 1995-2000 for Bangladesh (March 1995) reiterates the need for
complementary NFE as a prerequisite for poverty reduction. Another priority area for the Bank
is the strengthening of the institutional capabilities of sector organizations, including their
planning and management capability. The Bank's operational strategy in Bangladesh (1993)
emphasizes the need to increase the capacity of human resources, as part of the overall poverty
reduction focus, through provision of primary education and mass literacy and adult education,
particularly to the disadvantaged groups in rural areas. The Project will directly address the
Bank's strategic objectives of poverty reduction and improvement of the status of women as well



9
as subsectoral and country priorities by providing NFE programs, especially designed to meet
the needs and interests of women. The programs will enable participants to take advantage of
income generation opportunities, social services, and self-improvement activities. The Project will
also strengthen NFE institutional capacity, which will have long-term implications for the country's
ability to promote national development processes. At all levels of Project design, there has been
a strong emphasis on a participatory approach through involvement of NGOs and consultation
with beneficiaries.
F.    Policy Dialogue
27.         Overall policies, strategies, and targets for primary education and NFE have been
articulated in the Perspective Plan, the Task Force on Primary and Mass Education, and the NPA
for EFA. The Bank has had extensive consultations with the Govemment and other external
agencies to ensure a program approach rather than a project approach to NFE. This dialogue
needs to be formalized and finalized in a detailed, costed plan for the period 1996-2000. The
Government is currently preparing such a plan for primary and nonformal education, as
preparation for a follow-up project to GEP.
28.        In the context of the Government's plan to establish DNFE, the thrust of the
discussions with the Government has been on defining the role and staffing of such an institution
and future sustainability. For long-terrn NFE development there is a need for a central permanent
body to plan and coordinate a larger program. The present INFEP constitutes the core on which
DNFE will be built. Central staff will, however, have to be kept at a minimum level, and the skills
of staff in district offices strengthened. DNFE's role will be to plan, coordinate, provide technical
support, monitor, and evaluate programs while mobilization, setting of strategies, and
implementation will be undertaken by NGOs, other voluntary organizations, the field
administration, or community groups. The establishment of DNFE will be an important step for
ensuring the sustainability of NFE.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Rationale
29.        In spite of the Government's policy toward eradication of illiteracy, a large number
of children, adolescents, and adults remain uneducated in Bangladesh. Researchers have
estimated that an 80 percent literacy rate and near-universal primary school enrollment are
necessary conditions for sustainable economic development. Without specific actions to provide
increased opportunities for "second chance" education in Bangladesh, illiterates aged 15-24 are
estimated to number about 20 million by the year 2000. Lack of literacy and life skills are major
contributing factors to the perpetuation of poverty. The Bank's Project will assist in supporting
the Government's objective of EFA by the year 2000, and the Bank's strategic objectives of
poverty reduction and improvement of the status of women.
30.         The Project will support the development of a permanent NFE organization which
will enable the Government to expand and improve NFE programs in the medium and long term
as well as ensure sustainability of NFE activities. Considerable capacity and experience of NFE
exist within NGOs, therefore, NGOs will be the main implementors of NFE under the Project. The
target groups for NFE delivery will be young adults, particularly females, the segment of the



10
illiterate population which is presently the most underserved, in districts with low literacy rates.
INFEP has during the last two years demonstrated considerable achievements in its complex and
diverse programs, particularly in terms of program development. The Project will build upon this
experience and develop it further. The Bank's ongoing BOU project will provide complementary
support to the proposed Project through its NFE courses.
31.         The current social context is judged favorable for NFE as manifested by the
increase of Government's own financing to NFE, from 0.3 percent in FY 1991/92 to 2.0 percent
in FY 1995/96. The experience of existing NFE provision also indicates a high demand for such
programs. Attendance and completion rates for NFE programs are high, particularly for out-of-
school children. Traditional gender discrimination against girls has resulted in past low enrolment
in formal schools, therefore, NFE provision has given priority to females and it is estimated that
about 70 percent of the learners are females. Retention rates are also higher for females than
for males in adult classes.
B.   Objectives and Scope
32.         The Project will assist the Government in achieving EFA by improving and
expanding NFE to reach illiterate young adults (15-24 years), particularly females. Specifically,
the Project will strengthen NFE by (i) institutionalizing INFEP into DNFE staffed by qualified
personnel able to function in related tasks such as planning, training, monitoring, and evaluation;
and (ii) expanding and improving NFE programs to reach, through NGOs and through the local
district administration, an estimated 2.5 million adult learners of which at least 1.3 million are
expected to be women.
33.         To strengthen institutional capacity for NFE, the Project will (i) assist in setting up
a National Council for Primary and Mass Education, which will act as a senior-level advisory
forum for both primary education and NFE; (ii) establish DNFE; and (iii) provide staff
development at DNFE. To support expansion and improvement of the NFE program for adults,
the Project will support (i) NFE delivery to young adults, (ii) quality improvement, and (iii)
alternative NFE models and social mobilization activities.
1.   Institutional Development
a.    Establishment of a National Council for Primary and Mass Education
34.         NFE programs presently include a large number of children who may, after two
years of NFE, continue in primary schools. To maintain close coordination between NFE and the
formal system, the Government's Task Force on Primary and Mass Education recommended that
a National Council for Primary and Mass Education be set up to act as a senior-level policy,
planning, mobilization, and coordinating authority for primary education and NFE. The Council
will be set up under the Project as a support structure to DNFE at the national level. The Council
will include members from the Government, private providers, and NGOs. The Council will serve
as adviser to the Government on policies for primary education and NFE, and provide guidance
regarding national goals and objectives and strategies for mobilization.
b.    Establishment of a Directorate of NFE
35.         The Prime Minister has approved the decision of the Executive Committee for the
National Economic Council to establish DNFE. The Project will strengthen the organization of
DNFE, and improve the management and professional expertise needed for the planned



11
expansion of NFE. DNFE will build on the existing INFEP structure and be established along
functional lines. It will have four Units, each headed by a director: (i) Planning, Programming,
Monitoring, and Evaluation; (ii) Operations; (iii) Technical Support Service; and (iv) Finance and
Administration. The organization will absorb existing INFEP staff, strengthened by additional 11
professional staff at headquarters to enhance Project Implementation and overall institutional
capacity for the total NFE program between 1996-2000. The operational costs of DNFE will be
transferred to the revenue budget after Project completion. The detailed organization of DNFE
is in Appendix 2.
36.         To address the issues of program quality and the need for effective systems
monitoring, the Project will support the development of expertise in curriculum, program, and
materials development; program evaluation; training; action research; and evaluation through
external certificate courses. A long-term international consultant in planning, monitoring, and
evaluation for NFE will be provided as well as domestic consultants in statistical analysis,
financial systems, information analysis, monitoring and evaluation, and computer systems (see
Appendix 3). These services will assist in the development of approprate systems and expertise
for management of the expanded NFE delivery.
37.         The Project also includes the construction of a NFE headquarters building to
replace the current inadequate, rented accommodation to better service the needs of the central
NFE administration. The building will accommodate the Technical Support Service Unit (TSSU)
with library, research and development, materials production, and training facilities; a small
hostel as a base for the extensively planned training and development programs, particularly for
district-based master trainers and coordinators; and a warehouse for storage and distribution of
materials. The site for the headquarters' building has been acquired. The Project will support
rental of DNFE facilities until the completion of the headquarters building, district NFE offices,
and training premises where no other alternatives exist in the districts covered by the Project.
Service vehicles will be provided for district coordinators under the Project.
c.    Staff Development
38.         The Project will enhance DNFE staff capacity to plan, manage, monitor, and
evaluate program expansion; and support program development and quality instruction. For this
purpose, the Project will provide international and domestic consulting services (see Appendix
3), local training, local and external fellowships, and regional study tours (see Appendix 4).
39.         Local training will provide general and specialist upgrading in NFE to headquarters
staff and district coordinators. Supervisor and teacher training for NFE as part of NFE delivery
will also be supported. This training will be delivered by master trainers who will train supervisors
who in turn will train teachers. The development of training programs, training of master trainers,
and supervision of the training programs will be the responsibility of a group of core trainers
provided under the Project and located within TSSU. The core trainers will be assisted by an
international consultant provided under the Project. Training system development under the
Project will provide the professional infrastructure for all teacher training under DNFE.
40.         The local fellowships will support specialist training for DNFE personnel in the
following key areas: finance and systems development, management and supervision, and basic
and advanced computer skills. Provision has also been made for regional study tours for central
and local key officials and DNFE staff, to provide an overview of alternative NFE organization and
practice, and Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation (BME) systems in other countries in the region.
The Project will finance long-term extemal fellowship training for six senior staff of TSSU in



12
management and development of NFE, design, planning, and evaluation of training programs;
teaching methodology; curriculum development and materials production; and research
methodology.
41.         Long-term international consulting services will be provided to TSSU in NFE
teacher training and methodology. Provision has also been made for the employment of
specialist local contract staff, including 20 core trainers, an audiovisual technician, 5-10
management trainers, and 10 assistant monitors (see Appendix 3). Funding for the development
of a specialist library has also been included.
2.    Expansion and Improvement of NFE
42.         To help toward achieving EFA, the Project includes (i) NFE delivery to young
adults (15-24 years), (ii) quality improvement, and (iii) alternative NFE models and social
mobilization. Project funds will be made available to DNFE for delivery of NFE programs through
NGOs fulfilling the selection criteria, and through the district administration.
a.    Delivery of NFE
43.         Young adults will be offered a nine-month NFE program, and a three-month
postliteracy program. The course will provide literacy, numeracy, and life skill subjects. Classes
will have a maximum of 30 learners identified by the community and will be scheduled at a time
most convenient to the participants, in accommodations provided by the community. At least 50
percent of the learners of all groups, or 1.3 million, will be females. The target for women is
expected to be achieved based on NGOs particular focus on mobilizing women, women's
present high enrollment and attendance rates in NFE classes, as well as specific NFE features
to attract women such as convenient location, timing of classes, and course content of interest
to women.
44.         Support, at a fixed unit cost per learner, will be provided to NGOs. The program
will use DNFE materials for the first nine months. Postliteracy materials will be flexible, consisting
of either DNFE or NGO materials. Preference will be given to NGOs with integrated programs
such as rural development programs, or income generation programs. Teachers and supervisors
will be recruited by NGOs and employed for the duration of the one-year course. It is estimated
that approximately 79,000 teachers and 5,300 supervisors will be trained during the Project
period. Training of supervisors and teachers will take place in buildings available in the
communities, primary training institutes, and NGO facilities.
45.         The Project will adopt a phased approach for NFE delivery, covering selected
districts to ensure maximum impact, close monitoring, and cost-effectiveness. The Project will
cover 30 districts in the country's six divisions (see Appendix 5), selected on the criteria of
literacy rates below 45 percent, availability of NGOs that can deliver NFE programs to young
adults, community demand, and accessibility. It is estimated that about 2.5 million learners will
be reached through the Project. The target figure is based on anticipated DNFE institutional
capacity to administer and monitor adult NFE programs and NGO availability and capacity.
46.         Established processes of support to NGOs already exist under INFEP, including
the Subvention Committee, which approves the selection of NGOs. Systems for administration
of the programs through NGOs, including payment for NFE delivery, and the distribution of
books and materials, have also been established. DNFE will continue to use the Subvention
Committee to review and approve NGO proposals according to the selection criteria agreed



13
upon under the Project. The Subvention Committee will be chaired by a senior official of PMED
and have representatives from PMED, DNFE, Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division,
the Planning Commission, Ministry of Finance, Economic Relations Division, Directorate of Social
Welfare, NGO Bureau, and local representatives of the Bank, IDA, and SDC. DNFE will continue
to use the existing mechanism to contract NFE delivery to NGOs, which involves advertisements
to invite proposals from NGOs, screening of NGOs according to established criteria, selection,
orientation, and submission by NGOs of the names of master trainers, supervisors, and teachers
to receive training. The selection criteria for NGOs are shown in Appendix 6.
47.         The Project will finance instructional costs, with the average cost estimated at Tk
495 ($12) for the one-year course. Costs include consumables (notebooks, pencils), instructional
materials (blackboards, textbooks, flip charts, chalk, dusters), teacher and supervisor training,
and honoraria. General administration, administration overheads, and development costs of
NGOs are not included. Provision has also been made for workshops for NGOs that may need
training in, for example, management and accounting procedures. Once the NFE programs have
been completed in one area, NGOs will focus on a new area with low literacy, using a new set
of teachers and supervisors. The Project will, therefore, not create a permanent cadre of field
staff that have to be maintained.
b.    Quality Improvement
48.         Existing training programs, curriculum and materials for adults need to be
researched, evaluated, and revised. These activities should involve teachers, learners, and
communities to ensure that the NFE program meets the needs of the participants. A variety of
postliteracy materials needs to be developed to sustain the skills of the learners since at present
very few materials are available. To support these program development activities, research is
needed to determine, for example, methods that will facilitate the teaching of literacy and content
areas for postliteracy. To ensure progress toward program objectives, close monitoring and
evaluation of NGOs and learner performance will be essential. The Project will provide
subcontract services through individuals, research agencies or private or nonprofit firms for
curriculum and materials revision, development of postliteracy materials, training program
development, special research projects, evaluation of program efficiency, and monitoring of NGO
contracts.
c.    Alternative NFE Models and Social Mobilization
49.         The Project will assist pilot programs to (i) develop alternative NFE models and
approaches for meeting special needs, and (ii) support the ongoing upgrading of the overall
program quality. Costed proposals from NGOs will be submitted to DNFE for review and
selection and to the Bank for information (see Appendix 6).
50.        INFEP is currently supporting a Total Literacy Movement (TLM), a campaign
approach that is implemented through district-level committees, using voluntary teachers and
relying on mass mobilization. The Project will finance further piloting of TLM in two districts
during the first year. Based on the evaluation undertaken at the end of the nine-month program
in the two pilot districts, a decision will be taken whether to finance TLM in more districts,
reallocating part of the funds for delivery through NGOs to TLM. Support for books to the
Govemment-financed TLM or to other voluntary groups will be part of the Project.



14
51.          Sustained national awareness, commitment, and community partnership with NFE
implementors are vital for the success of the program. Social mobilization, involving political
leadership, public representatives, community leaders, religious leaders, workers of political
parties, NGO professionals, parents, and students will increase the chance of success of NFE
programs. Social mobilization activities in Bangladesh are presently targeted toward enrollment
and retention in primary schools. The Project will finance a complementary social mobilization
strategy to create a demand for NFE, involving, for example, the mass media, folk media, and
print materials.
C.    Cost Estimates
52.          The total cost of the Project is estimated at $51.0 million equivalent, including
taxes, duties, and contingencies, of which an estimated $4.3 million, or 8 percent, is the foreign
exchange cost, including $0.8 million of service charge on the proposed loan. The local currency
cost is estimated at $46.7 million equivalent, or 92 percent of the total cost. A summary of the
cost estimates is shown in Table 1 and details are given in Appendix 7.
Table 1: Project Cost Estimates
($ million)
Foreign      Local         Total
Component                               Exchange    Currency
A.    Base Cost
1.    Facilities and Equipment                    1.3          1.6        2.9
2.    Training                                    0.4         0.1         0.5
3.    Consultant Services                         1.4          1.1        2.5
4.    NFE Programsa                               0.0        31.3        31.3
5.    Project Implementation and
Recurrent Costs                            0.1         3.6         3.7
6.    Taxes and Duties                            0.0          1.1        1.1
Subtotal                            3.2        38.8        42.0
B.    Contingencies
1.    Physicalb                                   0.2         1.8         2.0
2.    Pricec                                      0.1         6.1         6.2
Subtotal                            0.3          7.9        8.2
C.    Service Charge                                     0.8         0.0         0.8
Total                         4.3        46.7       51.0
Percent                       8.0        92.0      100.0
The total cost is based on a unit cost per learner breakdown of 35 percent teachers' honoraria, 5 percent
supervisors' honoraria, 10 percent staff training, and 50 percent materials cost.
Estimated at 10 percent of building costs and 5 percent for other facilities.
C     Estimated on the basis of 2.2 percent per annum for foreign exchange costs and 6 percent per annum for local
costs.



15
D.   Financing Plan
53.        The Govemment has requested the Bank to finance $26.7 million equivalent from
Its Special Funds resources. The Bank loan will finance 30 percent of the foreign exchange cost
and 54 percent of the local currency cost of the Project. Bank financing of the local currency
costs includes primarily civil works, equipment, and support to NFE delivery. The Bank loan will
be repayable over 40 years with a grace period of 10 years and a service charge of 1 percent
per annum. The Government has also requested IDA to provide a loan in an amount equivalent
to $10.5 million. SDC is expected to provide about $3.8 million on a grant basis to finance
institutional capacity building for NFE. The Bank, IDA, and SDC will together finance 100 percent
of the foreign exchange cost and 78 percent of the local currency cost, totaling 80 percent of the
estimated Project cost (see Table 2). The effectiveness of the cofinancing agreements with IDA
and SDC are conditions of loan effectiveness. The Government will provide the remaining $10
million equivalent, including DNFE staff salaries, NFE delivery, facilities, and equipment. Details
of the financing plan are in Appendix 7.
Table 2: Financing Plan
($ million)
Source                 Foreign    Local          Total       Percent
Currency    Cost
The Bank               1.3         25.4          26.7             52
IDA                    0.8          9.7          10.5            21
SDC                    2.2          1.6           3.8              7
The Government         -           10.0          10.0             20
Total                  4.3         46.7          51.0            100
E.   Implementation Arrangements
1.    Executing Agency
54.         DNFE, under PMED, will be the Executing Agency for the Project. DNFE, headed
by the Director General, will have overall responsibility for planning, organization, management,
supervision, and coordination related to the Project as well as monitoring the progress achieved.
DNFE has not had any experience implementing a Bank project; however, INFEP has over the
last three years managed external assistance from multilateral and bilateral agencies. To ensure
effective implementation, technical assistance and additional staff are being provided under the
Project to strengthen the institutional capacity to manage the Project in the areas of planning and
programming, management information systems (MIS), monitoring and evaluation, and field
operations.



16
2.    Project Implementation Management Unit
55.         For effective implementation of the Project, a Project Implementation Management
Unit (PIMU) will be established within DNFE and will be responsible for the day-to-day
implementation and administration of the Project. PIMU will be headed by a full-time Project
Director, assisted by seven full-time staff (Appendix 8). Throughout Project implementation, PIMU
will be supported by the strengthened organizational units within DNFE, in particular the
Operations Unit, which is responsible for program implementation and field operations at the
district and thana levels.
3.    Project Coordination Committee
56.         A Project Coordination Committee (PCC) under PMED will be constituted to be
responsible for (i) coordinating Project activities among PMED, other Government agencies,
NGOs, and other organizations in the Project; (ii) reviewing and approving sector policy
adjustments; (iii) monitoring the general progress of the Project; and (iv) reviewing and approving
annual implementation plans. PCC will be chaired by the Secretary of PMED, and will consist
of senior staff from PMED, DNFE, the Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of Finance, a
representative of the national organization of NGOs active in NFE, and the Project Director of
PIMU.
4.    Subproject Implementation
57.         The delivery of NFE programs will be undertaken by NGOs fulfilling the selection
criteria (see Appendix 6), and with records demonstrating effective literacy and community-
organizing and community-development programs. Initial screening and identification of NGOs
will be undertaken by DNFE and approved by the Subvention Committee. All NGOs will
implement the same nine-month core NFE program while postliteracy programs may vary to
accommodate special learner needs. A key function of NGOs in the implementation of the
various subprojects will be the effective management of all field activities, especially in carrying
out baseline surveys including a profile of the target population, and maintaining records of
student intake, delivery services, output evaluation, financial and accounting records, and
continuing outreach programs. Close coordination and cooperation between NGOs and the
district coordinators will be maintained throughout the delivery programs to ensure effective
implementation.
5.   Implementation Schedule
58.         The Project will be implemented over a period of five years. A detailed
implementation schedule is in Appendix 9.
6.    Procurement of Goods and Services
59.         All procurement for the Bank-financed portion of the Project will be in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Civil works contracts under the Project will consist
of the headquarters building, which will be of standard concrete construction. Because of the
simplicity of the civil works and the likely lack of interest by international contractors, it is
proposed that civil works contracts be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding,



17
following Government procedures acceptable to the Bank. To the extent possible, procurement
of equipment, service vehicles, and materials will be arranged for international competitive
bidding. For the supply of equipment consisting of service vehicles, training equipment, and
office equipment, each contract in excess of $500,000 will follow international competitive
procedures; international shopping procedures will be used for packages valued at $500,000 or
less. Furniture and associated office supplies will be procured through local competitive bidding
because of the small size of the contract packages and the likely lack of interest of international
suppliers. Minor items costing less than $50,000 equivalent will be procured under direct
purchase in accordance with Government procedures acceptable to the Bank. Procurement for
IDA components will follow IDA's procurement guidelines.
60.         PIMU will be responsible for procurement under the guidance and supervision of
the Director General of DNFE. Specifically, PIMU will (i) determine bid packages and propose
procurement methods; (ii) prepare detailed materials lists and specifications; (iii) where
applicable, determine prequalifications criteria, evaluation criteria, and completion of delivery
periods; and (iv) evaluate bids, determine lowest evaluated and substantially responsive bids,
and certify payments. Approval of contracts and certification of payments will be made by DNFE.
Copies of all contracts and supporting documents will subsequently be forwarded to the Bank
and IDA for record and, where necessary, for approval.
7.    Consulting Services, Fellowships, and Training
61.         Sixty person-months for two international consultants and 138 person-months for
five domestic consultants will be required to support the institutional development of DNFE in
all aspects of its NFE delivery system. All consultants will be selected and engaged in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants. A schedule of consultant
requirements and brief terms of reference are in Appendix 3. For local fellowships, the
Government will submit sample training programs/modules, criteria for selection of candidates,
and a list of nominated candidates for information to the Bank. For external fellowship training
at duly approved institutions, the Government will follow identified criteria and procedures for
award of fellowships, and provide a list of the nominated candidates and their qualifications, the
nominated institutions, and details and cost of the proposed courses. The Bank's approval is
required prior to acceptance of the external fellowships.
8.    Disbursements, Reports, Accounts, and Auditing
62.         The Government, acting through DNFE, will maintain records and accounts
adequate to identify goods and services financed from the proceeds of the loan. DNFE and
participating NGOs will (i) maintain separate accounts for the Project; (ii) ensure accounts and
financial statements are audited annually in accordance with sound accounting principles by
auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (iii) submit to the Bank, not later than 12 months after the
close of each fiscal year, audit reports and audited financial statements related to the Project.
63.         To expedite Project implementation through the timely release of funds, a dollar
imprest account for the Bank will be established by the Government at a commercial bank
designated by Bangladesh Bank and similarly a special account for IDA within one month of loan
effectiveness. Government contributions to the Project will be maintained in a separate account.
Items eligible for financing under this account will include local currency expenditures including



18
indirect foreign exchange cost, and small foreign expenditures not exceeding $50,000 per
payment. The imprest account will be established, managed, and liquidated in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines on Imprest Funds and Statement of Expenditure (SOE) Procedures.
Similarly, the special account will be established, managed and liquidated according to
applicable IDA procedures. Replenishment will be subject to the liquidation of expenditures.
Imprest account and expenditures reimbursed or replenished and liquidated under SOE
procedures shall be audited by a qualified auditor acceptable to the Bank, and discussed
separately in the audit reports. Such audit may be carried out as part of the regular annual audit
of the Executing Agency's general accounts, and the report should be submitted to the Bank on
an annual basis.
64.         DNFE will prepare and provide, through PIMU, quarterly reports on the
implementation of the Project and submit them to the Bank and IDA within 30 days of the
respective periods. The reports will be in a format acceptable to the Bank and IDA and will
indicate, among other things, the progress made against established targets, including quality
aspects; problems encountered during the period under review; actions taken/proposed to
resolve problems; compliance with loan covenants; and proposed programs of activities to be
undertaken during the succeeding quarter. Within three months of the physical completion of
the Project, the Government will prepare and submit to the Bank and IDA a Project completion
report providing details of implementation, benefits, and evaluation.
9.    Midterm Review
65.         The Government, the Bank, IDA, and SDC will jointly undertake a midterm review
(MTR) of the Project after the second year of implementation. Subcontract services are provided
under the Project to prepare a midterm evaluation report prior to the joint MTR. The MTR will
review the scope, design, implementation arrangements, institutional processes, and other
relevant issues in the light of the Government's development strategies and the policy framework
and strategic social concerns of the Bank; identify changes needed since the time of appraisal;
reassess the impact with regard to future Project implementation and sustainability; assess
implementation performance against Project performance indicators (see Appendix 10); review
and establish compliance with various loan covenants; identify problems and constraints; and,
if necessary, recommend changes in the design or implementation of the Project.
10.   Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation
66.         A BME system will be established to provide accurate, relevant, timely, and
systemized information and feedback on the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the Project
and to ensure appropriate adjustments in Project inputs and management during
implementation. System monitoring has been identified as one of the weaknesses in the present
INFEP (para. 16), and BME in past Bank-assisted projects has not been very successful. The
Project is, therefore, providing support to strengthen the monitoring and evaluation aspects. The
existing monitoring and evaluation system of the education sector as well as the present INFEP
MIS will be reviewed and improved to increase the capacity to keep track of a large number of
learners and activities.



19
67.          BME will include three subsystems: (i) NFE-MIS to ensure efficient data collection
and interpretation; (ii) sample monitoring of NFE performance and institutional and process
monitoring; and (iii) research and evaluation studies on the effectiveness, sustainability, and
impact of NFE delivery models. Results from BME will be interpreted against baseline surveys
conducted in the target areas prior to start-up. NFE-MIS will be established in DNFE, and be an
integral part of the overall PMED BME and MIS systems. The system will also serve as a
resource base for dissemination and information, and for coordinating and pooling available
resources for NFE programs. BME will be established and undertaken with the help of
international and domestic consultants in the Project and specialist staff under PIMU. PIMU, in
cooperation with DNFE, will establish the guidelines on the operations of the BME system within
six months of loan effectiveness.
68.          The success of the Project will be measured by the following performance criteria:
(i) institutional capacity of DNFE to support delivery of NFE programs as measured by
appointment and training of staff, establishment of planning and management and NFE-MIS and
BME information systems, in-house training capacity, and number of contracts to NGOs; (ii)
quality of training programs and learning materials, as measured by teachers' demonstrated
mastery of and confidence in the teaching methodology and the materials they teach; (iii)
coverage of learners and learner achievement in literacy, numeracy, and life skills; and (iv)
effectiveness of the NFE programs in enhancing the learners' socioeconomic status as measured
by the impact assessment study. A summary of Project performance indicators and monitoring
mechanisms is given in Appendix 10.
F.    Environment and Social Measures
69.          The environmental impact of the Project as a consequence of minor civil works
for the construction of one headquarters building is minimal. Standard environmental safeguards
for construction of buildings will be followed to minimize local impact. Prior to construction, the
Government will provide the Bank with an initial environmental examination and, if required, an
environmental impact assessment. With respect to content of the life skills component of the
NFE, the program is expected to disseminate broad awareness of environmentally sound health,
sanitation, hygiene, and family planning practices. In view of the scope of the NFE program and
the importance of the health and sanitation issue in the Bangladesh context, these positive
impacts can be significant among the participants.
70.          The Project will support the existing practice of community involvement in terms
of identification of learners, provision of shelter to learners, recruitment of teachers from the local
community, and the establishment of a management committee. It will also involve the
community in the revision of curriculum and development of postliteracy and continuing
education materials. The proposed Project further incorporates the major identified strategies to
promote education of females, i.e., NFE centers are located within the community, female
teachers are hired for female groups, the instruction is free of cost, a gender-responsive MIS
system is designed, and support is given to experimental models and social mobilization.'
A regional seminar was held at the Bank on 30 May - 2 June 1994 as the final activity of RETA No. 5513:
Education of Women in Asia, for $500,000, approved on 4 December 1992. The seminar identNfied strategies
for the Bank to promote female education in the region as follows: (i) locate schools closer to the community,
(ii) promote hiring of female teachers, (iii) lower costs to parents, (iv) develop relevant curricula and materials,
(v) promote research on gender issues, (vi) design gender-specific data and information systems, (vii)
support training, (viii) increase community participation, (ix) promote advocacy and social mobilization, and
(x) support muftiple delivery systems.



20
Internal and external training in NFE for DNFE personnel will further the strengthen the key
personnel for planning and implementation in the participatory approaches to program design
and delivery.
G.   Technical Assistance
71.         Technical assistance (TA), which is expected to be financed by SDC, is proposed
to accompany the loan. The TA will assist DNFE by developing capacity in the areas of planning,
monitoring, and evaluation; NFE training as well as quality improvement and research activities;
pilot programs; and workshops for NGOs. The TA is needed to address system weaknesses in
monitoring and evaluation as well as program quality and staff development needs (see paras.
14-16).
72.         The main objectives of the TA are to (i) set up planning, monitoring, and
evaluation systems capable of handling larger NFE programs; (ii) upgrade the professional skills
of DNFE staff and NGOs; and (iii) improve training programs and support other quality aspects
of NFE. To accomplish these objectives, two long-term international consultants, five domestic
consultants, and local contract staff will be engaged. The detailed terms of reference are in
Appendix 3. The consultants will be engaged by a consulting firm.
73.        International consultants will provide primary input into planning, monitoring, and
evaluation, and NFE training and program improvement in close consultation with senior DNFE
staff counterparts. Domestic consultants will provide support to the Planning, Programming,
Monitoring, and Evaluation Unit and the Finance and Administration Unit of DNFE. One domestic
consultant will provide assistance to the Project Director, PIMU, on the ongoing BME component
of the Project. Local contract staff will be engaged as core trainers, management trainers, and
assistant monitors to support NFE program delivery. They will provide an important link between
headquarters and field activities. One audiovisual technician will also be engaged as local
contract staff to support TSSU.
74.         External certificate courses in the various NFE disciplines will be provided to DNFE
staff, and management training to NGOs. Specialist subcontracting services will be provided for
short-term technical input, mainly for quality improvement, research, and evaluation. The
subcontracting services will enable DNFE to draw upon an open pool of expertise of individuals
and agencies. Pilot projects to test different NFE models and materials are also part of the TA.
75.         The TA is expected to be financed by SDC on a grant basis in an amount of about
$3.8 million, including $1.8 million in foreign exchange costs and $2.0 million equivalent in local
currency costs.
H.   Policy Issues
76.         The Project will assist the Govemment in providing the foundation for the
development of NFE. Critical policy issues concern financial sustainability and the pace of NFE
expansion. At present, only 4.3 percent (2.0 percent of the Government's own resources) of the
development budget of the education sector is allocated to NFE. The expansion of NFE calls for
a higher proportion of Government development expenditures directed at NFE in the medium
and long-term through reallocation from, for example, the highly subsidized secondary and



21
higher education subsectors. To ensure the availability of counterpart funds, the Government will
provide the Bank, IDA, and SDC with annual draft NFE operations and financing plans for
comments. The plans will be discussed during a joint supervision mission, prior to finalizing the
budget proposal, and the comments of the Bank, IDA, and SDC will be taken into account.
77.         To reach the proposed Government target of making 20.8 million adults literate
by the year 2000 (para. 17), about 4 million learners would need to be provided with NFE
annually. This would be a more than fivefold increase from the current INFEP capacity. To ensure
the quality of programs, learner achievement, and cost-effectiveness, a phased approach in
selected districts will be necessary until institutional capacity to implement a larger program is
developed. The emphasis on planning, monitoring, and evaluation inputs under the Project will
provide policy makers and planners with necessary data and information to adjust targets to
capacity.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A.    Socioeconomic Analysis
78.         Over 10 million very poor, illiterate, young learners have currently very few
opportunities to achieve literacy and life skills that would enhance their productivity and improve
the quality of their own and their children's lives. Women are particularly vulnerable and
underserved. Investments are therefore needed in a central organizational structure that can
plan, provide and support quality NFE as well as provide a means to reach larger groups with
programs that will help them help themselves.
1.    Project Beneficiaries and Benefits
79.         Data from a socioeconomic profile of the beneficiaries show that a typical learner
will be poor and malnourished, live in the rural areas, own no land or no significant quantum of
land and assets, have little opportunity for occupational or geographic mobility, be illiterate, and
be only seasonally employed. If female, the learner is likely to be married, may not use
contraception and therefore will bear many children, have malnourished children, live a shorter
life than men, have little decision-making power, and have limited mobility outside the home.
Since more than two thirds of the Project beneficiaries are poor and the most disadvantaged are
females, the Project will contribute to poverty reduction and improvement of the status of women
by providing about 2.5 million young adults with literacy, numeracy, and life skills including
health, nutrition, hygiene, family planning, civic rights, and income-generating practices. The
content of the NFE program will be useful for both women and men; but since women are
traditionally responsible for the welfare of the family, the content will particularly address their
needs.
80.         Evidence from ongoing NFE programs for adults indicates a pent-up demand from
the young adults, particularly females, who for economic reasons have been deprived of
education in the past. Women presently constitute 60-70 percent of the participants and their
retention rate is higher than that for men. While the number of learners to be reached under the
Project may be a small percentage of the total need (about 12 percent), it is estimated that this
is the maximum expansion that can help assure quality delivery. The Project will also have a



22
long-term impact on the remaining illiterates through the enhanced institutional capacity of
DNFE.
81.         Upon completion of the Project, Bangladesh will have DNFE capable of delivering
NFE on a larger scale, trained staff at the central and local levels to support NFE programs,
improved NFE training program and materials, and a mechanism for system evaluation. The
establishment of an effective educational management system and BME system will enhance
managerial efficiency and improve project planning and implementation and therefore contribute
to enhanced cost-efficiency and overall project cost-effectiveness. These outputs will be
important prerequisites to the increase of functional education and literacy skills of the
population, which will contribute in several ways to medium-term and long-term poverty
reduction.
2.    Sustainability
a.    Institutional Viability
82.         To address the magnitude of the illiteracy problem, the Government should adopt
a long-term development model with an initial focus on basic education and functional literacy,
and then gradually over time on other NFE needs such as continuing education and skills
development. A permanent structure for NFE is therefore needed to plan, coordinate, support,
and monitor a national NFE program in the long term. The Project will assist in transforming
INFEP into DNFE which will be financed under the development budget during the Project cycle,
and later under the revenue budget after Project completion to ensure institutional
sustainability.' DNFE's personnel capabilities will be enhanced, to enable it to effectively
implement NFE and ensure its quality. Through DNFE's enhanced professional expertise base,
the institution will also be able to support and assist other agencies involved in NFE activities.
Professional expertise in NFE will also enable DNFE to provide input into policies and plans and
to initiate reforms. The strengthened statistical educational data base and its effective utilization
will favorably affect sector and project management.
83.         To be responsive to the flexible nature of NFE, DNFE's role will be to ensure policy
implementation, provision of technical support, coordination and monitoring of progress and the
use of allocated funds. The implementation structure will be decentralized. NGOs and the field
administration will manage and implement programs. Large NGOs already have the necessary
management and administration structures; smaller NGOs will be supported, as needed, through
training. Supervisors and teachers will be trained locally and teachers will come from the
involved communities.
b.    Financial Viability
84.          Allocations for the education sector represented about 14 percent of the total
development budget in FY1 995/96, including an allocation of 4.3 percent to the NFE subsector.
Allocations to INFEP are totally funded by the development budget. The Project will require a
minimum increase of about 5 percent annually in real terms from the Government budget, which
I     The Directorate of Primary Education, PMED, similarly was first created under the development budget.



23
is small considering that the Government budget for NFE has been growing at over 100 percent
during the last three fiscal years. The Project does not involve cost recovery in cash from the
direct beneficiaries because of the Government's policy of free and compulsory primary
education and its EFA policy. The target group is the poorest segment of society and any cash
contribution will pose a barrier to access, particularly for women. Their participation in itsell will
represent a contribution in terms of opportunity cost. Presently, NGOs provide NFE free of cost,
which is a key to attract the poor. The cash contribution that beneficiaries may be able to make
would be insignificant and necessitate cumbersome logistics and high administration costs. The
communities, however, make a significant contribution by providing accommodations for NFE
activities and items such as mats. Under the present INFEP scheme, NGOs also subsidize NFE
delivery by an estimated 10 to 15 percent.
85.         By making optimal use of existing staff and institutional facilities, the Project will
be able to provide NFE to the target beneficiaries in a cost-effective manner. The NFE unit costs
are, by any standards in the world, low. Current INFEP estimates show that it will cost an
average of $12 per adult learner to complete a NFE program. In comparison, the annual
recurrent costs for a primary school student is reported to be around $15. Other substantial
private costs are associated with attending formal schools. The minimal cost of NFE programs
is a result of the free provision of accommodations, low direct operating costs, and very small
honoraria for the teachers.
3.    Project Risks
86.         Project risks encompass management capability, including possible delays in the
recruitment of new staff, and planning and coordination of a large number of NGO-implemented
activities. To assist in management and timely implementation, a detailed action plan for the
Project has been prepared. Furthermore, a long-term international consultant will assist in
program planning and monitoring, and NFE delivery is phased to peak during the last two years
of the Project to allow buildup of capacity. INFEP already has experience in managing NFE
programs delivered by over 100 NGOs. To further minimize risks related to management and
coordination of NGOs, the Project provides staff and consultancy support to DNFE's Finance and
Administration Unit, which will enable the Unit to take on increased administration tasks and
ensure effective disbursement. The successful partnership between the Government and NGOs
depends on the involvement of NGOs at all levels. In the past, NGOs have not been involved in
policy and planning. The structures for NFE under the Project will ensure involvement in these
areas.
87.         The second risk relates to the teachers' capability to facilitate learning and thereby
ensuring regular student attendance and achievement of core competencies as well as the risk
of learners dropping out for reasons outside the teacher's control such as family problems. To
perform effectively, the teacher will need the necessary tools of good training, relevant materials,
supportive supervision, and assistance in how to test learners. The Project provides for revision
of existing training programs and materials, development of postliteracy materials, and
development of instruments to test learners' performance. In addition, there is provision for an
annual assessment on a sample basis to evaluate NGO and learners' performance. The annual
assessment will facilitate a dialogue among DNFE, the Bank, IDA, and SDC to ensure that quality
targets are being met.



24
B.    Social Dimensions
88.         Project activities will be carried out in areas that exhibit high population density;
scarce productive resources; skewed distribution of wealth, opportunity, and resources; low
agricultural productivity; inadequate industrial development; high illiteracy; low use of modern
technology in productive work including agriculture; inadequate access to modern health
facilities; and limited sanitation.
89.         As the Project profile shows (para. 79), there is a great need for NFE programs
for literacy and to improve knowledge of and practices related to health, sanitation, family
planning, population issues, civic rights, and income-generating activities. Because of poverty,
illiterate adults have in the past not been able to afford going to school. In addition, if they are
females, they may not have been encouraged to do so. Until recently, very few NFE
opportunities and programs were available for adults. Under the Project, NFE programs for
young adults will improve the learners' chances of entry into nonfarm activities with a higher
income potential. Improvements in worker productivity and earnings in all sectors of the formal
and informal economy will be facilitated by literacy and numeracy skills. Since women are
already the majority of learners and will continue to be the focus of attention under the Project,
it is anticipated that the NFE programs will improve the health and welfare of their children, lower
fertility rates, postpone marriage for and result in higher school attendance for their children. NFE
will also empower women to participate more actively in the affairs of their families and
communities.
VI. ASSURANCES
A.    Specific Assurances
90.         The Government has given the following assurances, in addition to the standard
assurances, which have been incorporated in the legal documents:
(i)     The operational Project costs of DNFE will be transferred to the revenue
budget promptly after Project completion.
(ii)    The Bank and IDA will be provided with a copy of a detailed, costed out
program and plan for NFE and DNFE for the period 1996-2000 within six
months of loan effectiveness.
(iii)   A draft annual NFE operations and financing plan, including subprojects
to be carried out under the Project, will be furnished to the Bank for
comments by 31 March of each year during Project implementation.
(iv)    PIMU, in cooperation with DNFE, will establish the guidelines on the
operations of the BME system within six months of loan effectiveness.



25
B.   Condfflon of Loan Effectivenes
(i)     The Government will establish the National Council for Primary and Mass
Education before loan effectivity.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
91.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank and recommend that the Board approve the loan In various currencies equivalent
to Special Drawing Rights 17,592,000 to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the Nonformal
Education Project, with a service charge at the rate of 1 percent per annum and with an
amortization of 40 years, including a grace period of 10 years and such other terms and
conditions as are substantially in accordance with those set forth in the draft Loan Agreement
presented to the Board.
MITSUO SATO
President
5 September 1995



26
APPENDIXES
Number                Title                             Page      Cited On
1          External Assistance to Nonformal              27         7,22
Education in Bangladesh
2          Organization of the DNFE                       29       11,35
3          Consulting Services                            30       11,36
4          Staff Development                             41        11,38
5          Project Coverage                               43       12,45
6          Selection Criteria for NGOs                   44        13,46
7          Project Cost Estimate and                     46        14,52
Financing Plan
8          Organization Chart of Project                  47       16,55
Implementation Management Unit (PIMU)
9          Project Implementation Schedule                48       16,58
10          Project Performance Indicators and            50        18,65
Monitoring Mechanisms
SUPPLEMENTARY APPENDIXES
(Available if required)
A           Organization and Functions of DNFE
B           Local and External Training
C           Teacher Selection, Training, and Supervision
D           Criteria and Procedure for Award of
External Fellowships
E           Benefit Monitoring, and Evaluation
F           Socioeconomic Profile



27                    Appendix 1, page 1
EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE TO NONFORMAL EDUCATION IN BANGLADESH
A.   Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA)
1.         Between 1978 and 1991, DANIDA provided support to basic primary and adult
education as part of the Integrated Rural Development Program in Noakhali district. The activities
included preschool and two years of primary education for children, and functional adult
education including a skills training program for women. It presently supports the
Underprivileged Children's Education Program (UCEP), a program for poor working and street
children; and the primary and adolescent program within Gono ShahaJio Sangsta (GSS).
B.   Directorate General for International Cooperation (DGIS)
2.         Under the General Education Project (GEP), DGIS is supporting the Nonformal
Education (NFE) component in the amount of $4.2 million. Support is provided to 17
Nongovernmental Organizations (NGOs) to deliver nonformal primary education (NFPE)
programs to out-of-school children. The NGO programs differ in length, curriculum, contact
hours, and cost. A total of about 3,100 centers are supported under GEP. DGIS is also
supporting the Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee's (BRAC) NFPE program with $8.3
million, and plans to support GSS.
C.   Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD)
3.         NORAD is supporting INFEP programs for adolescents (11-14 years) and adults
(15-25 years) implemented by NGOs, provision of books and posters for postliteracy, staff
training, and evaluation. The support to INFEP amounts to $4 million for 1994-1995.
D.   Overseas Development Administration (ODA)
4.         ODA is currently funding four NGO education programs. BRAC's NFPE receives
about $3 million, Proshika receives $7.3 million for NFPE and adult literacy programs, UCEP is
supported by $370,000 for their program for street children and Friends in Village Development,
Bangladesh receives about $12,500 for early childhood programs. ODA is presently appraising
GSS with a possible amount of $3 million.
E.   Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA)
5.         SIDA supports the NFE component under GEP together with DGIS in the amount
of $4.2 million. Support is also provided to INFEP's adolescent NFE program (through UNICEF),
adult literacy program, the Total Literacy Movement, and the strengthening of monitoring through
10 monitoring associates. SIDA's total financing to INFEP is about $3.5 million for the period
1994-1996. SIDA also provides direct support to NGOs; about $2.7 million to BRAC's rural
development program, women's health and development programs and NFPE; $4.6 million to
GSS education and advocacy program; and about $0.5 million to the Campaign for Popular
Education for advocacy and networking.



28                     Appendix 1, page 2
F.   United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)
6.          UNICEF has been the principal source of funding for INFEP between 1991 and
1995, providing about $14 million. It provides support to early childhood development and NFE
programs for children (6-10 and 11-14 years) delivered through NGOs. Inputs are for curricula,
teacher training and materials development, training workshops, social mobilization as well as
actual program delivery. About 9,400 centers serving around 217,000 children have been
supported. UNICEF has also provided direct assistance to BRAC's NFPE schools, and schools
for older children (11-16 years). Assistance to BRAC has helped support 23,320 centers for over
747,140 children.
7.         In its next country program (1996-2000), UNICEF will continue to support NFE for
children through its Intensive District Approach to Education for All (IDEAL). Under IDEAL,
UNICEF will promote and support the establishment of satellite schools and community schools
as a complementary intervention to primary schools, and provide the cost of teachers' salaries
and equipment. The estimated total cost for IDEAL is $192,500 million, with $84 million UNICEF
contribution. No breakdown of NFE financing out of the total cost has been done. UNICEF will
also support NGO-implemented NFE programs for 1.4 million hard-to-reach urban children at a
total cost of about $35 million, of which $20 million is the estimated UNICEF contribution.
G.   United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
8.          UNDP has supported NFE since 1988. Currently $1.8 million has been allocated
for its ongoing project with INFEP up to 1996. Assistance to INFEP includes institution capacity
building for the development and production of curricula and teaching materials, development
of cascade training systems; training of district coordinators, supervisors, and teachers; and
delivery through NGOs of adult literacy programs for learners aged 15-35.



ORGANIZATION OF THE
DIRECTORATE OF NONFORMAL EDUCATION
Dlrector General 
Planning, Programming
Monitoring and Evaluation               Operations Unit               Technical Support Services Unit       Finance and Adminkstation
Unit                                                                                                        Unit
Disctor                             Director                            Director                            Piector
Deputy Diectors:                    Deputy Directors:                   Deputy Directors:                   Deputy Drectors:
-b-Planning and Programming         --Implemntation and                 -Cuwriculum and Materials            Finance
-Monitoring and EvWuation              Field Operations      (x 3)       -Training                          -s-Administration and Personnel
-b-Systenm Analyst (MIS)            -s-Continulng Education                R arch and Documenttion          -s.- Logwatcs and Coordnation
Assistent Directors:                Assistant Dirctors:                 Assistant Difectors:                Assistant Dirctrs:
-o-PIanning                         -s-Social Mobilization    (x 2)      -Materas Development               --Firnance                (x 2)
-s-Monioring                        -s-NGO Operatons         (x 4)       -Currkculum and Materials           -Administration          Cx 2)
-i-Evaluation                      -b-Continuing Education    (x 2)      -Training                (x 3)      -s-Transport and Coordination
-s-Computer Programming                          T                      4-Research and Documentfion         -o- ProcLrementfSupply
Officers:                        DistrictCoordinators       64 j        Officers:                         -'-Personnel
-Asst Computer Programmer                                                -Artist                               Offic s:
Statsical Officer        (x 4)                                          4-Ubrarian                          -s-Accounts
4-Audbovisual Officer               -s-Administallon
- Production Officer                -Stores
PIMU                                                              4-Hostel Supervisor
-Asst Ubrarian
I_                                                                                                                                     >
(NGO's)
0
0.



30                      Appendix 3, page 1
CONSULTING SERVICES
1.          The Project will require the engagement of the following consuftants and contract
staff:
(1)   IntoematIonal Consultants                                       Person-
months
a.    Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation of NFE                   36 pm
(plus two additional visits of 3 person-months each)          6 pm
b.    NFE Methodology and Teacher Training Development             18 pm
Subtotal                                  60
(11)   Domestic Consultants
a.    Statistical Analysis                                          6 pm
b.    Financial and Administrative Systems Development             36 pm
c.    Monitoring and Evaluation/Management Information System (MIS)  36 pm
d.    Benefit MonHoring and Evaluation (BME) Implementation        24 pm
e.    Computer Systems Analyst                                     36 pm
Subtotal                                  138
(il)  Domestic Specialist Contract Staff
a.    Core Trainers                                              1200pm
b.    Audiovisual Education Technician                             36 pm
C.    Management Development Trainers                              36 pm
d.    Assistant Monitors                                          600pm
Subtotal                                 1872
(Iv)  Specialist Subcontract Services
a.    Research Projects
b.    Monitoring of Nongovernmental Organizations' (NGO) Contracts
c.    Evaluation Activities
d.    Curriculum Revision and Development
e.   Instructional Materials Revision and Development
f.    Training Program Revision and Development
g.    Postliteracy Materials and Training Development
h.    Social Mobilization



31                      Appendix 3, page 2
A.   Terms of Reference for the Consultants
1.    International Consultants
a.    Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation for NFE (36 + 3 +3 person-
months)
2.          The consultant will assist the Director General and the Director of the Planning,
Monitoring, and Evaluation Unit and other senior staff of DNFE in program planning, monitoring,
and evaluation of NFE programs to ensure effective implementation and quality of NFE delivery.
The specific duties and responsibilities are as follows:
(i)    Collaborate closely with the Director General and senior staff of DNFE in
drawing up the terms of reference for key DNFE staff; developing DNFE's
annual plans of action, including the development of guidelines, systems
and procedures, as well as the integration of the monitoring and
evaluation system and NFE-MIS with the planning process;
(ii)    Conduct detailed analysis of existing systems for planning, monitoring,
and evaluation of NFE program delivery together with staff of the Planning,
Monitoring, and Evaluation Unit; anticipate demands on existing systems;
recommend system modification and identify resource requirements;
provide assistance in developing a comprehensive and integrated NFE-
MIS and monitoring and evaluation system;
(iii)   Assess the training needs of DNFE staff in planning, monitoring, and
evaluation; prepare annual training plans; and organize and conduct
training for senior staff;
(iv)    Provide assistance to PIMU in determining, describing, and measuring the
Project baseline data;
(v)     Assist the Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation Unit in improving the
existing manual for monitoring and evaluation of NFE programs;
(vi)    Assist the senior management in improving systems and processes for
program delivery through partnerships with NGOs;
(vii)    Assist the Technical Service Support Unit (TSSU) in organizing a process
for setting performance standards for literacy and life skills attainment and
developing instruments to test achievement;
(viii)   Assist TSSU in organizing a process in developing pretest and posttest
protocols that can be administered by teachers and supervisors;



32                       Appendix 3, page 3
(lx)     Assist TSSU in drawing up subcontract service briefs for research and
evaluation activities, and in the subsequent review and assessment of
subtontract service proposals;
(x)     Assist in the ongoing evaluation and analysis of the institutional capacity
and development needs of DNFE, the Project field management, and the
implementation structure with respect to staffing, staff development, and
organization structure; and
(xi)     Assist DNFE in identifying local specialist contract staff and preparing
subcontracts.
b.    NFE Methodology and Teacher Training Development (18 person-
months)
3.          The consultant will provide assistance to TSSU and the staff for the further
development of NFE teaching methodologies and associated training programs. The specific
duties and responsibilities are as follows:
(i)     Collaborate with the TSSU Director and staff in analyzing and anticipating
the demand for technical services support to DNFE and its NGO partners,
and provide assistance in the preparation of the annual plan of action for
TSSU;
(ii)    Review existing NFE practices in terms of teaching methodologies,
curricula, and teaching materials, in collaboration with master trainers,
supervisors, teachers, and learners; collaborate with the Director and staff
of TSSU in organizing and managing processes for developing
appropriate teacher training programs and materials through specialist
subcontract services;
(iii)   Assist TSSU staff in developing participatory core trainer and master
trainer training programs; help TSSU develop a strategy for ensuring the
quality of the core trainer and master trainer training programs;
(iv)     Provide assistance in the evaluation and subsequent revision of teacher,
supervisor, core, and master training programs and materials;
(v)     Review existing protocols for continuous monitoring and evaluation of
teacher training activities and make recommendations regarding corrective
actions;
(vi)    Assist in the design and implementation of pretest and posttests of teacher
training, and surveys to assess teachers' mastery and confidence in the
NFE methodology and the materials they teach;



33                      Appendix 3, page 4
(vii)    Assist TSSU in improving the existing manual for the monitorlng and
evaluation of NFE training programs;
(viii)   Assist TSSU in organizing and managing processes for curriculum/
materials revision and development, and postliteracy materials and training
development, ensuring that learners and communities are involved In the
design; and
(ix)    Assist in identifying core competencies for literacy, numeracy, and life
skills and in developing instruments for end-of-course testing of learner
achievement.
2.    Domestic Consultants
a.    Statistical Analysis (6 person-months)
4.          The consultant will provide statistical specialist assistance to the Planning,
Programming, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit for the development of systems and procedures
for statistical projections and analysis of NFE. The specific duties and responsibilities are as
follows:
(i)     Collaborate closely with the Director of the Planning, Monitoring, and
Evaluation Unit; senior planning staff; and PIMU to develop appropriate
models, systems, and procedures for statistical projections, analysis,
forecasting educational needs, and priorities for undertaking demand
projections for long-term planning;
(ii)    Develop statistical planning models and procedures for conducting
statistical operations; and
(iii)    Develop procedural manuals and conduct staff training to ensure the
continuation of the system.
b.    Financial and Administrative Systems Development (36 person-months)
5.          The consultant will provide assistance in financial and administrative systems
development services to the Director, Finance and Administration and staff to enhance the
capacity of the organization to handle large aid agency funds, including disbursement and
liquidation procedures, procurement, project accounting and reporting requirements, and the
format of the statement of accounts and expenditures. The consultant will provide professional
services to both DNFE generally and to the Project. Project assistance will also include the
training and orientation of NGOs in the finance and accounting procedures. The requisite
services will be obtained through contract with the local office of a recognized international
accounting firm, with specialist in-house resources for project financial management, and
financial and administrative systems development.



34                     Appendix 3, page 5
c.    Monitoring and Evaluation/Management Information System (MIS) (36
person-months)
6.          The consultant will assist the Director and staff of the Planning, Programming,
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in the improvement of management information/monitoring
systems. The specific duties and responsibilities are as follows:
(i)    Collaborate closely with the Director of the Planning, Programming,
Monitoring, and Evaluation Unit and other DNFE Directors and provide
assistance to the Project Manager of PIMU as required;
(ii)    Assist in the improvement of management information/monitoring systems
in terms of (a) quality, (b) relevance of data, and (c) appropriate reporting
schedules to streamline management information systems and program
monitoring;
(iii)   Assist in ensuring coordination of NFE data with other educational MIS;
(iv)    Install and implement MIS programs to meet DNFE's information system
requirements;
(v)     Review existing data collection procedures for data preparation, data
processing, and data entry, i.e. verification; prepare assessment reports
with findings and recommendations; and propose corrective actions;
(vi)    Participate in the design and implementation of training for NFE staff
involved in monitoring and evaluation activities;
(vii)    Provide on-the-job training on MIS to relevant DNFE staff; and
(viii)   Develop a manual to assist staff in the implementation of the monitoring
and evaluation system, including NFE-MIS.
d.    Benefit Monitoring, and Evaluation Implementation (24 person-months)
7.          The consultant will provide assistance to the Project Manager, PIMU for the
ongoing operation of the planned benefit monitoring and evaluation (BME) component for the
Project. The specific duties and responsibilities are as follows:
(i)    Collaborate closely with (a) the Project Director, PIMU and staff; (b) the
Director, Planning, Programming, Monitoring, and Evaluation Unit; and (c)
the international consultant in planning, monitoring and evaluation;
(Ii)    Identify information requirements as input into Project monitoring
Indicators;



35                     Appendix 3, page 6
(iii)   Refine and operationalize ongoing BME procedures and systems
necessary to monior and evaluate the Project;
(iv)    Develop a procedural manual for BME implementation;
(v)     Provide staff development for PIMU to ensure the transfer of necessary
speciaiist knowledge and skills to allow the full operation of the BME
system;
(vI)    Prepare a BME plan to track the performance indicators as prescribed in
the BME project framework; and    -
(vii)    Make frequent visits to district and-loca! administration offices, NGO
offices, training sites, and learning centers to monitor and provide
feedback on field implementation of the Project.
e.    Computer Systems Analyst (36 person-months)
8.          The consuftant will provide assistance to the Director and staff of the Planning,
Programming, Monitoring, and Evaluation Unit for the development of computer system models.
The specific duties and responsibilities are as follows:
)i)    Collaborate closely with the Deputy Director of Systems Analysis (MIS)
and provide technical support and assistance to PIMU as required;
(ii)    Provide technical support to the Assistant Director of Computer
Programming in the development of computer models for the analysis of
information collected on NFE programs;
(iii)   Provide technical support for the development of computerized monitoring
and evaluation systems;
(iv)    Develop software programs for computer analysis of NFE programs and
project data;
(v)     Train computer data entry staff on methods and procedures of information
collection, preparation, and processing of program and project-related
field data, including financial management data and materials inventories;
and
(vi)    Develop a manual on procedures for the operation of computer systems.



36                      Appendix 3, page 7
3.    Domestic Specialist Contract Staff
a.    Core Trainers (1220 person-months)
9.          Under the direction of the Director, TSSU, the core trainers will have responsibility
for (i) the design and development of the training programs and materials (preservice and in-
service) for NFE teachers and supervisors; (ii) the design and development of training programs
and materials for master trainers who will carry out the teacher training; and (iii) the evaluation
of and ongoing assistance to NFE district coordinators and supervisors on procedures for regular
professional assistance and development for NFE teachers. The core trainers will work in close
collaboration with the other staff and consultants of TSSU, the district coordinators of DNFE, and
NGOs.
b.    Audiovisual Education Technician (36 person-months)
10.         The consultant will provide assistance to TSSU in audiovisual equipment
operation, maintenance and development, including the running of the micro-teaching studio and
audiovisual training aids production.
c.    Management Development Trainers (36 person-months)
11.         The trainers will provide assistance to TSSU and the Operations Unit in providing
orientation and management training to selected NGOs, including identification of management
training needs, design of training programs, and implementation of training workshops.
d.    Assistant Monitors (600 person-months)
12.         The monitors will assist the Planning, Programming, Monitoring, and Evaluation
Unit with field monitoring and evaluation of NFE program delivery. The monitors will liaise closely
with PIMU and the BME Implementation consultant.
4.    Specialist Subcontract Services
13.         Specialist subcontract services will be provided for short-term assistance to
research projects and various program development, quality improvement, and evaluation
activities. Subcontracts will be implemented by individuals, research agencies, private or
nonprofit agencies. In addition, subcontract services will be used to finance resource persons,
workshops and beneficiary participation, particularly for program development activities. DNFE
will prepare a project brief, defining the issues to be investigated or tasks to be undertaken; set
broad parameters for the study/activity; and indicate the amount of funds to be allocated. Within
these parameters, the applicants will prepare a specific proposal giving details of the proposed
methodology. The contracts will be awarded on a competitive basis following guidelines
prepared by TSSU, acceptable to the Bank. During Project implementation, the identified areas
for subcontract services will be further reviewed and refined, and additional activities may be
included.



37                       Appendix 3, page 8
a.    Research Projects
14.         Over the course of Project implementation research studies will be carried out
periodically through TSSU to meet program needs such as the identification of appropriate
materials and methods, implementation strategies, NGO baseline data, and assessment
processes.
15.         Specific examples of priority topics to be considered for research projects are as
follows:
(i)    NGO data base: The establishment of a- NGO data base will involve the
development of survey instruments to update information on NGOs implementing
NFE programs. The surveys will establish the location (district, thana) of NGOs,
the type of NFE programs they provide and location, capacity as measured by the
centers for each NFE target group, number of learners, supervisors, and teachers.
The information collected will be fed into DNFE's MIS.
(ii)   Social and economic impact of participation in NFE programs: The NFE program
for young adults will be evaluated to determine the socioeconomic impact. This
will include tracer studies and case studies of selected learners to determine the
effect of the NFE program on literacy, social awareness, and family and personal
life. In-depth interviews will be conducted on topics such as family structure,
marriage, status, child education, fertility, contraception, child care, decision
making, medical knowledge, use of medical facilities, and income-generating
activities.
(iii)   Content areas for postliteracy materials: A variety of postliteracy materials that
meet learners' needs and interests will have to be developed. Researchers will
work with a cross section of the target communities and learners to ensure their
involvement in defining the content and outcome of their learning. The
participatory process may include learners who (a) discuss and reflect on issues
and problems of their lives, (b) discuss root causes to the problems, (c) examine
implications and consequences of issues, (d) decide on themes and main
characters who address the issue or the problem, and (e) outline a story. Themes
on materials for entertainment will also be explored. The research will provide a
list of themes and story outlines. The resultant materials will reflect the learners'
own lives and issues and will be used for a problem-posing educational process.
(iv)   Patterns of organization and teaching methods to maximize student learning in
NFE: Research will explore a range of alternative patterns of organization of
learning and teaching methods that are effective. Variables may include training
the teacher to act as a facilitator rather than director of learning, instructional
methods that attract and retain learners, breaking the group into smaller activity
groups, the use of different textbooks, the use of extra reading materials, the use
of creative writing, and literacy learning integrated with other village activities.



38                       Appendix 3, page 9
(v)   Approaches to teach beginning reading: Very little research has been done on
effective ways to teach literacy to beginners. Research will Investigate different
ways of teaching reading, e.g. use of letter mnemonics, sight recognition, the
phonic approach, whole-word approach, syllable approach, whole word broken
up into syllables, etc., and come up with recommendations (including a step-by-
step process) on how to facilitate beginning reading with adults. The researchers
will present their findings at a workshop and their recommendations will be
considered for teacher training.
(vi)   Procedures used by teachers in NFE programs to diagnose and evaluate the
progress of their students: Teachers need to evaluate the progress of their
students along the learning continuum for each area of the curriculum. Currently,
this continuous assessment is subjective, based on observations of the student's
responses during class, written work, etc. Research will focus on the teachers'
practices of subjective assessment with the aim of improving teachers' training in
these skills as well as on objective measures of continuous assessment to identify
procedures that do not consume too much of the teacher's time for administration
or recording of results.
b.    Monitoring of Nongovernmental Organizations' Contracts
16.         Under the guidance of PIMU, subcontracting will be provided for external
evaluation of the NFE provision under subvention to NGOs. Each year, selected NGOs will be
evaluated against the selection criteria, contract agreements, and internal monitoring reports.
C.    Evaluation Activities
17.         Subcontracts will be let for the following activities: (i) identification of core
competencies and development, pretesting, and finalization of instruments for end-of-course
learner achievement; (ii) evaluation of the Total Literacy Movement (TLM) in pilot districts; (iii)
annual evaluation of learner achievement on a sample basis; (iv) midterm evaluation of the total
Project, prior to the Bank's, IDA's and SDC's midterm review; (v) survey of the teachers'
demonstrated mastery of the teaching methodology and confidence in the materials they teach.
d.    Curriculum Revision and Development
18.          DNFEs curriculum for basic literacy, numeracy, and life skills will be reviewed,
evaluated, and revised as required. The review will involve teachers, learners, and communities
to ensure that the topics taught are relevant to learner needs and reflective of different
community settings.
e.    Instructional Materials Revision and Development
19.         Review, evaluation, and latest curriculum revision will be incorporated into
revisions of existing instructional materials. Textbook materials will be problem-posing, present
topics, themes, and issues from the learners' point of view and encourage learners to action.
Teachers' guides will include suggestions for continuous learner assessment. Camera-ready text



39                     Appendix 3, page 10
and graphics for basic literacy and life skills will be developed through established processes
for instructional materials development, including field testing, revision, and mass production.
f.    Training Program Revision and Development
20.         Training programs for Master Trainers and Core Trainers will be reviewed, revised,
developed, and implemented. The review of existing programs will involve trainers, supervisors
and learners, and observations of teachers in NFE centers.
g.    Postliteracy, Materials and Training Development
21.         Development of postliteracy materials (based on research on content) and
postliteracy training programs will be undertaken. Materials to be developed may include books,
booklets, comics, (wall) newspapers, and games.
h.    Social Mobilization
22.         Subcontracting will be provided for the implementation of DNFE's social
mobilization campaigns in selected areas. DNFE will prepare an overall social mobilization action
plan. Under this plan, local administration may submit proposals for social mobilization activities
to be undertaken at district or thana levels. Research and development activities for social
mobilization media activities or materials development will also be part of subcontracts.



40                        Appendix 3, page 11
B.   Schedule of Specialist Services
Person-months, by year
1996  1997  1998  1999  2000 Total
1.   Internadonal Consultants
NFE Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation      12   12   12       3      3    42
NFE Methodology and Teacher Training          12    6                       18
Total    24    18   12       3     3    60
Person-months, by year
1996  1997  1998  1999  2000 Total
2.    Domestic Consultants
Statistical Analysis                          6                              6
Financial and Administrative Systems Development   12   12   12             36
Monitoring and Evaluation/MIS                12   12   12                  36
BME Implementation                            6    12     6                 24
Computer Systems Analyst                     12   12   12                   36
Total    48   48   42                  138
Person-months, by year
1996  1997  1998  1999  2000 Total
3.    Domesdc Specialist Contract Staff
Core Trainers (20 x 60 person-months)       240  240  240   240   240  1200
Audiovisual Education Technician                          12   12   12   36
Management Development Trainers               6    12   12      6          36
Assistant Monitors (10 x 60 person-months)   120   120   120   120   120  600
Total    366  372   384   378   372  1872



41                       Appendix 4, page 1
STAFF DEVELOPMENT
1.          Staff development will be provided to DNFE staff, district coordinators, core
trainers, and master trainers through in-house training, local fellowships, study visits, and long-
term certificate courses. A detailed staff development plan will be among DNFE's annual action
plans. The proposed staff development activities are briefly described below.
A.    In-country Staff Training
1. In-house Training
2.          Specialized short-term training courses (3-15 days) will be identified and matched
with the needs of DNFE. The courses will include (i) training of DNFE staff in NFE philosophy,
objectives, organization, management, and participatory approaches; (ii) orientation on NFE and
related job skills for district coordinators; (iii) preservice and in-service training of core trainers;
and (iv) preservice and in-service training of master trainers. Other topics may be identified
during the annual planning.
2. Local Fellowships
3.          Local short-term fellowships (two weeks-three months) will be provided to enhance
the professional skills of DNFE staff in finance systems development, project management and
supervision, and computer skills. The courses will be provided through local professional
institutes.
B.    Study Visits and External Fellowships
4.          Study visits to countries in the region with model NFE programs will provide
participants with an overview of alternative organizations and work practices in NFE. For each
country identified, about six persons will be selected and each team will have a different focus.
Participants will consist of key DNFE and PMED staff, including field staff. Provision is also made
for three monitoring staff to study BME monitoring systems in the region.
5.          Special certificate courses (ten months) will be provided to five to seven TSSU
staff in areas such as NFE training, curriculum development, educational materials production,
teaching methodology, NFE management and development, and research and evaluation.
Finalization of the areas of study will be undertaken during the first year of Project
implementation based on identified professional needs at DNFE. Participants in external
fellowships will be required to continue working in DNFE for three years after completing the
training.



42                      Appendix 4, page 2
Staff Development
Person months
Year
In-country Staff Training          1      2     3     4      5     Total
1.    NFE Development Workshops          6     6     6      6     6          30
2.    Coordinator Training Workshops     6     5      5     5     5          26
3.    Core TrainersWorkshops            10    10    10    10    10           50
4.    Master Trainers Workshops         10    10    10    10    10           50
Total                             32   31   31   31   31              156
Person months
Year
Local and External Fellowships     1      2     3     4      5     Total
Local Fellowships
1.    Finance Systems Development        3     3                              6
2.    Management and Supervision         3     3                              6
3.    Computer Skills                   10   10    10                        30
External Fellowships
1.    Study Visits in NFE Model Countries    3  7    3      3                16
2.    Certificate Courses (ten months)        20    30    10                 60
Total                             19   43    43    13                 118



Appendix 5
PROJECT COVERAGE
Total      Litracy Rate as
Division         District           Populaion     % of Populatona
(over 7 years)
Dhaka            Farldpurb           1,505,686        27.8
Jamalpur            1,874,440        21.5
Kishoregani         2,306,087        23.3
Manikganj           1,175,909        26.9
Mymensingh          3,957,182        25.5
Netrokona           1,730,935        26.0
Rajbarl              835,173         26.4
Sariatpur            953,021         24.4
Sherpur             1,138,629         19.5
Tangall             3,002,428        29.4
Chittagong       Bandarban             230,569        23.8
Brahmanbaria        2,141,745        26.6
Comilla             4,032,666        33.1
Cox's Bazar         1,419,260        21.9
Khagrachhari         342,488         26.0
Lakshmipur          1,312,337        34.3
Raishahi         Gaibandha           1,949,274        24.3
Kurigram            1,603,034        22.3
Natore              1,387,761        27.0
Nawabgan'           1,171,469        23.8
Nilphamaril         1,348,762        25.3
Rangpur             2,160,346        26.7
Sirajganj           2,263,573        27.0
Thakurgaon          1,010,948        27.3
Khulna           Chuadanga             807,164        25.2
Jhenaidah           1,361,280        25.9
Meherpur             491,917         23.1
Satkhira            1,597,178        30.5
Barisal          Barguna              775,693         40.1
Patuakhaii          1,273,872        36.4
Sylhet           Habigang            1,526,609        24.5
SunamganJ           1,708,563        22.3
*    Scum: 1M PopWidn Cerm
b    pilot DlbivIw for Told Uturao Movwnwitr



44                      Appendix 6, page 1
SELECTION CRITERIA FOR NGOS
1.          All NFE delivery to be supported under the Project will need to satisfy criteria,
established by DNFE with respect to implementing NGOs. The Government and the Bank have
agreed upon the following criteria for NGO selection.
A.   Criteria for Qualifying NGOs
2.          NGOs will be qualified for selection on the basis of their past track record and the
capacity to perform NFE functions. The minimum criteria for qualifying are as follows:
(i)      The NGO must be registered with the Govemment; be a nonprofit and nonpolitical
organization; have a duly approved constitution as per relevant Registration Act
and hold elections regularly as provided for in the constitution; have a properly
constituted managing body with clearly defined roles and responsibilities of office
bearers; have an established/registered office with postal and local addresses,
and have been in existence for at least three years.
(ii)     The NGO must have a successful program and a network of infrastructure in the
operational/designated work area.  More specifically, the NGO must have
experience in fields relevant to NFE for at least two consecutive years. The NGO
must have demonstrated skills in community level NFE and familiarity with the
conditions of the beneficiary groups. Preference will be given to NGOs that have
integrated development programs and/or programs for the promotion of women.
In addition, the NGO must have trained managerial staff and teaching personnel
for NFE; have or can arrange for adequate facilities for holding classes; and be
able to undertake baseline surveys, prepare a beneficiary profile, and maintain its
own data base.
(iii)    The NGO must demonstrate management capability in terms of planning,
programming, and budgeting projects; and have in place adequate accounting
systems and procedures to ensure timely disbursement and liquidation of funds,
and adequate staffing to undertake the field extension work. More specifically, the
NGO must have a system of maintaining accounts for audit and a progress
reporting system on project implementation
(iv)     The NGO  must have the ability/provision to bear the overhead costs
(maintenance/office salaries/wages of management personnel, etc.) from its own
resources and must not seek or receive funds from more than one foreign source
for the same program in the same area.
B.   Procedure for Selection of NGOs
3.          DNFE will invite subproject proposals from  interested NGOs through
advertisements in national daily newspapers and/or other means for the respective working
areas. NGOs will submit proposals to DNFE, DNFE will prepare a list of submitted proposals,
classify the proposals according to fulfillment of NGO selection criteria, experience, capability,



45                       Appendix 6, page 2
involvement in integrated development programs, and geographical location. DNFE will prepare
a working paper on submitted proposals for submission to the Subvention Subcommittee. The
Subvention Subcommittee will review the working paper and prepare a prioritized list and
allocation of centers to selected NGOs. The priortzed list will be submitted to the Subvention
Committee for final selection. After final selection, NGOs will be informed by letter and requested
to start preparation for the program at selected locations. NGOs will be invited by DNFE to attend
a one-day orientation meeting. A list of teachers and supervisors will be collected from NGOs
and agreement with NGOs will be signed.
C.   Subproject Proposal Guidelines for Pilot Prolects
4.          NGOs seeking subproject selection for piloting alternative NFE models,
approaches, and materials must meet the following criteria pertaining to the proposed learning
activities.
(i)      The proposals must clearly identify the number, location, and profile of the target
population and indicate how this population represents the priority population for
the subproject (gender, literacy, and poverty indicators).
(ii)     The proposal should clearly present its approach to alternative NFE program
development and implementation. It should describe the general approach to NFE
proposed for piloting; present the methods for identifying, mobilizing, and
enrolling learners in the pilot project; describe clearly the curriculum, instructional
methods, and/or materials to be piloted; present its plans for teacher preparation
(including teacher training curriculum, materials, and approaches) and supervision
under the pilot; present a clear strategy for maintaining quality standards during
the pilot through systematic monitoring and supervision; and evaluate program
and learner performance against predetermined criteria. The proposal should
provide some indicative strategies on how to replicate the alternative program and
sustain its activities.
(iii)    The proposal must provide itemized cost estimates according to the guidelines
provided by DNFE. These items should be in one of the following categories: (i)
direct implementation support; or (ii) developmental costs: baseline surveys,
community orientation workshops, and costs for adapting learning and teaching
materials.



46                                           Appendix 7
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE AND FINANCING PLAN
($1000)
Projet Cost                          Financing Source
Component                   Foreign    Local   Total      Th.                         Total
Cumnecy  Currency             Bank     IDA       SDC    The Bank, Govemment
IDA, SDC
1. FaclNties and Equipment
Buildings, Land, and Civil Works             218    1,137     1,355      706         0        0        705         650
Fumiture and Fittings                          0      175       175        0         0        0          0         175
Equipment                                    306       64       360      324         0        0        324          36
Service Vehicles/Motorcycles                 840      152       992        0       840        0        840         152
Total                                      1,364     1,518    2,882     1,029      840        0      1,869       1,013
2. Training
Local Training                                 0      100       100        0         0        0          0         100
Local Fellowships                              0       13        13        0         0        0          0          13
Overseas Fellowships and Study Tours         384        0       384        0         0      384        384           0
Total                                        384      113       497        0         0      384        384         113
3. Consulting Services
Intemational Consuitants                   1,380        0     1,380        0         0    1,380      1,380           0
Local Consultants                              0      690       690        0         0      690        690           0
Contract Staff                                 0      471       471        0         0      471        471           0
Total                                      1,380     1,161    2,541        0         0    2,541      2,641           0
4. NFE Improvement / Expansion
NFE Program Delivery                           0   28,488   28,488    18,856    7,150         0    26.006        2,482
Pilot Programs                                 0    2,063    2,063    1,500        500       63      2,063           0
Sub-Contract Services                          0      680       680        0         0      680       6S0            0
Workshops for NGOs                             0      100       100        0         0      100        100           0
Total                                          0   31,331    31,331    20,356    7,650       843    28,849        2,482
5. Implementation/Recurrent Costs
Service VehicleslMotorcycles                   0      350       350         0        0        0          0         350
Building, Fumiture and Equipment               0       95        95         0        0        0          0          95
Directorate of Nonformal Education Salaries    0    2,344    2,344          0        0        0          0        2,344
Project Implementation Mgmt. Unit Salaries     0      176       176       176        0        0        176           0
Materials and Office Supplies                 35      315       350        36        0        0         35         315
Rental Accommodation Expenses                  0      375       375         0        0        0          0         375
Total                                         35    3,655    3,690        211        0        0        211       3,479
Project Base Cost (Exclude Taxes and Dutdes    3.163   37,778   40,941    21,596    8,490    3,768    33,854         7,087
S. Taxes and Duties a                             0    1,100    1,100          0         0        0         0        1,100
7. Contingencies
Physical Contingency b                       158    1,856    2,014      1,179      455        0      1,634         380
Prce Escelation c                            127    6,001     8,128    3,298    1,365         0      4,663       1,465
8. Service Charge d                             817         0      817       627       190        0       817            0
TOTAL PROJECT COST                             4,265   46,735   61,000   26,700    10,500    3,768    40,968        10,032
Percentage                                     8.40     91.60   100.00     52.35     20.59      7.39    80.33        19.67
a Taxes and duties are applied as folows: 100% on vehicles and 5% on other equipment.
b Physical contingency alowance Is computed at 10% of building cost and 6% for other components.
c Price escalation allowance Is computed at 2.2% per annum for foreign currency cost and 6% annually
for locel currency coet. No price escalatlon allowance Is provided for consulting servies.
d Service charge on Asian Development Fund oon is 1 % annually on the amount disbursed. Service charge on IDA credit is 0.75%
annually on the amount disbursed, i has been assumed that IDA will not ievy the commitment fee, as Is usual.



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION MANAGEMENT UNIT (PIMU)
Project Director  I
Support Functions                                Operational Functions
I                                                 I    
_______Finance   ____Planning & Programming
_ Finance Officer                               _ Planning and Programming
Officer
|General Administration                           Management Information Systems
Administrative Officer __- Systems Analyst
Procurement                                 Field Monitoring & Evaluation
_Procurerment Specialist                        -Senior Monitoring &
Evaluation Officer    (x 2)
SL
0.



48                                       Appendix 9, page 1
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
__________  __________             IMPLEMENTA TION PERIOD                         __Y_-r_S
-l             arl I.ar2                        Yer3  _         Vear 4          Ywar5
DESCRIPT1ON                      t  2131411  2   3  4    1  2   3   4  1   2  3    4  1     2   3   4   1  2  3     4
OmpenMt I: naihiltOl D.v._ t__
A.  Enbbilnhmm  of DNFE
1.EstabbIshment
Approval of Organizanton
Appolnimeni of Al Stalf
I. OviWorks
Land Acquisition
Prnparton of Plans and Spectkatons
Prnqullllaian of Cosl Eatimatas
Prnquellflation of Conlrctors
SlddinglEvaluatbnlAward
Constnjctlon
2.  EqulIpmnt
Fumiturs and Equipment Procurement                             _   _   _   _   _  _   _   _   _
Snrie Vehicle Procurement
3.  Logistics Support to Disito Coordinstors
Fumure and Equipment Pracurement                                       _   _   _  _   _   _   _     
Disth  Servib Vehkl Pprocurement                               _   _   _   _   _  _   _   _   _   _     
C   C. n sI'lo BeSus (_ea Appendi 3)
D.  Slal Dellopment
I t Loonl Trining
NFE Devlopment Workshops                                      _   _  _   _   _   _  _
CoordinrtorTrainingWorkshops                                  _ *** E *_                  E_ _ _ _            E E E * E
Car TraInon Workshops                      _ ____E_ E
Mosier Ttinem Workshops                                        E      E       E       *       h       h       *       *
2. Local Fellowships
Prepare Programs
Select institutIons
Nominate Follows
Undertake Fellowships
3.  Study Tours
Prepare Programs
Undertske Tour Arrsngmennts
Nominate Fellows
Undertake Study Tours
4.  Overses Fellowships (Crtifcate Courses)
Prepare Programs
| Selct Institutions
Nominate Fellows
Underbtke F wo                                                            EEhips  _I_ _ EE_    _     _         _ _



49                                       Appendix 9, page 2
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
-t            yer I            Y"r 2           Y"ea VS_           f 4          Yer E
DESCHPFTION                   JI 2  IA4ILI2L[11J=2I2iA  JII    -4 1 =L.J,L  -L =LJ
Cornponent 2: Impmont and Expne of NFE
A.  NOOjSubpfraiet 9de_____
1 .  Invitation to NG0Os 
2.  Evaluation 
3.  Selection
4. Contraeting
E.  Progrm Dolhlvey
Adutt (I15 - 24 yea rs old)
No. of student Intake (2,382,000)
Year I'l
Year 2
Year 3
Year4 4o
Years 355
No. of Teachiers (70,400)                                    4.000           1 1.900         15*00            19.080          27.750
No. ot Trainers (5295)                    _   _   _  _   __i50
Component 3: Project Implementation Mangement
Unpt (Pil=1
Offic Setup
Establish PIMU Otfie
Appoint All Staff
Operation



50                                          Appendix 10, page 1
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
AND MONITORING MECHANISMS
Project Targets                      Monltoring
Design Summary                   (Veriflable Indicators)                  Mechanleme                 Riaks/Aeaumptlona
1 Sector/Area Goal
0   Acheve Educaton for AlN   *   Conbute towards govemrnmnt taget   *   2001 populatbon census         *   Ongoing Govemnment
(EFA) by the yea 2000           of raing adult lteracy rate from 359    *   2000 EFA surveys           commitment
to 62% by yea 2000
2.  ObjectlePurpose
*   Improve  and  expand   *   Directorat of Nonfomad Education   *   ExecutiveCommitteetorthe   *   Ongoing Govemrnment
Nonfbrmal Education (NFE)       (DNFE) established and Institutional    Natlona Economic Council        commitment
programs for young adulh        capacity developed                      (ECNEC)  approval  and
In 30 districts by the yea                                              order of post
2000                                                               *   Progress reports
* Benefit Monitoring and
Evaluation (BME)
implementation reports
*   Improved  and  expanded  NFE   *   Management  Informatlon   *   NGO interest in and
programs for young aduls (15-24        System (MIS)                    capacity to deliver
years)                             *   Evaluation report               programs
*   Acheverment of core competench by   *   Pretest and posttests     *   Accurate  and  adequate
larne  at the end of one-year   *   Annul sample evauatIons            testing procedures
program                            *   Social Impact study
3.  Projet Components/Outputs
3.1 Institutonal development
a.  Establish NationalCounclfor   *   Membership and functions defined   *   Executive order            *   Government commitment
Primary and Mass Education      and approved                        *   Council terms of reference
and membeship list
*   Annual meetings held               *   Minutes of meetings
b.  Establish DNFE              *   57 professIona HO staff appointed   *   Progress reports            *   Availability of qualified staff
*   35 contrac staff reauked
a   Govemment  llocations  for NFE   *   Annual budget                 *   Govemment commitment
increased 5% annually
*   Systems for planning, organization,  *   Operabonal guidelines and
management and administration of       manuals
NFE delivery strengthened          *   Strategic plans
* Annual work plans
a   NFE-MIS  and  BME  Information   *   MIS and BME opemtional
technologies  established  and         guidelines and
opeational                             Implementabon manuals
*   Progress reports
c.  Develop physIcal            *   1 HO building constructed, fumihed,   *   Procurement reports       *   Effectve local contractors
infrastructure                  and equipped                       *   Progress reports                available
*   Review missions            *   Timely procurement



51                                           Appendix 10, page 2
Project Targets                      Monitoring
Dealgn Summary                   (Verifable Indicator.)                   Mochanilm.                 RalWAsumptdons
d.  Devlop staf Capacily        *   Sytems ad methods fr                a   OpersonaJ gukldte
oinwihmnt of beneficl  hI          *   Projed raper
progran deign and development,     a   SME reporb
-o. quety  - .
moniorng, d evaluation of NFE
program  esutblhed
*   In-houe raining capaciy for        a   Trsinglnedustbn repost    e   Low sf turno
different speC of NFE              e   SM!E rpot
*   81d In NFE appoache and            a   Tmriningvauation repoat    a   Low staff turner
trning upgraded for about 60 stalf,
32 dslthict oordinaomr, 20 core
trines and 20 mter traner
*    k1db In NFE program devlopment    a   Progmm certificates         a   Approprate coumes
upgraded for  HO stid                                                  avaIlable In the region
a   Smil in finance sysms nd            a   Progress rports            a   Appropdae professaonai
mnagmnt devloped upgraded                                             institutes avWible
fr 4 HO staff
a   Computer skib upgraded for about    a   Progress reports
60 HO staff
32  Improved and Expend
NFE program
a.  Improve quality             a   Core compntencle  or NFE adul       a   Ust of competencies and     a   Qued reouce
program Identfid and end-of-couse      tea instruments                 pemons availabb
achlevment tet developed
*   NFE trinig program revised          a   Fhl products
a   NFE curiculum rebvid               a   Fhal product                *   Experenced resource
peons avible
*   NFE textbooks/mntetlal revised      a   Fia products               e   Experinced resource
pesons availbe
*   At east 3 dfint types of           a   Fhel product                a   Experienced resource
poetleory madaM developed                                              pesons available
*   3 reserch studie to support        a   Fia report                  a   QuaWed rsearchers
progrm Improvement undertaken      a   Recommendeaons                  avilable
Incorporatd In progrms
*   At least 60% teachers demonstrate  a   Pr and poet tranin tests   a   Efecive traning
mastery and confiden  on teaching    a   Sample sures                  program prvded
methodokgy and th maeib they
teach
*   More than 50% achrIemnt of oam          Annual sample evalutlone    a   Regular earner
competenciea by baner at the end                                       attndane; larner
of the ourse                                                           itst exists and new
teaching prctices
blowed



52                                          Appendix 10, page 3
Project Targes                       Monitoring
NDeign Summary                   (VerMable Indicators)                   Mechanism                  Risks/Assumptions
b.  Support to NGOs for NFE     *   About 100 NGOs financially asisted    *   MIS and finaneial repors  0   Su11lcient and flectve
detery                         to cauy out NFE delivery                                               NGOs
*   About 50 NGOs recoeId              *   Tralning records
management trainhig
*   NGO contracts let as per work mnd  *   Ouartsrly action plans     a   Efective DNFE
action plans                      a   Progress reports                managerial capacity
*   NGO pernornce monitored ad         e   MIS reports
resuks made available monthly as  *   Progress repots
per work and action plans         *   NGO contract evaluation
*   ReYvjw missions
*   Data on targets available on       0   MIS reports                *   Regular information tow
schedule as per work and action   *   Ouarterly reporb               trom the 1ield
plans
*   About 5.000 supervisors and 79,000    0   MIS reports             *   Effective DNFE and NGO
teachers trained by the end of the  *   SME reports                  training capacity
Pro,ject                          *   Progress reports
*   About 2.5 million leamers reached  *   MIS reports                *   Sufficient NGOs available
with NFE programs by the end of the   a   BME reports                to deliver programs
Project                           *   Progress reports
*   Review missions
c.  Pilot aktematlve NFE        *   Total Literacy Movemnent ("lM) pilot    *   Evaluation reports    *   Cornmitment and
modes, approaches,             tested in 2 districts during the first  *   Review missions            managerial capacity of
materials                       year                                                                  local administration
*   About 10 NGOs received tinancial   *   Financial records          a   NGO interest and capacity
assistanca for plot activities
*   About 1 0 atemative NFE models     a   Fhial NGO reports on
pioted                                 outcomes
*   BME report
*   Review missionsi
d.  Social Mobilization
*   Five-year sodal mobilization plan  *   Plan
developed
*   Fhiancial assistance provided for  *   Progress reports           *   Local administration
social mobilization activities in at  *   District reports            commitment to NFE
least 10 districts
*   At least 4 different social mobilization    *   Final products
materials developed and produced



53                                         Appendix 10, page 4
Monitorlng
Design Summary                           Input.                         Mochanlesi                 Rbik/Assumptons
4.0  AcUvies
4.1 Strengthening Institutional
development
a.  Establish National Council  *   No inputs                                                       *   Sustined Govermfent
for Primay and Mass                                                                                 con*nmant to NFE
Education
b.  Establish DNFE             *   $ 6.22 milon
*   Recruit staff, consultants  *   60 peron-months Internationa      *   Progress reports          *   Timely recruitment of staff
and contract staff             consultat                         a   Review mission             *   Saf retentlon
*   13t peron-months klo  consultants
* 1872 person-months locad contract
staff
* Staff salarles
*   Implemntatlon and recurrent coats
*   Set up planning,
managemnent and
administriatve systems
   Prepare strategic, action
and work plans, including
training, NFE delivery,
program development,
reserch and social
mobilization
*   Establish NFE-MIS and SME
systems
c.  Develop physical           *   $2.56 mibion
infrtructure
*   Construct i HO building                                           *   Progress reports          *   Timely preparation of
*   Review missions               document, evaluation of
*   Provide fumiture,                                                                                    bids, and award of
equipment, service vehicles                                                                         contracts
d.  Develop staff capacity     *   $ 0.5 milon
a   Establish systems and      *   30 peron-months NFE development   *   Progress reports           *   Timely recruhnmnt of
methods for NFE trainig        workshops                         *   Review missions                contract staff
a   Organize in-house training  *   42 person-months lc fl lowhipe                                  *   Efectiv planning of
capacity                                                                                           f1lowehips and timely
*   76 person-months externa                                             relase of staff
*   Prepare trainng programs        felowships
*   Prepare training materials  *   26 peson-months training for district
coordinatos
*   Implement training         *   50 peson-months training for cor
programs                       traines
*   Monitor and evaluate       *   S0 person-months training for master
training programs              trainer



54                                           Appendix 10, page 5
monitoring
Design Summary                            Inputs                          Mochaninl_               Rl    / A Anumptions
42  Improved end Expanded
NFE dltery
a*  Improve qualty              *      0.6 6J mWon                      c   Pros repolt                 S   ONFE be to prepare
0   Reew missis                     adequats project bdre
*   Prepar projct brik for      a   Subtonruot sarA                                                         wd evalue  opo
reearch and vWaluation
*   Review proposals and
*   Incorporate fndings Into
programs
*   Identitf needs lor resoure
pemons and workshops and
organize program
devalopmnnt actiite
*   Develop, teat, Inalizo
cuiroulum, trainsig
programs, and materals
b.  Support NGOs for NFE        *      29.86 nElon
delivery
*   Advrtise, selet, and let    *   Tnkining to 5,300 supervisos nd     *   Pros repors                   E  0      NGO selcton
contact to NGOs                 79,000 teacwr.                      *   Review mislan                   prooedw's
a   Provkie orientation to NGOs    *   Textbooks nd consurnmae to 2.5
mNion leaner
*   Provide management
raining to selected NGOt    a   Trainng to about 50 NGOs
*   Provide training to master
traine
*   ColIct data on cntem,
supervisor, teachers, and
learners
|   Monftor NGO wnd leamer
pefrfmiance
c.  PNl alterrat  NFE modeb    *   S 1.06 mNflon                        *   Poes repo               -
approaches                                                              N revie  pisalone
   Prepar proposal for TLM     *   Textbooks for TLMr
-oo actMtiee
a   Provkie technical support
and 1nn   assistance
*   Monlor program and cony
out *xtenei evluaton



55                                           Appendix 10, page 6
Monitoring
Design Summary                            Inputs                          Mechonlem                  Riakl/Assumptions
*   Provide informaon to
NGOs on avaiWebilty of
assistance
*   Review proposas and         *   Suboocts fcor pilot aiMe
award contracts
*   Monitor pilot activtes                                              0   Reviw missons
*   Use Indings for program                                             0   Progress reports
improvemwnt or replicaion
d.  Social mobilization         *   I 0.02 milon                        *   Progress reports
*   Review missions
*   Prepare social mobilization
action plan
*   Imnvte and review proposas    *   Subcorntct sorm
for social mobilizaton trom
loca administration and
award subcontracb
*   Reseach and develop
social mobilization materis



I






IMAGING
Report No:       14843 BD
Type: SAP



