Docament of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 13706
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3303-JM)
NOVEMBER 14, 1994
Trade, Industry and Energy Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
(Loan 3303-JNI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
May 1979 - Jan. 1983              US$1.000 = J$1.781                         J$1.000 =
US$0.561
Feb. 1983 - Nov. 1983
Official Rate:                US$1.000 = J$1.781                         J$1.000 =
US$0.561
Parallel Rate:                US$1.000 = J$2.40-2.80                     J$1.000 =
US$0.42-0.36
Dec. 1983 - Nov. 1984
Floating Band System:         US$1.000 = J$4.30-4.00                     J$1.000 =
US$0.25-0.23
Dec. 1984 - Oct. 1985
Free Floating Auction:        US$1.000 = J$6.10                          J$1.000 =
US$0.164
Nov. 1985 - Oct. 1989             US$1.000 = J$5.50                          J$1.000 =
US$0.182
Nov. 1989 - Jan. 1990             US$1.000 = J$6.50                          J$1.000 =
US$0. 154
Feb. 1990                              US$1.000 = J$7.00                     J$1.C00  =
US$0. 143
Sept. 1990
Market System                      US$1.000 = J$8.00 (approx)            J$1.000 =
US50. 125
Sept. 1991                             US$1.000 = 1$12.19-16.66              J$1.000 =
US$0.082-0.06
October 1992                      US$1.000 = J$22.2                          J$1.000 =
US$0.045
Glossary
ACB                               Agricultural Credit Bank
AGSAL                             Agricultural Sector Loan
BOJ                               Bank of Jamaica
CARICOM                           Caribbean Community and Common Market
CET                               Common External Tariff
EFF                               Extended Fund Facility
FIA                               Financial Intermediaries Act
GCT                               General Consumption Tax
GOJ                               Government of Jamaica
JCTC                              Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation
LAR                               Liquid Asset Ratio
NDB                               National Development Bank
PSDAL                             Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan
RPD                               Revenue Protection Division
TAL                               Technical Assistance Loan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offico of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
November 14, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Jamaica
Second Trade and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 3303-.lM)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Jamaica - Second Trade and Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (Loan 3303-JM) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with
Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The main underlying objectives of TFSAL II were to: (a) improve Jamaica's foreign exchange
earnings by encouraging exports (through a reduction of anti-export biases in the trade regime) and to
enhance the efficiency of domestic production by reducing effective tariff protection; (b) improve the
efficiency of Jamaica's financial sector and eliminate distortions in resource allocation and to encourage
investment financing; and (c) support the Stand-by Program agreed with the IMF, through balance of
payments support. The focus on an appropriate macroeconomic framework was one of the main reasons
for its success. The reduction of the current account and fiscal deficit made it possible to achieve
significant results in lowering tariff rates and in introducing new legisladon affecting commercial banks,
financial institutions and the securities market.
Among the main lessons of experience drawn from this project are the need to avoid seeking
agreement on all aspects of complex legislation as a condition of tranche release.
Overall, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory, its sustainability as likely, and the institutional
development impact as substantial.
The PCR presents a well balanced and comprehensive account of project achievements and
constraints.
Attachment
T|his document has a restricted distribution and nay be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






JAMAICA                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
(Loan 3303-JM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ......  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  .................................  ii
PART I: BANK ASSESSMENT
Project Identity    . .1
1.     INTRODUCTION   ..1................................ 
Past Policies and Economic Performance ................  I
tI.   THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM UNDER TFSAL 11
A. Loan Objectives and Rationale .........................  2
B. Trade Reform   .........             ..........................  2
Background (1987-1990) ..................... 2
Trade Reform Component of TFSAL II  ....               ............  3
Reduction of the CARICOM's Common External Tariff  . 3
Stamp Duties ............................  3
Removal of Licensing Requirements on Used Tires  ...  .  3
Minimum Tariffs on Animal Feed  ....            ...........  4
Anti-dumping Measures  .....................  4
Duty Drawback Scheme  ............                ........  4
JCTC Import Monopolies  ...........                ........  4
Customs Reform  ..........................  5
General Consumption Tax (GCT)  ....             ...........  5
C. Financial Sector Reform ...... 5
Background (1987-1990) .....................  5
Financial Sector Reform Component of TFSAL 11 ....            ......  6
Liquid Assets Ratio (LAR)  ...................  6
Equalization of Cash Reserve Requirements for
Commercial and Near Banks  ..................  6
Strenthening the Financial Markets  ....         ..........  7
Financial Sector Legislation ...................  7
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Supervisory Capacity of BOJ ...... .    ..     .          7
Reduction of Credit Subsidies ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  8
D. Macroeconomic Program   ......... .. .  .. .  .  .. .  .  .. .  .  .. .   .  8
E. Appropriateness of Program Design . .......... . . .    . . .  .  .  .  .    . 8
Ill.   IMPLEMENTATION OF TFSAL II'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  AND
MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
A. Performance and Accomplishments under the Program  ....       ...... 9
The Trade Reform Component ..         .....................  9
Tariff  Reform  ................... .........    9
The JCTC Program         ........................  9
Use of Reference Prices ......... ............ 10
Stamp Duties ............................ 10
General Consumption Tax ......... ........... 10
Customs Reform  .......................... 1 1
Duty-Drawback system        .............. I I
Financial Sector Component  ....................... 11
Interest Rate Policy ...............1......... 11
Reserve Requirement Policy     ................... 12
Equalization of cash reserve requirements  ...          12
Financial Sector Legislation     .     .     .13
Strengthening Banking Supervision Functions    ...14
Macroeconomic Policy and Performance   .         .14
Exchange Rate Policy .14
Fiscal Policy and Balance of Payments .15
B. Extent of Discernible Impact .16
The Social Impact    . . .17
C. Sustainability          ..17
IV. ROLE OF THE BANK   .17
Complementarity with IMF Programs   . . .17
Cofinancing    .............................  18
Adequacy of Supervision Efforts                          18
Disbursements ..............          ........... 18
Records and Audits .               .                     18



PART II: THE BORROWER'S ASSESSMENT
1.   INTRODUCTION    ..................................  19
I.   CONTEXT WITHIN WHICH LOAN WAS NEGOTIATED
AND SIGNED ........... 19
Ill.  CO-FINANCING ...........  22
IV. CONCLUSION ........... 23
PART Ill: ANNEXES
I.  Policy Matrix of TFSAL II .25
II.   Statistical Annex.35
III.  Basic Data Sheet.






i
JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
(LOAN 3303-JM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.            The following is a Project Completion Report on the Second Trade
and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (TFSAL; Loan No. 3303-JM) to Jamaica for
US$30.0 million in two equal tranches. The loan was approved by the Executive
Directors on March 21, 1991 and became effective shortly after on March 25, 1991.
It has been fully disbursed.
2.            This completion report was prepared by the Latin America and
Caribbean Regional Office and is based on information from the Minutes of the
Board Meeting, the LAC Information Center, the Report of the President of the
Bank, staff Supervision Reports and a PCR mission in August 1993.
3.            Given the large number of components and issues covered in this
operation, this report slightly exceeds the envisaged number of pages for PCRs.






iii
Performance and Accomplishments under the Program
3.            On the whole, the loan was successful in achieving its main
objectives. The trade regime became more open, significant policy distortions in the
financial sector were eliminated, macro-economic management was strengthened,
despite setbacks encountered due to exchange rate volatility and inflation, and
growth prospects have improved despite the large debt overhang. Specifically,
under the program, import tariffs were reduced to a range of 0%-45%; all remaining
stamp duties except for those being phased out under AGSAL as well as the
licensing requirements on used and retreaded tires were eliminated; a 5 % stamp
duty--to substitute for a minimum tariff--on animal feed, fertilizer, printed matter
and agricultural tools was introduced; the anti-dumping legislation was modified to
make it more consistent with GATT principles and minimize the utilization of
antidumping procedures as protectionist measures; the duty drawback scheme was
re-designed; a customs reform program was initiated; and the import monopolies of
JCTC covering 34 essential food groups were eliminated. At the same time, a new
General Consumption Tax (GCT) was introduced. The TFSAL II also supported the
Government's macroeconomic framework.
4.            Under the financial sector component, the auction mechanism for T-
Bills and certificates of deposits was improved; a technical assistance program to
strengthen the secondary market for government securities was prepared; new
financial sector legislation consisting of a Banking Act, a Financial Institutions Act,
a Securities Act and amendments to the Bank of Jamaica Act were introduced; an
action plan to strengthen the supervisory capacity of the Bank of Jamaica was
prepared; and credit subsidies through the Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) and the
National Development Bank (NDB), with the exception of those for small farmers,
were eliminated. While the program also supported the phasing out of the liquid
asset ratio to reduce reserve requirements as well as the equalization of cash reserve
requirements, these programs were eventually revised in light of the adjustments
needed in the macroeconomic framework to implement the stabilization program.
Two areas where the implementation of the program has been less successful were
the customs reform program, due to its slow pace, and the strengthening of the
supervisory capacity of the Bank of Jamaica.
Discernible Impact
5.            For most structural reforms undertaken under the TFSAL II
program, it is too early to see the full effect, since less than two years have passed
since the release of the second tranche. It is also difficult to separate the impact of
external factors and short-term developments from the long-term impact of the
specific actions supported by the Loan. The loan has been successful in supporting
GOJ's efforts to continue and deepen its structural adjustment. There has been an
improvement in macroeconomic management and fiscal discipline, despite problems
faced in exchange rate management and high inflationary pressures. The inflation
was reduced to about 20% in 1993 and fiscal surpluses were generated two years in
a row. Through trade reform, effective protection was reduced and the balance of



iv
payments have improved. There was no decline in import tax revenues despite
reduced tariffs and import value. The new GCT revenues (including import GCT)
out-performed expectations. The impact of the financial sector reforms is harder to
pinpoint since some key measures were introduced shortly before the release of the
second tranche and high inflation and volatile real interest rates have reduced the
effectiveness of some actions in achieving the intended objectives of the Loan. The
adjustment process, however, did not seem to have any net effect on total
employment, as the percentage of labor force employed remained constant over this
period.
Sustainability
6.            After the 1993 elections, the PNP Government came back with a
land-slide victory and a stronger mandate to carry out its medium-term program.
GOJ remains committed to sustaining past reforms and accelerating the
implementation of it remaining reform agenda. The implementation of reforms have
gone far enough to minimize the risk of reversals. In fact, the trade reform has
continued since then lowering tariffs further to 5%-30%. The main risk, as well as
the GOJ's policy focus, remains in maintaining the still fragile macroeconomic
stability. If the process of macroeconomic adjustment takes too long, the social cost
might increase, which in turn could slow down the reform process. If GOJ succeeds
to stabilize inflation, fine-tune the exchange rate system and implement the fiscal
program, as expected, there seems to be no risk of reversal of the adjustment
process. One measure which proved to be unsustainable was the lowering and
equalization of reserve requirements, as discussed above.
Lessons Learned
7.            One main lesson confirmed under the loan was the importance of
government ownership of and commitment in the success and the sustainability of
the program. Another lesson related to designing conditionality for supporting the
introduction of new legislation. Conditionality based on "presentation of legislation
to Parliament" proved to be ineffective for ensuring that specific measures are put in
place. It seems that a more effective way of designing such conditionality would be
to explicitly target a few key aspects of the legislation, such as capital requirements.
A final lesson was derived from the experience with the customs reform component,
some parts of which were implemented at a slower pace than envisioned, mainly due
to resource constraints and unrealistic expectations. This component would have
benefitted from a closer collaboration between the MOF and the Bank at the
preparation stage, to carry out a more realistic assessment of resources available and
a detailed costing of the action plan, and to clearly define expected outcomes and
their timing.






JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3303-JM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: BANK'S ASSESSMENT
Project Identity
Name:                Second Trade and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Loan Number:         3303-JM
Loan Amount:        US$30 million equivalent, to be disbursed in two equal tranches, payable in
17 years (including 5 years of grace) at the variable interest rate
RVP Unit:           LAC Region
Sector:             Trade and Financial Sectors
Timing:              Initiating Memorandum Feb. 12, 1990
Operations Committee, Feb. 23, 1990
Preparation Mission, August 27, 1989
Appraisal Mission, Feb. 26, 1990
Post Appraisal Mission, October 15, 1990
Draft President Report, Jan. 14, 1991
Final President's Report, Feb. 25, 1991
Board Presentation, March 21, 1991
Effectiveness, March 25, 1991
Second Tranche Release, March 30, 1992
I. INTRODUCTION
1.           Past Policies and Economic Performance. Jamaica exhibited significant volatility in
its macroeconomic performance over the past two decades, as a result of external shocks and
inconsistencies in domestic policies. The overall fiscal accounts were repeatedly disrupted, generating
unsustainable domestic and external imbalances. On the external side, the economy was adversely
affected by sharp changes in its terms of trade, rapid increases in the US dollar value of its
outstanding external debt because of the depreciation of the US dollar vis-a-vis other OECD
currencies, and declines in net foreign financing. On the domestic side, successive governments acted
to expand effective demand as a means of maintaining economic growth in spite of adverse external
shocks. Such expansionary policies had to be followed by stabilization programs that sharply cut
output growth. Delayed policy response implied that significant distortions were not addressed, which
led to low efficiency of resource use and investment, as reflected by weak economic performance in
spite of rather high investment rates of over 20% of GDP. Moreover, the public sector expanded,
crowding out the private sector and increasing the external debt, which doubled between 1980 and
1985, reaching US$4 billion. Poor performance led in 1986 to the cancellation of an IMF standby
arrangement, the suspension of Bank lending, and a halt to debt-rescheduling discussions.



-2-
2.           The Bank's adjustment lending to Jamaica during the first half of the 1980s was
reviewed in OED's program performance audit report. It concluded that the Bank's three SALs to
the country should have established a better balance between domestic adjustment and foreign
borrowing. Slower disbursement of those adjustment loans, in line with the pace of reforms and the
country's absorptive capacity, might have been more appropriate. In effect, the high levels of support
allowed Jamaica to delay economic adjustment. Subsequently, the resulting increase in debt service
reduced the flexibility to deal with macroeconomic policy issues including management of the balance
of payments, fiscal deficits and the exchange rate. In 1986, GOJ began seriously to address the
pressing economic issues. Aided by a decline in oil prices and a recovery in mineral exports, the
economy began to expand with GDP growth of over 4% per annum during 1987-89. GDP growth
would have been higher had it not been for the devastating effects of Hurricane Gilbert in 1988. The
external current account deficit was reduced to an average of 7% of GDP during 1987-89 from 11 %
in 1980-86. The overall public sector deficit was sharply reduced in 1986-87 to 5.5% of GDP, but it
widened again in 1988 to 13.5% of GDP because of post-hurricane and election related increases in
expenditures, financed mainly from external sources. Government expenditures continued at high
levels even though this financing was transitory. As external flows began to taper off, the country's
foreign exchange reserves were gradually depleted.
3.           The Manley Government, elected in 1989, began to accelerate the pace of reforms and
reduce the size of the public sector and to rapidly remove distortions in the incentive system. During
1990-91, GOJ focused on continuing the trade reform and financial sector reforms, accelerating
privatization and liberalizing the exchange rate regime. In September 1990, GOJ adopted a market-
determined exchange rate regime based on interbank transactions. The Bank's Second Trade and
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (TFSAL II) was prepared to support the second phase of the GOJ's
trade and financial sector reform programs and the macroeconomic policy framework.
II. THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM UNDER TFSAL II
A. Loan Objectives and Rationale
4.           The main underlying objectives of TFSAL II were to: (a) improve Jamaica's foreign
exchange earnings by encouraging exports through a reduction of anti-export biases in the trade
regime, and to enhance the efficiency of domestic production by reducing effective tariff protection;
(b) improve the efficiency of Jamaica's financial sector and eliminate distortions in resource
allocation and to encourage investment financing; and (c) support the Stand-by Program agreed with
the IMF, through the balance of payments support. TFSAL II continued on the reforms started under
TFSAL I (Loan 2848-JM), supporting the first phase of the GOJ's trade and financial sector reform
program in 1987-88 The policy matrix with the loan conditionality is given in Annex I.
B. Trade Reform
5.           Background (1987-1990). Until 1987, Jamaica's economy was protected by high
non-tariff barriers, import tariffs, stamp duties, reference prices and a large number of exemptions.
Tariffs were based on the CET of CARICOM, with a tariff range between 0% and 70%. Stamp
duties had been imposed on top of the CET pushing total nominal production rates up as high as
200%. Effective protection ranged from negative rates to 220%. The majority of import licenses had



-3-
already been abolished. But import licenses remained on some products for security and health
reasons, for the protection of small farmers. In addition, 34 product groups which were under JCTC's
monopoly were subject to import licenses. There were also several exemption schemes in place, and
most food products were protected by a combination of stamp duties and reference prices.
6.           The first phase of the trade reform (under TFSAL I) did not involve a change in the
CET tariff structure. Instead, GOJ reduced effective protection by (i) reducing the stamp duty on raw
material imports from 16% to 10%; (ii) introducing a 5% duty on the imports of utility companies;
(iii) reducing the maximum (combined) tariff and stamp duty rate from 200% to 68% and then to
60%; (iv) eliminating exemptions except for firms exporting 100% of production and a small number
of items involving national disasters, charitable programs, etc.; (v) removing 56 categories from the
Second Schedule; (vi) eliminating import licenses for 100 items; (vii) removing protective stamp
duties from 56 agricultural products; and (viii) removing 25 items from the lists of reference prices.
In addition, GOJ established a Tariff Reform Committee and Anti-dumping Committee and notified
CARICOM formally of its intention to negotiate a reduced CET. This last step paved the way for
TFSAL II tariff reform. After TFSAL I, trade reform continued under Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan (AGSAL, 1990). GOJ began to eliminate all agricultural import licenses and the use
of reference prices and/or protective stamp duties for agricultural and agroindustrial products. A
program to phase out all agricultural stamp duties over a 3-7 program was adopted. Only products
which remained outside the AGSAL program were corn, soya beans, condensed milk and aluminum
products.
Trade Reform Component of TFSAL II
7.           The second phase of the trade reform under TFSAL II aimed at eliminating remaining
non-tariff barriers and trading monopolies, reducing CET rates and making tariffs more uniform, to
increase competition and the efficiency of enterprises. At the same time, the loan supported the
introduction of a new General Consumption Tax (GCT).
8.           Reduction of the CARICOM's Common External Tariff. The TFSAL II program
originally aimed at reducing the maximum CET rates to 30%. The key constraint to achieving this
objective was the existing CARICOM agreement on CET. Under this agreement, tariffs could not be
reduced by any country unilaterally. Tariff reform involved a difficult and long negotiation process
with all CARICOM countries (1987-91). Finally, a revised CET was adopted in February 1991,
narrowing the tariff range from 0%-70% to 5%-45%. There were a few exceptions at 50% and 70%
(for luxury products) and 368 tariff positions at 0%. The average tariff rate was 20.3%. Jamaica
was among the first in CARICOM to implement the 1991 CET. The implementation of the CET met
one of the Board presentation conditions for TFSAL II.
9.           Stamp Duties. GOJ agreed to eliminate all remaining stamp duties, except for those
being phased out under AGSAL, before the release of the second tranche of TFSAL II. This was to
be coordinated with the introduction of a General Consumption Tax, to be implemented before second
tranche, to avoid any revenue losses. In addition, GOJ agreed to gradually phase out the protective
stamp duties on corn, soy beans, condensed milk and aluminum products over a three-year period.
10.          Removal of Licensing Requirements on Used Tires. Under TFSAL II, licensing
requirements on used and retreaded tires were eliminated. Now, the only certification required to
import used tires is one from a recognized authority in the country of origin, to ensure that each



-4-
imported consignment conform to Jamaica's safety and health standards--which are based on
international standards.
11.           Minimum Tariffs on Animal Feed. A 5% minimum tariff on animal feed, fertilizer,
printed matter and agricultural tools was to be introduced. But since the new 1991 CET set the tariff
on these products to zero, under TFSAL II a 5% stamp duty was imposed instead.
12.           Anti-dumping Measures. Under TFSAL II, several modifications were made to the
1988 Anti-dumping Legislation and to the structure of the Anti-dumping committee established under
TFSAL I. Amendments to the Act introduced in March 1991 prior to the Board presentation, aimed
at minimizing the utilization of anti-dumping procedures as protectionist measures. These
modifications consisted of: (i) changing the regulations so that anti-dumping cases would be evaluated
on the basis of national interest; (ii) adding a consumer interest representative in the Anti-Dumping
Committee; (iii) providing a minimum period of three months to foreign firms facing dumping
charges to carry out their own investigation; and (iv) introducing a one year "sun-set" clause, i.e., an
expiration date, for the elimination of countervailing duties.
13.           A program of technical assistance was also agreed on to make the Anti-Dumping
Committee operational. It involved developing anti-dumping procedures and draft guidelines for
evaluating anti-dumping and countervailing duty cases, and training anti-dumping official overseas.
GOJ requested grant funds from IDB to carry out this program.
14.           Duty Drawback Scheme. GOJ introduced a drawback scheme for exporters in 1990.
The new system was a duty-drawback scheme rather than a temporary admission scheme ', and it
did not cover indirect exporters ( i.e., local manufacturers of intermediate goods and inputs used in
the production of exports). Under TFSAL II, a technical assistance program was agreed on to
improve the duty-drawback system such that: (i) GOJ would consider the viability of a temporary
admission regime, and if viable, would introduce both systems and let the exporter choose between
them; (ii) provisions would be made for indirect exporters. To finance the technical assistance for
designing this system, funds were made available in the Second Technical Assistance Loan (TAL II).
15.           JCTC Import Monopolies. JCTC's import monopoly covered essential 34
commodity groups, including bulk foods, construction materials, pharmaceuticals, fertilizer and
vehicles. Elimination of the import monopoly of JCTC was one of the key aspects of the trade
reform program. GOJ was to carry out the following program by September 30, 1991, prior to the
release of the second tranche of TFSAL II:
(i) eliminate JCTC's import monopolies for all products;
(ii) eliminate JCTC's procurement of imports financed under bilateral agreements and
replace it with procurement arrangements awarded under competitive procedures open
to the private sector, except where the bilateral source requires that JCTC carry out
the procurement function. In that case, JCTC's function would be strictly limited to
1          Under the former, duties would be paid at the time of imports and then rebated to the exporter, while under
the latter the exporter does not pay duties on its imported inputs within the two year grace period during which
exports must be realized.



-5-
the procurement role. The new arrangements would be designed to assure that the
GOJ obtains the income derived from preferential financing arrangements;
(iii) establish tariffs and other taxes designed to assure that the Government obtains
the economic rents from the importation of motor vehicles;
(iv) eliminate price controls on pharmaceuticals and introduce competitive tendering
for pharmaceuticals for public sector hospitals; and
(v) offer for sale JCTC's investments in Jamaica Grains Limited and Jamaica Soya
Product Industries.
16.          Customs Reform. The Customs and Excise Department (the Customs) suffered from
organizational weaknesses and its staff lacked incentives, discipline and management skills. The lack
of adequate systems of control and high duties led to evasion and fraud long delays in trade and
passenger flows. GOJ established the Revenue Protection Division (RPD), a small unit outside the
Customs, to carry out a reform program to improve the systems of control to reduce fraud and
increase revenues. The Bank reviewed the GOJ's program and concluded the reform program was
narrowly defined dealing only with fraud and customs revenue, and recommended a more
comprehensive modernization program focusing on the basic management, declaration, checking and
control systems. A number of system reforms were already underway (Customs Import Entry
System, Valuation System, Harmonized Tariff, etc.). Under TFSAL II a plan of action was agreed
upon which focused on the establishment of comprehensive management inspection and control
systems; valuation system; informal commercial importers; import entry systems and post-importation
controls; harmonized tariff; training programs and computer based systems. Satisfactory progress in
carrying out items (xvi) through (xxiv) of the plan of action was a condition of second tranche.
17.          General Consumption Tax (GCT).  GCT planned to introduce a GCT to replace
and rationalize an overly complex system of indirect taxes which had different rates, licensing and
return requirements. It was expected to have a positive fiscal impact and improve tax neutrality. The
proposed GCT was a single uniform rate (12.5%) applicable (on a value-added basis) to all domesti-
cally produced and imported goods and services with the exception of zero-rated product categories-
basic food items, basic education and health products, agriculture and exports. Cigarettes, alcoholic
beverages and petroleum products were to be subject to higher rates (Special Consumption Tax). The
staffing and training of the staff to administer the GCT had been largely completed and computer
system were being finalized. A condition for the second tranche of TFSAL II was "putting into effect
the GCT, or an equivalent tax which have a similar structure and produce the same level of revenues
and equivalent economic impact as the GCT". Any alternative tax had to be satisfactory to the Bank
in form and substance, i.e., it had to take the form of a value added tax system, with uniform rates
across economic sectors and activities, and with exceptions limited to those already in the GCT pro-
posal. With this formulation, in this condition the Bank focused on the key characteristics of the tax
to be introduced.
C. Financial Sector Reform
18.          Background (1987-1990). In 1987, GOJ began to reform the financial sector and
improve the tools for the management of monetary policy. Several important actions were taken
under TFSAL I. The liquid asset ratio of the commercial banks (the ratio of total of liquid assets and



-6-
cash deposits in the BOJ to total assets of banks) was reduced to 20%; interest payments on
commercial bank's cash reserves in the BOJ were increased to 6% 2; and the overdraft ceiling of
GOJ's account at the BOJ was reduced to 15% and this became subject to additional restrictions under
the IMF program. TFSAL I program also included actions to develop capital markets. GOJ
introduced 180 and 360 day securities and a longer-term bond with variable interest rates to expand
the range of financial instruments in the capital market; reduced tax biases on interest income and
eliminated the stamp duty on new shares; and prepared draft financial sector and securities legislation
to strengthen the legal regulatory framework for the financial sector.
Financial Sector Reform Component of TFSAL II
19.           The financial sector reforms under TFSAL II were to strengthen the means for
managing monetary policy, improve the regulation of financial institution, eliminate remaining interest
rate distortions and make the allocation of financial resources more efficient.
20.           Liquid Assets Ratio (LAR). In 1988, GOJ had eliminated the non-cash portion of
the LAR for commercial banks (the ratio of the total of T-Bills and non-interest bearing (cash)
deposits in the BOJ to their total assets). The remaining 20% was only the cash reserves. However,
as part of its program to reform the foreign exchange system in 1991, the BOJ decided to reinstate the
LAR temporarily, to reduce excess liquidity in the system which could be channelled to speculative
uses, distorting the foreign exchange market. Since the BOJ paid market interest rates (based on
treasury auctions) on liquid assets, the reintroduction of the LAR as a temporary measure was not
expected to have a major distortionary effect. With the Bank's (and IDB's) agreement, the LAR was
reintroduced (increased to 32.5% for commercial banks) as part of the new IMF stand-by program.
GOJ was to phase out the LAR again when foreign exchange operations became more stable and as
current measures to reduce the budget deficit were implemented. The BOJ also announced that the
LAR was to be eliminated in stages between April 1 and September 30, 1991.
21.           Equalization of Cash Reserve Requirements for Commercial and Near Banks.
Near banks (merchant banks and trust companies) had grown much more rapidly than commercial
banks in the last decade, doubling their share of total deposits between 1980-90. This was partly due
to the existing substantial difference in reserve requirements which was 20% for commercial banks
compared with 4.5% for near banks. TFSAL II supported a program to equalize the cash reserve
requirements over a three year period (by September 1993). The cash reserve requirement for
merchant banks would be gradually increased to 17%, while the same ratio for commercial banks
would be reduced from 20% to 17%. Prior to Board presentation, the BOJ's decision to eliminate the
disparity in three years was formally announced together with the specific program of adjustments for
the year 1991. A tentative schedule for 1992 and 1993 was also agreed, with the understanding that
it could be adjusted, with the Bank's agreement, to reflect changes in the distribution of deposits
between the two commercial and near banks. Implementation of the 1991-92 program and
confirmation of the schedule for implementing the FY92/93 part of the program, was a condition of
second tranche release.
2         This has since been eliminated. Currently, cash Teserves bear 0% interest rate.



-7-
22.           Strengthening the Financial Markets. The auction mechanisms for T-Bills and
certificates of deposit (CDs) was improved to better reflect market forces, prior to Board presentation.
The BOJ used to make bids for treasury bills on behalf of other public entities which influenced prices
in the auctions. Under TFSAL II, the BOJ began to make only "non-competitive" bids, i.e. receive
the average yield determined by competitive bids in the auction. The BOJ also began to permit small
investors to make "non-competitive" bids, participating in the original issue market.
23.          In addition, a program of technical assistance to strengthen the secondary market for
government securities was prepared and the short list of consultants was determined. Completion of
the technical assistance program and to implement its recommendations were part of the Letter on
Economic Policy Adjustment (Annex VI of TFSAL II). This was to be financed by funds from IDB.
24.           Financial Sector Legislation. When TFSAL II was being prepared, GOJ was
revising the draft financial sector legislation prepared by the previous government. These were the
Banking Act (dealing with commercial banks), the Financial Institutions Act (dealing with other finan-
cial institutions), amendments to the Bank of Jamaica Act and a new Securities Act. The Banking
Act was expected, among other things, to strengthen the capital requirements of commercial banks in
line with Bank of International Settlements Guidelines, limit their exposure on loans to related parties
and limit unsecured loans. It would increase the supervisory authority of the BOJ. Under the new
legislation, Bank supervisors were to be allowed to issue temporary and permanent cease and desist
orders to prevent unsound banking practices. The Financial Institutions Act (FIA), was to
strengthen the regulatory framework for financial institutions other than commercial banks, i.e., more
clearly define the exposure limits of near banks, limit loans to related parties and increase minimum
capital requirements and capital adequacy. The FIA was also to provide the legal authority and
instruments for more effective supervision of other financial intermediaries by the BOJ. The
Securities Act was to regulate company registration, shareholders rights, stock trading rules.
Amendments to the Bank of Jamaica Act was to strengthen the BOJ's operations and provide a
more effective mechanism for implementing monetary policy.
25.           Under TFSAL II, a bill of law for Banking was sent to the legislature prior to Board
presentation. A condition of second tranche of TFSAL II was that the bills of law on the Financial
Institutions and Securities, and the amendments to the Bank of Jamaica Act be presented to the
legislature for approval.
26.           Supervisory Capacity of BOJ. To strengthen the Supervision Department of the
BOJ a plan of action was adopted under TFSAL II (to be carried out by the Supervision Department)
to:
(i)        prepare and implement a recruitment program to resolve the understaffing problem
and to carry out the periodic inspections required by the new Banking and Financial
Institutions Acts on a timely basis and in accordance with international best practice;
(ii)       develop a manual to cover all banking areas tailored to Jamaica's regulatory and
supervisory strategies and prudential requirements. The manual would be used by all
supervisory staff of the BOJ and made available to financial institutions;
(iii)      prepare and implement a training program for the staff;
(iv)       define data requirements to be provided by financial institutions to include analysis of
earnings, capital adequacy and problem loans.
(v)        develop a methodology for dealing with parent companies and affiliates, to better
assess the risks and the impact of inter-company transactions.



-8-
27.          Reduction of Credit Subsidies. While most financial assets in Jamaica bore market
rates of interest, there were still a small amount of subsidized credit in the financial system (between
1.5% and 1.8% of GDP). Although the greater share of subsidies were in the housing loans, since
the reduction of housing subsidies would require a broad-based reform in the housing sector the
housing sector was excluded from TFSAL II. TFSAL II focused on the remaining subsidies through
the Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) and the National Development Bank (NDB). ACB financed
agricultural projects while NDB financed industrial, tourism and mining projects, on-lending to other
financial intermediaries. Interest subsidies for agriculture were already being reduced under the
AGSAL and the IDB's agricultural sector loan (co-financing AGSAL). As a next step, as conditions
of second tranche of TFSAL II, it was agreed that (final) interest rates on loans to small farmers be
increased to the treasury bill rate and that loans to industry and large farmers be at full commercial
market rates.
D. Macroeconomic Program
28.          The Medium-Term Policy Framework Paper (MTFP) for 1990/91-1992/93, specified
GOJ's economic and social development objectives for both the short and medium term. In the short
run, GOJ's priorities were improving fiscal performance and the external current account balance
through careful demand management. In the medium term, managing the debt overhang, maintaining
fiscal discipline and diversification of exports were identified as key for improving the
macroeconomic performance. Consistent with MTFP and the existing IMF Stand-by agreement
targets, TFSAL II set targets for the overall public sector deficit, the external current account deficit
and external debt indicators. In addition, GOJ was to maintain a market based exchange rate system,
since a flexible exchange rate policy would be required to achieve the objectives of increasing foreign
exchange reserves without additional import or foreign exchange controls. The second tranche
conditionality was the maintenance of an acceptable overall macroeconomic policy as set out in its
Letter on Economic Policy Adjustment (Annex VI of TFSAL II).
E. Appropriateness of Program Design
29.          Overall, the design of conditionality under TFSAL II was adequate and successful in
inducing GOJ to continue with its structural adjustment efforts. It provided continuity in structural
reforms initiated under earlier Bank loans. The preparatory work and analysis carried out by the
Bank was sufficient for designing a comprehensive program. The actions in the program addressed
the most pressing issues affecting the trade and financial sectors at the time of loan preparation. The
loan package included several important upfront actions to ensure the implementation of needed
adjustment measures early on, an improvement in program design over earlier SALs. Another
strength of TFSAL II over the previous SALs was the inclusion of specific macroeconomic targets in
the context of a medium-term macroeconomic framework. This strengthened the linkage between
macroeconomic adjustment and the sector reforms supported by the loan. However, the large
number actions and conditions in the Loan made it relatively complex for supervision and
implementation purposes.



-9-
III. IMPLEMENTATION OF TFSAL II's ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
AND MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
A. Performance and Accomplishments under the Program
30.          On the whole, the loan was successful in achieving its main objectives. The trade
regime became more open, significant policy distortions in the financial sector were eliminated,
macro-economic management was strengthened and growth prospects have improved despite the large
debt overhang. This section discusses accomplishments and short-comings of the Loan by
component, and derives some lessons.
The Trade Reform Component
31.          Tariff Reform. Substantial progress was achieved under the Loan in trade reform.
The objectives under TFSAL II on tariff reform were set realistically, reflecting constraints imposed
on the pace of reform by CARICOM. Thus, the original target of "maximum tariff of 30%" was
revised to 45%. The Bank recognized this as a significant achievement for GOJ, given the
restrictions they faced for revising tariffs.
32.          Despite the major reduction in the CET under TFSAL II (from 70% to 45%), in the
face of rapid tariff reforms taking place in the Latin America region, Jamaica's tariff reform
remained a relatively modest step toward opening up the economy. In 1991, under the new structure,
effective protection for low value-added products, could still reach 200%. However, this tariff
reduction was seen by GOJ not as a final step but as an important intermediate stage of liberalization.
In this sense, TFSAL II has been a useful instrument in initiating the first round of CET reductions,
and in signaling that this should not be seen as a final step. Trade reform continued after TFSAL II.
GOJ took leadership in initiating a new round of negotiations within CARICOM to further reduce
tariffs. This was supported under the Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan (PSDAL, June,
1993). In 1992, a three-stage tariff reform was agreed upon by CARICOM, to be implemented
between 1993-1998. Jamaica implemented the first stage in April 1993, reducing the tariff range to
5%-30% (see Table 1). Jamaica has committed itself to reduce its tariffs to 5%-20% range by 1997.
Since this commitment is linked to an international agreement, this strengthens the sustainability of
tariff reform.
Table 1: Change in CET Tariff Structure - 1991-1993
1991 CET (TFSAL II)       1993 CET (PSDAL)
Non-competing   Competing   Non-competing   Competing
Inputs:
Raw materials         5%            30%           5%            20%
Intermediate Goods    10%           30%           5%            25%
Capital Goods         0-10%         20%           5%            20%
Basic Final Goods           10%           30%           10%           30%
Non-Basic Final goods       30%           45%           25%           30%
33.          The JCTC Program. This was a significant component of the Loan and it was
largely successful in achieving its objectives. JCTC's import monopoly over 34 product groups was
eliminated. For imports of skim milk powder (or milk solids), however, JCTC continues to play a
coordinating role since for GOJ it is critical to satisfactorily control radioactivity and other



-10-
contamination. Jamaica did not have the private laboratory capacity which could immediately take
over the health and quality control functions from GOJ. Thus, JCTC has continued to coordinate
quality and sourcing checks on milk solids and the suppliers. This arrangement is likely to continue
until a reliable system of certification by private laboratories is established. GOJ should be
encouraged to take the necessary steps in this direction.
34.           As intended with the elimination of the import monopoly, private sector companies
came in and successfully took over the trading and distribution functions for most of these products.
GOJ has also trimmed down JCTC's staff, consistent with its reduced responsibilities. As provided
under the Loan, few foreign governments (eg., US Government for the PL480 program and the
Canadian Government) have asked JCTC to continue to procure and distribute their products under
bilateral aid agreements, as they have found JCTC perform efficiently. Under PDSAL, GOJ
introduced a more competitive and transparent system for JCTC to select its domestic distributors for
products it continues to procure under bilateral aid arrangements.
35.           Motor vehicles are now imported directly by individuals or dealers after the pre-
payment of applicable taxes and duties, which automatically entitles them to an import certificate.
GOJ has introduced Special Consumption Tax on motor vehicles. Total taxes are still high leading to
some illegal imports. Although import certificates are generally given within 24 hours after taxes are
paid, there were complaints of delays in obtaining the certificate. GOJ should eliminate this step to
further simplify the process. Advertisements have been placed in local newspapers by NIBJ for
offering for sale JCTC's investment in Jamaica Grains Ltd. and Jamaica Soya Products Ind.
Privatization of JCTC's interests in these entities are underway. Price controls on pharmaceuticals
have been abolished.
36.           Use of Reference Prices. Remaining reference prices were abolished. However,
since the Customs Administration has not yet adopted the "GATT valuation system", the valuation
system currently used by the Customs allows for de facto use of reference prices when the invoice is
not available or unsatisfactory. The Customs is working on building capacity to switch to the GATF
valuation system in the medium term.
37.           Stamp Duties.  All stamp duties with the exception of agricultural stamp duties and
those on corn, soybeans, condensed milk and aluminum products were eliminated. For corn,
soybeans, condensed milk and aluminum products, stamp duties were reduced before second tranche
release as agreed under TFSAL II. The completion mission found out however, that these stamp
duties were not reduced further in 1993, not continuing the agreed program.
38.           Currently, GOJ is eliminating all remaining agricultural stamp duties, accelerating the
timetable accepted under AGSAL. More than one-third of remaining stamp duties were removed in
1993 (under PSDAL). The PSDAL program will ensure that these reforms are sustained.
39.           General Consumption Tax. This has been a successful tax reform. GCT at 10%
was enacted and put into effect rapidly since the administrative preparations had already been done.
GCT revenues have exceeded expectations, more than compensating for domestic taxes it replaced and
reductions in trade taxes. Total (nominal) tax revenues increased from J$7,925 million in '90/91 to
J$11,481 million in '91/92. Recently, GOJ raised the GCT rate to 12.5% and decided to eliminate
most exemptions and zero rated categories in the Act, to increase fiscal revenues and widen the tax
base.



-11-
40.           Customs Reform. Under the agreed action plans, important steps were taken to
improve the customs administration. After a slow start, GOJ intensified its efforts and accelerated the
reorganization of the customs administration, assigning new management, down-sizing personnel,
retraining staff and introducing new control systems to improve revenue collection. Many positive re-
sults have been achieved and some benefits from these improvements have begun reaching targeted
trader groups. Several new systems were introduced as planned. At the time of second tranche
release, sufficient progress had been achieved, but not every action had been completed. There were
delays in computerization and in the implementation of a number of systems.
41.           This was mainly because while the reform program addressed most key issues, it had
an ambitious timetable, which reflected a less than realistic assessment of time and resource
constraints faced by GOJ. The consultants hired by GOJ prior to TFSAL II, had been selected for a
more narrowly defined task, and their skill-mix may not have been fully appropriate for designing and
implementing different types of systems as required under TFSAL II. Given the financial resources
available to the MOF, the time allowed for completing the computerization component of the program
was too short. In addition, GOJ underestimated the problems it might face in getting cooperation
from the existing Customs management and staff, and actions required under the program were not
fully incorporated in their work program. These factors together contributed to delays in
implementing some components of the program. In retrospect, the customs reform component would
have benefitted from a closer collaboration between the MOF and the Bank at the preparation stage,
to carry out a more realistic assessment of resources available and a detailed costing of the action
plan, and to clearly define expected outcomes.
42.           Customs reform remains a priority for GOJ. It faces a considerable challenge to
complete the modernization of its customs. Under PSDAL, the Bank supports the continuation of a
reform program to modernize the Customs and facilitate trade.
43.           Duty-Drawback system. The new duty-drawback system has not been very effective
so far since the turnover is very slow and, as a result, there are very few participants. A study on the
duty-drawback and duty suspension regimes was completed under the agreed TA program with IDB
financing. The study recommended the introduction of a duty suspension regime to complement the
duty-drawback system. This would require a reliable accounting system and a certain level of
computerization at the Customs which did not exist at the time. A duty suspension system is expected
to be introduced under PSDAL.
Financial Sector Component
44.           Interest Rate Policy. As required, NDB and ACB have adjusted their on-lending
rates to commercial banks and other financial institutions. This eliminated all subsidies to large
farmers and industry and reduced the subsidy for small farmers. On-lending rates such that the on-
lending rate to small farmers was set at least equal to 4 points under the 90 day T-Bill. Although
GOJ fully complied with this condition, the reduction of interest subsidies to small farmers has been a
difficult policy decision.
45.           Following the implementation of the new policy, there has been a sharp fall in the
volume of lending of NDB and ACB funds. Financial statements show that real disbursements and
outstanding loans through them were reduced to less than one half between 1991 and 1993. This was
partly because most loan applications, particularly for small farmers, were processed between the time



-12-
the policy was announced and implemented. Thus, most of the demand for NDB/ACB funds for that
year had already been met by the time the new policy was in place. However, the drop in
outstanding loans and disbursements cannot be fully attributed to the new interest rate policy. It is
mostly due the overall investment climate during 1991-92. High inflation and rapidly rising nominal
rates have created uncertainty and adversely affected the demand for long-term investment funds.
46.           Between 1990 and 1991 consumer price inflation (annualized) went up from 29% to
about 80% in 1991 and remained high (73%) in 1992 (see Statistical Annexes). In 1993 GOJ's
policies succeeded in bringing it down sharply and is expected to be around 20% for the year. While
nominal interest rates also rose quickly to catch up with inflation, increases were not at all times
synchronized with inflation. This resulted in large fluctuations in real interest rates between negative
and positive rates--during peak inflation months, real interest rates were highly negative. On average,
however, real interest rates were negative in 1991-92 (see Statistical Annexes). Fluctuations in real
interest rates had an adverse affect on long term borrowing, particularly at variable interest rates.
Moreover, high nominal interest rates created a heavy burden on the borrower's cash flow. These
strongly suggest that the fall in demand for investment (NDB/ACB) funds, was mainly caused by
macroeconomic conditions, rather than by reduced interest subsidies.
47.           While GOJ is committed to maintaining market interest rates for NDB/ACB funds, it
believes that the six-month T-Bill auction rate is not the most appropriate benchmark rate for long-
term investment funds. GOJ is currently reviewing other available instruments to find a better
(market determined) benchmark rate for long-term funds.
48.           Reserve Requirement Policy. While GOJ had planned to phase out the LAR, the
final decision was not to eliminate the LAR and use it to control the level of liquidity in the financial
system. Maintaining the LAR was part of the IMF stabilization package (under the extended Stand-
by) to reduce inflation and manage the exchange rate. The Bank accepted the maintenance of the
LAR as part of the IMF program. While liquid assets (the non-cash portion) bear interest and,
therefore, they do not represent a tax on financial institutions, frequent changes in the reserve
requirement policy in the last few years, had the undesirable effect of creating great uncertainty for
financial institutions.
49.           Equalization of cash reserve requirements. Until recently, the BOJ has been satis-
factorily moving in accordance with the established schedule to equalize cash reserve requirements
between commercial banks and near banks. At the time of second tranche release, the BOJ was on
schedule with the adjustments. The cash reserve requirement for commercial banks had been reduced
to 19% while that of near banks had been raised to 11 %. Under the new IMF program (EFF),
however, it was agreed that a temporary increase in the cash reserve requirement for commercial
banks would be necessary to maintain effective monetary policy. This affected the schedule for
equalizing cash reserve requirements. In accordance with the EFF program, the BOJ temporarily
raised the cash reserve requirement for commercial banks from 19% to 25% in 1993. The schedule
for cash reserve adjustments for near banks was not revised. Starting 1994, the cash reserve
requirement for commercial banks will be reduced back to 17% over a three year period. Thus, the
equalization target date was delayed by about two years. This is a set back in the TFSAL II program,
but is explained by changes in the macroeconomic circumstances and the need for tighter monetary
policy. These high cash reserve requirements constitute an important tax for commercial banks, and
contribute to prevailing high spreads in the banking sector.



-13-
50.           Financial Sector Legislation. TFSAL II conditionality on financial sector legislation
was designed around "presentation of legislation to Parliament for approval", since the "passage" of
legislation could not be made a second tranche condition. The Bank's input into these legislation took
place during the preparation stage. During the preparation of the FIA, GOJ decided to make FIA as
similar to the Banking Act as possible. GOJ used parts of the Banking Act that were relevant for the
FIA to ensure similar requirements to all financial institutions. As a result, these two Acts became
more consistent with each other, differing only in a few aspects specific to institution type (i.e.,
commercial banks vs. other financial institutions).
51.           The approval of the Banking Act did not take place until about a year after its
presentation to Parliament, as it was subject to heated discussions. During this process, the version of
the Banking Act which had been reviewed by the Bank went through some changes, which were also
reflected in the draft FIA for consistency. The Bank reviewed the final draft of FIA --completed
shortly before second tranche-- prior to its presentation to Parliament. The Bank found the legislation
satisfactory on the whole, but identified a number of issues in the FIA (also relevant for the Banking
Act), which did not fully meet the objectives of the financial sector legal/regulatory reform.
Specifically: (a) capital requirements were explicitly dealt with, but were not as high as expected; (b)
limits on credit exposure were still high and subject to discretionary exemptions; (c) rules on loan
classification could have been improved; and (d) the Inspector of Banks lacked clear authority to
issue cease and desist orders to ensure sound banking practice.
52.           The Bank sent these comments to GOJ in a letter prior to second tranche release.
GOJ fully accepted these comments and responded to the Bank confirming its intention to improve the
legislation and regulations along those lines. However, since the Bank's comments on the FIA were
also relevant for the Banking Act, GOJ could not make these changes either in FIA or the Banking
Act without the approval of the Parliamentary Committee. The Committee accepted several of the
Bank's comments; the Banking Act had more than 100 amendments, and the FIA legislation was
modified accordingly. However, the comments regarding capital adequacy requirements, limits on
credit exposure and rules on loan classification were not substantially changed. Aside from these, on
the whole, these Acts represent a significant progress towards establishing a sound regulatory
framework for the financial sector. On this basis, the Bank approved the release of the second
tranche. The new FIA and the amendments to the Bank of Jamaica Act were approved in 1992 at the
same time as the Banking Act, as a package.
53.           While the Bank conditionality was met, the reform in a few areas mentioned above
did not go as far as TFSAL 11 program intended. In retrospect, this indicates that conditionality
based on "presentation of legislation to Parliament" could be an ineffective way for ensuring that
specific measures are put in place. It seems that a more effective way of designing such
conditionality might be to explicitly target a few key aspects of the legislation, such as capital
requirements, rather than the whole legislation. Moreover, a single legislation covering both
commercial banks and near banks would have been more appropriate to ensure consistency and
simpler, (less-time consuming) to prepare.
54.           The Securities Act prepared by the previous government was virtually completely
redrafted. Since the same group of legal experts and government officials were involved in the
preparation of all four pieces of legislation, this created a serious resource constraint for GOJ. The
new draft of the Securities Act was completed days before the second tranche release for presentation
to Parliament. It covered the regulation of stock brokers, stock markets, shareholder rights, trading



-14-
rules and other aspects of capital market operations. But because of the rushed schedule, some
important issues were omitted or not adequately addressed in the draft. The Bank made some
suggestions for revising new draft. The Parliamentary Committee has satisfactorily incorporated the
substantive recommendations of the Bank. The Securities Act was approved in early 1993. The
Securities Commission (SEC) has just been established --but not yet operational-- and GOJ is now
working on the regulations and institutional infrastructure to implement the Act.
55.          Strengthening Banking Supervision Functions. Little progress has been achieved
in implementing the action plan for strengthening banking supervision. Most areas in the action plan
spelled out in TFSAL II still need further work. The recruitment program to fill in the human
resource gap in the Supervision Department to carry out bank inspections satisfactorily and in a timely
manner, has not yet been implemented. The unit is still understaffed and behind schedule in
inspections. The manual for supervision and prudential requirements has not yet been completed.
This led to an inevitable delay in the proposed training program on the new manual. The work on
defining the set of information to be provided by financial intermediaries (eg. earnings, capital
adequacy) is underway but not completed. Similarly, the development of a methodology for risk
assessment of affiliated group of companies is underway, but not yet finished. It is difficult to
determine why the technical assistance program has not been very successful, but another attempt to
complete this effort would be worthwhile.
Macroeconomic Policy and Performance
56.          Since 1991, the challenge for GOJ has been shifting from short-term crisis
management to policies for longer-term efficient growth. During 1991-1993, key macroeconomic
issues GOJ faced were restoring exchange rate and price stability and improving fiscal and monetary
policy management. The upsurge of inflation and exchange rate movements changed some of the
parameters of the macroeconomic program under TFSAL II. Despite these, results--and
forecasts--seem quite encouraging (see Table 2).
57.          Exchange Rate Policy. One element of the macroeconomic policy program was the
maintenance of a market-determined exchange rate system. GOJ had adopted a market-determined
exchange rate regime based on interbank transactions in 1990. In 1991-92 however, because the
fiscal and monetary policies were not tightened rapidly enough, the exchange rate began to depreciate
and inflation increased sharply. After TFSAL II was approved, GOJ continued discussions with the
IDB (in the context of the IDB's parallel operation) and the IMF, to agree on a program to fully
liberalize the exchange rate. Expectations of full exchange rate liberalization created speculative
demand for foreign currencies in the economy, leading to a further depreciation of the Jamaican
dollar. In September 1991, GOJ eliminated all exchange controls and let the Jamaican dollar be
traded freely. The exchange rate overshot, rising sharply from J$7 to J$28 per US dollar by April
1992. This, together with insufficient fiscal and monetary measures, pushed inflation up to a peak
above 100% in March 1992. Fiscal tightening in early 1992, however, paved the way for
stabilization.
58.           The rate in the official market recovered to the range of J$22-23 per US dollar in
mid-1992, after private sector confidence in the new system started building up, speculative demand
for US dollars subsided, and the supply of foreign exchange increased dramatically. The BOJ bought
a large share of the supply on a daily basis to meet its foreign exchange obligations at an announced
interbank rate, which became the benchmark exchange rate--the official rate. The rate was held



-15-
steady in the official interbank market, from mid-1992 to June 1993. Foreign exchange denominated
bank deposits grew from nearly zero to about $200 million, faster than anticipated. The accumulation
slowed in 1993, as the rigidity of the interbank rate eroded its initial competitiveness and dried up the
flow of exchange into the interbank market. Trading of foreign exchange continued to shift to the
parallel (bilateral) market, i.e., among commercial banks and other buyers/sellers of foreign
exchange.
Table 2: Comaerison of TFSAL 11 Macroeconomic Targets and Actual Performance
90/91   91/92    92/93   93/94(proi.)
Overall Public Sector Deficit (% of GDP)*
TFSAL II Target                             3.3   2.2-2.8   1.6-2.2
Actual/revised projection                   2.9      0.4      -2.2    -2.5
Current Account Deficit
TFSAL 11 Target                             7.0     6.0        5.0
Actual/revised projection                   7.2      6.8       0.4      1.7
Total Debt Service/ExDorts (GNFS)
TFSAL 11 Target                             35      29         27
Actual/revised projection                   31       28.5      26       20
Interest/GDP
TFSAL 11 Target                             7.8     7.3        7.2
ActuaL/revised projection                   7        7         7         6
Memorandum items:
1991     1992      1993     1994
Real Growth Rate
GDP                                          3.8      0.8      2.0       4.0
Saving and Investment (% of GDP)
Domestic Saving / GDP                       19.0    20.3      28.0      28.6
Gross Investment / GDP                      20.9    19.8      22.0      22.0
Real Exchange Rate **                      65.8    44.8      53.7      53.7
(1980=100)
-  A negative figure indicates  surplus
A decr"es reflects depreciation. End of period; as of July for 1992/93.
Source: IBRD: TFSAL 11 President's Report, PSDAL President's Report and IMF Staff Report, August 1993.
59.              Recently, GOJ made modifications in the institutional arrangements of the foreign
exchange market, among other things, to expand the number of authorized foreign exchange dealers
and have more competition with commercial banks. Interbank exchange rate has moved to J$28 to
the US dollar, restoring again export competitiveness. Resurgence of inflation and fluctuations in the
exchange rate have led to a wait-and-see attitude within the private sector, slowing down supply
response.
60.              Fiscal Policy and Balance of Payments.  These developments led to a revision of
fiscal targets included in TFSAL II, in the context of subsequent IMF programs (i.e., the extended
revised Stand-by Agreement in 1992 and the EFF approved in 1993). Since 1991, GOJ has refined
its medium-term macroeconomic program with greater emphasis on fiscal and monetary policy to



-16-
maintain a more stable exchange rate and to lower inflation. Tighter fiscal targets were adopted to
regain macroeconomic stability and induce growth while meeting high debt-servicing requirements.
61.           Table 2 shows targets and actual performance under TFSAL II. The overall public
sector deficit was reduced a lot faster than anticipated under TFSAL II, achieving a 2.2% surplus --as
% of GDP-- in 1992/93 FY. Despite tighter fiscal measures, in 1992, GDP growth was slightly
positive, and it is expected to be higher, around 2%, in 1993. External balances have also improved.
While in 1992, the actual performance was slightly worse than the target rate, in 1992/93, there was a
sharp improvement in the current account, despite reduced trade protection. This could be mostly
attributed to the depreciation of the exchange rate. External debt indicators improved as well, faster
than targeted under TFSAL II. While GOJ also aimed at reducing the crowding out of the private
sector investment, due to rising interest rates and tight credit policies, this objective has not been met.
B. Extent of Discernible Impact
62.           For most structural reforms undertaken under the TFSAL II program, it is too early
to see the full effect, since less than two years have passed since the release of the second tranche. It
is also difficult to separate the impact of external factors and short-term developments from the long-
term impact of the specific actions supported by the Loan.
63.           The loan has been successful in supporting GOJ's efforts to continue and deepen its
structural adjustment. There has been an improvement in macroeconomic management, despite
problems faced in exchange rate management and high inflationary pressures. GOJ was able to
maintain a strict fiscal discipline, and improve public sector finances, external balances and debt
indicators. In the short run, the GOJ's achievements have been the reduction of inflation to about
20% in 1993 and generating fiscal surpluses two years in a row.
64.           Under the trade reform component, effective protection was reduced. However, total
(merchandise) imports declined both in 1991 and 1992 by 13% (from US$1,934 million in 1990 to
US$1,685 million), since the sharp depreciation of the exchange rate mitigated the impact of reduced
trade barriers. Total (merchandise) exports also declined during 1991-92 by 9%, mainly due to a
decline in world bauxite prices. However, both non-traditional exports (by 22%) as well as tourism
revenues (by 19%) increased during this period, leading to improvements in external current account
performance. Import tax revenues have remained approximately the same despite reduced tariffs and
import value. This confirms the expectation that lower tariffs generally lead to better compliance and
less evasion. The new GCT revenues (including import GCT) out-performed expectations, increasing
to more than 1% of GDP in two years.
65.           The impact of the financial sector reforms is harder to pinpoint since some key
measures were introduced shortly before the release of the second tranche (March 1992). High
inflation and volatile real interest rates have reduced the effectiveness of some actions in achieving the
intended objectives of the Loan. Moreover, the revised macroeconomic program altered agreed
schedules for reserve requirements, delaying the desired outcome. Nevertheless, the positive impact
of reduced interest subsidies on resource allocation, and the new financial sector legal framework
should be felt in the near future, once the macroeconomic stability is restored.



-17-
66.           The Social Impact. High inflation rates in 1991-92 had an adverse effect on the
poor. The impact of the depreciation of the Jamaican dollar was also felt strongly by the poor, since
the import content of the basic necessity and nutrition basket for the poor is relatively high in
Jamaica. Neither of them can be attributed to the TFSAL II of the adjustment program per se because
conditions may well have been worse without the required adjustment effort. As a result, poverty
indicators (derived from the Survey of Living Conditions) worsened during 1991. 3 In 1992 the
poverty indicators improved substantially, reflecting the effects of reduced inflation and recovering
real growth. The adjustment process, however, did not seem to have any net effect on total
employment, as the percentage of labor force employed remained constant over 1990-92 (84%), while
employment slightly shifted from the manufacturing sector to agriculture, construction and commerce
sectors.
C. Sustainability
67.           After the 1993 elections, the PNP Government came back with a land-slide victory
and a stronger mandate to carry out its medium-term program. GOJ remains committed to sustaining
past reforms and accelerating the implementation of it remaining reform agenda. The main risk, as
well as the GOJ's policy focus, remains in maintaining the still fragile macroeconomic stability. If the
process of macroeconomic adjustment takes too long, the social cost might increase, which in turn
could slow down the reform process. If GOJ succeeds to stabilize inflation, fine-tune the exchange
rate system and implement the fiscal program, as expected, there seems to be no risk of reversal of
the adjustment process. One measure which proved to be unsustainable was the lowering and
equalization of reserve requirements, as discussed above.
IV. ROLE OF THE BANK
68.           The Bank has been quite effective in working with GOJ in establishing overall
economic goals, advancing trade and financial sector reforms and introducing a value-added type tax
in a timely manner, as part of the structural adjustment efforts. The MTFP, prepared with Bank
support, has been very useful for clarifying the macro-economic priorities and objectives pursued by
GOJ, and for establishing measurable targets against which to compare performance. While specific
targets were modified, the underlying priorities and objectives of the MTFP remained valid.
69.           Complementarity with IMF Programs. The macroeconomic program was prepared
consistently with the IMF program, with the close collaboration of the Bank and the IMF staff. The
IMF was also fully familiar and in agreement with the financial sector and trade reform programs
supported by TFSAL II. The IMF and the Bank programs were closely linked in that expected
disbursements from TFSAL II (both tranches) were programmed as part of the financing requirements
under the IMF's Stand-by agreement. At the same time, having the IMF program in place was seen
as essential for the TFSAL II program by the Bank. This ensured consistency and complementarity
between the Bank's and the IMF's programs, but also meant the synchronization of tranche release
and approval dates, creating some pressure on the Bank, IMF and, most of all, on GOJ to fulfill
requirements in a fully coordinated manner. This, however, did not lead to any change or
compromise in conditionality or in the performance criteria under TFSAL II.
3See Jamaica CEM, Yellow Cover Report, and Statistical Annex of this PCR.



-18-
70.           Cofinancing. TFSAL II was parallel financed by IDB. IDB's Investment Sector
Loan had trade and financial sector components with almost identical conditions. IDB participated in
loan negotiations. However, IDB delayed the processing of its loan to add a third component (and a
third tranche) which dealt with private sector environment and investment related reforms.
Throughout the preparation and supervision of the Loan, the Bank and IDB worked closely together.
On macroeconomic issues, meetings were often held jointly with the IMF, IDB and the Bank.
71.           At the time of Board approval of TFSAL II, the Eximbank Bank of Japan also
expressed interest in cofinancing this operation. Tentative amount of cofinancing was US$25 million.
Subsequently, the Eximbank officials had several discussions with the Bank concerning the progress
under the program and carried out a mission to Jamaica for this purpose and held extensive discussion
with GOJ. In retrospect, concerns about macroeconomic developments (high inflation and the
instability in exchange rate) and overall creditworthiness might have led the Japanese Government to
eventually decide against going head with the Eximbank co-financing of TFSAL II, despite the Bank's
and the IMF's endorsement of the GOJ's revised macroeconomic program. As a non-preferred
creditor, the Japanese Government might have used different criteria in assessing the GOJ's
performance. Nevertheless, this caused some difficulty for GOJ since it expected the funds from this
cofinancing. In the future, uncertainties and probability of obtaining co-financing from donors should
be more carefully assessed by the Bank and GOJ.
72.           Adequacy of Supervision Efforts. Supervision efforts have been adequate, especially
since there was a continuous dialogue between GOJ and the Bank on the progress of structural
adjustment. Soon after loan effectiveness of TFSAL II, the Bank began preparing PSDAL for
Jamaica. Its components included trade reform, competition policy, capital market development and
the medium-term macroeconomic framework. During preparation (June 1991), pre-appraisal (October
1991) and appraisal (March 1992) missions for PSDAL, TFSAL II was fully supervised. However,
only two separate supervision reports were prepared for TFSAL II, as aide-memoires and back-to-
office reports for PSDAL contained a large part of information needed for the supervision.
73.           Disbursements. Disbursements took place within the anticipated time-frame. First
tranche (US$15 million) was fully disbursed shortly after effectiveness in March 1991. The Second
tranche (US$15 million) was released on March 25, 1992, within twelve months of Board approval.
It was fully disbursed by March 30, 1992, the end of the Jamaican fiscal year. Second tranche
disbursements were critical for GOJ to satisfy the IMF criteria under the extended Stand-by program.
74.           Records and Audits. Prior to TFSAL 11, the Bank had experienced long delays in
obtaining audit reports on past adjustment loans. To ensure timely compliance with audit
requirements, the Bank introduced a specific condition of second tranche in TFSAL 11. This was the
receipt of satisfactory audit reports of the first tranche and fiscal years, completed between second
tranche and loan effectiveness. A private sector audit firm acceptable to the Bank was required to
prepare the audit reports within three months after the full disbursement of each tranche. The first
tranche was fully disbursed by March 31, 1991, only a few days after effectiveness. Similarly, the
second tranche was fully disbursed by March 31, 1992. Since these dates coincided with Jamaica's
Fiscal Year, it facilitated the preparation of audit reports. All audit reports were received in a timely
manner, with only minor delays of about 30 days. These were found fully satisfactory by the Bank.



-19-
JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3303-JM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II. THE BORROWER'S ASSESSMENT
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.           The comments of the Government of Jamaica (GOJ) have the essential
objective of assessing, to as great an extent as is possible, the effects of the
implementation of the policy conditionalities associated with the loan in order to
inform future decisions to be taken by the Government.
2.            As is its custom, the GOJ has faithfully abided by all the loan
conditionalities. Nonetheless, it is important, for the historical record, that the full
context within which the loan was negotiated and signed be explicitly stated.
Furthermore, it is also important, that in pursuit of a complete understanding of the
wide ranging implications of policy initiatives such as those contained in the loan, that
both sides (the IBRD and the GOJ) be willing to objectively analyze the lessons
which were learnt. This latter point is made as it is the GOJ's view that the
experiences from the loan will be of value, not only as they apply to future adjustment
measures in Jamaica, but in other member countries of the IBRD.
II.  CONTEXT WITHIN WHICH LOAN WAS NEGOTIATED
AND SIGNED
3.           In March 1991 the Government of Jamaica and the IBRD signed the
Second Trade and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (TFSAL), the purpose of which
was to continue the process of the Trade and Financial Sector Reform which had
started with the support of two previous World Bank Loans-viz TFSAL I, and
AGSAL.
4.            The agreement was entered into within a more general context of the
structural adjustment programme which the Government had begun since the early
1980s to tackle the severe macro-economic disequilibria which the country was faced
with at the time. Sharp declines in Jamaica's terms of trade, low levels of output
growth, international protectionism, combined with exchange rate depreciation and a
mounting external debt were some of the factors contributing to an unsustainable
external disequilibrium. On the domestic side, expansionary fiscal and monetary
policies and inefficiencies in public sector administration resulted in fiscal deficits.
Such deficits combined with the heavy burden of servicing the external debt, meant
the Government was unable to make investments in social and infrastructure
development necessary for economic growth and equity. Private sector growth was
also hindered by the unavailability of credit as a result of public sector expansion, as
well as by the macro-economic uncertainties and stabilization policies which inhibited



-20-
growth. As a result of these and other factors, the Government of Jamaica was faced
with enormous difficulties in simultaneously meeting external debt servicing
commitments as well as allocating enough foreign exchange to meet basic import
needs.
5.            It is against this background that the negotiations for the loan took
place. Were the foreign exchange crisis not as severe, it is questionable whether the
GOJ would have agreed to all the conditionalities at that point in time, although in
general, many of the reforms specified in the loan were ones on which the GOJ would
have embarked on unilaterally.
6.            The major areas where the GOJ had differences, relate to the question
of the role of the JCTC and the issue of interest rate "subsidies". Whilst the former
issue is no longer a matter which arouses the same level of concern as it did then, the
latter remains a topic demanding further analysis given its impact on the
Government's ability to foster increased levels of investment in the productive sectors.
This is a question to which we will return subsequently.
7.            There are two elements in the adjustment process with which both
parties (the Government of Jamaica and the Bank) must come to terms. One involves
the issue of how to sequence policy measures in an economy undergoing structural
adjustment; the other is, simply how to stimulate economic growth. Oftentimes the
adjustment process calls for "conflicting" measures - eg., measures to stabilize the
economy may not got together with economic liberalization. There is also a more
general conflict between measures to enhance production and economic growth as
opposed to stabilization policies as the latter tend to militate against the achievement
of the former. A balance needs to be struck between the two. For economies
undergoing this process for the first time, the task can not but be seen as a complex
one, which must be handled very delicately. It is important in this context that both
parties accept the complexity of the process and be prepared to respond in flexible
ways to problems as they arise. However, lack of flexibility in the Bank's approach
to structural adjustment has been, from the Government's point of view, a major
difficulty in the process. This report (PCR Part I) reflects the Bank's approach in
generally dissociating itself from any responsibility for problems encountered during
the adjustment process while often linking positive developments to the success of the
programme.
8.            Let us turn to paragraphs 41 and 42 - elimination of JCTC import
monopolies. The PCR assesses that this component of the loan was successfully
implemented. In terms of achieving the objectives stated in the loan, this is a
correct assessment. However, from a more general policy standpoint, the question
must be raised whether the critical issue about the JCTC should be the elimination of
import monopolies or the imposition of the requirement that public sector commercial
entities -



-21-
(a)           are given no special privilege compared to private sector, ones
(b)           utilize pricing policies which establishes automatic pass-
through of costs.
9.            This position is taken in that even after its monopoly powers have
been eliminated, it has been necessary to utilize the JCTC from time to time when
speedy action was necessary to ensure that shortages of particularly "sensitive"
commodities do not materialize. The priority accorded the elimination of the JCTC
monopoly position had, as explicit assumption, that the market system would
guarantee that such shortages would not recur.
10.           Interest Rate Policy. As has been noted before, this was and remains
the most contentious of the issues. The Government of Jamaica has attempted to
analyze this question with the greatest degree of objectivity, not simply in order to
develop a negotiating stance, but mainly to assess the impact of this most sensitive
policy question on development. It is our view that both the IBRD and the IDB have
been exceptionally inflexible in the original design of these covenants. There were
also significant ambiguities
11.           This is demonstrated in the following ways:
(a)           In respect of the matter of "subsidy", there still is not
a clear cut definition of, in the case of the
Development Banks which, have access to relatively
low cost resources. In fact, these resources were
specifically made available to the Development Banks
in order to stimulate investments.
(b)           Notwithstanding the definitional problem, there is a
question of how would a "market" interest rate be
defined. Given the underdeveloped nature of the
financial markets in Jamaica, the use of a rate linked
to the Treasury Bill and CD rates was seen by the
Jamaican side as inappropriate, since such securities
are not associated with long term investments.
(c)           Whilst one can argue about (a) and (b), there seems
very little point in the World Bank claiming as in
paragraph 55 that "the drop in outstanding loans and
disbursement cannot be fully attributed to the new
interest rate policy". Independent analyses conducted
among financial intermediaries, as well as potential
users of funding from the Development Banks, have
confirmed that this was in fact the case.



-22-
12.          In paragraph 31 the report argues that "the largest part of the subsidy
was in housing loans through NHT and the Jamaica Mortgage Bank".' The following
two points must be placed on record:
(i)         were it not for the operations of the NHT the market
for lower-middle and low income workers would have
virtually disappeared;
(ii)        The private sector, through the building societies, have
operated their mortgage scheme with rates
significantly below market rates.
Given the Bank's stance, there can be no question about entertaining dialogue
leading to collaboration between the World Bank and the GOJ on the housing sector
as long as the present position on interest rates is retained.
III. CO-FINANCING
13.          In the preliminary discussions leading to the loan, the GOJ was
informed that agreement would bring about not only $30M from the World Bank, but
a further $75M from the IDB and $25M from Japan's Exim Bank through co-
financing agreements. The GOJ was assured that these resources would be
forthcoming once agreement had been reached with the World Bank.
14.          On this basis, the GOJ developed its projected foreign exchange cash
flow budget with the clear expectation that the co-financing resources would be
forthcoming. Specifically, this financing plan was part of the Stand-by programme the
Government had entered into with the IMF, with specific quantitative targets.
15.          The co-financing from the Japan's Exim Bank did not materialize and
the GOJ was never able to obtain a definitive response on the matter. This put
Jamaica's programme in great difficulty. From one source, it was learnt that the
GOJ's agreement with the IBRD and IDB to charge market rates of interest to the
borrowers was seen by the Japanese Government as a violation of the concessionary
principle on which it proposed making the loan available to the GOJ.
16.          The Government of Jamaica had assumed that the promised
cofinancing will come with time, and the terms it negotiated with the Bank. While
the Japan's Exim Bank financing did not never materialized, in the case of the IDB,
the other co-financier, separate negotiations took place with modified conditionality.
17.          This experience shows that the Bank has to take greater care in
obtaining binding commitments from potential co-financiers prior to finalizing its
programme with its borrowers.
1. This was a factual statement. It should be noted that TFSAL 11 progran did not cover
the housing sector and NHT was excluded.



-23-
IV. CONCLUSION
18.          In terms of the preparation for the loan and the execution of the
negotiations, the Government of Jamaica feels that there has been great progress in the
improvement of GOJ/IBRD relationship. However, the GOJ has a deep concern
about the willingness of the IBRD to re-examine established policy positions in light
of empirical evidence. This need is especially critical since it may be argued that
embarking on structural adjustment loans represents a deviation from the original
objectives of the World Bank which should have, as its principal role, the expansion
of the productive capacity of its member countries. To use a phrase loosely, the
World Bank was meant to be "development-oriented".
19.          The expansion of such productive capacity demands the development
and implementation of a wide range of policy initiatives, none of which is cast in
concrete. Therefore, from the point of view of the GOJ, we perceive that the
development process is a continuing one, demanding, therefore, flexibility of thought
and action. There is more than ample reason to question whether this flexibility of
thought characterized the Bank's negotiating position on the interest rate issue.






- 24 -
JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN 3303-JM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III
ANNEXES






- 25 -               ANNEX I
JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (TFSAL)
LOAN 3303-JM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Policy Matrix of TFSAL II






JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Matrix of Trade and Financial Sector Policy Reform
Action to be Taken
Action to be Taken                  Before Second
Sector and Poticy Issue             Achievements as of 9/89              Current Situation                   Before Board Presentation            Tranche Retease
A. TRADE POLICY REFORM
1. Tariff System
1.  Establishment of
Tariff    Reform
Program
The CARICOM Comnon Exter-           In  February  1987,  the
nal Tariff  (CET), toge-            Government anounced the
ther  with  successively            ultimate  goals  of  the
increased stamp duties on           reform and the detailed
imports, provided highly            measures to be taken In
uneven protection to dif-           1987/88.
ferent economic activi-
ties including a strong
anti-export bias.
2.  Reduction    of
Dispersion    of
Tariff Rates
Revision  of  all  tariff           The    remaining    stamp
Combined tariff and stamp           The stamp duty on raw ma-            Most goods are subject to           rates except for  a  few             duties  woutd  be  elimi-
duty rates varied between           terial  imports  was  re-            combined CET and regular             items subject to protec-            nated, except for motor
zero and over 200%, pro-            duced from 16% to 10% in             stamp  duty  rates  which           tive  stamp  duties  and             vehicles, alcohol, tobac-
viding  highly  differen-           Jan.  1987;  the  maximm             are now limited to a to-             reference   prices   (see           co products, those being
tiated incentives for the           CET and stap duty rate               tal of 60%.   There are             11.2 below) and  ammuni-             phased  out  under  AGSAL
economy.                            was  reduced  to  68%  in            the fotlowing exceptions:            tion, precious and semi-            and  those  being  phased
Mar. 1987 and then to 60%           (i) 11 items with a 70%              precious stones, to the             out   under   this   loan
in Mar.1988.   A 5% duty            CET rate; (ii) 120 items            0%  to 45%  levels  under            (corn,   soybeans,   con-
on imports by public uti-           taxed on a specific CET              the new CET; introduction           densed milk and aluminum
lities came  into effect            duty  basis;  and  (Mii)            of ad-valorem rates  for             products).
in Feb.  1987.   In Dec.            large motor cars.                   all items; limitation of
1988  duties  on  capital                                                stemp duties so that none
goods  (except  vehicles)                                                would raise total nominal
were reduced from levels                                                 protection above the ma-
of 25% to 60% to a maxi-                                                 ximum CET of 45X, except
mum of 20%.                                                              for motor vehicles, alco-
hol and tobacco products.
3.   Tariff    Exemp-
t ions
Introduction  of  agreed
Hinisterial   remissions,           From  Jan.1987,  the  GOJ            There  are 32  items  re-           duty rates on all remain-
several       industrial            stopped  granting  tariff            maining  on  the  Second             ing items except imports
promotion schemes  and a            exemptions          under            Schedule duty free list.             of  charitable  institu-
broad list of categories            ministerial    remissions



-2-
which    provided    duty           except    for    f i rms                                                 tions and other similar
exemption  for  a  large            exporting    100X    of                                                  agreed exceptions.
number    of    Jamaican            production  and  a  small
enterprises           and           number of items involving
institutions.  The broad            nationaL    disasters,
based   duty   exemption            charitable programs, etc.
contributed strongly tot            In Feb. 1987, 50 of the
the excessive dispersion            88    items   on   Second
of  effective  protection           Schedule, duty-free  list
rates.                              (representing 30X of the
imports in this category)
were removed from the
list.   In Mar. 1988, 6
items   representing    a
further   11X   of   1985
imports of goods on this
list were removed.
11. Non-Tariff luvort
Restrictions
1.   Import Licensing
1)  There  are  35  items                                               (i)    Eliminate   JCTC's
Although license require-            In  Feb.1987,  about  100           requiring   License   for                                                import monopolies for all
ments  are  Limited  to a           items were removed  from             security    and    health            (i) Amouncement in Par-             products;  (ii)  put  in
small amount of imports,            the tist of goods requir-            reasons,  including  nar-            liament of the GoJ's po-            place  arrangements  for
they   are   inconsistent           ing licenses.  Under the             cotics,  chemicaLs,  ex-            licy decision  to elimi-             awarding    procurement
with  the  principtes  of           Agricultural  Sector Ad-             plosives,  arms  and  mu-           nate JCTC's inport mono-             contracts on a competi-
the trade policy reforms.           justment  loan,  the  GOJ            nitions and used and re-            polies and put in place              tive  basis  except  for
has agreed  to eliminate            treaded tires.                       arrangements for awarding           imports  financed  ur,der
all oRs for the protec-             2)  JCTC  has  an  import            procurement contracts on            bilateraL    arrangements
tion of small farmers and           monopoly for 34 items in             a competitive basis, all            where    the    bilateral
replace them with equiva-           the following categories:            by Sept. 30,  1991; and             source requires that JCTC
Lent stamp duties to be             fish, miLk, wheat, corn,             (ii) receipt from the De-           carry out he procurement
phased down to the CET in           rice, drugs, fertilizers,            puty Prime Minister of a            function; (iii) establish
5 years (and in some case            lumber & vehicles.                  formal  letter  outlining           a satisfactory system of
3 or 7 years).                                                           the plan of action for e-           tariffs  and other taxes
liminating JCTC's import            on    imported    motor
monopolies by Sept. 30,             vehicles  to  assure  GOJ
1991.                               obtains   the   economic
rents for their iepr-
(a)  Elimination  of  li-           tation;  (iv)  eliminate
censing requirements for            price    controls    on
used and retreaded tires;           pharmaceuticals and award
imports subject to certi-           procurement contracts for
fication by a recognized            pharmaceuticals    for
authority in the country            public  sector  hospitals
of origin, that they meet           competitively;  and  (v)
Jamaican standards (equi-           offer for sale JCTC's in-
valent  to  international           vestments  in  JGL   and
standards).                         JSPI.
2. Protective Stuiv
Duty/Reference
Price System
See A(1)2, above.



-3-
A  system  of  protective           In  Feb.  1987,  the  GOJ            Excluding    agricuttural           Agreement  for  remaining
stamp    duties/reference           removed protective stanp             and  agroindustrial  pro-            items subject to protec-
prices  for a number of             duties  from 56 agricut-             ducts  for  which   pro-            tive stamp duties and re-
food,  agricultural  and            tural items and removed 8            tective    stamp   duties           ference prices (condensed
industrial products pro-            items  from  the  list of            /reference   prices   are           milk, corn, soy beans and
vides protection to far-            reference  prices.        In         being  phased  out urder            aluminunproducts) of pro-
mers and selected indus-            Mar. 1988 reference pri-             AGSAL, the only protec-             gram for reducing them to
tries.  While protection            ces were removed from an             tive  stamp  duties  and            CET  levels within  three
of small farmers is war-            additional   17    items.            reference prices remain-            years.  Left out in later
ranted,   the   reference           Under  the  Agricultural             ing  are  on  corn,  soya           discussions.
price system is not need-           Sector  Adjustment  Loan             beans, condensed milk and
ed for other enterprises.           (AGSAL),  the   GOJ  has             atuminum products.
agreed to replace aLl
reference prices and ORs
for   agricultural    and
agroindustrial  products
with tariffs and stamp
duties and reduce them
over five years to the
CET levels (in some cases
3 or 7 years).
III. Duty Rebate Scheme
The removal of the in-
centive schemes will also                                                                                     (i)   Agreement  upon   a
eliminate  the  duty-free           In 1986, the GOJ intro-              The 7.5X rebate to expor-           technical assistance pro-                                               CD
import entitlement by ex-           duced  a 7.5%  rebate  to            ters was eliminated uider           gram  to  streamLine  the
port  manufacturers  who            exporters  to  reimburse             the  IMF  agreement    in           duty drawback scheme and
could  suffer  in  their            them  for  import  duties            Sept.  1990  and  a  duty           include  indirect  expor-
competitiveness on world            and indirect taxes.                  drawback    system    was           ters; and (ii) agreement
markets.                                                                 introduced.                         upon List of consultants
to be invited to provide
T.A.
IV.      Institutional
Framework Trade
Reform
1.    Tariff    Reform
Committee
Implementation   of   the
tariff  reform  presents                                                                                     Focus shifted to CARICOh.
complex tasks of program            In May 1987, the GOJ es-             In 1989, the newly elec-            An interministeriat com-
preparation and monitor-            tabtished a Tariff Reform            ted    Goverrunent   esta-          mittee has been formed.
ing as weLl as operation            Committee and agreed  on             bLished   a  new   Tariff
of  support  program  for           operating regulations and            Reform  Committee, which
enterprises   facing  ad-           technicat    assistance              has  been   invotved   in
justment problem. Effec-            needs with the Bank.  The            negotiations on proposed
tive  execution  of these           Tariff  Reform  Committee            new CET.
tasks requires an appro-            designed the third phase
priate    organizational            of  the  tariff  reforms
arrangement.                        program.



-4-
2.    Anti-Dumping
Regulations
A number of products cur-                                                                                     Regulations issued which:           Legislated    but    not
rently  protected  by  im-           In  May  1987,  an  Anti-           The  new  government  has            (i) clarify that the goal           operational.
port licensing and refe-             dumping   Comnittee   was           appointed an Anti-dumping            of  the committee  is to
rence  prices  could  be            established  and  opera-             Comnittee;  however,  the            protect consumer and pro-
subject to dumping, once             tional   procedures   and           operational  aspects  of             ducer interests; (ii) es-
released from these pro-            anti-dumping  regulations            the Committee are not yet            tablish a minimum period
tective mechanisms.                 were   agreed   with   the           resolved  and  no  claims            of 3 months to altow fo-
Bank.                               have been processed.                 reign firms to carry out
their own investigation
and prepare a response to
an anti-dumping action;
(iii) limit to 12 months
the  time  period  during
which countervailing du-
ties will be applied; and
(iv) strengthen consumer
representation   on   the
Anti-Dunping Committee.
A program of technical as-
sistance is agreed upon.
3.     CARICOW    Nego-
tiations on CET
Reform
See item 2 uider I. Ta-
The  final  tariff  rates,                                                                                    riff Systems, above.
ranging from 5X to 30%,
cannot be made effective
without a revision of the            The GOJ formally notified            In    the    negotiations
CET which has rates of 0%            CARICOM of its intention            Jamaica  was  unable  to
to 45%, and for a small              to negotiate a revision             achieve all of its goals
number  of  items,  around           of  the CET  to make  it            but a new  CET with the
70%.                                 consistent with  the re-            following rates is to be
form program.                        implemented Jan. 1, 1991:
Mon-
Compet.Compet.
Inputs
Raw Hat.        5%   30%
Int.Goods      10%   30%
V. Custom Reform                                                           Cap.Goods      10%   20%
Bas.Fin.Goods  10%   30%            The  initial  steps sche-
There are problems in the                                                Non-Bas.F.G    30%   45%             duled in an agreed plan
organization,  management                                                                                     to strengthen the proce-
and  operation of the Cuh-                                                                                    dures   of   the  Customs           The GOJ is carrying out
toms   Department   uhich            The  GOJ  has  initiated            The  Customs  Department             Department are taken.               the  plan  of  action  in
jeopardize the trade re-             training schemes for re-            suffers  from  organiza-



-5-
form and adverseLy affect          venue agents and is esta-           tionat  weaknesses   and                                              accordance    with    the
revenue  yietd  from  the          blishing a number of new            staff  tack  incentives,                                              plan's objective.
tariff system.                     systems to improve effi-           discipline and management
ciency  and revenue col-           skills.  A plan of action
lection.                           needs to be implemented
VI. Indirect Tax Reform                                                to  strengthen  control,
ptanning and systems.
The present system of in-
direct taxes is very com-
plex and difficult to ad-
minister  with  different                                              A  Draft  General  Con-                                               The General  Consumption
rates, licensing and re-                                               sutting   Tax  has  been                                              Tax or other taxes with
turn  requirements.    it                                              prepared  and  is  under                                              equivalent  revenue  and
also     discriminates                                                 review.  The GOJ plans to                                             economic  impact will be
against exporters.                                                     introduce   it  in  July                                              put into  effect.   Such
1991.                                                                taxes would be base on
B.       FINANCIALFSECTOR                                                                                                                    value-added   and   would
REFORH                                                                                                                              have  a  single  uniform
rate   across   economic
1.       Establishment of                                                                                                                    sector  and  activities,
Financial Sector                                                                                                                    with very few exceptions
Reform Prooram                                                                                                                       limited  to  those  envi-
saged under the GCT.
1. Past monetary
and credit policies crea-                                                                                 The Banking Act would be
ted distortions in finan-                                                                                 subanitted  to  Parliament
cial markets and imposed                                                                                  for its approval.
constraints upon the de-
velopment of capital mar-                                                                                                                    The  Financial  Institu-
kets.                              The GOJ approved new fi-            The draft financial sec-                                              tions  Act,  the  revised         C
nancial sector policies            tor legislation is being                                               OJ Act and the Securi-
11. Financial Poticy               in Mar. 1986 and drafted            reviewed and revised  by                                              ties Act have been sub-
new financial sector le-           the new goverrvnent.                                                   mitted to Parliament for
1.   Reserve    Re-             gislation which was, how-                                                                                 approval.
quirements                ever, not passed.
The use of liquid asset
ratios as the main mone-                                                                                  A program  to  phase out
tary policy tool has di-                                                                                  the LAR between April and
rected  savings into  the                                                                                 Sept. 1991 will be an-
public sector, and conse-                                                                                 nounced.
quently  raised  interest
rates, and has also  led           The  liquid  asset  ratio           The  GOJ reinstated  the
to crowding  out of the            was reduced from 48% to             liquid asset ratio (LAR)
private sector in credit           38%  in 1986, to 35% in             as  part  of  the   IMF
markets.                           Mar. 1987 and to 20% (the           program  on  a  temporary
cash portion of the re-            basis.  The IMF agreement
serve   requirement)   in          provides that LAR would
March 1988.                        be    eliminated        in
2.   Interest Payment                                              consultation   with   the
on Reserve hetd                                               Bank.   Credit  ceilings
with BO0                                                      were atso reimposed under
the IMF agreement, but
The holding of interest-                                               were    eliminated    on
free reserves with BOJ is                                             Dec.31, 1990.



-6-
costty   to   commercial
banks and contributes to
the high spreads between
deposits and credit in-            In  1986  BOJ  introduced           In July 1989 the reserve
terest rates.                      payment of interest on 3            requirement was  reduced
percentage points of the           to 19% and interest pay-
3.   Differential Re-           20% cash reserves and in-          ments  on  cash  reserves
serve   Require-          creased this to 6 percen-           were etiminated.
ments                     tage  points  in   March
1988.
Reserve requirements for                                                                                  A program of adjustments
merchant banks and trust                                                                                  would  be  agreed, which
companies are 4.5%  comn-                                                                                 would eliminate the cash
pared with  19% for com-                                                                                  reserve disparity between
merciat banks, resulting                                                                                  commercial   banks   and           The GOJ has made progress
in accelerated growth of                                               The  cash   reserve   re-          merchant banks and trust           in making the program ad-
the former and su.pervi-                                              quirements were increased           companies between  April           justments in the cash re-
sion and other probtems.                                               to  20%  for  commerciaL           1991 and Sept. 1993; this          serve  requirements  for
banks in May 1990 and to           program would be announ-           commercial  and merchant
4.   Devetopment   of                                              6% for merchant banks and           ced to affected financiat          banks and trust companies
Financial Poticy                                              trust companies  in  June          institutions.                      for 1991/92 and has an-
Instruments                                                   1990.                                                                 nounced the program  ad-
justment for the remain-
As the liquid asset ratio                                                                                                                    ing (1992/93) per1od.
is phased out, atterna-
tive policy instruments
witl need to be deve-
loped.                                                                                                    (i) Agreement on a pro-
gram of technical assis-
111.    Separationof Fi-                                                                                  tance to strengthen the
nanciat    and                                                                                   secondary market for Go-                                              -
Fiscat Poticies                                                                                  verrnment securities; and
BOJ began  to  issue  its          In  1989  BOJ  began  to            (ii) agreement on a tist
1.   The Governmentis           own CDs as an additionat           auction  its CDs to make            of consuttants to be in-
Overdraft  Faci-          instrument  of  monetary            their yield more market            vited to provide T.A.
tity                      poticy in Nov. 1985.               determined.
BOJ operates an overdraft
facitity under which the
Goverrnment may withdraw a
substantial portion of a
year's  fiscal  revenue.
In the past, account ba-
Lances have been tiqui-
dated by issuing tong-
term debt instruments.
The overdraft ceiLing of           The   overdraft   ceiLing
IV.      Implementation            the GOJ was reduced from            continues to be monitored
of Financial Po-          30%   to   15%   of   GOJ           by IMF.
Iicies  and  Su-          revenues in Mar. 1986 and
pervision of Fi-          has been reduced further
nanciat   Insti-          subsequentty in agreement
tutions                   with IMF.



-.7-
As the financial sector
moves toward less res-
tricted   markets,    in-                                                                                 Agreement on program for
creased  monitoring  and                                                                                  strengthening supervisory
supervision wilt be need-                                                                                 capacity  of BOJ.
ed. BOJ's current method
of processing financial
data  is  inadequate  for          A  new  Bank  of  Jamaica           1) The BOJ Act is being
providing its management           Act,  including provision           reviewed by the new go-
with  timely  information          for   increased   banking           verrnment and 2) The regu-
for   effective   policy           supervision  was  drafted           tatory framework for fi-
making.                            in 1987 but never passed.           nancial  institutions and
It  is being  revised by           the capacity of the go-
the new goverrunent.  BOJ          verrmnent institutions to
has  been  strengthening           regulate them needs to be
i t s    inspection                strengthened.
department,    has
introduced    a    money
suppty/demand and ftow-
of-funds modet to faci-
titate management of mo-
netary poticies and has
strengthened   its   data
processing facitities.
V.       Strengtheninq of
Capital markets
1.   Fiscal    Cons-
traints                                                                                                                                                                 t
The present fiscat system
ifposes penalties on e-
quity investments com-
pared with other finan-
ciat investments.
In Jan. 1986 a tax on in-          As  indicated  in  cotumn
terest income was intro-           two, the GOJ has no ptans
duced; in 1987 the corpo-          to etiminate the doubte
rate tax system was re-            taxation of dividends for
formed  and  the  tax  on          fiscat reasons.
stock exchange transac-
2.   Devetopment   of           tions was removed.   The
New    Financiat          stamp duty on new  shares
Instruments               was  abotished  in  Jan.
1988. As a resutt of the
There  is  onty  a  smatt          above  changes  the  bias
number of financiat ins-           against equity investment
truments  in the capitat           was greatty reduced.
market.    New  investors
woutd be attracted if a



-8-
broader range of instru-                                                                                  BOJ  will  permit  smaLl
ments were available.                                                                                     investors to enter bids
for treasury bills at the
average yield determined
3.   Analysis of Ca-            The  GOJ  has  introduced          BOJ makes bids as agent             by  the  auction.      BOJ
Dital Markets             180  and  360  securities           for  other  GOJ  entities          would make bids that it
and a long-term bond with          which could inftuence the          submits  for  government
Capital markets in Jamai-          a variable interest rate.           price  in  the  auctions.          agencies at the average
ca require an in-depth a-                                              Bidders  in the Treasury           yield determined by the
nalysis  to  identify the                                              Bill  Auctions  are  cur-          auction.
policy and institutional                                               rently not permitted to
changes needed for more                                                bid   "non-coopetitively.s
efficient  financiat  in-                                              at  the  average  yield
termediation.                                                          determined    in    the
4.   Estabtishment of                                              auction.
an Interim Stock          Three studies of securi-            The  GOJ  is drafting  a
Market   Inspec-          ties  market  operations            Securities Act based on
tion Unit                 were completed and their            securities legislation of
recommendations are being          Ontario, Canada.
The  establishment  of  a          reflected   in   revised
Securities Exchange Com-           banking legistation and a
mission, ihich would also          new Draft Securities Act.
supervise the Stock Ex-
change, is a longer term
un.dertaking. The current
situation of the Jamaica
Stock  Exchange  requires
effective supervision of
its operations and chan-           A Stock Market Inspection           There  are  considerable
ges of operationat pro-            unit was established and            delays  in  making  set-
cedures at a much eartier          made futly operational by           ttement  of stock market
time.                              March 1988.                         transactions.   This dis-
courages investment in
5.   Reduction of In-                                               equities.  However, pri-
terest Subsidies                                              vate sector institutions
and Credit Con-                                               are  establishing  stock
trols                                                         registration   units   to
deal with the problem.
Interest  subsidies  per-
sist in the agricultural,
industrial and housing
sectors, distorting cre-
dit allocation and inter-
fering with the develop-
ment of capital markets.
Increase interest rates
on   industrial   credits
channelled  through  the
NattionaL Devetopment Bank         1.   increase   interest
In    the    Agricultural          1) Credit subsidies are            to the 3-month Treasury            rates on industrial cre-
Sector  Adjustment  Loan,          being provided on direc-           Bill rate.                          dit  channelled  through
interest rates on  Loans           ted credits for housing,                                              the National Development
through the agricultural           agriculture and industry                                              Bank  and  on  loans  to



-9--
credit      bank    were            through    the   Nationat                                                large farmers channelled
increased to 11% and 15%            Housing Trust, Agricultu-                                                through the Agricultural
respectively to small and           ral Credit Bank and Na-                                                  Credit  Bank  to  market
large farmers and wilt be           tional Development Bank.                                                 rates set by comeercial
increased to the treasury           2) BOJ's Banker's Redis-                                                 banks.
bill -7% and the treasury           count Facility, which was                                                2.    Increase    interest
C.       ECONOMIC  POLICY           bill, respectivety, as a             at a subsidized interest                                                 rates on loans to smalL
AD J U S T M E N T         condition    of    second            rate, was eliminated.                                                    farmers up to the trea-
PROGRAM                    tranche.  The GOJ recent-                                                                                    sury bill rate.
ly agreed with IDB, which                                                                                    3. Implementation of the
is cofinancing the AGSAL,                                                                                    agreed program for intro-
that interest rates would                                                                                    ducing  a system of ac-
be increased as fotlows:                                                                                     counting in the develop-
ment banks which would
Sm Farm.  La Farm.                                                                                   make  interest  rate sub-
1st Tr. TBil-7%  TBitt                                                                                       sidies transparent.
D.       MACROECONOMIC              2nd Tr. TBill-3%  TBitl
POLICY
Compliance with the po-
The Goverrment witl  need                                                                                                                         licy objectives and pro-
to sustain a sound macro-                                                                                                                         gram   included   in  the
economic policy framework                                                                                                                         Trade  and  Finance  Ad-
throughout the implemen-                                                                                                                          justment   Program   des-
tation of the trade and                                                                                                                           cribed in the Letter on
financial  sector  reform                                                                                                                         Economic  Policy  Adjust-
program.                                                                                                                                          ment.
Maintenance   of   macro-
The GOJ failed to achieve           A  revised  program  with                                                economic  policy  consis-
the targets of its recent           IMF was approved in Sep-                                                 tent with the Borrower's
IMF program.                        tember 1990.                                                             Letter on Economic Policy
Adjustment, including a
market-determined    ex-
change rate and the ad-
herence to the objectives
specified in the letter,
including  reduction  of
the overall public sector
deficit.






- 35 -
ANNEX I
JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (TFSAL H1)
LOAN 3303-JM
PROJECT COM1PLETION REPORT
Statistical Annex






- 36 -
JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA - EXPORTS, VALUE, VOLUME AND PRICE, 1980-1993
._...........  _........................ .................. .....................................   __............... ....................... ___.............................. ....
Jan.-April
UNIT         1980     1985     1986     1987     1988      1989     1990     1991     1992     1993
....... ........... ....................... ..................................................  _..    _............
BAUXITE
Value              USS MILLION    198.4     77.5     90.1    112.5    111.8    111.0    103.1    112.9      88.8     26.9
Volume             MILLION MT       6.1      2.3      2.9      3.7       3.5      4.2      3.9      4.3      4.1       1.3
Unit VaLue         USS/MT          32.8     33.3     30.7    30.4       31.9    26.4      26.4     26.3     21.7    20.7
ALUM4INA
Vslue              USS MILLION    537.3    212.2    205.4    224.0    354.9   474.9    625.3    543.0    471.1    132.6
Volume             MILLION MT       2.4      1.6       1.6      1.6      1.6      2.1      2.9      3.0      2.9      0.9
Unit Value         USS/MT         227.7    131.0    130.0    140.0    221.8    226.1    215.6    181.0    162.4    169.6
SUGAR
Value              USS MILLION     54.4    49.8      62.2     74.1     91.9      67.8     S5.8     87.4     82.5     48.9
Volume             THOUSANDS MT   131.8    152.0    143.3    135.7    152.7    132.0    146.4    152.3    139.3      77.0
Unit Value         USS/MT         412.7    327.6    434.3   545.9   601.8    513.6    586.1    573.9   592.2   635.1
BANANA
Value              USS MILLION     10.5      4.2      9.2    19.1    15.7    19.3         38.4     45.1     39.5     11.3
VoLume             THOUSANDS MT    33.1     13.0     20.3     33.3     27.4     46.9      58.0     73.5    70.9      22.0
Unit VaLue         USS/MT         317.2    320.5    452.2    572.7   573.0   411.5    662.1    613.6    557.1    513.6
OTHER EXPORTS
Value              USS MILLION    162.1    224.9    223.8    279.6    308.7   327.4    304.9   356.8    370.9    137.9
TOTAL EXPORTS
(V&Lue)             USS MILLION    962.7   568.5    590.8   709.2    883.0   1000.4   1157.5   1145.2   1052.8   377.6
..........  .................. ........................  ......................................................................
Soure:  Bank of ismica and Statfsticsi Institute of Jsicas



- 37 -
JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, 1980-92
)USS million)
1980      1985       1986      1987      1988       1989      1990       1991      1992
EXPORTS, G&NFS                         1368.6    1174.6    1345.5   1576.3   1712.6   1941.4   2246.6   2187.6   2249.6
Goods  (FOBI                          962.7      568.5     590.8     709.2      883.0    1000.4    1157.5   1145.2   1052.8
Non-Factor Services                   405.9     606.1      754.7    867.1       829.6     941.0   1089.1   1042.4   1196.8
t0  which tourism)                241.7     406.8    516.0       594.9      525.0    593.0      740.0    764.0       882.4
IMPORTS, G&NFS                         1367.9   1395.2   1233.7   1504.5   1779.2   2291.1   2339.7   2163.1   2110.3
Goods (CIFI                          1159.6    1131.9      962.1   1226.6   1437.9   1864.4    1933.8   1790.9   1684.4
Non-Factor Services                   208.3     263.3      271.6     277.9      341.3     426.7     405.9    372.2       425.9
RESOURCE BALANCE                           0.7   -220.6      111.8       71.8     -66.6   -349.7       -93.1      24.5      139.3
NET FACTOR INCOME                      -229.0   -296.3    -315.5   -384.6   -407.8   -434.9    -509.8   -489.0    -362.1
Receipts                               63.0       91.S      66.9      57.9       S9.1      67.6      78.1       74.0      69.4
Payments                              292.0     387.8      382.4    442.5    466.9        502.5     587.9      563.0    431.5
N;ET PRIVATE TRANSFERS                   81.8      153.2     111.6     117.2    436.5       299.5      159.0     160.7     248.2
Receipts                              120.7     191.4      141.3     139.2    461.0       327.6     187.8      190.7     285.2
Payments                               38.9      38.2       29.7      22.0      24.5       28.1      28.8       30.0      37.0
CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE
Before Official Grants            -146.5   -363.7        -92.1   -195.6      -37.9   -485.1   -443.9    -303.8          25.4
Official Grants                       9.0      68.0       36.5      59.9      92.9    193.8       123.4     113.0       91.6
After Official Grants              -137.5    -295.7      -55.6   -135.7       55.0   -291.3   -320.5    -190.8         117.0
LONG-TERM CAPITAL INFLOW                279.0      280.5     -35.8      169.3       4.4      22.1       -2.0     114.1       67.0
Direct Investment                     27.6      -9.0       -4.6      53.5     -12.0       57.1     137.9       68.4     101.0
Ne: Long-Term Borrowing (DRS)    251.4         289.5      -31.2     115.8       16.4     -35.0   -139.9        45.7     -34.0
Disbursements                     352.7      450.3     231.3      356.7     319.7     291.2      263.5    431.6       308.0
Amortization                      101.3      160.8     262.5      240.9     303.3     326.2      403.4     385.9      342.0
OTHER CAPITAL, N.IE.                   -220.6      -61.5      23.6      196.4      83.8      98.8    415.2        22.7       51.0
CHRAGE IN RESERVES (--increase)          79.1       76.7      67.8    -230.0   -143.2       170.4      -92.7      54.0    -235.0
Net IMF                              -19.0     -10.5      -90.0     -99.8   -160.6       -85.9     -55.7       31.4     -71.0
Other Change in reserves              98.1      87.2      157.8    -130.2       17.4     256.3     -37.0       22.6    -164,0
Source   Bank of Jamaica.



- 38 -
JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TAX REVENUE BY SOURCE
0.3
0.3-i                                                            From top to bottom:
0.25-    _                                                         Incom tax: Individual
0   Income tax: corporation
0O.2-
intarmational trade
01lexcluding import G.C.T.)
0.151
Other
0.05ME
7   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        \     consumption duty
0                                                              G.C.T. lincluding import GCT)
1987/88 1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92 1992/93
Fiscal Year
Source: Ministry of Finance, Jamaica



JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PROJECT COMiPLETION REPORT
.JAMAICA - LABOR FORCE AND EMPLOYMENT. BY INDUSTRY GROUP. 1980-92
(thousands)
1980      1981      1982       1983      1984       1985      1986       1987      1988       1989      1990       1991       1992
--  -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - -
ANNUAL AVERAGES
Labor Force                                                  960.3    986.1   1009.9   1008.4   104 5 .8   1042.4   1059.0   106 9 .7   1077.4   1062.9   1 056 .3    1072.5   1074 .9
Employed Labor Force                                         6 98 .7    730. 3    73 1.4     743.2     778 .9     781.7     808 .5     84 5.4    874 .3     871 .8    8 93 .7    907.7-   905 .7
AgriCUlture, Forestry & Fishing                           261.1    271.7       260.5    24 9 .7    257.8      27 9 .8    272 .7    272.0      257 .9    247.7    239.5    .24 3.7       2 47 .3
Mining. Quarrying & Refining                                8.2        7.7       8.2        7.7       7.7        6.5       5.8        6.0       6.0        6.4       6.9        5.1       5.8
Manufacturing                          73.0       78.3     ~~~~~      ~~~~~     ~~~~~      ~~~~~~82.1  90.8  97.1  98.6  110.0  131.4  136.0  13 3 .8  135.8  99.0'    101.9
Construction & Installation                                25 .0      28.0      29.8       34.6      32.7       33.6      32.6       3 9 .6    45.7       54 .9  ~56.6        'S8:.2     59.1
Transport. Cormmunications & Public
Utilities                                               34 .7     31.0       31.3      31.9       36.3      35.5       3 6 .4    41.1       42.6      4 2 .8     42.1      41.6       41.2
Commserce                                                  87.6       98.0      98.7      107.7     109.4      113.7     124.2     123.7      137.2      136.2     142.5      170.3     172.1
Public Administration                                     104.1    100.5       100.2      100.2     100.5       81.9      77.8      74.0       76.4       7 3 .6    77.3       76.8      76 .4
Other Services, not specified                             105.0    IIS.2       120.7      120.7     137.7      132.2     149.1      157.8     172.5      176.2     193.1      213.2     201.9
Unemployed Labor Force                                        261.8    255.8      278.5      278 .6    266.8      260. 8    250. 5    224.3       203 .4    191.1      162.6     164 .8     16 9. 2
of which:  non-seekers   /I                               154.7    167.2       190.0      145.1    159.5       149.0     151.4      13 9 .8   116.1      100.6     100.2      101.5     103 .6
/1 1990 Data for month of October only
Source: Statistical Institute of Jamaica.
JAI4AICA - MAIN LABOR FORCE INDICATORS. 1980-92
(thousands)
1980      1981      1982       1983      1984       1985      1986       1987      1988       1989      1990       1991       1992
TOTAL POPULATION -- ANNUAL AVERAGE                          2 130 .9   2156.7   2192.9   222 9. 2   2268.1   2302 .6   2323 .2   2 34 0. 1   2355.4   2356.9   2 385 .5    24 25 .5   2441.0
Population 14 Years & over                                  1322.~8   1357.3   1397.6   14 30. 6   1472.6    1495.0   14 93 .6   1506.0   1510.3   1511-2   1529.1    1555.5   1565.3
Percentage of Population under 14 Years                        37 .9     37.1      36 .3      35.8      35.1       35.1      3S.7       3S.6      35.9       3S. 9     35.9       35 .9      35.9
Percentage of Population 14 Years and Over                     62.1      62 .9     6 3 .7     64 .2     64 .9      64.9      64.3       64 .4     64.1       64.1      64.1       64.1       64.1
Labor Force as Percentage of Total Population                  45.1      45.7      46.1       45.2      46.1       4 5 .3    45.7       4 5 .7    4 5 .8     45.1      4 4 .3     44.4       44. 0
Labor Force as Percentage of Population
14 Years and Over                                       72 .6     72.6       72 .3     70.5      71.0       6 9. 7    70 .9      71.0       71.3      70.3      69.1       69.2       68.7
Percentage of Labor Force Employed                             72 .7     73.7      72.4       73.6      74 .5      75.0      76.,4      79.0      81.1       82 .0     84.6       84 .6      8 4 .3
Percentage of Labor Force Unemployed                           27 .4     26.0       27.6      26.4      25.0       25.0      23.6       21.0      18.9       18.0      15.4       15.4       15.7
Source: Statistical Institute of Jamaica.



- 40 -
JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Aggregate Estimates of Poverty
(percent)
Aug.   May   Nov.  Nov.   Nov.
1988    1989   1989   1990    1991
Percent Poor         29.8    29.2   26.9   27.9   38.9
Poverty Gap Index     10.0     9.8     8.8    7.9    13.7
Pov. Severity Index   4.7      4.4     3.9    2.9    6.6
75% of Poverty Line:
Aug.   May   Nov.  Nov.   Nov.
1988    1989   1989   1990    1991
Percent Poor          17.9    18.9   17.2   15.7   24.7
Pov. Gap Index        5.4     5.5    4.8    3.5    7.6
Pov. Severity Index   2.4      2.2     1.8    1.1    3.4
Notes: 1. The poverty line is increased by the average CPI increase between Jul-Aug 1988, Apr-Jun
1989, Oct-Dec 1989, Oct-Dec 1990, Oct-Nov 1991. These months coincide with the period of
the survey and one month prior.
2. The means for 1990 and 1991 are weighted for non-response which raises the mean by
6.85% in 1990 and 7.5% in 1991. The average C for 1988 and 1989 are increased by 7% to
account for the fact that they were not weighted.
Source: POVCAL program, means and decile data from PIOJ/STATIN.



- 41 -
JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND F[NANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA - EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT, 1980-92
(JS milion)
1980     1985     1986     1987     1988     1989      1990     1991     1992
MEDIUM AND LONG TERM DEBT a/                1805.5   3881.6   4003.5  4465.1   4244.3   4152.1   4263.8   4169.2   4089.0
Multilateral                            594.3   1443.2   1584.1   1837.0   1575.5   1485.0   1532.5   1583.5   1528.0
IBRO                                  176.4    467.9   572.5    734.9   671.2   649.7    671.9    664.1    626.0
IMF                                   309.3    693.2   678.2   678.5   482.8   383.4   356.7   391.4   321.0
Bilateral                               626.0   1732.4   1713.7  1877.2  1957.1   1988.6  2140.2  2078.7  2098.0
Conwercial Banks                        384.0    395.6    387.1    377.6    357.6    322.5    297.6    286.5    263.0
................
Others                                  201.2    310.4    318.6    373.3   354.1    356.0    293.5    220.5    200.0
DEST SERVICE  (CLLT) a/                     264.3    489.8   661.1    733.3    789.7    769.4    790.7    725.3    661.0
......................~~~~~~~~            ~ ...... . ....  ......  ......  ......  ..... ...      .. .     ---
Interest (due)                            144.0    266.7    277.4    267.0    267.1    275.5    275.8    251.7    239.0
Amortization (due)                         120.3    223.1   383.7   466.3    522.6   493.9    514.9    473.6    422.0
MEMORANDUM
DEBTIGDP */                                  67.4    192.4   157.8   147.3    119.9   102.1    100.4    114.5    128.6
DEBT SERVICE/EXPORTS a/ bI                    17.0     33.6     42.6    41.3      35.4     32.9     31.5     29.6      25.4
INTEREST/EXPORTS a/ b/                        9.3      18.3     17.9    15.1      12.0     11.8     11.0     10.3      9.2
... .. ................................ ....................................................................... ..................................... .............................
a/ Mediui & Long Term including IMF.
bl Exports of goods, services and private transfers.
Source: Table 4.1 of Statistical Appendix.



- 42 -
JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I___________________    ~ ~~Interest Rates= = - J
l __________________________________ I   1985     1986    1987    1988 J  1989 J 1990 1 1991 J 1992
Commercial Bank Deposits
(overall weighted)*                   18.6      17.4    15.0   14.78   16.45   23.55   23.55   38.95
Commremial Bank
average lending rate**                22.0      28.4   25.2   24.88   26.38   34.51   35.78   55.25
BOI Certificates of
Deposit***                             n/a      27.9    18.0    18.4    17.4   28.5   30.6   50.0
Treasury Bill (90 DAYS)***-            17.1      23.8    16.9    19.7    17.8   25.4   28.5   44.5
Long-term Government Bonds             19.4      25.8   20.7    20.5    19.5   26.5   24.5          n/a
Memorandum Item:
Consumer Price Inflation
(year-end to year-end)                26.0      14.8    6.7       8.8    17.2   29.8   80.2   73.3
Footnote:      *       Up to June 1992
Up to Sept. 1992
***    The Bank of Jamaica started issuing certificates of deposit in November 1985.
****   Discount rate.
Source:        Bank of Jamaica.



JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAKAICA - CONSUMER PRICE INDEX CALL JAMAICA), 1984-93
(January 1988 x 100)
FOOD     FUEL &             HOUSEHOLD  PERSONAL
TOTAL    &   HOUSEHOLD  HOUSING  FURNISHING CLOTHING/  PERSONAL TRANSPORT MISCEL-
DRINK   SUPPLIES             & FURNITUR ACCESSORI  EXPENSES  ATION    LANEOUS
AVERAGE
1984                         61.8    59.8        64.6       75.0      68.2       62.4       56.2       79.0       64.9
1985                         77.9    75.0        83.3       94.2      80.7       74.7       72.9       98.2       88.3
1986                         89.4    88.3        92.4       98.6      88.3       88.3       86.2      100.6       93.0
1987                         95.4    94.8        96.0      102.2      98.6       97.5       93.2      100.8       95.1
1988                        103.2   103.8       102.7      103.9     105.7      104.1      102.9      100.9      101.7
1989                        118.0   124.3       110.7      112.3     112.1       115.0     110.4      105.5      109.6
1990                        144.0   152.0         ERR        ERR       ERR        ERR        ERR        ERR        ERR
1991                        217.5   138.5       228.8      176.2     177.2      195.5      205.7      200.5      192.6
January                   168.3   134.7       171.7      156.5     143.2      150.7      158.8      163.7      152.9
Febuary                   170.6   126.8       176.4      156.6     147.1      155.3      161.6      163.3      154.4
March                     172.9   183.5       178.9      151.3     148.2       158.0      166.2     164.5      154.6
ApriL                     180.9   195.5       186.2      149.8     150.2      163.8      173.4      167.3      156.5
May                       188.8   201.5       194.6      150.2     158.9       173.4      181.4     188.3      173.0
June                      208.1   227.8       215.5      186.6     167.1      201.3      180.3      194.8      176.0
July                      219.2   240.6       229.0      167.3     178.1      215.5      191.7      197.3      181.2
August                    228.3   250.7       245.2      168.4      183.8      198.7     228.2      199.5      191.1
September                 236.8   258.5       254.2      172.3      189.4     209.6      233.9      202.5      215.7
October                   257.5   281.7       266.6      185.0      195.5     217.9      245.5      244.5      241.6
November                  278.9   304.1       301.7      205.8     223.8      234.1      268.0      258.0      252.5
December                  299.3   322.1       325.1      264.7     241.3      268.2      279.4      262.6      261.3
1992                        385.5   417.8       405.1      317.1     299.2      390.6      361.8      308.1      332.3
January                   315.3   339.5      341.2      272.7      251.9      297.1      292.8      268.5      265.3
Febuary                   339.6   369.9      359.9      286.5      272.7      305.7      319.7      294.3      272.0
March                     355.7   388.4       378.7      294.3     279.7      339.0      337.5      300.7      276.7
April                     376.1   413.2       394.7      309.8     285.7      356.8      349.5      307.9      300.8
Hay                       387.0   424.8       418.8      309.6     300.5      378.0      361.9      309.9      305.9
June                      389.9   425.4       425.2     302.4      304.3      390.4      368.5      317.2      318.4
July                      399.7   431.4      427.4      323.5      303.9      405.0      372.2      316.9      341.6
August                    403.7   435.1       421.2      346.7     308.9      422.0      380.7      315.3      349.6
September                 410.2   440.8       423.7     345.1      315.6      431.3      385.9      314.5      381.2
October                   412.2   443.3       419.9      337.9     318.6      441.5      387.1      317.2      389.3
Noveaber                  417.3   449.3       425.3      338.3     323.1      455.9      389.3      317.7      394.0
Deceaber                  419.6   452.1       425.2      337.9     325.3      464.2      396.5      316.7      392.3
1993
January                   423.2   455.5      424.0      338.0      326.3      472.2      401.6      329.9      394.9
Febuary                   425.2   457.0      426.8      338.2      332.5      476.5      407.3      329.1      397.0
Source: Statistical Institute et Ja_ lCa



- 44 -
JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA - EXCHANGE RATES, 1974-93
(period averages)
 . ,-_ -      _  _ - _ _ _ _ _ _ - _ _ -  _ -_ - _  -_ - _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - _ _ - _ _ _ -___
Jamaica Dollars           Nominal             Real
per U.S. dollar          Effective           Effeccive
------------------           Exchange Rate        Exchange
Official market          Index a/            Rate Index
1974                                  0.909                         204.4               102.4
1975                                  0.909                         214.5               112.0
1976                                  0.909                         198.8               111.8
1977                                  0.909                         183.6               111.8
197e                                  1.413                         126.1                96.0
1979                                  1.765                          99.9                89.9
1980                                  1.781                         100.0               100.0
196;                                  1.781                         107.0               106.5
1982                                  1.781                         113.7               110.5
1983                                  2.018                         104.0               104.3
:9e4                                  4.055                          61.5                72.9
1985                                  5.5S4                          45.5                63.8
1986                                  5.476                          44.4                68.5
1987                                  5.487                          43.8                67.7
1988                                  5.490                          44.3                68.2
1989                                  5.763                          46.3                73.1
199C                                  7.291                          38.6                65.5
1991                                 12.716                          26.3                59.0
1992                                 22.969                          13.2                52.3
January                        21.038                          13.3                43.8
Febuary                        23.351                          13.1                46.2
March                          27.267                           12.1               44.5
April                          24.616                           11.2                43.0
May                            22.990                          12.7                 50.0
June                           22.302                           13.3                52.7
July                           22.168                           13.3                53.7
August                         22.173                           13.3                54.3
September                      22.181                          13.5                 55.6
October                        22.175                           13.8                56.6
November                       22.177                           14.2                57.7
December                       22.185                           14.3                57.9
1993
January                        22.184                           14.5                59.0
Febuary                        22.186                           14.7                59.7
March                          22.185                           14.7                60.5
April                          22.185                           14.6                59.8
May                            22.185                           14.6                60.4
June                           23.673
July                           25.000
---  - - -- --  -- -- --  -- --  -- --  -- -- --  - -- --  --  _ -_ -_  - __ -_____ -____-__
a! 1980-100; increase in index represents appreciation of Jamaican dollar.
Source: Bank of Jamaica and IMF.



- 45 -
JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA -SUMMARY ACCOUNTS OF THE BANKING SYSTEM  1989-93
(J$ million)
MARCH 31
1989  1/   1990  2/  1991  3/  1992 4/   1993 S/
NET FOREIGN ASSETS                                                  -1998.2   -2371.6   -2361.0   -3578.1   -1233.4
NET DOMESTIC ASSETS                                                  3098.1    2072.6   17065.3   26809.0   33821.1
NET CLAIMS ON THE PUBLIC SECTOR                                    6005.6    6608.2    6506.6    8987.1   12062.6
Net Credit on Central Government                                2546.5    2071.7    1340.1    1331.8   -1029.4
Net Credit on SPE                                               -384.4    -929.0   -1157.1    -693.7   -1022.4
Net Credit on Rest of Public Sector                             -947.9   -1192.5   -1346.2   -2725.2   -1261.4
Operating Losses                                                4405.5    5628.1    7042.9    9664.6   13618.0
Net Unclassified Assets                                          385.9    1029.9       626.9    1409.6    1757.8
NET CREDIT TO OFI                                                  -959.7   -1194.4   -2134.8   -3564.7   -4704.8
CREDIT TO PRIVATE SECTOR                                           5528.2    7139.8    8466.5   10853.9   15593.3
VALUATION ADJUSTM-ENT                                             -4646.3   -5882.6    6901.8   20866.8   17094.9
UNCLASSIFIED ASSETS OF COMMERCIAL BANKS                            -569.5   -1170.6    -544.9    -695.5    1743.0
RESIDUAL/FLOAT                                                      132.4      324.4       961.2    1235.8      -623.3
ALLOCATION OF SDRs                                                 -289.3    -374.2       475.9   -1555.3   -1289.6
M&LT FOREIGN LIABILITIES                                          -2103.4   -3378.0   -3567.0   -9319.1   -6055.0
LIABILITIES TO PRIVATE SECTOR   6/                                  10392.6   11466.2   13896.5   22357.1   33347.4
Money                                                             2719.3    2837.2    3712.8    7121.3   11174.0
Quasi-Money  7/  8/                                               7673.3    8629.0   10183.7   15235.8   22173.4
SOURCE:  Bank of Jamaica and IMF.
1/ valued at exchange rates of J$S.51-US$1 end US51.29271-SDR 1.
2/ Valued at exchange rates of J$7.00-US$1 and USS1.30083-SDR 1.
3/ Valued at exchange rates of JS8.S6-USS1 and USS1.34632-SDR 1.
4/ Valued at exchange rates of JS27.27-US$1 and US$1.37174-SDR 1.
S/ Valued at exchange rates of J$22.19-US$1 and USS1.39773-SDR 1.
6/ Includes foreign currency deposits, except those held in the foreign currency 'Al accounts.
7/ Includes holdings of Bank of Jamaica CDs.
8/ Includes commercial banks capital and surplus.



- 46 -             ANNEX III
JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (TFSAL)
LOAN 3303-JM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Basic Data Sheet






- 47 -
JAMAICA
SECOND TRADE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
Orizinal          Disbursed         Cancelled         Repaid  Outstandina
Loan Amount    30.0                 30.0              -                 0.0
Orizinal Loan Date        Actual Date
Initiating Memorandum                        January 9, 1990            February 12, 1990
Development Policy Letter                    February 15, 1991          February 15, 1991
Negotiations                                 January 30, 1991           January 30. 1991
Board Approval                               March 19, 1991             March 21, 1991
Loan Agreement                               March 22, 1991             March 22, 1991
Effectiveness                                March 25, 1991             March 25, 1991
Loan Closing                                 December 31, 1992          December 31, 1992
Actual Completion                            December 31, 1993          December 31, 1993
Cumulative Loan Disbursements
FY91              FY92
(i) Planned                                           50 9o             100%
(u) Actual                                            50%               100%
Staff Inouts (Mission & Headquarters
Month/Year                 Person Weeks
Pre-Appraisal                       FY88                       16.5
FY89                       33.0
FY90                       42.4
Appraisal                           FY90                       12.8
FY91                       19.9
Negotiations                        FY91                       15.3
Supervision                         FY91                        0.6
FY92                       14.8
FY93                       0.3
Project Completion                  FY94                        8.0
TOTAL                                                       163.6



