Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H451 TJ 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Third Programmatic Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 21, 2009  
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H451 TJ 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated April 21, 2009, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
TAJIKISTAN (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy 
framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
thirteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
13,300,000)(“Financing”). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
Page  3
2
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V - TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Recipient. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
3
Akademikov Rajabovikh Ave. 
 
Dushanbe, 734025 
Republic of Tajikistan  
 
Facsimile: 
 
(992-372) 213329 or  
(992-372) 221-6796 
 
Page  4
3
6.03. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Dushanbe, Republic of Tajikistan, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
 
By: /s/ Safarali Najmuddinov 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By: /s/ Saodat Bazarova 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I
.
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The ministries and agencies of the Recipient responsible for the granting of 
business licenses have: (a) adopted the necessary internal documents to implement the 
Law on Licensing (Decree 37, dated May 17, 2004, as amended) and its associated 
regulations; and (b) taken all steps to bring all other internal documents into accordance 
with the Law on Licensing (Decree 37, dated May 17, 2004) and its associated 
regulations, including registration with the Ministry of Justice. 
 
2. 
The ministries and agencies of the Recipient responsible for inspections of 
businesses have registered new or amended inspection manuals and checklists with the 
Ministry of Justice. 
 
3. 
The Recipient has satisfactorily implemented restructuring of the aviation 
industry for the separation of airport, airline and air traffic control functions in 
accordance with the plan set forth in Resolution 
No. 175 of the Recipient’s Government, 
dated April 3, 2007, as agreed with the Association. 
 
4. 
Presidential Decree 541, dated September 16, 2008, approving the concept and 
an action plan for improving the structure of the Recipient’s public administration has 
been adopted.  
 
5. 
Presidential Decree 480, dated June 20, 2008, implementing the third phase of 
wage decompression has been adopted.   
 
6. 
Presidential Decree 557, dated October 29, 2008, approving the strategy and 
action plan for the establishment of an independent external audit entity has been 
adopted.   
 
7. 
Presidential Decree 480, dated June 20, 2008, allocating a greater share of wage 
increases in the health sector to primary health care workers has been adopted.  
 
Section II
.
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  6
5
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts 
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The allocation of the 
amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing  
Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
Single Tranche 
13,300,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
13,300,000
C.   
Deposit of Financing Amounts  
 
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain a deposit account in 
Dollars (“Deposit Account”). 
 
2. 
All withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.    
 
D. Audit 
 
The Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than one (1) month after the end 
of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
 
2. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
3. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
(4) months after the end of the Recipient’s fiscal year, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; 
and  
 
4. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and its audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
Page  7
6
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be used to 
finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that an amount 
of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such 
request shall be cancelled.
 
F. Closing 
Date 
 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2009. 
Page  8
7
APPENDIX 
 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“Deposit Account” means the dedicated foreign currency deposit account 
referred to in Part C. 1 of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.   
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and w
atch 
Page  9
8
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party); 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations;  
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur; and 
 
(g) 
that is a Local Expenditure. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
4. 
“Local Expenditure” means an expenditure: (a) in the Currency of the Recipient; 
or (b) for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; 
provided, however, that if the Currency of the Recipient is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods, works or services are supplied, an 
expenditure in such Currency for such goods, works or services shall be deemed 
to be a Foreign Expenditure. 
 
5. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
improve the environment for private sector development, to improve the overall 
functioning of the public sector and the delivery of key public services and set 
forth or referred to in the letter dated December 9, 2008, from the Recipient to 
the Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Page  10
9
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
 
6. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
Section II
.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 
2006) are as follows:   
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or 
the Bank (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the 
Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
Page  11
10
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is 
put in support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures 
excluded pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing 
Agreement in support of which the Financing is made.”  All 
references to “Project” throughout these General Conditions are 
deemed to be references to “Program”. 
 
Page  12
11
(a) The 
term 
“Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the 
Financing Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 
2.05.” 
 
