Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3671 
Operation Name 
Programmatic Development Policy Grant 3 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%);General industry and 
trade sector (23%);Aviation (14%);Health (13%);General energy 
sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P106963 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
February 20, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 17, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
July 18, 2008 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Tajikistan’s transition experience to a market economy has been slow but satisfactory, reflecting prudent 
macroeconomic management, implementation of the first generation of structural reform, stable political 
stability, and favorable external environment. The country enjoys rapid economic growth that has 
averaged 10 percent during 2000-04, declining inflation, stable exchange rate, lower fiscal deficit, 
favorable external balance and low external debt. This economic growth has contributed to poverty 
reduction from 82 percent in 1999 to 64 percent in 2003, using a $2.15 PPP poverty line. Despite this 
success, Tajikistan remains the poorest CIS country with a GDP per capita just above US$ 400 and the 
gains on economic growth and poverty reduction are not sustainable without further structural and 
policy reforms. Investment remains at a very low level because of unfavorable business environment 
and poor governance. Inadequate Government funding for education and health has led to a decline in 
the quality of human capital. Institutional capacity is weak and policy planning is fragmented. Civil 
service salaries are low and governance environment is weak. In many areas, the interface between the 
private sector and the state still needs to be redefined. 
 
To overcome bottlenecks and ensure sustainability of rapid growth, the government appears committed 
to implement structural reform in the public sector and key strategic sectors (aviation, cotton and 
energy), to accelerate privatization of medium and large enterprises, to improve the business 
environment and to strengthen public and private sector governance as indicated in the government 
program (PRSP). The proposed Programmatic Development Policy Grant 3 (PDPC 3) will provide 
necessary budget support to move forward with the planned reforms, to overcome bottlenecks to growth, 
and to reduce poverty within the framework of the second PRSP, and supplement PDPC1 and 2. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The development objectives of the proposed Programmatic Development Policy Credit (PDPC) are to 
improve the environment for private sector development and improve overall functioning of the public 
sector and the delivery of key public services.  The proposed program is aligned with Tajikistan’s PRSP. 
Page  2
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed program is divided into two pillars with following components: 
Pillar 1.  Promoting Private Sector Development 
·
Component 1: Maintain macroeconomic stability; 
·
Component 2: Improve investment climate through reforming of licensing and inspections, 
increasing transparency of the privatization process and promoting market competition; and 
·
Component 3: Reform regulatory framework through separating policy making and regulation 
function in the strategic sectors (aviation, cotton and energy).  
Pillar 2.  Improve Public Service Delivery
:
·
Component 1: Public sector management reform through restructuring of core public institutions, 
reforms of civil service management and wage system, strengthening the medium-term expenditure 
framework; and   
Component 2: Improving social service delivery in health and education. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
In accordance with the Association’s operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01, 
Annex E), the operation is proposed to be placed in Category “C” and does not require a separate 
environmental assessment. However, related sector investment programs in agriculture and energy have 
already undertaken comprehensive environmental assessments and have prepared relevant action plans 
to address environmental aspects. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
10 
 Total 
10 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Roy S. Canagarajah 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-4458 
Fax: (202) 614-0912 
Email: 
Scanagarajah@worldbank.org
Note: This information is provided for an evolving project.  
 
