Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4407 
Operation Name 
Tajikistan Programmatic Development Policy Grant 3 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%);General industry and 
trade sector (23%);Aviation (14%);Health (13%);General energy 
sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P106963 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
Presidential Administration 
80 Rudaki Avenue 
Dushanbe 734023 
Tajikistan 
Tel: 992 372 213 446 Fax: 992 372 213 446 
matlubkhon@nm.ru 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
December 10, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
December 17, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
February 19, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Tajikistan’s transition experience to a market economy has been slow but satisfactory, reflecting 
prudent macroeconomic management, implementation of the first generation of structural 
reform, stable political stability, and favorable external environment.  
The government’s pursuit of 
sound macroeconomic management successfully stabilized the economy during 2000
–
06
.
From late 
1997 when the civil war ended until 2006 the government managed macro economic policy 
soundly.  Macroeconomic performance was characterized by strong GDP growth, declining 
inflation, fiscal balance, much reduced external debt, and a manageable current account deficit.
 
Real GDP growth averaged 8 percent between 2000 and 2006.  Growth reflects recovery in 
capacity utilization primarily in agriculture, favorable world prices of cotton and aluminum, 
strong growth in Russia and other trading partners, and increasing remittances from Tajiks 
working in Russia and Kazakhstan.  Inflation fell from 
30
–40
percent during 1998–2001 
to 6
–7
percent during 2004–05, before rising to 12 percent in 2006, as a more expansionary domestic 
policy exacerbated the buoyancy of remittance-financed demand for domestic goods and 
services.  
The overall fiscal balance (excluding externally-financed investment) since 2003 has been in 
surplus, achieved through improved revenue mobilization and a reduction in interest payments on external 
public debt.  
The sound macroeconomic management and strong growth was accompanied by 
greater diversification of the economy as reflected in a decline in the combined share of 
aluminum and cotton in total value added (below 9 percent in 2006 compared to about 30 percent 
in 2000), and expansion of the nontraditional products.  Nevertheless, Tajikistan remains highly 
exposed to changes in the world prices of key exports (aluminum and cotton) and imports (oil 
and gas). 
 
Page  2
Despite this success, Tajikistan remains the poorest CIS country with a gross national income of 
US$460 in 2007.  Poverty remains high, with about 53 percent of the population living below the 
poverty line of US$41 53 percent in 2007 (although down from 83 percent in 1999).  About 71 
percent of the poor and 76 percent of the extremely poor live in rural areas.  The high poverty 
rate of people living in rural areas makes them exceptionally susceptible to weather and price 
shocks.  Investment remains at a very low level because of unfavorable business environment 
and poor governance.   
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The development objectives of the proposed PDPC are to improve the environment for private 
sector development, and to improve overall functioning of the public sector and the delivery of 
key public services.    
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
To overcome bottlenecks and ensure sustainability of rapid growth, the government is committed 
to implement structural reform in the public sector and key strategic sectors (aviation, cotton and 
energy), to accelerate privatization of medium and large enterprises, to improve the business 
environment and to strengthen public and private sector governance as indicated in the 
government’s poverty reduction strategy 2.  The proposed Third Programmatic Development 
Policy Credit (PDPC) will assist the government in preparing and implementing the necessary 
reforms to promote growth and to reduce poverty. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
10 
 Total 
10 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Finance is the executing agency.  The Executive Office of the President is the 
implementing agency, and the State Advisor for Economic Policy is responsible for coordinating 
actions among the ministries and agencies involved and for monitoring and reporting on 
progress.    The Office of the Prime Minister will provide overall guidance and oversight.  The 
presidential administration will be responsible for implementing the public sector reforms.  The 
line ministries involved (energy, education, health, agriculture, and transportation) are 
accountable for implementing the sectoral reforms specified in the reform program.  The State 
Committee for Investment and State Property Management will be responsible for overseeing 
specific policy actions related to private sector development.  The Ministry of Economy and 
Trade will oversee implementation of anti-monopoly and competition policy.  The Ministry of 
Energy and the Office of the Prime Minister will be responsible for the energy sector reforms. 
 
Page  3
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
The proposed operation would provide the Tajik government with support to finance some of the 
expenditures associated with the implementation of a medium-term reform program.  Major 
benefits of the overall reform program would be:  
 
·
Greater overall medium term growth as a result of higher private investment spurred by 
an improved investment climate. 
·
Improved public sector performance. 
·
Improved governance. 
·
Improved delivery of health and education services. 
 
The implementation of the proposed project faces four major risks related to: (a) weak 
government implementation capacity, (b) poor governance and corruption
,
(c) the government’s 
willingness to contract non-concessional loans, (d) Tajikistan’s complex political economy, and 
(e) the vulnerability of the economy to external shocks.  The program contains a number of 
measures to mitigate these risks. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and social impact of this operation are expected to be positive
.
In the medium term, the 
proposed reforms in health and education are likely to result in improved access and quality of 
services to the poor.  Reforms in the aviation sector will improve access and reduce cost of 
transport for low-income migrants.  Reforms of the cotton sector should result in higher prices 
for farmers.  Special provisions have been put into place to ensure that the poor and vulnerable 
can afford to access energy at affordable prices.  In the medium term, reforms proposed in public 
administration reform strategy should yield benefits through more efficient and effective public 
sector management.   
The conclusion of an environmental screening of the proposed reforms, undertaken as per the 
requirements of OP 8.60, is that the reforms are not likely to be significant from an 
environmental point of view.  The project raises no issues with respect to social safeguards. 
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Roy S. Canagarajah 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-4458 
Fax: (202) 614-0912 
Email: Scanagarajah@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
Page  4
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
