                                              Documentof
                                           The World Bank

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                              Report No. 46717-TJ




                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                       PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                FORA THIRD PROPOSEDGRANT

                             INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.3 MILLION

                                  (US$20 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                   TO

                                  THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN

                                                 FORA

                  PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY OPERATION




                                             March2,2009




PovertyReductionand EconomicManagementUnit
Central Asia Country Unit
Europeand CentralAsia Region


This document has a restricted distributionand may be used by recipientsonly in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                    REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN

                  GOVERNMENT FISCALYEAR
                          January-December

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
           (Exchange Rate Effectiveas of February25,2009)

                  CurrencyUnit       Tajikistan Somoni
                    US$1.oo                 3.60
                    TJS 1-00                0.28

                  WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                             Metric System

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BEE     BusinessEnablingEnvironment
DFID    Departmentfor InternationalDevelopment(U.K.)
DSA     Debt sustainabilityanalysis
EBRD    EuropeanBank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
EC      EuropeanCommission
GDP     Grossdomestic product
IDA     InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IFC     InternationalFinanceCorporation
IMF     InternationalMonetaryFund
KI      Kredit Invest
LIC     Low income country
LDP     Letter of DevelopmentPolicy
MDGs    MillenniumDevelopmentGoals
MIGA    MultilateralInvestmentGuarantee Agency
MTEF    Medium-termexpenditureframework
NBT     NationalBank ofTajikistan
NDS     NationalDevelopmentStrategy
PDPG    ProgrammaticDevelopmentPolicyGrant
PEFA    Public expenditureand financialaccountability
PIP     Public investmentprogram
PPIAF   The Public-PrivateInfrastructureAdvisory Facility
PRGF    PovertyReductionandGrowthFacility
PRS     Povertyreductionstrategy
ROSC    Reportonthe Observanceof Standards and Codes
SCISPM   State Committee for Investmentsand State PropertyManagement
SME     Smallandmediumenterprises
SMP     Staff MonitoredProgram
UNICEF  UnitedNationsChildren's Fund
USAID   UnitedStatesAgency for InternationalDevelopment

                  Vice President: ShigeoKatsu
                CountryDirector: MotooKonishi
                  Sector Director: LucaBarbone
                 Sector Manager: Kazi Mahbub-A1Matin
               Task Team Leader: R. SudharshanCanagarajah

                                                                                                FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                             CONTENTS



       1.          Country Context         .......................................................................................................................        1
                   RecentMacroeconomicDevelopments.....................................................................................                                  -3

       2.          Tajikistan'sPovertyReduction Strategy                             ...............................................................................     9
       3.          Progressof the DevelopmentPolicy Program                                  .....................................................................      10
       4.          ProposedOperation              ...............................................................................................................       21
                   A. Descriptionof the Operation                   .............................................................................................       21
                   B. Objectives.Themes. andPolicyAreas..............................................................................                                   21
                   C. Linkagesto CountryPartnership Strategy                             ......................................................................... 23
                   D. Collaborationwith the IMFandOther Donors.................................................................                                         23
                   E Relationshipwith Other Bank Operations.........................................................................
                     .                                                                                                                                                  24
                   F. Lessons Learned................................................................................................................                   25

       5 .         OperationImplementation                   ....................................................................................................       28
                   A. Povertyand Social Impact................................................................................................. 28
                   B. Implementation.Monitoring. andEvaluation.,.................................................................                                      -29
                   C. FiduciaryAspects .............................................................................................................. 29
                   D. Disbursement andAuditing............................................................................................... 31
                   E. EnvironmentalAspects...................................................................................................... 32
                   F.  Risksand Risk Mitigation .................................................................................................                       34

       Boxes
       Box 1:      Governance in Tajikistan: Challengesand Effortsto ImproveOutcomes.................................                                                     7
       Box 2:      GoodPracticePrincipleson Conditionality.............................................................................                                 27

       Figures
       Figure 1:   Compositionof Consumptionofthe Average Household.........................................................                                              2

       Tables
       Table 1:    Medium-termMacroeconomicOutlook ....................................................................................                                   6
       Table 2:    Status andProposedChanges inPrior Actions from those Indicatedat PDPG2 Stage                                                                 ..........18
       Table 3:    Prior Actions for PDPG 3 ........................................................................................................                     22


       Annex 1: Letter of DevelopmentPolicy................................................................................................. -53
       Annexes

       Annex 2:    PolicyMatrix ........................................................................................................................... 64
       Annex 3:    Link Betweenthe PDPG, Analytical Work, and other Bank and Development
                   Partner-supportedPrograms..................................................................................................... 74
       Annex 4:    Relationswith the InternationalMonetaryFund                                 ....................................................................      76
       Annex 5:    Tajikistan's Status in Relationto the MDGs............................................................................                                78
       Annex 6:    Assessment Letter from the InternationalMonetary Fund to the World Bank........................                                                       79

       Map
       IBRD33493...............................................................................................................................................          81




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


The proposedThirdProgrammaticDevelopmentPolicy Grant was preparedby an IDA team consisting
of R. Sudharshan Canagarajah, Jariya Hoffman, Utkirdjan Umarov, Svetlana Proskurovska, Shuhrat
Mirzoev, Hassan Aliev (ECSPE); Aziz Khaidarov (ECCTJ); Brett Coleman, Andrea Dall'Olio
(ECSPF); Gary Fine (ECAVP); Rekha Menon, Saodat Bazarova, Pia Helen Schneider, Vladmir
Kolchin (ECSHD); Sudhee Sen Gupta (CICIC); Norpulat Daniyaraov,Naushad Khan, John Ogallo,
Moustapaha Ndiaye (ECSPS); Bekzod Shamsiev, Raghuveer Sharma (ECSIE); Simone Giger
(ECSSD); Andrea Dall'Olio (ECFPF); Wendy S. Ayres, Sodiyk Khaitov (Consultants). The team
benefited from the inputs and guidance of Annette Dixon and Kazi Mahbub-A1Matin. The team
gratefully acknowledges the excellent close collaboration of the Tajikistan authorities, development
partners, as well as the support and guidance of Motoo Konishi, Annette Dixon, Luca Barbone, Kazi
Mahbub-A1Matin, ChiaraBronchi, and MehrnazTeymourian. ZakiaNekaien-Nowrouzand Takhmina
Jumaevaassistedthe team.




                                               iv


                             REPUBLICOF TAJIKISTAN

            THIRDPROGRAMMATICDEVELOPMENTPOLICY GRANT AND
                                PROGRAM SUMMARY
Recipient          Republicof Tajikistan

ImplementingAgency Ministry ofFinance
Amount             SDR 13.3 million(US$20 millionequivalent)

Terms              IDA Grant

Objectivesand      The proposed Third Programmatic Development Policy Grant is the third and
Description        final operation in a programmatic sequence that supports the government's
                   reform program outlined in the Tajikistan first and second poverty reduction
                    strategy. Its development objectives are to improvethe environment for private
                    sector development, and to improveoverall functioning of the public sector and
                   the deliveryofkey public services.

                   The proposedprogramis divided intotwo pillars eachwith several components:
                   Pillar 1. PromotingPrivateSector Development
                           Component 1:Maintainmacroeconomic stability.
                           Component 2: Improve investment climate through reform of licensing
                           and inspections, increasing transparency of the privatizationprocess and
                           promotingmarketcompetition.
                           Component 3: Reform regulatory frameworks by separating policy
                           making from regulatory functions in key strategic sectors (aviation,
                           cotton, andenergy).
                   Pillar 2. ImprovePublicSector Managementand Public ServiceDelivery:
                           Component 1: Public sector management reform through restructuringof
                           core public institutions, reforms of civil service management and wage
                           system, strengtheningofthe medium-termexpenditure framework.
                           Component 2: Improvingsocial service delivery in healthandeducation.

Benefits           The credit will help to sustain economic growth and poverty reduction by
                   supporting reforms presented in the PRS 2 and by providing resources for the
                   budget.

R i S k S          The implementation of the proposed reform program faces five major risks
                   related to: (a) weak government implementationcapacity, (b) poor governance
                   and corruption, (c) the government's willingness to contract non-concessional
                   loans, (d) Tajikistan's complex political economy, and (e) the vulnerability of
                   the economy to external shocks. The program contains a number of measuresto
                   mitigatethese risks.

Estimated          SDR 13.3 million (US$20.0 million equivalent) will be disbursed in a single
Disbursement       tranche followingeffectiveness.

OperationIDNumber  P106963




                                             V


                  INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                               PROGRAMDOCUMENT FORA
   PROPOSEDTHIRD PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT

                                                   TO

                              THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN



                                  1.       COUNTRY CONTEXT

1.       Tajikistan is a small economy in Central Asia with 6.7 million inhabitantsand a per
capita income of US$460 in 2007.' The economy, which has been growing strongly (9 percent
annually from 2000-07) dependsheavilyon exports of cotton, and hydroelectricity(includingfor
aluminum processing), and on growing remittances of migrants estimated at US$2.3 billion in
2008 (about 50 percent of GDP). Despite a severe winter that led to energy shortages, real GDP
grew by 8 percent in 2008.

2.       Poverty although declining steadily remains very high. In 2007, about 53 percent of
the populationwas living belowthe poverty line of US$41 per month, and 17 percent were below
the extreme poverty line of US$26 per month.* This is a significant improvement over the 64
percent of people that were living below the poverty line in 2003 and the 83 percent there were
doing so in 1999.3 About 71 percent of the poor and 76 percent of the extremely poor live in
rural areas. The high poverty rate of people living in rural areas makes them exceptionally
susceptible to weather and price shocks. Food comprises about 64 percent of total consumption
for Tajiks (see figure 1 for compositionof consumptionexpenditure).

3.       Not surprisingly, food insecurity is high in Tajikistan. About 27 percent of children
under age 5 are stunted(short for their age). This is the highest rate of stuntingof any countryof
the region (the average for Commonwealth of Independent States is 12 percent stunted).
Moreover, 24 percentof households reportthat they have inadequate access to food. Households
with large number of children, female headed households, households with less educated heads,
households with heads who are not employed are more vulnerable to poverty. Remittances
comprise an important source of income for many poor families, reducingthe risk of beingpoor
and narrowingthe povertygap.

4.       Tajikistan is an unequal society by income and by geographical location.
Tajikistan's income gini coefficient of 0.51, indicates that disparities in income are large.
Regional disparities are significant. About 69 percent of people living in Sogd are poor, while
only 43 percent of those in Dushanbeare. Female-headedhouseholds are more likely to be poor
than male-headedhouseholds (57 percent compared with 52 percent).

5.       Social indicators have improved since 2000, following a decline after independence.
Indicators of school enrollment rates, infant mortality, child mortality, and others deteriorated


1    Gross national income per capita, World BankAtlas method.
     Source: Projections based on the TajikistanLiving StandardSurvey (2007).
3    The data from the 2003 and 1999 surveys are not directly comparable, due to methodological
differences intheir design.

following independence due to the civil conflict, worsening public services, and weak
governance. However, following peace and improved economic management, they started to
improve. For example, the primary completion rate rose from 95 percent of children in 2000 to
100 percent in 2007. Infant mortality fell significantly over the same period, from 75 per 1,000
live births in 2000 to 56 per 1,000 live births in 2007. Child mortality similarly declined from 93
to 68 per 1,000 live births. Tajikistan made progress with gender equality. The proportion of
seats in the parliament held by women rose from 3 percent in 2000 to 18 percent in 2007. The
ratio of girls to boys enrolled in primary school rose from 93 to 100 in 2000 to 95 to 100 in 2007.
Maternal health services improved.       The proportion of pregnant women attending antenatal
clinics increased from 71 percent in 2000 to 77 percent in 2007.          However, despite recent
progress, Tajikistan is the only country in ECA region unlikely to achieve most o f its Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs).~ annex 5 for details on the Tajikistan' status with respect to the
                                 See
MDGs.

Figure 1: Compositionof ConsumptionExpenditureofthe Average Household


                                                Housing

                            E3   Healtl.     and utilities




                                                                          0 Food
                                                                            (101.2),
           0 Nonfood,                                                         64%
              (32.9), 21%




Source: Tajikistan Living StandardsSurvey, 2007.

6.       While earlier efforts to accelerate structural reforms were hampered by the post-
war environment, the combination of sustained macroeconomic stability and economic
growth and the recent politicalconsolidation have created the space for more fundamental
reform. Concerned about the vulnerability of Tajikistan's economy to a change in external
conditions, the government has outlined a comprehensive program o f structural and institutional
reform aimed at sustaining growth and reducing poverty. This program, incorporated in the
second poverty reduction strategy (PRS) (formally approved in April 2007) centers on (a) reform
of public sector management, (b) development of the private sector and attracting investment, and
(c) development of human potential.

    The World Bank, Millennium Development Goals: Progress and Prospects in Europe and Central Asia
region, 2005.


                                                   2

7.       The proposed operationis the third in a programmaticseries that provides support
for reforms aimed at promoting private sector development and improving the delivery of
publicservices. Inthe private sector, the proposed reforms are improving the investment climate
through reforms o f the licensing, permitting, and inspections regime; strengthening the legal,
institutional and regulatory framework in key strategic sectors (aviation, cotton, and energy); and
enhancing transparency o f the privatization process.       In the public sector, the operation is
focusing on improving the quality o f public administration, civil service management, public
financial management, and the efficiency and equity o f social service delivery. Policy actions in
private sector development and public administration are addressing the cross-cutting governance
issues that are critical for sustaining growth and reducing poverty in Tajikistan.

Recent MacroeconomicDevelopments

8.       The government's pursuit of sound macroeconomic management successfully
stabilized the economy during 2000-06. From late 1997 when the civil war ended until 2006
the government managed macro economic policy soundly. Macroeconomic performance was
characterized by strong GDP growth, declining inflation, fiscal balance, much reduced external
debt, and a manageable current account deficit. Real GDP growth averaged 9 percent between
2000 and 2007, which helpedto reduce poverty. Prudent monetary policy led to a fall in inflation
from 30-40 percent during 1998-2001 to 6-7 percent during 2004-05, before it rose again to 12
percent in2006, as a more expansionary domestic policy exacerbated the buoyancy o f remittance-
financed demand for domestic goods and services.            The overall fiscal balance (excluding
externally-financed investment) since 2003 has been in surplus, achieved through improved
revenue mobilization and a reduction in interest payments on external public debt. In addition,
Tajikistan benefited from several successful debt restructuring and reduction agreements reached
with key bilateral creditors, notably with the Russian Federation, Pakistan and through the
Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative with the International Monetary Fund.

9.       Growth has been driven largely by a favorable external environment, including
rising world prices of cotton and aluminum, and strong growth in Russia and other trading
partners, leading to rising demand for Tajik labor, which in turn has resulted in strong
growthin remittances. Growth has also resulted from recovery in capacity utilization, primarily
in agriculture.    Government responded appropriately in response to the favorable external
environment, forging an agreement with Russia to allow visa-free access to that country for Tajik
workers.    The sound macroeconomic management and strong growth was accompanied by
greater diversification o f the economy as reflected in a decline in the combined share o f
aluminum and cotton in total value added (below 9 percent in 2006 compared to about 30 percent
in 2000), and expansion o f the nontraditional products. Nevertheless, Tajikistan remains highly
exposed to external developments, including shifts in global prices o f key exports (aluminum and
cotton) and imports (oil and gas), and changes inthe labor market in Russia.

10.      Macroeconomic management deteriorated significantly in 2007, forcing a delay in
the processing of the proposed ProgrammaticDevelopment Policy Grant 3. The authorities
revealed in October 2007 that the National Bank o f Tajikistan (the central bank) has guaranteed at
least US$328 million o f external loans to Kredit Invest, an insolvent Tajik private sector non-
bank financial institution, ostensibly for cotton financing.     Of this amount US$241 million
comprise pledges o f the NBT's foreign exchange reserves, held by creditor banks as collateral
against the loans to Kredit Invest. Gross official reserves were reported to be US$355 million at
end o f 2007. Thus in effect all o f the country's foreign exchange reserves had been either
encumbered as pledges or could be called on to cover the guarantees.           In addition, the NBT
provided domestic credits equivalent to about 8 percent o f GDP to KI, thereby expanding the

supply o f base money almost threefold. Inflation accelerated to almost 20 percent at the end o f
2007. Trade and current account deficits and public debt rose sharply. The increase in inflation
and widening o f the trade deficit are attributable to both supply side shocks (higher fuel and food
process) and the very strong growth o f aggregate demand which has been fuelled by expansionary
monetary policies. External debt distress reemerged due to heavy external borrowing and the
aforementioned loan guarantees, puttingpressure on fiscal management.

 11.     To tackle the impending macroeconomic crisis, the authorities in late 2007
requested the IMF to establish a new program. The Fund agreed on a Staff Monitored
Program (SMP) in May 2008 that provides the authorities with an opportunity to build a track
record in support o f a request for a new financial arrangement with the Fund. The aim o f the
program is to ensure improved governance at the NBT, to reduce inflation through monetary
restraint, and to restore external viability through rebuilding o f reserves, curbing new external
borrowing, and reducingthe trade deficit.

 12.     Macroeconomicindicatorsstrengthened in 2008. Inflation receded to 12 percent year-
on-year by December 2008, helped by the recent decline in international food and fuel prices.
Although the trade deficit climbed to 48 percent o f GDP in 2008, it started to decline during the
second half o f the year and is projected to amount 34 percent o f GDP in 2009 because o f slowing
demand for consumer goods, falling prices o f imported fuel and food, and improved fiscal and
monetary policies. The balance o f payments registered a surplus in 2008, owing to a surge in
remittances by 50 percent over 2007. The improved performance, while partly a result o f the
favorable external environment, are also due to better governance o f the NBT under the
management appointed in early 2008.

 13.     Tajikistan's debt is sustainable under the baseline scenario, but vulnerable to
adverse macroeconomic shocks. An update o f the 2007 debt sustainability analysis (DSA)
indicates that Tajikistan's risk o f debt distress remains high, although its resilience to adverse
shocks has improved compared to the findings o f the 2007 DSA.' Under the baseline scenario,
the external debt burden indicators in present value terms remain below their respective
thresholds, with the exception o f the debt-to-exports ratio. In particular, by 2009, the debt-to-
exports ratio will reach 133 percent, exceeding the threshold o f 100 percent by a significant
margin. This indicator i s expected to deteriorate continuously throughout 2012; after that, it is
projected to decrease gradually throughout 2028, however, continuously staying above the
threshold. However, external debt service ratios are expected to stay below their thresholds over
the entire period, so that debt service remains manageable. The high level o f concessionality o f
the external public and publicly guaranteed debt is a key factor underlyingthese projections.

 14.     A decline in GDP and export growth rates, shortfall in other inflows, or sharper
exchange rate depreciation relative to the baseline, all have the potential to undermine debt
sustainability. However, simulations indicate that debt-service ratios remain below thresholds
until 2017, even when several shocks are combined. The results of the DSA thus underscore the
need for the authorities to exercise extreme caution in incurring new debt and to carefully vet
large-scale investment projects, to make sure that external resources are used productively.
Sound macroeconomic policies and acceleration o f structural reforms would also be essential for



     The fmdings presented here are preliminary and subject to change. This DSA has been produced
jointly by World Bank and IMF staff, in consultation with Asian Development Bank staff. It updatesthe
last DSA of April 2007 ,presentedinthe IMF Staff Report for the 2007 Article IV Consultation. The final
DSA will be distributed to the Board once clearedby the IMF andthe World Bank.


                                                   4

maintainingdebt sustainability by strengthening Tajikistan's growth potential and safeguarding
external stability.

15.      The overall fiscal balance (excluding the externally financed public investment
program, PIP) registered a surplus through December 2008, higher than programmed.
Revenue collection was stronger than projected, mostly reflecting high nominal growth and
imports. Revenueoverperformanceand strict expenditure control is estimatedto result in a fiscal
surplus in2008 of 1.3 percentof GDP (excludingthe PIP). Includingthe PIP, the fiscal deficit in
2008 is expectedto total 5.7 percentof GDP.

16.      The global economic crisis is negatively affecting Tajikistan's economy. First,
remittances are expected to fall by 30 percent. Many Tajiks working in Russia are employed in
the constructionindustry, which has enjoyed a boom during the years of high oil prices. Some
planned construction projects in Russia have already been delayed or scrapped altogether. A
slowdown in constructionis likely to result in lowerearnings or unemploymentof Tajiks working
abroad, lower remittances, and the return to the country of migrantworkers, puttingpressure on
public services. Second, the fall in commodity prices is expected to affect the value of Tajik
exports, such as cotton. Third, foreign direct investment is likely to decline, affectingplans for
large infrastructureprojects. Fourth, access to concessional financial resources from emerging
economies, such as Kazakhstan and China, may fall, increasingthe cost of capitalfor business. A
projected reductionin external finance from all sources will likely put pressureon the balance of
payments, reserves, the exchange rate, and the current account. Due to these factors, real GDP
growth is projectedto reach3 percentat best in 2009.

17.      Although the global financial crisis is not likely to directly affect Tajikistan's
banking sector, the sector is under stress because of potentially non-performing cotton
sector debt. Inearly 2008, the government directed several banksto borrow somoni 140 million
from the Ministry of Finance and lend it to the cotton sector, carrying the risk on their own
balance sheets. This amounts to 22 percent of total banking sector capital as of June 2008.
Significant default on this debt could become a major problem for commercialbanks. NBT's
financialpositionpreventsit from makingeffectiveuse of monetarypolicy instrumentsand could
limit its ability to intervene in a financial crisis. The authorities are aware of these issues, and
stand readyto support the financial sector with budgetaryresourcesifnecessary.

18.      To minimize the potential negative impact on the economy of the global economic
crisis, the authoritiesplan to pursue macroeconomicpolicies aimed at maintainingexternal
stability. The authoritiesare targetingan overall deficit (excludingPIP) of0.5 percent of GDP in
2009, while maintainingexpenditures that directly benefit the poor and vulnerable. They are
currently preparing a social protection program that may include cash-for-work scheme and
measures to facilitate entrepreneurship.        The program is aimed at creating employment
opportunities for migrants forced to leave their jobs in Russia and other countries as well as
others. The authoritieshave committedto a flexible exchange rate regime, which will be key to
facilitating external adjustment. (The exchange rate has depreciated by 11 percent between
December 2008 and mid-February 2009.) Access to concessional finance from donors would
helpthe governmentexpand fiscal expenditures without drivingup inflationand domestic interest
rates, bothofwhich would blunt the benefits of expansionary fiscal policy. To help limit the risk
o f a banking crisis in Tajikistan, the NBT i s strengthening its supervision of the commercial
banks and taking measuresto reduce the vulnerabilityof the bankingsystem to a financialcrisis.
The priorities are to improve the liquidity position of the banks and to curb the impairment of
their assets. The NBT is also drawingup contingency plans for tacklinga bankingcrisis, so that




                                                   5

  it is not caught unprepared should one materialize. The World Bank and the IMF stand ready to
  assist inthese efforts.

  19.       Even with good policies, Tajikistan faces a balance-of-paymentsfinancing gap of at
  least US$135 million in 2009 and US$45 million in 2010. The authorities have requested
  financial support of at least US$51million in 2009 and US$35 million in 2010 from the IMF
  under the PRGF. The remainingfinancing needs are expected to be met through budget support
  from other donors, includingthe Asian Development Bank the World Bank, and the European
  Commission (EC). With this, Tajikistan's external position remains vulnerable to a further
  worsening of the external environment. For example, the external financing gap would increase
  by US$l10million ifremittancesdeclinedby anadditional 5 percentagepoints.



                                                       Actual                  Estimated          Projected
                                          2002-04  2005     2006    2007          2008     2009     2010    2011
GDP, US$million                              1,608  2,311    2,811    3,712          5,135   5,383   5,572   6,362
Real GDP growth, percent                      10.0     6.7      7.0     7.8            7.9     3.0     4.0     6.0
Real per capitaUS$GDP growth,                  8.7     5.0      6.0     5.7            6.3     1.5     2.5     4.4
percent
Annual CPI inflation (period average),        11.9     7.3     10.0    13.2           20.4    12.4    11.5     9.5
percent
                                                                      (Millionsof USSS)
Current accountbalance                       -48.1   -62.0    -79.0 -414.0          -453.0 -522.0   -461.0  -446.0
Exports of goods and non-factor services    998.3   601.3     651.4   766.9          813.7   756.3   826.1   912.1
Imports of goods and non-factor services   1,174.2 1,220.9 1,617.7  2,554.8        3,469.2 2,791.6 2,879.4 3,093.1
Net income                                   -74.5   -79.0   -101.0 -110.6          -111.0 -117.0   -121.1  -125.3
Net transfers                               202.3   636.3     984.3 1,484.0        2,313.0 1,630.3 1,714.4 1,861.0
Net foreigndirect investment                 113.2    55.6     66.0   160.0          190.0   100.0   160.0   180.0
                                                                    (in percent of GDP)

Current accountbalance1                       -3.0    -2.7     -2.8   -11.2                   -9.7    -8.3    -7.0
Overallrevenuesand grants                     17.3    20.1    23.6                            21.4    20.4    20.5
Total expendituresand net lending             19.5    23.0     21.9                           28.4    25.8    24.4
Fiscalbalance (incl. externally funded        -2.2    -2.9      1.7                           -7.0    -5.2    -3.9
P W
Fiscalbalance (excl.externally funded          0.5     0.5      0.8                           -0.5    -0.5    -0.5
PIP+multilateral debt relief initiative)
External debt                                 64.2    38.9     32.9    33.6           28.9    33.9    36.4    34.5
Debt service due, inpercent of export of      17.3    12.9    24.8'     6.5           12.7    13.8     9.9    10.5
goods & nonfactor services


1.     Includinggrants.
2.     This figure is largebecauseit reflectsthe multilateraldebt reliefinitiativepayment.
Source: IMFandWorldBank staffcalculations.

  20.       To maintain growth and reduce poverty over the medium and long term, the
  authorities will need to maintain sound macroeconomic management and implement
  reforms to improve the businessenvironment, increase access to financial services, promote
  non-cotton agriculture, strengthen public financial management,and maximize the benefits
  to the economy of migration and remittances. Increased agricultural productivity due to
  diversificationand improvements in the supply chain, greater private sector investment funded in
  part by remittances, and the start of a large-scale Russian-financed hydroelectric power project
  and other infrastructureinvestmentshave the potentialto support growth of 7-8 percent over the
  longterm.




                                                           6

21.      The authorities satisfactorily completed the June-December 2008 IMF-supported
Staff Monitored Program. The authorities made good progress on their structural reform
agenda under the SMP, setting up a supervision unit for state-owned enterprises and preparing
legislative changes to the central bank and commercial banks laws. The special audit o f the NBT
has been completed, and the report's executive summary will be published on the NBT's website.
Annex 6 contains the IMF's assessment o f Tajikistan's current macroeconomic outlook.

22.      The authoritiesin February agreedwith the IMF on a 2009-11 programto be
supported under a under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF). In the
context o f a deteriorating global economic environment, the authorities want to benefit from the
stability that a Fundfinancial arrangement could bring. The aim o f the PRGF-supported program
would be to further strengthen governance at the NBT, to strengthen fiscal and macroeconomic
management, and to assist the country cope with potential impact o f the global financial crisis.
Conditional on the completion o f five prior actions by the authorities, the IMF's Executive Board
i s expected to consider Tajikistan's request for support under the PRGF in early April.

        Box 1: Governancein Tajikistan: Challengesand Effortsto Improve Outcomes
Governance challenges

The legacy of the civil war in Tajikistan includes a complexpolitical economy that has constrained public
sector performance, private sector investment, and social development. In the initial years, the main
priority of the government was to consolidate peace, and to gain the support of various political groups.
Little progress was madeto undertakethe fundamentalreforms to redefine the role of the state from central
planner and operator of productive activities to that of policymaker, regulator, and facilitator of private
sector investment, Moreover, few efforts were made to ensure that constitutionally independentinstitutions
of accountability, such as thejudiciary and the parliament, have the capacityto perform their accountability
functions. Civil society organizations, the media, and other nongovernmental entities are also unable to
effectively act as institutions of accountability, strengthening the checks and balances in society and on
government performance. Governance in the financial sector is also weak and banking supervision falls
well below international standards. State involvement in productive enterprises has resulted in waste,
appropriation of public funds for private gain, and inefficient and outmoded industries. Such involvement
also creates obstacles for private sector investment.

This has led to poor governance outcomes in Tajikistan. Tajikistan compares poorly with other countries
of the region on accountability, control of corruption, government effectiveness, and regulatory quality
according to the GovernanceResearch Indicator Country Snapshot of the World Bank Institute. Tajikistan
also scores poorly in other major surveys of governance, including TransparencyInternational's Corruption
Perceptions Index, the Global Economic Forum's Global Competitiveness Index, and the European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) transition indicators dataset. Moreover, surveys undertaken
by local firms show corruption to be a problem. For example, about 60 percent of people surveyed in the
2006 survey on corruption inTajikistan undertakenby the government and UNDP, said that corruption was
the main problem inTajikistan.

Government's efforts to improve governance

The government is taking action to strengthen governance both to attract private sector investment for
growth and to improve the delivery of public services. Important reforms to streamline the licensing,
inspection, and permitting process are expected to improve the climate for business. Restructuring the
government administration and reforming pay and incentives is aimed at promoting a more professional
civil service. Strengthening of public financial management-including          enactment of a new public
procurement law, strengtheningof internal audit, reform ofthe tax administration, and improvements inthe
budget process-should     increase public accountability and transparency, and, coupled with other reforms,
are expected to result in improved service delivery. Separation of the policymaking from regulatory



                                                      7

functions in the aviation and energy sectors, and privatizationof state-owned enterprises are expectedto
improve transparency and accountability in key sectors of the economy. A comprehensive assessment of
the financial sector is the first step indefining a programto address its weaknesses.

Support of the Bank Group and of other development partners for improved governance

The Bank Group and other development are helping to improve governance in many ways. The IFCIBEE
project is helping to reform the inspections, taxation, and permittingregimes. The Public Sector Reform
Project (fiscal 2006) is supporting government efforts to restructure the public administration, improve
incentives for civil servants, and reform the management of the civil service. The forthcoming Public
Financial Management Reform Project will support reforms of financial management, procurement,
budgeting, auditing, and debt management. The programmatic public expenditure review and two public
expenditure tracking surveys (one for health and one for educationFhaveprovided the basis for further
dialogue on the issues. The Cotton Sector Modernization Project (fiscal 2007), Land Cadastre Project
(fiscal 2005), and Energy Loss Reduction Project (fiscal 2005) Bank are helping to improve the
transparency and accountability of major sectors of the economy. The Bank's aviation sector study and
cotton sector review have highlighted the problems of governance in these sectors and recommended
reforms that are now being implemented. The Community and Basic HealthProject (fiscal 2006), and its
EducationModernizationProject (fiscal 2003) is helpingto improvethe efficiency and effectivenessof the
delivery of basic public services. A grant from the FIRST Trust Fund is helping to implement the
recommendationsof the financial sector assessment program, carried outjointly by the Bank and the IMF,
has informthe governmentof what needsto be done aimedat improvinggovernance of bank andnon-bank
financial institutions.

Other developmentpartners are also working to improve governance in Tajikistan. Switzerland, the EC,
and EBRD are assisting with various aspects of the privatizationprogram. Switzerland and the U.S. are
helping with the licensing, inspections, and permitting regimes. The EC, the Asian Development Bank,
and the U.K. are supporting the implementation o f aspects of the government's public administration
reformstrategy and with public financial management. The Frenchgovernment and EBRDare helpingthe
new aviation enterprises to put into place modem accounting and financial management systems. The
Asian Development Bank, Sweden, Switzerland, the EC, the U.K., and the U.S. are involved with
improvingthe management of health and education services. Additional informationon Bank operations
and analyticalwork aimedat improvinggovernance is presentedinannex 4.

Support of the PDPG operation for improved governance

The PDPG operation supports governance reforms in a broad range of areas. Reforms of the licensing
and inspectionregimes will reduce the demands for irregular payments. Actions to promote transparency
in privatizationand with encouraginggreater competition among enterpriseswill reducethe opportunities
for well-connected elites to appropriate funds for personal benefit. Separation of policy making,
regulatory, and operational functions of state-owned enterprises in the energy and aviation sectors will
increase the transparency and performance of the operations. Audits of the financial statements of Barki
Tajik, Tajik Gas, and TALC0 are bringing transparency to their operations. Reforms of the institutions
governing cotton pricing and grading and elimination of NBT's role in licensing cotton exports will
strengthen the bargaining power of farmers, which is expected to increase their share of sales proceeds.
Reforms to restructure the public service and to improve the compensation policies for civil servants and
for healthand educationworkers will reducethe opportunities and incentivesfor bribes. Strengtheningthe
budget process, procurement, and internal and external audit will help to ensure that public resources are
used as intended. Finally, reforms of the policies determining how health and education budgets are
formedand servicesdeliveredwill reducethe misuseof public funds and improvethe services.




                                                        8

            2.      TAJIKISTAN'S POVERTY REDUCTIONSTRATEGY

23.     The Governmentof the Republic of Tajikistan in April 2007 formally approved its
Second Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS 2) for 2007-2009.           Building on the first PRS for
2002-05, the PRS 2 presents the first three-year plan to operationalize the country's long-term
development vision laid out in the National Development Strategy (NDS) for 2006-2015. The
PRS 2 reflects lessons learned during the implementation of the first PRS. These include
strengtheningthe monitoringand evaluation framework, improvingthe approach for prioritizing
and sequencing interventions,and enhancing coordinationof development partner support. The
PRS 2 also incorporates key elements of its predecessor, emphasizing prudent macroeconomic
management and allocating an increasing share of the budget to the social sectors, while
improvingthe effectivenessof spending.

24.     The PRS 2 presents a comprehensive medium-term program to implement the
strategic directionsof the NDS: (a) improvementof public administration, (b) promotionof
sustainedeconomic growth,and (c) developmentof humanpotential. The overarchingPRS 2
objective is to promote sustainable improvements in the living standards of the population,
particularly of vulnerable groups. The PRS 2 is organized around three pillars, in line with its
key strategic directions: (a) a functional pillar, covering public administration reform,
macroeconomics, investment climate, private sector, regional cooperation and global economic
integration;(b) a productionpillar, coveringfood security, agriculture, infrastructure,energy and
industry; and (c) a social pillar, covering health, education, water and sanitation, housing, and
social welfare. The PRS 2 also recognizes several cross-cuttingissues, including institutional
reforms, demographicchange, environmentalmanagement,and gender equality.

25.     The PRS 2 gives a central role to private sector development to stimulate growth
and poverty reduction. The strategy contains a range of measures to enhance Tajikistan's
investment climate, including eliminating unnecessary licenses and inspections, cutting the
number ofmandatory standardsand easingcertificationprocedures, strengtheningpropertyrights,
and improving infrastructuralservices. These initiatives are welcome, given that Tajikistan still
ranks only 159of 181 countries in DoingBusiness2009 of the World BankhternationalFinance
Corporation. Sustained effort to improve the overall climate for investment is needed if
Tajikistan is to attract the private investment expected to finance the PRS 2. Attention to
developmentofthe financialsector will also be important.

26.     The PRS2 recognizesthat action must be taken to improvegovernancein the public
administration and in state enterprises. The PRS 2 presents measures aimed at (a) reducing
corruption at all levels of government; (b) strengthening public procurement and financial
management systems; (c) scaling back involvement of the state in economic activity, which
hinders private sector development; (d) simplifying currently complex and nontransparent
businessregulation;and(e) enhancing protectionof propertyrights. However, the strategy would
be strengthened with clearer prioritization and sequencing of the reforms. Empowering one
central agency that has strong political support to manage the public administration reform
agendacouldhelp inbuildingconsensus for reformand ensuringtimely their implementation.

27.     The government plans to both increase expenditures on education and health
services and to improve their effectiveness with the aim of attaining the related MDGs.
Tajikistan can achieve universal primary education if the government increases public
expenditures in education during2008-1 0, and improves the effectiveness of expenditures. The
planned nationwide introduction of per capita financing of general education accompanied by
increased school autonomy, the reform of the teacher load (stavka) system, and the introduction


                                                9

of the medium-term budget framework for education will help to improve equity in public
resources allocation between the regions and the impact of available resources. Increasing
spendingon healthservices, especially primarycare, will accelerateprogresstowards the MDGs.

28.      The PRS2 includes a comprehensive results framework to measure progress toward
key outcomes and objective.          However, monitoring arrangements remain weak.           The
government is strengtheningcapacity of the State Statistical Committee, andthe statistics offices
of the lineministries, localgovernmententities and others to collect andanalyze data.

29.      The PRS 2 provides a reasonable assessment of Tajikistan's development challenges
and the measures requiredto improve development outcomes. However, reforms needto be
prioritizedto ensure that fast progresstowards the MDGs and the PRS 2 targets can be made. A
stronger monitoringand evaluation system will enable stakeholders to monitor progress towards
targets, providing essential information to improve the design and implementationof policies.
The government plans to prepare a PRS progress report to draw lessons from implementationto
informthe Joint CountrySupport Strategy and other strategy documents.


         3.      PROGRESSOF THE DEVELOPMENT POLICY PROGRAM

30.      The government is pursuing policies and institutional reforms consistent with the
PRS 2 to address weaknesses in the private sector environment and public sector
performance. Taken together, these reforms are key to address the urgent needto diversify the
economy, improve government effectiveness in service delivery, and improve overall
governance. The PDPG program of three development policy operations is designed to broadly
support this medium-term agenda.

3 1.     The government remainscommitted to the policy reforms presented in the PDPG 1
(May 15, 2006) and PDPG 2 (June 15, 2007) program documents. The government has
demonstrated its commitment to pursue a medium-termreform agenda to promote growth and
privatesector development by completingthe policyactions definedinthe PDPG 1 and PDPG 2.
The funds under PDPG 1 were fully disbursed in October 2006 and the funds of PDP.G2 were
disbursed in September 2007.       The government's commitment to the agreed program has
remained strong and it has been actively implementingpolicy reformactions agreed for the third
year.

32.      Implementation of agreed policy actions has generally been satisfactory, although
with some delays. Progress in promoting private sector investment is largely on track. The
government is focusing on implementation of new and amended laws on licensing and
inspections passed under the first two operations.         Recognizing that permits can also
unnecessarily burden business, it is initiating work to rationalize the permits system. Planned
reforms ofthe cotton, energy, and aviation sectors are largelyproceedingas scheduled. The Bank
is coordinating closely with other development partners in these areas, who are providing
complementary technical assistance and finance for investment.          Reforms of the public
administrationon the whole are on track. Measures to improve delivery of health and education
services are beingimplementedin accordance with expectations. Details of progress in all policy
areas is discussedbelow.

33.      While outcomes of the reform program are still relatively modest-not        surprising
given the country's short history as an independent state and its recent emergence from
civil conflict-the  PDPG program has laid the foundation for future growth and poverty



                                                10

reduction. The early years of the operationfocused on strategy preparation and adoption of new
legislation,with implementationtakingplace inthe finalyear ofthe operation, so resultswill take
time to appear. However, the PDPG operation has created a solid basis for private investment
and innovationand for more effective public services, which are expected to eventuallyresult in
sustained economic growth and poverty reduction. Future PDPG programs will support
deepeningof reforms already started, while addressingnew areas.

Pillar 1:PromotingPrivate Sector Development

34.      To sustain economic growth over the medium and long-term, Tajikistan will need to
further diversify the economy. Realizing the potential, however, will require significant
improvementsto the private investment climate. Currently, the private sector in Tajikistan must
cope with an unclear and overly cumbersome regulatory and institutionalframework that stifles
competition, increases the costs and risks of doingbusiness, and discourages innovationand risk
taking.

35.      To address these issues,the governmentis implementingprivate sector development
reforms with support of a Bank-administered Institutional DevelopmentFacility grant, the
Asian Development Bank, DFID, and the IFC Business Enabling Environment Project.
Initial efforts are focusingonthe simplificationofthe businessregistrationprocess, increasingthe
efficiency of custom procedures, and streamlining and simplifying the business license,
inspections, andpermitsregime. Detailsfollow.

         Reform of BusinessLicensing,Inspections, and Permits

36.      Licenses. The government is streamlining the licensing system. The government in
2004 adopted a new licensinglaw that reduced the number of activities subject to licensingfrom
some 1,500 to about 113, updated applicationprocessing requirements, and harmonizedlicensing
fees.   In 2005 and 2006, under the first two PGPG operations, the government adopted
amendments to the law and a regulatoryframework to implement the law. Under PDPG 3, the
government has focused on implementationofthe law, trackingagencies' preparation or revision
of subnormative acts in compliance with the new licensing legislationand their registrationwith
the Ministry of Justice where required. These documents provide detailed instructions to staff
and applicants on the licensing process. While agencies have been slower than expected to
comply with this requirement of the law, the process is now well underway and all agencies are
expected to comply with the prior action by January 15, 2009. USAIDh3usiness Environment
Improvement projecthaspartneredwith IDA insupport of this effort.

37.      Inspections.     The government aims to reduce the frequency, duration, and
arbitrariness of inspections. The government under PDPG 1 adopted legislationto reduce the
burden of inspections on business. Under PDPG 2 the authorities completed the legislative
framework(throughamendmentsto the secondary legislation) and initiatedthe implementationof
the new law, which requires inspectionagencies' to prepare and register inspections checklists
and manuals with the Ministry of Justice. Two pilot agencies prepared the required documents.
Under PDPG 3 all inspection agencies have now prepared inspection manuals and registered
them with the Ministry of Justice. They also have registered checklists that cover at least 50
percent of inspections; in many cases checklists cover 100 percent of inspections. This prior
actionis complete. IFC/BusinessEnablingEnvironment(BEE) projecthas partneredwith IDA in
support ofthis effort.




                                                11

38.     Permits. The government has initiatedwork to diminish the burden of permits on
business. To further enhance the business environment the government has reached agreement
with the IFC/BEEProject on a workplanthat sets forth the steps to be taken and a timetable to
reduce the burden of permits on businesses. The IFCBEE Project is supporting the government
in implementingthe workplan.

39.     The governmentis undertakinga review of implementationof the new licensingand
inspections legislation. In keeping with the focus on implementation of the PDPG 3, the
government is undertaking an in-depth review of two licensing and two inspection agencies'
implementationof the new laws, regulations, and procedures in grantinglicensingand conducting
inspectionsto determine ifagencies are fully applyingthe new laws and regulationswhen issuing
licenses. The entities participating in the review are (a) construction and pharmaceuticals for
licenses, and(b) fire and sanitation for inspections. The review, which is expectedto be complete
by the end of December, will recommend reforms to further reduce the regulatory burden on
businesses.

40.     The next step in reducing the regulatory burden on business is to address the issue
of permits and to further improve the administration of the new licensing and inspections
regimes. An importantstepwill beto raise awarenessof entrepreneurs of the requirementsofthe
new licensing and inspections through measures such as a communications campaign, posting
license forms and instructionson a website, andpreparingbrochures and instructionsbooklets for
distributionat licensingagencies.

        Improve Transparencyin PrivatizationProcess and Market Competition

41.     Tajikistan has now fully implemented its privatization plan. The authoritiesdivested
about 420 medium and large enterprises during 2004-06 and another 79 firms in 2007,
completing the privatizationof all medium and large enterprises. The PDPG operations have
promoted transparency in the privatizationprocess by supporting the conduct by independent
internationalauditors of annual reviews of the privatizationprocess to monitor compliance with
the law. The most recent of these compliance reviews was completed in summer 2008. This
showed that the government adopted remedial measuresto address the deficienciesnoted in the
reviews of the 2005 and 2006 privatization. The compliance reviews have been posted on the
website of the State Committee on Investmentand State Property Management. The government
in January 2008 disclosed in a national newspaper details of past privatizationtransactions and
upcomingasset sales.

42.     To promotefree and fair competitionin the market place,the parliament enacted in
July 2006 amendments to the competition law, and in 2007 amendments to the law on
natural monopolies. The government has revised implementing regulations and institutional
mechanisms to implement these amended laws.             In addition, the Ministry of Economic
Development and Trade issuedinternalorders to ensurethat its administrativeprocedures comply
with the law andregulationson competition.

        Regulatory reform in keystrategicsectors

        a. Aviation

43.     Good progress has been made since June 2006 with aviation sector reforms. The
government recognizes the needto reformthe aviation sector to reduce the cost and increasethe
convenienceof air travel. Under PDPG 1 and PDPG2, the government separatedthe functions of



                                                 12

policy-making,technical regulations, and accident investigation, with the aim of increasing the
transparency and performance of operations. It also adopted a resolutionon restructuringTajik
State Airlines, which commits to a separation of airlines, airports, and air traffic control by the
end of 2008. This prior action is expectedto be fully complete by January 15, 2009. Inaddition,
the government has allowed several airlines from the region, includinga privateTajik carrier, to
operate new flights, expanding choices for consumers. These reforms have contributedto a 37
percent increase in passengertraffic (both domestic and international), from 878,000 passengers
in 2006 to 1.2 million passengersin 2007.

44.      A nationalaviation policy aimed at ensuring that the sector is able to make the best
possible contribution to the nation's economic development is the next step in the reform
process. The series of aviationsector reformswill ensure that the costs andprofitsofthe various
operations of Tajik Airlines are transparent and create opportunitiesfor other airlinesto enter the
market. The French government and the EBRD, who are financing improvements in airport
infrastructureand facilities, are coordinatingtheir support with that of the Bank to maximize the
effectiveness of policydialogue in encouragingreform.

45.      The next step in aviation sector reform is to adopt a nationalaviation sector policy
aimed at ensuring that the aviation services are able to make their maximum contribution
to the nation's economic development. Such a policy would address issues such as aviation
safety, includingfunding of air traffic control and the safety regulator,aviation security to ensure
that flights and facilities are secure from acts of terrorism,aviationtaxation, the extent open skies
will be permitted, private sector participation in provision of aviation services, airport
infrastructure planning and development for the medium and long term., consumer protection,
and environmental policy. The government plans to develop the policy with assistance of the
WorldBank.

         b. Cotton

46.      Recognizingthe challenges facing the cotton sector-traditionally,        Tajikistan's most
important agricultural export-the         government adopted a Cotton Sector Reform Strategy
in early 2005. The strategy proposes measuresto (a) resolve the current farm debt overhang, (b)
revise the pricing and contracting systems, (c) encourage alternative sources of financing for
agriculture, (c) abandon the practice of local authoritiesof setting cotton productiontargets, and
(e) createthe necessaryframework for increasingandencouraging competitionin inputmarkets.

47.      The PDPG operations are supporting implementation of several elements of the
strategy. The government under the PDPG2 issueda resolutionintroducingthe use of universal
cottongradingstandards. Under PDPG 3, Tajik Standardhas registered universalcottongrading
standards as one of the standards for which it provides accreditation. A joint venture of the
Ministry of Agricultureand an internationallyrecognizedprivateU.K.-based firm is now grading
cottonin accordance with the new standards. Support ofthe Asian DevelopmentBank has helped
to equip the laboratories and train staff of thejoint venture to apply the new standards. Tajikistan
is the first Central Asian country to have introducedinternational standards for cotton grading,
which shouldeventuallyenable Tajikistanto fetch higherprices onthe internationalmarket for its
cotton. However, applying universal cotton grading standards widely will take time and
considerable capacity buildingamongfarmers, gins, traders, Tajik Standard, and others beforethe
new standards can be widely applied. Thus, only a smallproportionof the 2008 cottoncrop will
be graded according to the universalcotton grading standards. The government under PDPG 2
also introduced a new cotton pricing method (methodica) for calculating the ex-gin price in
Tajikistanto replace all other pricingmethods. Since then, the Birja (the state-ownedcommodity



                                                  13

exchange) has been reorganized and it no longer has a role in registering contracts, a first step in
transforming the organization into a true commodity exchange.

48.     The role of the National Bank of Tajikistan in permitting or supporting cotton
export licenses has been eliminated. The government issued a resolution in November 2008
removing any role for the central bank in permitting or supporting cotton export licenses. While
aimed at ensuring that exporters repaid their cotton debt, this is not a legitimate role for the
central bank and served largely to protect cotton financiers at the expense o f farmers.

49.      More needs to be done to revitalize agriculture, including the cotton sector, in
Tajikistan. Many cotton farmers still do not have land use certificates, and thus full control over
cropping and marketing decisions. Access to rural finance is still limited; and what is available is
often provided on terms that are not transparent. Access to extension services aimed at helping
farmers to diversify their output is also difficult to obtain.

         c. Electricity

50.      The government has made good progress under the PDPG program in
implementing the energy strategy. Following a tariff increases in 2005 and 2006, the
authorities adopted a resolution raising electricity tariffs in line with a revised schedule (2007-
2010) to ensure that full cost recovery can be achieved by 2010.           In line with the revised
schedule, the government in May increased electricity tariffs by an average o f 64 percent. It has
announced increases to take effect in January 2009.           The tariff reforms have enabled the
government to reduce the quasi-fiscal deficit slightly from around 10 percent o f GDP in 2005 to 9
percent in 2007. With the assistance o f the Bank, an international firm has conducted an audit o f
the financial accounts o f Barki Tajik and Tajik Gas.         Both energy firms are implementing
international financial reporting standards under the Bank-supported Energy Loss Reduction
Project. This two-year effort will enable the energy utilities to improve their internal controls and
management o f their fixed assets and revenues. The government has maintained its program
aimed at ensuring that the poor and vulnerable are able to access electricity at prices they can
afford, although more needs to be done to improve targeting o f assistance. Despite good progress
with reforms, much more must be done to prevent the energy shortages that afflict Tajikistan
most winters, with a deleterious impact on the economy and on social welfare. To help the
government to repair the electricity and gas transmission system, to import the energy needed to
meet a potential winter shortfall, and to help implement the Energy Emergency Action Mitigation
Plan, the World Bank is providing US$3 million in emergency assistance. These resources will
also help over the medium term to initiate preparatory actions for the next two winters (during
which an energy deficit is expected) and to identify actions to be implemented over the medium
and long-term to improve the energy security o f the country.

Pillar 2: PublicSector Reformand ImprovingPublicService Delivery

51.      The government is committed to implementingpublic sector reforms to improvethe
effectiveness of the administration.           The government adopted on March 16, 2006 a
comprehensive public administration reform strategy.          The strategy covers restructuring o f
government institutions, civil service reform including wage reform, local public administration,
and public financial management.        The strategy has a long-term timeframe and short and
medium-term action plans. The government has begun to implement the strategy's short-term
measures, including restructuring o f selected government institutions, and sectonvide reforms o f
health and education to improve e access to and quality o f public services.




                                                   14

52.     The Bank through the Public Sector Reform Project (approved in July 2006) is
supporting the implementationand monitoringand evaluation of the public administration
reform strategy. The operation is assisting with selected measures to rationalize core public
administrationstructures and reform the civil service management and remuneration system. In
addition, the proposed Public Financial Management Project is expected to contribute to
improved public financial management by supporting the implementationof the medium-term
expenditure framework (MTEF), modernizing core treasury functions and operations, and
streamliningfinancialreporting. Details follow.

        Publicsector management reform

         a. Rationalizationof CorePublicAdministrationStructures

53.     The government's 2006 publicadministrationreform strategy providesthe basisfor
the rationalizing and increasing the effectiveness of the public administration through
better delineation of authorities.          However, the 2006 elections and the subsequent
reorganizationof government revealedthat a deeper consensuswas neededbefore major reforms
couldbe implemented. Therefore, the authorities decidedto first draft a concept for the structure
of the public administration and measures for its realization. The Department of Economic
Reforms and Investments has drafted a concept, satisfactory to the World Bank, which was
approved on September 15, 2008. The concept presents measures for rebuilding the public
administration that are in line with the generally accepted principles of the functioning of the
public administration in a market economy. The government has drafted an action plan to
implement the provisionsof the concept, which includes drafting of a legalact, regulatingpublic
administration, as well as conducting vertical functional reviews to align the public
administrationwith the principlesestablishedinthe concept.

         b. Civil Service Reform

54.      Civil service wage reform is being implemented as planned. In agreement with the
Bank, the government is reforming public sector wage policy, aimed at linking rewards to
performance and at creating improvedcareer and earnings prospects for public officers. Under
the PDPG operations, it introducedand has systematically rolled out to all central ministries a
new wage system. This (a) integrates all bonuses and allowances, (b) decouples the calculation
of the incremental wage for qualification ranks from the minimum wage, (c) introduces in a
phased manner decompression of wages to better reward those that hold positions of higher
complexity and responsibility, and (d) changes the status of technical staff in the ministries to
contract staff. This is a significant step towardbuildinga professionalcivil service, although full
implementation is expectedto take a total of four or five years.

55.     Progress with civil service reform is somewhat slower than expected, but the
government remains committed to this difficult reform area. The Civil Service Department
has developed a register (classification)of the civil service positions. However, the secondary
legislation on job classification and pay grading is behind schedule, due to the delay in
contracting qualified consultants to assist the government in developing a civil service pay
grading structure consistent with the recommendations of the Bank's 2008 wage policy note.
This grading structure would needto accommodatethe current pay levels, as well as establishan
incremental progressive scale reflectingcareer development and performance. It is expected to
improve incentives and career management in the civil service, with the aim of attracting and
retaining skilled professional staff. The computerized civil service register will have to be




                                                 15

designed on the basis of the newjob classification system and wage grid for civil servants, and
will thereforehaveto bepostponeduntilafter decisionsonthe new systemare reached.

        c.  PublicFinancialManagementReform

56.      The governmentis implementingits new procurement law. The PDPG 1 and PDPG2
supported the drafting and adoption of a modern procurement law and its implementing
regulations. PDPG 3 is focusing on implementation of the law, which is progressing
satisfactorily. The standard biddingdocuments adopted under PDPG 2 were registeredwith the
Ministry of Justice in January 2008. Completionof the training and accreditationof the staff of
the public procurement agency and ofthe six entities-the ministriesof education, health,justice,
industry and energy, agriculture, and the State Committee for Investment and State Property
Management (SC1SPM)-whose          procurement units were made fully functional in 2008.
Technical assistance for this has been provided under a grant from the Bank's Institutional
Development Fund. Staff of the newly functionalprocurement agency and six entities are now
beginningto procuregoods, works, and services in accordance with the new procurement law.

57.      The government is expanding the MTEF to additional sectors. The government
formally endorsed the introductionof the MTEFthrougha resolutionissued in September 2006.
Implementationstarted in 2007 with a pilot coveringthe education sector. Recognizingthe value
of a three-year budget framework, the government is now planningto expandthe MTEF to four
additional sectors-transport    and communications, energy and industry, agriculture and
environmental protection, and culture-during next budget cycles. Introducing the MTEF
requires radical restructuring of the budget processes to give the line ministries+urrently
marginalized in the process of determining budget allocations in their respective sectors-a
central role in the budget process, with responsibility for coordinating and directing budget
allocations for all budget organizations in their respective sectors consistent with an aggregate
sector ceilingdeterminedby the Ministry of Finance. The process requires considerable capacity
building, and the government is now developing an MTEF capacity building action plan.
Development partners are consideringestablishing a basket fund to finance its implementation.
Ln addition, the government has prepared and published budget execution reports that
comprehensively analyze implementationof the budgets of those sectors covered by the MTEF.
Development partners (EC, Department for International Development U.K (DFID)), United
Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), and the IMF) intend to support strengthening of budget
management and of the MTEF process to improve predictability of the budget and to ensure
priorityand efficiencyof public spending.

58.      The government is committed to strengthening internal financial control. The
government adopted in March2007 its public internal financial control strategy. This strategy is
compliantwith internationalstandards, and includesthe decentralized internalaudit approachand
methodology, structural and institutionalarrangements, and staffing and skills requirements. In
November 2007 the parliamentapprovedamendmentsto the law on public finances, which cover
the key budget organizations, managerial accountability, and the internal control and audit
function. The EC-financedpublic financial managementproject is supporting implementationof
the strategy.

59.      Work to establish an independent external audit function is advancing.              The
government adopted in September 2008 the strategy and action plan for the establishment of an
independent external audit body, meeting the prior action for the PDPG 3. It has now initiated
work on the drafting of legislation on external audit. The Swiss Economic Cooperation in
collaboration with the World Bank is providing technical assistance to the government to



                                               16

implement the actionplan. Other developmentpartnershavealso expressedinterest insupporting
implementationofthe strategy andactionplan.

60.     A Programmatic Public Expenditure Review and public expenditure tracking
surveys of spending in the education and health sectors have been completed. The reports
reveal weaknesses in public expenditure management and recommend action for improvement.
The findings of the reports have been discussed with key government officials, development
partners, and other stakeholders, and havebeenreleasedto the public.

        Publicservice delivery

         a. Primary Health Care

6 1.     The government adopted in May 2005 a national healthfinancing strategy, based in
part on an earlier health policy note prepared by the World Bank. The strategy aims to
improvefiscal sustainability,transparency, and accountabilityin the health sector. The financing
reformmeasuresagreedunderthe PDPGoperations include(a) allocatinga greater share of wage
increases to primary health care workers, (b) reintroducing the basic benefits package, (c)
introducing a new job classification and wage grid system for primary health care workers, and
(d) introducingper capita allocations in primaryhealthcare intwo phaseson a pilot basis.

62.      Implementation of the health policy actions is largely on track, with slippages in
some planned reforms. For the third year, the government has adopted a resolution that
allocates in 2008 a greater share of wage increasesfor healthworkers to primaryhealthproviders.
The Ministry of Finance in July 2008 expanded per capita financing to additional seven pilot
rayons. However, expansion of the basic benefits package to four additional rayons has been
postponedto the beginningof 2009 due to the emergence of a financing gap in the pilot rayons.
and the review of the findings of surveys of patients in the districts participating in the basic
benefits package pilot that have collected information on patients' satisfaction with primary
health and hospital services, patient's financial burden under the basic benefits package. To
address the issue of financinggap, the government in September 2008 refinedthe basic benefits
package model by introducing higher co-payments and updating cost of health services. To
further refine the model, the government is reviewingthe findings of surveys of patients in the
districts participating in the basic benefits package pilot that have collected information on
patients' satisfaction with primary health and hospital services, patient's financial burden under
the basic benefits package. Introduction of a new job classificationand wage grid system for
primaryhealthcare workers has beendelayed, andwill now be introducedin2009 or 2010.

63.      The PDPG operations complement other projects in the health sector. The World
Bank-financed (with cofinance from Sweden International Development Agency and Swiss
Development Cooperation) Community and Basic Health Project (approved by the Board in
December 2005), the Public Sector Reform Project and projects supported by other donors
(USAID-financed Zdrav++ Project, Swiss-financed Sino Project, Asian Development Bank-
financed Health Sector ReformProject) are providingsupport for capacity building, monitoring,
and implementationofthe reforms supportedthroughthe proposedoperation.

        b. Education

64.     The government has continued to expand the system of per capita allocation of the
education budget. In September 2007, it adopteda resolutionthat specifies (a) the pilot districts
that will form their general education budget on a per capita basis, (b) the timetableof the scale-



                                                17

up of per capita financing, and (c) the methodology. InJune 2008, the government adopted a new
remuneration and promotion system that compensates education workers based on level of
responsibility and qualifications, following the recommendations o f the Bank's 2008 wage policy
note.

Table 2: Status and ProposedChangesinPrior Actions from those Indicatedat PDPG2
Stage
Reform         Proposed PDPG3 Prior Action            Amendmentsto the PDPG3 Prior              Comments
Areas                                                 actions
Pillar 1: Pron ting private sector development
Improving the #vestmentclimate
(i) Business   Licensing                              Licensing
licensing,
permits, and   1. Key license-grantingministries      1. The ministriesand agenciesofthe        No change. The
inspections.   and agencies issue internal            Recipient responsible for the granting    prior action is now
               instructionspursuant to government     o f business licenses have: (a) adopted   specified in greater
               regulation adopted in May 2007 to      the necessaryinternal documents to        detail.
               implement the law and regulations      implement the Law on Licensing
               on licensing.                          (Decree 37, dated May 17,2004, as
                                                      amended) and its associated
                                                      regulations;and (b) taken all steps to
                                                      bring all other internal documents into
                                                      accordance with the Law on Licensing
                                                      (Decree 37, dated May 17,2004) and
                                                      its associatedregulations,including
                                                      registration with the Ministry of
                                                      Justice.


               Permits                                Permits

               1. Adopt an action planagreed with     1. The SCISPMadopts a workplan            No change.
               IDA to reducethe burdenofpermits       agreed with IDA to reduce the burden of
               on businesses.                         permits on businesses.
               Inspections                            Inspections

               1. Issue inspection manualsand         1. The ministriesand agencies ofthe       No change.
               checklists for all key types of        Recipient responsiblefor inspectionsof
               inspections and all agencies specified businesseshave registerednew or
               in the new law on inspections.         amended inspection manuals and
                                                      checklists with the Ministry of Justice.
               Licensing and Business Inspections     Licensing and Business Inspections

               2. Empower an organization to          1. SCISPM submits draft reportto the      More progress has
               undertakereviews of compliancewith     government with the results of the review been made than
               the amended law on licensing, the new  of the implementation of the amended      expected, which
               law on inspections, and other laws     law on licensingand the new law on        the revised
               relatedto the investment climate.      inspections.                              indicatorreflects.
Trans-         Transparency                           Transparency
parency and
account-       1. Disclose in the mediadetailed       1. Disclose in the mediadetailed          No change.
ability in     informationon all asset sales in 2007  informationon all asset sales in 2007 by
privatization  by the state committee on investments  the state committee on investmentsand
and            and state propertymanagement.          state property management.
enhancing
competition
               Compliance Review                      Compliance Review

               1. Complete and makepublicly           1. Complete and make publicly             No change.




                                                     18

               Proposed PDPG3 Prior Action           Amendments to the PDPG3 Prior               Comments
                                                     actions
               availablethe results of a random      available the results of a compliance
               compliance reviewof randomly          review ofrandomlysampled privatization
               sampledprivatizationtransactions in   transactions in 2007.
               2007.
               Laws on Competition and Natural       Laws on Competition and Natural
               Monopolies:                           Monopolies:

               1. Reviseimplementingregulations       1. Reviseimplementingregulationsand        No change.
               and institutionalmechanismsto         institutionalmechanismsto implement
               implementnew law on natural           new law on naturalmonopolies.
               monopolies.                           2. The Ministry ofEconomic
               2. The Ministry of Economic           Development and Trade issuesinternal
               DevelopmentandTrade issuesinternal    ordersto ensurethat its administrative
               instructionsto ensure that its        procedurescomply with the law and
               administrativeprocedurescomply with   regulationson competition,
               the law and regulationson
               competition,
Regulatory re  'm in key strategic sectors

Aviation       1. Implement restructuring in         1. The Recipient has satisfactorily         No change
               accordance with the timetable set     implemented restructuring of the
               forth in government resolution for    aviation industry for the separation of
               the separation of airport, airline,   airport, airline and air traffic control
               and air traffic control.              functions in accordance with the plan
                                                     set forth in Resolution No. 175 of the
                                                     Recipient's Government, dated April
                                                     3,2007, as agreed with the Association.
Cotton         1. Conduct a review of all contracts   1. Conduct a reviewof a randomsample       Dropped, as the
               registeredwith the Birja since July   of contractsregisteredwith the Birja        Birja now longer
               2007 to assess compliance with the    since July 2007 to assess compliance        has a role in
               new cotton pricing methodica.         with the new cottonpricing methodica.       registering
                                                                                                 contracts.
               2. Tajik Standardregistersuniversal   2. Tajik Standardregistersuniversal         No change.
               cottongradingstandards as one ofthe   cottongradingstandards as one of the
               standards for which it provides       standards for which it provides
               accreditation.                        accreditation.
                                                     3. Issue a government decree abolishing     Added to address
                                                     the requirement for documentation from      issues ofNBT and
                                                     the NBT to permit or support cotton         cotton-sector
                                                     export licenses startingwith the 2008       governance.
                                                     croa
Energy         1. Issuegovernment resolutionraising   1. Issue governmentresolutionraising       No change
              electricitytariffs in line with the    electricitytariffs in line with the agreed
               agreed revisedschedule(2007-2010).    revisedschedule(2007-2010). [Being
                                                     done on semiannualbasis until end of
                                                     2010.1
                                                     2. Submitdraft audit of the 2007            Added to address
                                                     financial statements of Barki Tajik and of  issues of energy
                                                     Tajik Gas to IDA.                           sector governance.
                                                     3. Implementat Barki Tajik and at Tajik     Added to address
                                                     Gas the financialmanagement                 issues of energy
                                                     improvementprogram(including                sector governance.
                                                     migrationto an internationalfinancial
                                                     reportingsystem) in line with the
                                                     agreement specifiedin the Energy Loss
                                                     ReductionProiectandthe January 2006
                                                     memorandumbfunderstanding.
Pillar 2: Pub1 sector reform and improving public service delivery
Reforming pur  2sector management
(a) Ration-    1. Adopt government resolution       I1. Presidential Decree 541, dated          INochange.



                                                     19

             Proposed PDPG3 Prior Action             Amendments to the PDPG 3 Prior             Comments
                                                     actions
alizationof  endorsing the draft concept (which      September 16,2008, approving the
core public  i s acceptable to IDA) for the          concept and an action plan for
adminis-     structure of the public                 improving the structure of the
tration      administration and measures for its     Recipient's public administration has
structures   realization.                            been adopted.
(b) Civil    Wage reform                             Wage reform
service
reform       1. Implement the third phase in         1. Presidential Decree 480, dated June     No change
             wage decompressionsatisfactory to       20,2008, implementing the third phase
             IDA.                                    o f wage decompression has been
                                                     adopted.
             Civil service management                Civil service management

             1. Adopt secondarylegislationby         1. Submitfor interministerial              This policy action
             March2008 to implement anewjob          coordinationdraft secondary legislation    hadbeendelayed,
             classificationand centralwage model     to implementa newjob classificationand     and amore
             (based on categories, bands and steps,  wage grid (based on categories,bands       realistictarget
             integratingyears of service             and steps, integratingyears of service     specified.
             component).                             component).

(c) Public   Medium-term expenditureframework        Medium-Term Budget Framework
financial
manage-      1. Issuebudget instructionsfor the      1. Issue budget instructionsfor the pilot  No change.
ment reform  pilot sectors in accordance with the    sector in accordance with the instructions
             instructionsfor the medium-term         for the medium-termbudget framework.
             budget framework.
             2. Publishthe 3-year fiscal framework 2. Publishthe 3-year fiscal framework
             2009-1 1.                               2009-1 1.

             Procurement reform                      Procurement reform

             1. Adopt the new regulationon the       1. Adopt the new regulationon the          No change.
             public procurementagency in line with   public procurementagency in line with      Procurement
             the public procurementlaw.              the public procurementlaw. [Complete.]     reformsnow more
             2. Ensurethat procurement               2. Ensurethat procurementdepartments       clearly specified.
             departmentsin at least six government   in at least six government agencies are
             agenciesare fully functional.           fully functional.
             Internal control and audit              Internal control and audit

             1. Establisha central methodology       1. Submitdraft amendments to the law       The original policy
             division in the Ministry of Finance     on public finance anddraft government      actions have been
             (responsiblefor settingstandards and    resolutionon MTEF and reformof             replacedby a
             methodologies of internalaudit in the   internal control and audit to parliament.  policy actionthat
             public sector).                                                                    that better reflects
             2. Transformthe current unit of                                                    the government
             internalfinancial revisionand control                                              capacity.
             into the internalaudit unit of the
             Ministry of Finance in line with public
             internalfinancial control strategy
            adoptedin March 2007.
             External audit                          External audit

             1. Develop a strategy and action        1. Presidential Decree 557, dated          The first part of
             plan for the establishment of an        October 29,2008, approving the             this prior action
             independent external audit body and     strategy and action plan for the           has been
             draft the legislation which shall       establishment of an independent            strengthened.
             govern the external audit function.     external audit entity has been adopted.    However, more
                                                                                                time is neededto
                                                                                                draft legislation
                                                                                                which enjoys

               ProposedPDPG3 Prior Action               Amendmentsto the PDPG3 Prior                  Comments
                                                        actions
                                                                                                      strong government
                                                                                                      ownership, so the
                                                                                                      send part of this
                                                                                                      prior action is
                                                                                                      deferred to the
                                                                                                      proposednext
                                                                                                      development
                                                                                                      policy grant.
Public service :livery
(a) Primary    1. Adopt a government resolution          1. Presidential Decree 480, datedJune        N o change in the
health care    that allocates in 2008 a greater share   20,2008, allocating a greater share of        prior action.
               of wage increases in health sector to    wage increases in the health sector to        Expandingthe
               primary health care workers, as          primary health care workers has been          basic benefits
               agreed with IDA.                         adopted.                                      package was
               2. Expand basic benefits package and      2. Expand per capita financing to            postponedto the
               per capita financing to oblast level and  additional seven pilot rayons by July        beginningof 2009,
               develop a mechanismto redistribute        2008.                                        so is no longer
               funds at oblast level to improve equity.                                               included inthe
                                                                                                      milestone.
(b)            1. Adopt a new remuneration and            1. Adopt a new remuneration and             N o change.
Education      promotion system that compensates         promotion system that compensates
               educationworkers based on level of        educationworkers based on level of
               responsibility and qualifications.        responsibilityand qualifications.
               2. Adopt a government resolution          2. Adopt agovernment resolution
               satisfactoryto IDA that specifies (a)     satisfactoryto IDA that specifies (a) the
               the pilot districtsthat will form the     pilot districts that will form their general
               general education budget on a per         educationbudget on a per capita basis,
               capita basis, (b) the timetable, and (c)  (b) the timetable of the scale-up of per
               the methodology.                          capita financing, and (c) the
                                                         methodology.


                                   4.         PROPOSEDOPERATION

A.     Descriptionof the Operation

65.       ProgrammaticApproach. This is the third of the three programmatic development
policy operations consistent with the Country Partnership Strategy finalized in July 2005.
The full details of the policy actions supported under PDPG 1, PDPG 2, and PDPG 3 are
specifiedinthe policy matrix (annex 2).

B.     Objectives,Themes, and Policy Areas

66.       Development objectives. The development objectives of the proposed PDPG are to
improve the environment for private sector development, and to improve overall functioning of
the public sector and the delivery of key public services. The proposed program is aligned with
pillars 1 (addressing public administration reform, macroeconomics, investment climate, and
privatesector) and 3 (addressinghealthand education) of Tajikistan's povertyreductionstrategy.

67.       Themes of the operation. To achieve its development objectives, the programrequires
maintenance of macroeconomic stability. To promote private sector development, the program
will support measures to reduce the cost of doing business, promote transparency of the
privatizationprocess, and assist with regulatory and institutionalreforms in key strategic sectors
(aviation, cotton, and energy).           To improve the overall functioning of the public sector and
improvements in the delivery of public services, the program will support public sector reforms



                                                        21

aimed at improving public sector management, and the efficiency and effectiveness o f public
spending.      The program will also support reforms in education and health sector policies to
improve access, quality, and equity o f services. Prior actions were selected on the basis o f three
criteria: (a) their importance for the country's growth and development, (b) the existence o f
commitment of the authorities for the reform, and (c) availability o f assistance from donors to
enable the government to achieve the reform. Excessive and duplicative business regulations and
a relatively closed aviation sector are among the important constraints to private sector
development in Tajikistan. In ineffective public sector, a result o f Tajikistan's being a young
state, serves to hinder both private sector investment and effective delivery o f public services.
Civil service reform (including wage reform) and strengthened public financial management
(particularly external audit) are important elements o f an overall public administration reform
program. Reforms with potentially high impact (restructuring o f Talco and other state-owned
enterprises, some cotton sector reforms, judicial reform, and strengthening o f local government)
have not been included in the program because o f a lack of government commitment to move
ahead in these areas. The table below lists the prior actions agreed with the government for
PDPG 3.

Table 3: Prior Actions for PDPG3

Reformofbusiness          The ministriesand agencies of the Recipientresponsiblefor the grantingof business
licensingand              licenseshave:(a) adopted the necessary internaldocuments to implementthe Law on
inspections               Licensing(Decree37, datedMay 17,2004, as amended) and its associatedregulations;
                          and (b) taken all steps to bringall other internaldocuments into accordancewith the
                          Law on Licensing(Decree 37, dated May 17, 2004) and its associatedregulations,
                          includingregistrationwith the Ministry ofJustice.
                          The ministriesand agencies of the Recipientresponsiblefor inspectionsof businesses
                          have registerednew or amendedinspection manuals and checklists with the Ministry of

Aviation                                                                                      ~~~            ~~
                          The Recipient has satisfactorilyimplementedrestructuringof the aviationindustryfor
                          the separationof airport, airline and air traffic controlfunctions in accordancewith the
                          plan set forth in ResolutionNo. 175 of the Recipient's Government, dated April 3.



                          Presidential Decree 541, dated September 16, 2008, approvingthe concept and an
reform                    actionplan for improvingthe structure of the Recipient's public administrationhas been
                          adopted.
Civil service reform      Presidential Decree 480, datedJune 20, 2008, implementingthe third phase of wage
                          decompressionhas beenadopted.
Public financial          Presidential Decree 557, dated October 29,2008, approvingthe strategy and action plan
management reform         for the establishmentof an independentexternalaudit entity has beenadopted.
Improvedpublic         Health
service delivery          PresidentialDecree480, dated June 20, 2008, allocatinga greater share of wage
                          increases in the health sector to primary health care workers has been adopted.

68.       Expected outcomes. Over the medium term, the three-year PDPG operation is expected
to result in an investment climate more conducive to growth and in greater access to quality
public services. Specifically, reforms in the business climate are expected to lead to (a) a reduced
regulatory burden, (b) more choice (and eventually lower costs) in aviation services, (c) a
somewhat more transparent cotton sector (leading over time to higher incomes for farmers), and
(d) improved efficiency and financial viability o f energy utilities (resulting inthe medium term in
greater reliability o f and access to modern energy services). Reforms o f the public sector are
expected to result in (a) a more effective government, the elements o f which include (b) improved
budget management, (c) more transparent procurement, and (d) stronger internal control and
audit. The operation also expects to achieve (e) greater access to primary health services, and (0



                                                        22

and more efficiency in resource allocation in education (leading to higher access and better
quality education services). The outcomes and the baseline, targets, and means of measurement
are described in the program's policy matrix (annex 2).           The proposed Programmatic
DevelopmentPolicyFinancefor 2010-1 2 will help to ensurethat the mediumto long-termresults
are achieved.

C.    Linkagesto CountryPartnershipStrategy

69.      The three programmatic development policy operations support the key policy
reforms intended to meet the objectives of the Country Partnership Strategy for fiscal
2006-09. The Country Partnership Strategy, discussedby the Boardon July 26,2005, focuses on
maintaining growth in the short term and building a foundation for growth in the future.
Developed in close consultationwith the government, it focuses on three strategic objectives: (a)
improve business opportunities in rural and urban areas, (b) enhance the quality of health and
education, (c) improve the delivery of energy services and exploit the country's hydropower
potential. These are the areas inwhich the Bank has a comparativeadvantage; other development
partners will support other elements of the country's development strategy and some will partner
with the Bank in above-areasoffocus.

70.      To achieve the objectives of Country PartnershipStrategy, the proposed operation
will support a selective cross-cutting reform program. To improvebusiness opportunitiesin
rural and urban areas, the operation is supporting reforms aimed at streamlining licensing,
inspections, and permits regimes, ensuring greater transparency of the privatization process,
promoting market competition, and improving aviation transport. The operation is promoting
equity and efficiency in the use of public resources for education and health services by
supporting the reform of the budget allocation mechanism (per capita allocation) and the other
reforms planned for these sectors. The operation is also supporting energy sector reforms aimed
at improving the delivery of energy services and increasing the supply of electricity exports.
These reforms are complementing the Bank's ongoing investment projects in public
administration, education, health, agriculture, and energy. The policy matrix included in the
annex 3 shows how each of the proposed reform programs is linkedto analytical work and Bank
andother development partner supportedprograms.

D. Collaborationwith the IMFand Other Donors

71.      The Bank and the IMFare collaboratingclosely to help the government address the
macroeconomic crisis.      The Bank and the Fund have been closely coordinating their policy
dialogue to helpthe authoritiesmaintainmacroeconomic stability in the face of significant global
shocks. The Fund and the Bank are coordinatingtheir missions to ensure maximum synergy as
the Fund reviews progress under its SMP and the Bank continues its dialogue on progress with
the policy actions supported by the PDPG 3. In general, the Bank takes the lead and provides
background to the IMF program in private sector development and privatization, enterprise
reforms, farm productivity, and regulatory reforms (see details in annex 4). The Bank and the
Fund share responsibilityin public sector management, budget planning and execution, financial
sector reforms, and utilities' reform. The Fund and the Bank cooperate on fiscal policies and
reductionof quasi-fiscaldeficits, which requires close cooperation with the Bank's programs for
health, education, and infrastructure. The two institutions are working together to produce the
debt sustainabilityanalysis. The Fundleads in macroeconomic policy, tax reform, and in revenue
and expenditure management. In these areas the Bank takes into account the Fund policy
recommendationsand ensures consistency betweenthem and its own measures. Inaddition, there
is close coordinationbetweenthe Bank andthe Fundconcerningthe public sector reformagenda.


                                               23

72.     The Bank is also coordinating closely with other development partners in
Tajikistan. The development partners have recently established a donor coordination council,
with a rotating chair (currently held by the Swiss). The members of the council, which meets
monthly, discuss developments in Tajikistan, exchange experience, and share information on
current and planned interventions. The establishment of this forum has greatly improved
coordinationof developmentpartner support inthe country. The development partners, including
the World Bank, are now in the process of formulatingajoint assistance strategy, expected to be
finalizedinmid-2009.

73.     Development partners are providing substantial technical assistance and policy
advice in support of the reform program supported under the PDPG 3. For example,
USAID is assisting with the assessment of implementation of the laws on licensing and
inspections. The Asian Development Bank is supporting the implementationof the new cotton
grading system. The Bank, the EuropeanCommission, DFID, Swiss Economic Cooperation, and
USAID are working closely to support the government's reform program in the area of public
financial management. The Bank, USAID, the Asian Development Bank, and UNICEF are all
supporting reforms of the health and education sectors. The European Commission, the Asian
Development Bank, DFID, and the IFC Business Enabling Environment Project are working
together to support regulatory reform and other measures aimed at improving the climate for
investment.

74.     Stronger partnershipswith non-OECD donors are being pursued. China and Russia
have become importantfinanciers in Tajikistan. They are keento avoidduplicationand waste in
their operations and are interested in strengthening their collaboration with other development
partners in areas of common concern. For example, the Bank, and the IMF are discussing issues
of long-term debt sustainability with their Chinese and Russian counterparts. The current
macroeconomic crisis highlights the importance of such collaboration. The Bank and other
development partners will discuss specific areas of mutual interest, such as infrastructure
developmentandregionalintegration.

E. Relationshipwith Other BankOperations

75.     The proposed reforms are based on extensive Bank analytic and advisory activities
carried out during the past three years. A public expenditure and institutional review, a
country procurement assessment report, a country financial accountability assessment, a public
and civil service wage note and an update, and a remittances notehave informedthe public sector
reform program. A trade diagnostic, an investment climate assessment, an aviation sector note,
an energy utility reformreview, the CentralAsia Regional ElectricityExportPotentialStudy, and
an Agricultural Development Strategy have highlighted key reforms required to attract private
sector investment. A poverty assessment update has deepened understandingof poverty and its
dynamics, and is important for the design of policy reforms that effectively reduce poverty.
Poverty and social impact assessments of cotton and energy reforms have helped promote
dialogue with the government on issuesof social protection. A programmatic public expenditure
review is supporting Tajikistan's first public expenditure and financial accountability (PEFA)
review, and analyzingthe country'sprospectsfor achievingthe MDGs and long-termgrowth, and
providing support for the introductionof the MTEF. Two public expenditure tracking surveys,
one for health and one for education, are promotingtransparency and efficiency of expenditure in
these sectors. A Country Portfolio Fiduciary Review revealed strengths and weaknesses in
government procurement and financial management systems and recommended actions for
improvement. A country environmental analysis has identifiedpolicy and capacity reforms to
improve environmental management. A Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes


                                               24

(ROSC) on accounting and auditingnow under preparationwill analyze the current situationand
will recommendmeasuresto strengthenthese importantareas of publicfinancialmanagement. A
country economic memorandum is identifyingthe constraints to growthand layingout options to
address them. Annex 3 presents the linkages between Bank's analytical and advisory work and
the reformactions of the proposedoperation.

76.     The proposed PDPG 3 supports policy reforms that are critical to the success of
ongoing and planned investment and technical assistance operations.                   The proposed
operation will support adoption of policies critical for reform of the public administrationwhile
capacity building support to implement the reforms will come from the Bank-financedPublic
Sector Reform Project. Similarly, the program supports policy reforms in the public financial
management, education, health, agriculture, and energy sectors-all              areas of recent or
forthcoming Bank-supported projects. Reforms to improve the investment climate and to
redefine the role of the state in the economy will complement support of the IFC to promote
private sector development. Annex 3 shows the links between PDPG policy actions and other
investmentoperations.

F. LessonsLearned

77.     The design of the proposed operation reflects several lessons from implementation
of the previous CAS in Tajikistan, other operations in Tajikistan, and policy-basedloans in
other countries. These include:

a       Government ownership of the reform program is essential for success. Extensive
        experience demonstrates that government ownership of the reform program is the single
        most importantcriterionfor success. The medium-termreform program of the proposed
        operation has been designed in close collaboration with key relevant ministriesand the
        Executive Office of the President, and the authorities have consistently worked to
        implement the agreed reforms. Although reform areas with potentially high impact, no
        actions to resolve cotton sector debt or to enhance transparency of Talco and Talco
        Management or of other state-owned enterprises have been included in the program,
        becauseof a lack of governmentcommitmentto bringaboutthe necessary improvements,
        which would have ultimately led to frustrationson bothsides. The dialog inthese areas
        should continue throughother instruments, such as analyticalwork, technical assistance,
        and capacity buildingactivities.

0       Design interventions on the basis of a good understanding of Tajikistan's political
        economy. Tajikistan's politicaleconomy is complex. Designinga reform program that
        will be implemented and effective requires a thorough understanding of the country's
        politicaleconomy and the levers of change. The PDPGteam has been working with the
        governmenton the reformprogramfor several years and has gained a deep understanding
        ofwhat is feasible and what is not.


0       Focus on a limited set of key reforms. The proposed Grant supports deep reforms in a
        few areas. The program includes only the critical actions that the government believes
        that it can realistically implement in a three-year timeframe, backed by sector-specific
        projects, capacity-building, and communication campaigns. These are the reforms that
        the government is already committed to and has been carrying out. The proposed
        operation contains seven prior actions (see table 3) that are critical to the achievement of
        development objectives ofthe Grant.




                                               25

a       Build capacity for implementation of the reform agenda. Passage of legislation and
        adoption of strategies have often had little impact in Tajikistan, because of lack of
        institutional capacity to implement reforms. The proposed PDPG 3 focuses on
        implementation of legislation passed and strategies prepared under the first two
        operations. For example, PDPG3 is supporting in-depthreviewofthe implementationof
        licensing and inspections reforms with the aim of both discoveringthe effectiveness of
        the reforms and at identifying areas further measures needed to ensure implementation.
        Similarly, reviews of compliance with rules for privatizations and with the new cotton
        pricingmethodicafocus on implementation. The Public Sector Reform Project is helping
        to buildcapacity ofthe public administrationto implement reforms.

a       Build effective partnerships with the IMF and other donors in designing theproposed
        program. Substantial progress is being made with development partner coordination,
        with the Bank regularlyconsultingwith other development partners on a wide variety of
        issues. This has ledto a greater divisionof labor amongpartners andreducedduplication
        and waste. The IMF, the Asian Development Bank, the EC, and the major bilateral
        donors in Tajikistan are all informed of the status of the implementationof the prior
        actions and milestones of the PDPG operations to ensure that all are able to advance the
        reform agenda. The Bank and the IMF are consulting closely on the design and
        implementation of the SMP and the PDPG operations to ensure the quality and
        effectiveness oftheir dialogue on macro issues.

a       Base the reform program on a strong foundation of analytical work and pilot
        innovative approaches. High-qualityanalyticalwork is criticalin gainingthe confidence
        of decision-makers that innovative approaches will provide the intended results,
        especially in a country with limitedexperience of market-basedapproaches. Pilotingis
        also essentialto allow the government, the beneficiaries, and the Bankto gain experience
        with alternative approaches and to gain the knowledge required to refine the design of
        interventions. Reforms in PDPG operations aimed at improving health and education
        services have been based on substantial analytical work and piloting. The design of
        public sector wage reforms has been based on a Bank-ledwage note and an update. By
        contrast, reforms of the cotton sector will likely require extensive piloting to convince
        farmers andthe governmentthat reformswill increasefarm incomewhile loweringrisk.

        Offer a series of annual single tranche budget support operations, rather than multi-
        tranche operations.     Single-tranche operations, which are approved only after the
        government has implementedagreed reforms, requireboththe government and the Bank
        to be realistic about what is possible, and then to agree on a program of completed
        actions that is acceptable to both sides. The proposed program is a single tranche
        operation-the   third of a proposed series of three annual operations-each of which
        furthers the reforms supported by the previous operation. This approach allows the
        government and the Bank to adapt the medium-term program as new information
        becomes available and feasible options for realizing the intended development goals
        change. It also ensures that the flow of funds is predictable and that the technical
        assistancerequiredto implement and sustain reforms is available.

78.     The proposed next series of ProgrammaticDevelopment Policy operations 2010-12
will build on and deepen reforms supported under the first three PDPG operations. The
Bank, the government and other donors, building on the lessons of PDPG 1-3 and the recently
finalized PRS 2, have specified broad criteria for the design of the next series of development



                                               26

policy operation 2010-12.     These are likely to include (a) the sectordareas that are important for
economic growth and poverty reduction and to protect the poor during the crisis; (b) the existence
o f a sector strategy; (c) the availability o f teohnical assistance to support reform implementation
on a principle o f mutual accountability; and (d) evidence o f government commitment to the
reform program that is supported by the operation. Preliminary findings o f the country economic
memorandum that is currently under preparation indicate that regulatory obstacles to private
investment, high transportation energy costs, unreliable energy services, an ineffective financial
system, and inadequate property rights, agricultural support services, and human capital may be
significant constraints to growth. The next program may therefore contain prior actions aimed at
streamlining the regulatory system, liberalizing the aviation sector, improving transparency and
governance o f energy utilities, strengthening the financial sector (including for rural finance), and
accelerating access to land use certificates and agricultural support services. Another potential
area o f reform is social protection policy, which will grow in importance as Tajikistan is affected
by the global economic slowdown, particularly a decline in remittances and a rise in
unemployment. The program may also continue with the public sector reform agenda initiated
under PDPG 1-3, including civil service reform, strengthening public financial management, and
actions to improve health and education services.            The program will be developed through
extensive consultations with the government, development partners, and other stakeholders. It
will be more selective and include fewer triggers and key outcomes that can realistically be
achieved in a three-year program.

                        Box 2: GoodPracticePrincipleson Conditionality

Principle 1: Reinforce ownership
The proposed operation is based on the Tajikistan PRS 2. It also responds to several government sector
strategies, including the national strategy for education development, the public administration reform
strategy, an investment climate assessment, an aviation sector note, an energy utility reform review, and an
agricultural development strategy. All ministries and agencies undertaking policy reforms presentedinthe
policy matrix have participated in periodic workshops to discuss and agree on the objectives of reforms,
currentstatus, andnext steps.

Principle 2: Agree up front with the government and other financial partners on a coordinated
accountability framework
The PDPG program is summarized in an agreed policy matrix in annex 2. The matrix contains both policy
actions and indicators of expected outcomes. The State Advisor for Economic Policy in the Executive
Office of the President is responsible for monitoring progress with the agreed reform program and for
coordinating the actions of the other agencies and ministries involved. The Bank consults regularly with
other developmentpartners in Tajikistan to ensure that aid is as effective as possible.

Principle 3: Customize the accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to country
circumstances
The accountability framework is based on recent Bank analytical work, including a study of
macroeconomic management, a public expenditure and institutional review, a country procurement
assessment report, and a country financial accountability assessment. Two public expenditure tracking
surveys, one for health and one for education, and several poverty and social impact studies are also
contributing to the accountability framework.

Principle 4: Choose only actions critical for achieving results as conditions for disbursement
The proposed PDPG 3 operation contains only six prior actions and 18 milestones. All are part of the
agreedframework set out inthe policy matrix.




                                                    27

Principle 5: Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and performance-based
financial support
Progress reviews of the policy actions in specific areas and of the operation as a whole are held regularly
with government officials from ministries and agencies participating in the project. These reviews allow
the Bank to update the matrix on the basis of actual and expectedperformanceand to communicate to the
government what is essentialto enable the approval of the operation. Predictability is further strengthened
through the use of apolicy matrix containing agreedreforms of a series ofthree annual operations-each of
which furthersthe reforms supportedby the previous operation.


                          5.      OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION

A.       Povertyand SocialImpact

79.      Poverty and social impact of this operation is likely to be positive. In the medium
term, the proposed reforms in health and education are likely to result in improved access and
quality o f services to the poor. Reforms in the aviation sector will improve access and reduce
cost o f transport for low-income migrants. Reforms o f the cotton sector should result in higher
prices for farmers.     Special provisions have been put into place to ensure that the poor and
vulnerable can afford to access energy at affordable prices.            In the medium term, reforms
proposed in public administration reform strategy should yield benefits through more efficient
and effective public sector management.

80.      Povertyand social impact analyseshave recently been carried out to ensure that the
government and the development partners understand the potential impact of policy
reforms on specific groups. The studies include an assessment o f the potential impact o f
changes in energy tariff policy, a study investigating the impact o f changes in policies affecting
the cotton sector, and the impact o f the basic benefits package for health on the accessibility and
quality o f maternal and child health services and on citizens' willingness and ability to pay for the
services. These studies have informed the design o f the reform program in several ways. For
example, the study o f energy tariff policy, completed in April 2005, recommended that the
government adopt a three-band tariff structure that will allow the poor to pay subsidized rates for
energy, while ensuring full-cost recovery for the energy sector through imposition o f higher
tariffs on the better off,` The government has now designed a new tariff structure consistent with
this letter o f development strategy for the energy sector that will be implemented gradually
starting in 2007 and i s expected to be completed in 2010. The recently completed study on the
impact o f the basic benefits package will inform the government in refining and geographically
expanding the package. A poverty and social impact analysis to be carried out in 2009 will
explore the impact o f per capita finance in education on equity o f access to education.

81.      Improved governance is important to reduce poverty and access of public services
by the poor. Improved management and incentive systems in the state administration aim to
reduce the capture o f policy processes by special interests.           This is achieved by gradually
increasing civil servants' earnings and the development o f improved internal accountability
mechanisms inthe administration. It thus creates the conditions for the policy process to become
more transparent and accessible, which will benefit those who have limited access to decision-
making processes.




     World Bank. "Provision o f Energy Services to the Poor: Design of Sustainable Social Protection
Schemes under Energy SectorReforms." April 2005, WashingtonD.C.


                                                    28

82.     Consultations and outreach are being conducted on the proposed operation to
ensure that it reflects the views of a broad range of stakeholders. Discussions are held
regularly in Dushanbe with government officials across ministries and agencies, the private
sector, nongovernmental organizations, and other development partners on the overall reform
program. These have been importantin adjustingthe programto reflectchanging conditionsand
thinking in Tajikistan. Workshops have also been held with stakeholders on specific aspects of
the reformprogram, includingon proposed reforms of licensing, inspections, and permits; cotton
pricing and grading; aviation sector reforms; energy tariffs; the privatizationprocess; and public
sector reforms. In addition, the government, with support of the Bank and other partners, is
implementing a communications strategy to inform the public of changes in the licensing and
inspectionregimes and of the budget preparation process. Measureshave includedbroadcasting
public service announcements on the reforms of licensing, conducting workshops and publishing
informationonthe new cottonpricingmethod, andpublishinginformationonprivatizations.

B.      Implementation,Monitoring,and Evaluation

83.     Amount and tranching. This operation is the third of three programmatic single-
tranche operations. It provides an IDA grant in the amount of US$20 million equivalent,
consistent with the program andthe current financingrequirements of the country.

84.     Executing agency. The Ministry of Finance is the executing agency. The Executive
Office of the President is the implementingagency, and the State Advisor for Economic Policy is
responsible for coordinating actions among the ministries and agencies involved and for
monitoringand reportingon progress.       The Office of the Prime Minister will provide overall
guidance and oversight. The presidentialadministrationwill be responsible for implementingthe
public sector reforms. The line ministries involved (energy, education, health, agriculture, and
transportation) are accountable for implementing the sectoral reforms specified in the reform
program.    The State Committee for Investment and State Property Management will be
responsible for overseeing specific policy actions related to private sector development. The
Ministry of Economy and Trade will oversee implementationof anti-monopolyand competition
policy. The Ministry of Energy and the Office of the Prime Minister will be responsiblefor the
energy sector reforms.

85.     Monitoring and evaluation. Bank staff will continuously monitor implementationof
the reforms specified in the program matrix of the proposed operation to ensure that progress
towards outcomes is made duringthe three year program. Country capacity for monitoringwill
be strengthened through the ongoing Bank-supported Statistical Capacity Building Project.
DFID, the EuropeanCommission, andthe AsianDevelopmentBank are also providingsupport to
strengthen capacity for statistics and monitoringand evaluation. An implementationcompletion
report will be issued within six month following the closing date of the three-year PDPG
program.

C.      FiduciaryAspects

86.     Country FinancialAccountabilityAssessment. The June 2004 CFAA concludedthat
the risk to public funds was high in Tajikistan. The findings, later confirmed by the Public
Expenditureand FinancialAccountability Assessment (PEFA) of 2007, included, among other
aspects: (a) poor systems of public accountability and weak mechanisms for public sector
transparency; (b) weak internalcontrol systems and internalaudit function; (c) weak institutional
capacity to implement some of the budget reforms beingundertaken; (d) fragmented budgets and
poor cashmanagement, (e) lack of transparency in state-ownedenterprises; and (f) weak capacity


                                               29

within the legislative bodies to provide effective oversight over the working of the government.
To minimize fiduciary risks associatedwith weak PFM system, there has been the needto ring-
fence financialresourcesin Bank-financedprojects inthe country.

87.     Tajikistan has made substantial progress since then in various aspects of the public
financial management, as noted in the 2007 PEFA report. For example, the organic budget
system has been thoroughly revised, the budget classification system has been changed, the
treasury system has been modernized by introducingautomation, a treasury single account has
been established, quarterly budget execution reports are now routinely prepared, and external
audits have become more timely. In addition, through a grant of the InstitutionalDevelopment
Fund, Tajikistanhas enacteda modernpublicprocurement law. However, the restructuringofthe
government that took place following the elections of November 2006 has undermined the
independenceof the external audit institution and weakened the effectiveness of public external
auditing. The Bank and other development partners are now advising the government on the
importance of establishing a truly independent supreme audit function reporting directly to the
parliament. The ExecutiveOffice of the Presidenthas expressed interest in movingforwardwith
this option, has approved a strategy and plan of action for establishment of an independent
supreme auditinstitution.

88.      The Country Portfolio Fiduciary Review completed in October 2008 revealed that
the great majority of Bank-financed projects are being managed satisfactorily or
marginally satisfactorily. Of the 18 projectsreviewed for procurement, 16 projects were rated
satisfactory or marginally satisfactory. Two projects were rated marginally unsatisfactory. In
addition, 15 of the projects have adequate or marginally adequate financial management
arrangements. The main issues identifiedrelatedto weaknesses in systems and procedures, staff
capacity, and lack of understanding of Bank requirements for financial management and
disbursements. Addressingthese weaknesses is a priority for the government duringthe nextfew
years.

89.      Overall, the fiduciary risk at the country level remains high and public financial
management capacity is weak. As a result most Bank-financedprojects in Tajikistan do not
rely on country systems of accounting, reporting,andaudit.

90.      Capacity to implement good policies needs to be developed. The adoption of good
policies is not enough to improve performance. Capacity is also needed. The government is
working with the Bank in preparingthe Public Financial Management ModernizationProject.
This together with the Public Sector Reform Project is expected to strengthen capacity to
implement improved systems ofpublic financial managementsystems. The 2007 PEFA provides
a baseline for measuring progress with reforms in public financial management. A three year
programmatic public expenditure review (completed in 2008) led by the Bank in close
collaborationwith key donors (EC and DFID) is assisting government in addressing institutional
and capacity constraints relatedto introducingthe MTEF and improvingbudget efficiency. A
ROSC issued in January 2007 is helpingthe government to reformthe accounting and auditing
legislationand practices in the country. Strengtheningof the fiduciary aspects of the education
sector under the Fast Track Initiative is assisting in improving systems in education and,
ultimately, across the government. Fiduciary risk will need to be monitored closely on a
continuousbasis.

91.     IMFsafeguardsassessment. The IMF's most recentsafeguardsassessment,conducted
in June 2003, noted several weaknesses at the NBT, including a qualified audit opinion by an
internationalfirm onthe financial statements for fiscal 2002 that includedauditobservations with



                                                30

respect to guarantees issued and loans made to commercial banks, nonpublishing of annual
financial statements, weak internal audit capacity at NBT, and infrequentand inaccurate periodic
financialstatements. It recommendedseveral measures to address the weaknesses, mainly in the
areas of financial accounting and reportingand auditing. The IMF Article IV consultation report
completed in early 2005 concluded that the NBT was implementingthe recommendationsmade
in the safeguards assessment. The external audit of the NBT was completedfor 2003, 2004, and
2005. However, details on progress made in implementingvarious recommendations, including
results of audits for the latest three years, are not yet publicly available. Audits for 2006, 2007,
and 2008 have not yet been completed. Moreover, government abolished State FinancialControl
Committeeunder the reforms undertakenafter presidentialelections heldinNovember 2006, thus
underminingefforts to build capacity for public sector auditing. Overall, additional assurance
measures are required in order to minimize the risks associated with current weaknesses of the
PFM arrangements in the country. Accordingly, a dedicated foreign currency deposit account
will be opened at the NBT, in the name of the Ministry of Finance, to receive funds under the
proposedoperation.

D.      Disbursementand Auditing

92.     Disbursement. The Recipient is the Republic of Tajikistan. The proceeds of the Grant
will be disbursed in one single tranche upon effectiveness of the FinancingAgreement. The
Recipientwill open and maintaina separate foreign currency deposit account (in US dollars) at
the NBT, as part of the official FX reserve. At the request of MOF, the Association will deposit
the proceeds of the IDA Grant into the foreign currency deposit account. The proposed Grant
will follow the Association's disbursement procedures for development policy lending. The
government will utilize the proceeds of the Grant in foreign currency for either foreign debt
servicing or for crediting the local currency equivalent into the deposit account for financing
budget expenses. If the Grant proceeds are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the
FinancingAgreement, the Associationwill require the Recipientto either: (a) returnthat amount
to the account for use for eligible purposes, or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA, in which
case IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursedamount of the Grant.

93.     Reportingand auditingarrangements. Through the Ministry of Finance, the Republic
of Tajikistan will (a) report on a quarterly basis to IDA the amount received into the deposit
accounts at the NBT, (b) provide confirmationof the amounts withdrawnand/or transferred from
the deposit accounts, including bank account numbers, date and names of beneficiaries, and (c)
ensure that the proceeds of the Grant are not used for ineligible expenditures defined in the IDA
"negative list" as agreed during negotiations and specified in the FinancingAgreement. The
quarterly reports will provide details of utilization of the proceeds of the grant, until proceeds
have been fully utilized. The final statement on the utilization of the proceeds of the foreign
currency, showing total amount deposited into the deposit account and the transactions from this
account to the ultimatebeneficiaries' accounts will be independently audited in accordance with
terms of reference to be agreed with IDA and by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The
audit of the deposit account is to be conducted on an annual basis, with the first audit for the
period to December 31, 2009, and subsequently audits are to be conducted annually until the
balanceinthe deposit account has beenfully usedfor eligible expenditures.The auditreportswill
be submittedto the associationnot later thanfour monthsafter the endofthe fiscal year.




                                                  31

E.      EnvironmentalAspects

94.     The conclusion of an environmentalscreening of the proposed reforms, undertaken
as per the requirements of OP 8.60, is that the reforms are not likely to be significant from
an environmentalpoint ofview. Detailsofthe analysis for eachreformarea follow.

0       Maintaining macroeconomic stability.         Macroeconomic stability is necessary for
        economic growth and poverty reduction, which may indirectly generate environmental
        benefitsby encouraging the adoption of modern technologies which use resources more
        efficiently thanthosethey replace.


0       Reforming licensing and inspections.      Reform of licensing in general will facilitate
        business entry and growth and reduce costs for businesses. This will result in uncertain
        environmental impacts, depending on the sectors that attract new investment, and the
        availability and cost-effectiveness of new technology. The reforms may be positive for
        the environment if they attract businesses into the formal sector, since formal businesses
        are more likely to comply with environmental policies. Reformof the inspection law will
        increase the accountability of inspectors and reduce the opportunity for rent seeking.
        This inturn will increasethe effectivenessofthe inspectionprocessto detect violations in
        health, safety, environmental, tax, and other laws. In time, streamlining of specific
        environmental inspection and licensing rules will be necessary to ensure positive
        environmentaloutcomesfromthe reformprocess.


0       Improving transparency of the privatization process and market competition. Increasing
        the transparency and accountabilityofthe privatizationprocesswill likely have a positive
        impact on the environment, becausethis transparency will include disclosure of a firm's
        environmental liabilities for past contamination and current environmental performance.
        This, however, needs to be carefully monitored, as the country is expected to privatize
        some pollution-intensive industries in the near future.          International best-practice
        suggests that addressing environmental issues upfront significantly eases the time and
        costs of privatization. Amending the competition and natural monopolies laws to
        increase competition among enterprises will have uncertain impacts on the environment.
        The cross-country evidence suggests that over time, competition leads to more efficient
        resource use, and thus reduces environmental impact of a unit of output. However,
        competitioncould also lead to negative environmental impacts if it encourages firms to
        use cheaper, but environmentally-damaging technologies. This again needs to be
        carefully monitored.


0      Aviation sector reform. The proposedoperation seeks to improveefficiency and enhance
        competitionin aviation. Although increased competition is expected to raise the number
        of flights between Tajikistan and other countries, this is expected to lead to adoption of
        more fuel-efficient, less noisy aircraft by the Tajik State Airline, with an overall benign
        impact on the environment. The operation does not support investment in airports, which
        i s being supported by other development partners with oversight of the State Committee
        on EnvironmentProtectionand Forestry.


0       Cotton sector reform.     The proposed operation aims to introduce a universal cotton
        grading system that will increase the confidence of potentialend users of the quality of
        Tajikistan cotton being purchased. This will maximize the sales price and stimulate
        demandfrom end users for premiumcotton. This will have only indirect, if any, impacts
        on the environment. An increase in demand for premium cotton could stimulate new


                                                 32

         production, or it could encourage farmers to substitute higher-grade cotton for lower
         grade.    An increase in cotton production with an efficient irrigation and drainage
         infrastructure may prevent negative effects on the environment and soil fertility.
         However, it could also lead to land degradation, primarily through waterlogging,
         salinization, and erosion. It could further lead to (a) a potential increase in use or overuse
         o f water; (b) an increase in use o f chemical fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides and other
         chemicals; (c) an increase in operation o f ginning factories and associated hazards; and
         (d) dumping o f excavated sediments and other materials from irrigation and other
         drainage canals. The task team i s aware o f the risks and is coordinating actively with
         ongoing Bank projects, including the Land Cadastre Project, the Ferghana Valley
         Development Project, and the Cotton Sector Recovery and Poverty Reduction Project to
         closely monitor and mitigate the potential environmental impacts arising from cotton
         production and to strengthen capacity o f the government to address environmental issues
         arising from reforms o f the cotton sector.

         Energy sector reform. Much o f the forest loss in Tajikistan is due to lack o f access to
         energy supply in remote rural areas. In the long term a more efficient energy sector is
         expected to reduce these pressures. The proposed operation will support separation o f
         policymaking from commercial operations and restructuring o f tariffs to promote cost
         recovery, while ensuring that the poor have access to a minimal level o f service at
         affordable rates.    These measures are expected to promote efficiency and conserve
         energy, which will have a positive impact on the environment.             Without mitigating
         measures, reforming the tariff structure may have had a negative impact on the poor,
         according to the poverty and social impact analysis, which may have increased pressure
         on forests for fuelwood. However, this will be mitigated through provision o f subsidies
         to low-income electricity consumers.        The proposed operation does not support any
         investment operation for constructing new dams. Environmental impact assessments o f
         future energy investments will be carried out under the projects that support them.


0        Reforming public sector management. The operation will support implementation o f
         reforms o f public sector management aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness
         o f the public service and the delivery o f health and education services. These reforms are
         not expected to have any impact on the environment. Efforts will be made in the future
         through these reforms to improve the efficiency and accountability o f environmental
         agencies.

95.      As a newly independent country emerging from a civil war, neither awareness of
environmental issues nor institutional capacity to address them are well developed in
Tajikistan.     This is now changing.        Tajikistan's PRS 2 recognizes water pollution, soil
degradation, water pollution, deforestation, and biodiversity conservation as environmental
priorities and proposes a range o f measures to address them. Tajikistan is an active party to
several United Nations conventions and has prepared a National Strategy for Combating
Desertification (2002), and a National Biodiversity Conservation Action Plan (2003).               The
country has also adopted environmental laws and regulations, including a requirement that
environmental impact assessments are conducted for all new economic activities. The Recipient
also imposes fees and fines on all major polluters.          The State Committee on Environment
Protection and Forestry in January 2004, merging the Ministry for Environment Protection and
the Committee on Forestry was recently merged with the Ministryo f Agriculture. This has raised
some concerns that this may interfere with some o fthe core functions o f the state committee (now
a department). The task team would monitor developments inthis area as things are still evolving



                                                  33

and continue its dialoguewith the governmentto focus its efforts inconductingfurther reforms in
the environmental sector inshort term andto strengthenthe capacity ofenvironmental authorities.

96.     Gaps in capacity is being strengthened through a number of Bank-supported
projects. The government is strengthening its capacity to assess and mitigate environmental
impacts of economic activities through training and hands-on experience. The Bank, through
four ongoing rural development projects, is strengthening the local line departments by
supportingthe upgradingof their nationaland local level analyticallaboratories and trainingtheir
staff with internationally-recruitedenvironmental and naturalresource protectionspecialists. The
Bank has also assistedthe government in holdingconferences andworkshops on naturalresource
and environmental management and in disseminatingtheir proceedings to the public. Additional
measures to strengthen the government's institutional capacity for environmental management
will be addressed through the Bank's country program and programs of other development
partners.

97.      Opportunities for mainstreamingenvironmentalissues in government policies and
programs, and additionalmeasures to strengthen capacity for environmentalmanagement
will be identified through a country environmentalanalysis. With support of a multidonor
trust fund, the government undertook a country environmentalanalysis in 2007/08. This was
aimed at deepening the understanding of the country's major environmental challenges, and
assessing capacity within the country (both public and nongovernment) for sound environmental
management. The findings of the analysis are guiding support of the Bank and other
developmentpartnersto strengthencapacity inTajikistanfor soundenvironmental management.

F.      Risks and RiskMitigation

98.      Successful implementation of the medium-term reform program faces risks, for
which mitigationmeasureshave been identified. Specific risks include:

0       Poor governance and corruption prevents effective use of resources and discourages
        private sector investment.       Tajikistan's public financial management system is
         characterized by poor internal controls, lack of transparency, high level of corruption,
         low capacity, poor cash management and budget execution, all of which undermine
         efforts to enforce fiscal discipline. During implementation, fiduciary risks will be
         mitigated by: (a) creating a dedicated foreign currency account into which Bank funds
        will be disbursed; (b) regular reportingonthe useof funds disbursed; and (c) requiringan
         independent audit on the use of funds provided under the proposed operation. In
         addition,the following actions will be required in order to realize longer term progress in
        public financial management: (a) commitment by the authorities to implement key
        recommendations of the Country Financial Accountability Assessment, the Country
        Procurement Assessment Report and other IMF reports; (b) satisfactory implementation
        of the grants from the Bank's InstitutionalDevelopment Fund supporting public sector
        reforms; (c) satisfactory implementationof the Public Sector Reform Project, and the
        proposedPublicFinancialManagement ModernizationProject. The FastTrack Initiative
         i s supporting implementation of actions to strengthen fiduciary management in the
        education sector, another important step in improvingthe management of external and
        public funds. Progress in strengthening the public financial management has been
        assessedthrough the IMF fiscal transparency Reports on Observance of Standards and
        Codes (completed in January 2007), and a fiduciary update conducted by the Bank in
        fiscal 2008. A Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes on accounting and
        auditing, expected to be complete in early 2009, will further deepen understandingof the


                                                34

   current situation and recommend measures for reform. A PEFA completed in 2007 is
   providing baseline data against which to benchmark Tajikistan against other countries
   and to measureprogress inthe area of public financial management. It hasresulted in an
   action plan aiming at strengthening the procurement and management capacity of the
   Ministry of Education. The Bank will support opportunitiesfor candiddialogue between
   the government and other stakeholders on the issues, and will support civil society's
   effortsto be able to better track andmonitor the use of governmentfunds. The Bank sees
   closer collaborationwith donor partnersas keyto movingthis agendaforward.


0  Thegovernment contracts excessive non-concessional loans, which it cannot repay. The
   government contracted in 2007 a US$604 million loan with the Chinese. This loan is
   concessional and is beingusedto construct roads and electricitytransmission lines, but it
   also raises risks of future debt distress should the economy grow more slowly than
   expected or should the projects prove to generate fewer benefits than projected. While
   the DSA update shows that debt is currently sustainable, new loans, especially those
   providedon commercial terms would addto the risk of debt unsustainability. To mitigate
   this risk, the Bank in collaborationwith the IMF is maintainingan active dialogue on the
    issue. Shouldthe country be found to be inviolation of the Bank's non-concessionalloan
   policy in the future, the grant element of IDA credits will be reduced. A severe violation
   could leadto a cut in Tajikistan's overallIDA allocation.


0  A complex political economy prevents positive reform. Tajikistan has been independent
   from the former Soviet Union for slightly over ten years and is still recoveringfrom a
   devastatingcivil war. Its institutionsare very weak and vulnerable to capture by special
   interests. Stakeholderswho benefitfrom the current institutionalarrangementsare likely
   to resist reforms that will leave them worse off. The president's overwhelmingmajority
   inthe November 2006 polls, however, strengthens his mandate to implement the reform
   program. Nonetheless the Bank will continue to support reforms by improving and
   expanding its efforts at communications, emphasizing the costs of continuing with the
   economic statusquo, the long-termbenefits of reforms, and opportunitiesfor accelerating
   growththrough greater privatesector involvementin infrastructure. Better dissemination
   of the findings of Bank-supported analyticalwork will be an important vehicle of this
   enhancedcommunicationseffort, but it will also involveproactiveefforts, with assistance
   from the external affairs units in the country office and in headquarters. The Bank will
   regularly monitor progress and actively engage in dialogue to help government and with
   the opposition. It will continue to coordinate closely with other development partnersto
   monitorand respondto politicaldevelopments.


0  Externalfactors present unknown risks. Tajikistan is exceptionallyvulnerable to shifts in
   the external environment, due to its small internalmarket, its landlockedposition, and its
   dependency on a smallnumberof commodityexports, limitednumber oftransport routes,
   and workers' remittances for income and for foreign exchange. Deterioratingterms of
   trade would negativelyaffectrural incomesand Tajikistan's balance oftrade. Politicalor
   economic instability in neighboringcountries also poses a significant risk to Tajikistan,
   as such instability could lead to closures of borders or trade disruption. A slowdown in
   the Russian economy-as has recently happened due to the global financial crisis-r
   tightening of access to the labor markets of either country could result in a decline in
   remittances or the return of migrants to Tajikistan, putting pressure on already
   overstretched public services. Apart from pursuing suitable economic policies to
   diversify its exports, as an active member of the Central Asia Regional Economic
   Cooperation, Tajikistan is addressing some of these trade and transportation issues


                                           35

through regional cooperation efforts. It is maintaining a close dialogue with Russia to
ensure that Tajik workers are able to continue having visa-free access to Russia's labor
markets.




                                      36

                                            a- 42
                                               9 7 9           2OoA-r.



                 Annex 1: Letter of DevelopmentPolicy(Russian)




Ezo Rpesocxodummbcmsyzocnoduxy Po6epmy 3 m n u ~ ,
I7pemdenrny Bcemuptiozo6auKa
Ynuya 1818H,h! W.
Bauiuxzmou, o~pyzKonymBwl20433

                       2




   I. MAKP03KOHOM~ECKOE     PEI'YJHPOBAHME kI
3KOHOMkI~ECKHfiPOCT

3

                            4




     11. PA3BHTHE 'LIACTHOTO CEKTOPA 13 HHBECTHqHOHHbIfi
KJIkIMAT

5

     M

6

7


                           9.




    111. PEaOPMbI BCaEPE rOCYJ,APCTBEHHOrOYIIPABJIEHWI M
(DMHAHCOB

I O


12

13

14

15

16

                            Annex 1:Letter of DevelopmentPolicy

                                                                          Unofficial translation


                THE PRESIDENT OFTHE PREPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN


Dushanbe                                                                  9 December 2008

H.E.Mr.RobertZoellick
President
The World Bank
1818 HStreet, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433

Mr.President,

        IwouldliketoexpressmysinceregratitudetoyouandtheWorldBankGroupforyour
continuous support providedto the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan in implementation
of the respective socio-economicand institutionalreforms.

        This letter on development policy (hereinafter referred to as LDP) is submitted to cover
the progress and recent changes in socio-economicsituationin Tajikistanand relevant actions for
the coming medium-term perspective. It is based on fundamental strategic documents of the
Republic of Tajikistan, includingNationalDevelopment Strategy until 2015 (hereinafter referred
to as NDS) and Poverty Reduction Strategy for 2007-2009 (hereinafter referred to as PRS).
Overall view of the state within the framework of its strategic development in the long term is
reflected in NDS, while PRS represents a mechanism for implementation of NDS goals and
objectives in the medium term. Besides, LDP is also developed on the basis of various sector
strategy documents such as the Public AdministrationReformStrategy (hereinafterreferredto as
PARS), National Education Development Strategy (hereinafter referred to as NEDS) and
National Health Development Strategy (hereinafter referred to as NHDS), which are presently
implementedwith support ofthe donor community.

Under the Country Assistance Strategy (hereinafter referred to as CAS) for the Republic of
Tajikistan in 2006-2009, Government closely cooperates with the World Bank to implement
reforms underthe ProgrammaticDevelopmentPolicyFinancing(PDPF).

        PDPF actions are aimed at achievingsustainable economic growth, public sector reform,
and private sector development, as well as improving quality of social services. Government of
the Republic of Tajikistan continues to show its commitment to implement these reforms under
PDPF, which is provedby successful implementationoftwo previoustranches ofthis program.

        I.MACROECONOMICREGULATIONANDECONOMICGROWTH

        Progress achieved in structural and institutionalreforms has been combined with active
efforts of the Government aimed at sustainable economic growth and poverty reduction among
the population.Inparticular, real economic growth rates continuedto remain at an average of 7.2
percent per year throughout 2006-2008. High economic growth rates is mostly attributable to
ongoing structural reforms, creation of favorable environment for private sector development,


                                              53

increase in exports of agricultural products, energy sector development, and strong growth in
remittancesfrom labormigrants, whichtotaled over US$2 billion at the end of 2008.

        Economic growth achieved in the past few years has also contributed to poverty
reductioninthe country.Accordingly,povertylevel(takinginto account purchasingpower parity
at US$2.15 per capita per day) has significantly decreased to 53 percent of the population in
2007, while extreme poverty in the same year decreased to 17 percent of the country's
population.In addition, balanced macroeconomic and fiscal policy enabled to improve people's
welfare andensure stability of macroeconomicindicators.Therefore, GDPper capita in 2007 was
US$5 15.4 in comparisonwith only US$400.6 inthe previousyear.

        In addition, we observed some slowdown in growth rates and significant increase in
inflationin 2007-2008, primarilydue to sharp increasein food and energy prices, as well as some
reductionincottonexport volumes. Consequently, inflationincreasedfrom 7.8 percent in 2005 to
19.8 percent in 2007, whereas the biggest share was attributedto the increase in prices of food
products (mainly, wheat products) and significant inflow of remittances not supported by
correspondingvolumes of imported goods and services. However, during the period until 2007,
stable domestic currency exchange rate and full control of the budget deficit were ensured
through increased tax revenue and reduced interest payments on external public debt servicing
after successfulcompletionofthe restructuringprocess.

        Despite some challenges in the country's socio-economicdevelopment, consequences of
the global financial crisis will only indirectly affect Tajikistan in the medium-term perspective.
This is explained by only minor integrationof the nationalbankingsystem into the international
financial system, providedthat finance operations by commercialbanks are conducted primarily
in domestic currency. At the same time, global financial crisis can also have an indirect positive
impact on the country's economic situation and reduce inflationdue to significant decline in oil
products and fuel prices, as well as importedwheat and other food product prices. On the other
hand, we expect a decline in remittance inflows from labor migrants, decrease in foreign direct
investments, and reduced exports. Therefore, Government envisages a series of measures to
minimize potentialrisks related to consequences of the global financial crisis, includingincrease
in budget expenditure aimed at supporting economic projects and provision of social services,
and more constrainedmonetary policy combinedwith ensuring stability of the nationalcurrency
exchangerate and stabilizationof the current account balance.

        Furthermore, external debt indicators have significantly improved in comparison with
previous years as a resultof external debt volume reductionand significant GDP growth in 2006-
2007. More specifically, share of public external debt in percentageto GDP in the last few years
was significantly reduced and remained at 30.2 percent at end-2007. Presently, we are taking
steps for hrther external borrowing policy improvementswithin the framework of Public Debt
Management Strategy, which was approved by the Government in 2008, with the goal to
minimize expenditures and identify basic debt sustainability parameters. This will ensure
continuous inflow of resources paralleledwith maintainingpublic debt at levels acceptable for
the country's sustainable development.Government plans to borrow some US$765 million from
multilateraland bilateraldonors during2009-2011, which will neverthelessnot have a significant
impacton overallexternal debt indicatorsto GDP, exports, and state revenues.

        However, we realize that low growth levels can increase the risk of public debt
sustainabilitydrivenby an increase in external borrowings.Besides, Tajikistan is still vulnerable
to external factors, which are caused by the fact that prevailing share of export earnings are
accounted for by alumina, cotton, electricity and remittances from labor migrants. The national


                                                 54

economy is heavily dependant on imports of energy resources and food products from
neighboringcountries in the region, which also contributesto the risk of economic dependence
and vulnerabilityto externalfactors that may affect economic development.

         To mitigate the above mentioned risks, Government in line with the increase of budget
expenditure for social sectors and economic activity intends to continue structuraladjustments in
all sectors of the economy aiming to extend the use of domestic potentialnot only to ensure high
economic growthrates but also to reducepoverty.

         Particularly, Government successfully implemented key reform measures agreed under
the ProgrammaticDevelopmentPolicy Financing(PDPF). We are ready to continue the process
of deepening reforms under agreed action plan, while their implementation is envisaged in the
medium-termperspective. Inthe context of PDPF, number of practicalactions are expectedto be
implemented which facilitate private sector development, stimulate foreign investment, and
improve public administration system and efficiency of public service delivery, especially in
social sectors.

         11.PRIVATESECTOR DEVELOPMENTAND INVESTMENTCLIMATE

         Creation of more favorable investment climate and private sector development are
considered to be priority areas for the country. Ongoing Government activity supported by
internationalorganizations and donor community correspond to agreed actions aimed at private
sector development outlined in PRS for 2007-2009, including implementation of measures to
minimize interferenceof government structures into entrepreneurial activity and elimination of
entry barriersto local markets.

         Government's priorities for private sector development include simplification of business
registration processes, inspections of businesses, improvement of customs procedures,
streamlining processes of licensing and obtaining permissions to carry out entrepreneurial
activity. In addition, active measures are undertaken on the harmonization of the current
legislation and regulatory framework to ensure effective and transparent entrepreneurial activity
of the Republicof Tajikistan.

         Business licensingand inspections

         Since 2004 and after adoptionof the Law of the Republic of Tajikistan "On Licensing,"
total number of types of activities subject to licensingwas reduced from 1,500 to 66. Under the
third PDPF tranche, Government adopted amendments and created respective regulatory
framework for practical implementation of this law. In addition, key licensing ministries and
agencies issuedinternaldecrees to implementlaws and bylaws regulatinglicensingactivity. This,
in turn, ensures full clarity among entrepreneurs and regulating bodies, and provides an
opportunityto comply with the requirements of licensingentrepreneurial activity.

         In addition, legal and normative acts on business inspections have been adopted in
accordance with the Law of the Republic of Tajikistan "On Inspections," which made obliged
inspectingbodies to develop manuals and checklistsfor all types of inspections and registerthem
at the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Tajikistan. In the future, Government will closely
monitor implementation of newly adopted laws on inspections and licensing to ensure their
proper and effective implementation, supported by International Finance Corporation(IFC) and
other donor agencies.



                                                 55

         Privatizationurocessandmarket Competition

         Government achieved good progress in this area by fully completingthe privatizationof
420 state-ownedenterprises during2004-2006 and 79 mediumand large state-owned enterprises
in 2007. Furthermore, full transparency of the processwas ensuredthroughmedia publicationof
detailed informationon privatizationtransactions and sale of all assets by the State Committeeon
Investments and State Property Management (SCISPM) of the Republicof Tajikistan in 2007 as
well as privatization compliance review by means of conducting random sampling in the same
period. Accordingly, all privatized enterprises were divided into three categories: medium and
large enterprises (privatizationwas donethrough auctions), the largest enterprises(throughtender
processes) and strategic enterprises in infrastructure sectors. Individual restructuring plans are
being developed for the last category of enterprises so as to attract private investment in these
strategic sectors.

         To promote free and fair competition in the private sector, Government has taken
relevant measuresto amendthe Law of the Republic of Tajikistan"On Competition" in 2006 and
the Law of the Republic of Tajikistan "On Natural Monopolies" in 2007. Institutional law
enforcement mechanisms have been also revised to ensure competitiveness of entrepreneurial
activity in the country in the context of improvingthe current legislation.In addition, we broadly
implement incomplete construction sites' privatization program, which enables to have them
utilizedby privatesector, as well as createjobs and stimulate sustainable economic growth.

         Agriculture development andproductivityincrease

         Upon the adoption of the Law of the Republic of Tajikistan "On competition and
restrictionof monopolistic activity in commodity markets" in 2006 and amendments to this law
passed in March 2007, we expect that improved market competition rules and increased
productivityinthe agriculture sector will create healthy competitionamong dekhkanfarmers and
ensuresustainable growthofthis sector inthe mediumterm.

         Government of the Republic of Tajikistan within the framework of Cotton Debt
ResolutionStrategy under its Resolutionissuedon March5, 2007 (#111) ensures implementation
of activities to address issues of cotton farm debts and increasing productivity of alternative
agriculturalcrops. These actions shouldfacilitate increasedproductivityand ensure fair allocation
of revenues in the cotton sector. In addition, we are also concerned about price increase and
unfair completion in the supply and procurement of agricultural inputs. Therefore, we are
committed to resolving these issues in the medium-term in close cooperation with the
internationaldonor community.

         Another step on the way to simplificationof dekhkanfarmers' supply of cotton products
became the introduction of new cotton methodica, which enabled to restructure the Universal
Commodity Exchangeofthe RepublicofTajikistan.

         In 2007, Agency on Standardization, Metrology, Certification and Trade Inspection
("Tajikstandard") registered international cotton quality grading standards. In addition, joint
Tajik-British venture with the support from Ministry of Agriculture presently carry out cotton
grading produced within territories of the Republic of Tajikistan on the basis of new standards.
Noteworthy that Tajikistan is the first country in the Central Asian region to introduce
international cotton quality grading standards, which ensures higher export prices of cotton
products at the internationalcommoditymarkets.




                                               56

         However, we understand that wide use of advantages of these innovations will require
time and efforts by farmers and other concerned parties. Ministry of Agriculture closely
cooperates with Ministry of Economic Development and Trade to ensure more flexibility and
increase competition in this sector, whereas it also considers options to stimulate growth by
meansof cultivatingandexport sellinghighproductivitynon-cottonagriculturalproducts.

         Energy sector reform

         Energy sector development has beenidentifiedas one ofthe priority strategic areas ofthe
Government of the Republic of Tajikistan in the long-term perspective. Under agreements
reachedwith internationalfinancial institutions,uponsigningthe MemorandumofUnderstanding
on energy sector development strategy in early 2006, Government introduced and currently
implements a new tariff policy, separatedpolicy-makingfunctions from commercial activity, and
revised social protectionmechanismstargeted at vulnerable populationgroups in light of gradual
increasesin electricitytariffs.

         Above mentionedactions underthe new tariff policy are primarilyaimedat reachingcost
recovery and financial viability of the energy sector and, in particular, OJHC "Barki Tojik" and
SUE "Tojikgas" upon separationfrom Ministryof Energy as stipulatedinthe Presidential Decree
ofthe Republicof Tajikistan in March2006. Newtariff policy envisages gradual increaseenergy
consumptionprices by 2010 until 2.1 cents per 1 kw/h(in 2003 prices). However, it is remarkable
that respective increases in gas tariffs in 2006-2007 were mostly caused by an increase in
importedgas pricesfrom the RepublicofUzbekistan.

         Budgetallocationsto compensatecosts of vulnerable populationdue to an increaseingas
and electricity prices have been increased in nominalterms by 19 percent in2007 in comparison
with the previous year, and are expectedto increaseby 30 percentin 2009 in comparisonwith the
previous year. This compensation mechanism will continue until end-2010 to increase its
targetedness and correspondence with changes of the domestic tariff policy. It is therefore
plannedto review social protectionmechanisms by employingthe new energy supply household
survey to analyze justification and targetedness of the implemented energy compensation
mechanism. This work will be conducted in 2009 and supported by internationaldonors and
Center for Strategic Researchunderthe Governmentofthe Republicof Tajikistan.

         Government has also made steps to introduce international accounting standards for
OJHC "Barki Tojik" and SUE "Tojikgas" with support by the World Bank Energy Loss
Reduction Project. Besides, independent audits of financial and managerial activity of above
mentioned enterprises were conducted with support from the donor community and targeted at
further increase in transparency and resolution of existing structural problems in the energy
sector.

         We cooperate with governments of Russian Federation, People's Republic of China,
India and other countries, as well as with a number of international financial institutions, to
attract investments into implementationof large infrastructuralprojects includingconstructionof
hydropower plants (HpPs). In this regard, it is noteworthy that Government takes measures to
allocate budget expenditure (approximately US$66 million in 2008) for basic repair and
rehabilitationworks at the RogunHPP, as well as Sangtuda-1and Sangtuda-1HPPs.




                                               57

         Aviation sector reform

         Government has achieved significant progress in the past years implementing aviation
sector reforms. Referring to the current need for reducing airfare transport and passenger airline
costs, as well as increasing competition and transparency in the aviation sector, Government o f
the Republic o f Tajikistan took steps in 2008 towards restructuring the sector and separating
functions o f ground passenger services (airport), air traffic control, and airlines. Separation o f
balance sheets and financial activity is envisaged by January 2009, while relevant regulatory
framework has already been developed and adopted ina timely manner.

         It should also be noted that in the past years Government has also separated policy
making functions from technical regulation and accident investigations in the aviation sector.
Ministry o f Transport and Communications and State Unitary Aviation Enterprise "Tajik Air"
have shown their commitment to ongoing reforms and are considered key bodies involved in the
reform process in this particular sector. In addition, Government has also issued authorizations to
carry out regular passenger airfare services by several international airlines, including private
national airline "Somon Air," which enabled to increase opportunities for clients and citizens o f
the country to choose preference routes and airlines combined with the development o f fair
competition and further reduction in prices for airfare tickets. This led to an increase in clients
using national and international airfare services by 37 percent in 2007 in comparison with the
previous year (from 0.8 million to 1.2 million passengers).

         In addition, French Government supports implementation of the project aimed at
construction o f the international terminal at the Dushanbe airport, which will ensure increased
passenger capacity o f the central airport terminal in the country. Other donors support the
Government of the Republic o f Tajikistan by providing technical assistance, financial resources,
and advisory support for development o f the aviation infrastructure, creation o f a competitive
environment in the aviation sector, and procurement of new equipment and communication
facilities for respective airport terminals throughout the country.

         However, we understand reforms in this sector will require more efforts with support o f
the international community to address existing airport management policy issues, tariff
liberalization, air transport management,         international airline certification,  and overall
development o fthe aviation infrastructure.

         111.PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONAND FINANCE SECTOR REFORMS

         In the context o f market economy development and creation o f respective public
institutions aimed at improving quality o f services, Tajikistan strictly follows strategic NDS and
PRS priorities. Hence, the key focus is on the implementation o f PADS, improving the resource
distribution system through strengthening linkages between medium-term and longer-term
Government programs, improving budgeting planning practices, increasing effective use o f
budget resources in the education sector, and improving primary health care by enhancing
transparency in budget management and increasing wage bill in the social sectors. We understand
the importance o f priority measures aimed at reforming civil service payroll system,
strengthening the horizontal link between civil service institutions and introducing respective
amendments to current legislation in order to ensure proper implementation o f existing and
planned reforms.




                                                  58

        Public administrationreform

        Since Public Administration Reform Strategy was adopted in March 2006, the
Government took several important policy measures aimed at introducingwage reform, as well
as reforms in local public administration system and pubic finance management. In particular,
policymeasuresinclude:

        Modernizing the payroll system designed to create a link between allowances and
        bonuses, and actual performance of employees except for bonuses granted for
        qualification ranks and years of service. Presently, Government of the Republic of
        Tajikistan has finalized the third phase of wage decompression and official salary
        payment differentiations.The new wage system ensures that all allowances and bonuses
        are fully integrated in the gross wage. Wage decompression i s sought to reward
        employees with greater scope of responsibilities and more complex work schedules.
        Additionally, as a result of above mentioned, status of technical personnel at ministries
        and agencies is shifted to contract-based employment. Despite emphases on long-term
        perspective, these developments are very critical for the Government in its efforts to
        create a professional andeffectivepublic service.

        Since April, 2007, public service vacancies are filled in accordancewith new recruitment
        rules and competitive bidding results. Job descriptions needed to activate selection
        procedures basedon professionalmeritsin all civil service dimensions have already been
    .   developed.

        Development of the Concept on public administrationstructures and its implementation
        measures, which include a number of measures on restructuring administrative public
        service functions and reportingmechanisms of public institutions and agencies. In the
        next two years, Government plans to start implementationof measures outlined in the
        concept note and introduce necessary amendments in the legislation, as well as to
        conduct functional review of the overall public administration system. Noteworthy that
        horizontal functional review of executive bodies at the central government level was
        carriedout in 2007-2008 and includedsystematizationof functions of the Government's
        central authorities.

        Creation of a computerizedRegisterofpublic vacancies in civil service-this task will be
        completedwithinthe nextthree years.

        Implementationof the Public Administration Reform Project, which in 2007 included
        review of legal and regulatory framework for future integration of the new job
        classification and central wage model based on categories, levels, steps, and years of
        service.

        As a follow up measure, Government intends to review and, if necessary, develop legal
and regulatoryframework of public administrationto make sure functionalseparation is properly
exercised and effective public administration is delivered. In this context, ongoingactivities are
implemented in coordination with the working group, set up specifically to deal with
developmentofthe public administrationstructure and its respective implementationmeasures.




                                               59

        Improvementsinpublic finance management

        Inthe past several years, Government achieved good results in executing budget reforms
targeted at increasing effectiveness of the public finance management. These results are also
consistent with outcomes of the "Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability" (PEFA)
assessment, which was conducted by the World Bank in 2007. However, we acknowledge that a
lot needs to be done to improve public expenditure efficiency and increase quality'of public
services.

        In particular, Government is implementingthe second phase of policy-basedbudgeting.
This work mostly related to providing sectoral ministries and agencies with opportunities and
tools to leadpolicy discussions intheir sectors and participatein budgetresource planningfor the
medium-termperspective. At this time, Government's efforts to expand project coverage (social
pillar and infrastructuresectors) are supportedby a group of donors includingWorld Bank, UK
Departmentfor InternationalDevelopment, and Delegationofthe EuropeanCommission.

        Additionally, to improve public internal financial control, including internal audit, the
Government of the Republicof Tajikistan adopted InternalAudit Strategy based on Government
Resolution dated March 2007. During 2007-2008, amendments were made to the Law of the
Republic of Tajikistan on "Public Finance" and Central Methodology Department has been
established at the Ministry of Finance. The latter is in charge of setting standards and internal
audit methodologies in the public sector. Furthermore, existing internal Inspection and
Monitoring Department of the Ministry of Finance has been transformed into Internal Audit
Department; internal audit divisions have been created in pilot ministries(Ministry of Labor and
Social Protection, Ministry of Education, Ministryof Health,and Ministry of Agriculture), which
is in full conformity with the adopted strategy. In general, this strategy is designed to support
ongoing legal and institutional reforms, and create capacity of the Government in the area of
internalaudit.

        By end-2007, Government has created a working group on strategy and action plan
development envisagedto formulate functions of a new independentexternal auditingbody inthe
Republic of Tajikistan. The above mentioned strategy and action plan were developed and
subsequently approved by the Decree of the President of the Republic of Tajikistan in October
2008. These were built on recommendations reflected in the institutional development plan
within the framework of partnership project between the State Financial Control Committee
(Tajikistan)andthe NationalAudit Office(UK).

         In the context of public procurement reform and in conformity with the Law of the
Republic of Tajikistan "On public procurement," Government adopted a new legislation in
relationto Public Procurement Agency. Accordingly, special inter-agency committee was created
to certify capacities of procurement agencies in accordance with new legislation. It is also
envisaged to introduce standard bidding documentation and Manuals on implementationof the
decentralization of procurement units in respective line ministries.Referringto these initiatives
during 2007-2008, full functionality of procurement units in six government institutions and
agencieswas ensured.

        Budgetallocationsand medium-termexpenditureplanning

        The Government cooperates with the international donor community in the context of
harmonizingthe formulationof policy measuresand public expenditure. For instance, Ministryof
Finance ensured integrationof the Public Investment Program (PIP), which stands for external


                                                60

grants andborrowings,and annual state budget expenditureapprovedinaccordance with the Law
of the Republic of Tajikistan "On the State Budget." Besides, there is a newly created linkage
betweenPIP and CentralizedState InvestmentProgram(CSIP) and PRS priority actions in 2007-
2009, andother strategic sector programs.

         Furthermore, annual update and adoption of the Medium-TermExpenditure Framework
(MTEF) for the three-year period and its linkage with the annual budget cycle contributes to
effective allocation of resources within sectors and between social and economic sectors.
Corresponding amendments to the Law of the Republic of Tajikistan "On Public Finance" have
been adopted in 2007, which form a solid legal foundation for further implementationof the
program.

         Besides, attempts were made towards enhancingtransparency and integrityof the budget
system through publishing annual state budget execution reports by Ministry of Finance of the
Republic of Tajikistan, and strengthening capacity of technical staff in respective ministriesand
agencies on revenue and expenditure projections and budget performance monitoring across
oblasts, rayons, andrespectivesectors.

         Educationsector reforms

         Government's effortsaimed at improvingthe quality of educationservices and enhancing
expenditure allocationefficiency are fully in line with strategic goals reflectedinNDS, PRS, and
NSED. Hence, within the framework of improving allocation efficiency of limited budget
resources in education, per capita financing (PCF) mechanism has been introduced in certain
areas throughout Tajikistan with further goals to expand the cover to all rayons in the country.
Government Resolution adopted in September 2007 specifies: pilot districts that moved to per
capita financing, comprehensive calendar schedule of PCF expansion, and methodology of to
expandPCFto morerayons across the country.

         In addition to improving budget allocation efficiency, Government also supports
educational institutions in order to increase quality of their educational services in cooperation
with the international donor community.More specifically,the school computerizationprogram
i s in progress, while private schools, gymnasia and lyceums are also developing; new credit
system is beingpilotedin several universitiesin the Republicof Tajikistan.Besides, Government
also carries out school mappingthroughout the country (to create public managementinformation
system in education). The outcomes will be disclosed in 2009 and will serve as an analytical
foundation for capacity building of ministries during policy formulation, investment plans and
rationalization of school infrastructure for further integration of the per capita financing
mechanism.

         Remarkably, the state budget for education, in accordance with the Law of the Republic
of Tajikistan "On State Budget for 2009," envisaged a twofold increase in budget resource
envelope in comparison with the previous year. Moreover, education sector constitutes about 27
percent of aggregate budget expenditure and thus ranks as the top priority sector requiring
significantinvestment in infrastructureand development of humancapital.

         It is expectedthat Ministry of Education ofthe RepublicofTajikistanwill develop a new
wage grid and career development system on the basis of levelof responsibilityand qualification
of education sector employees. This work will be supported by internationaldonors. Ministry of
Education will also launch a comprehensive survey of the pay rates system ("stavka") in an
attemptto approximate it to a full-timepay rate.


                                                61

         Healthsector reforms

         Health sector is affected by a number of fundamental problems treated by the
Government as priorities in the context of improvingbudget allocations of primary health care
facilities, andenhancingeffective sector functionality ingeneral.

         Government's efforts are aimed at implementing measures approved by Health Sector
FinancingStrategy, which includes the following: 1) creating institutionalstructure of a "single
payer" in health; 2) consolidatingpublic expenditure sources to secure guaranteedbasic benefits
package (BBP); 3) developing and implementing a compensation mechanism for health care
services and procurement; 4) regulating informal payments in public health system and
introducingformal co-financingscheme; and 5) reorganizinghealth services deliverysystem and
equitable distributionof budget resourcesinthe healthsector.

          The Government takes steps towards modernizingprimary health care system through
implementationof the per capita financingmechanism (expansion to seven new pilot rayons per
decision made by Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Health in July 2008), reintroducing
guaranteed basic benefits package in health (expansion to four new pilot districts starting in
2009), and introducing a new wage grid for primary health care workers. For instance, under
ongoingactivities in 2007-2008, Government Resolutionof the Republic of Tajikistan stipulated
a wage increase for all health workers, on average, by 70 percent and 60 percent respectively;
while wages of primary health care workers were increased by 80 percent and 70 percent
respectively.

          Moreover, in accordance with health services analysis in September 2008, decisionwas
made to have guaranteed basic benefits package reviewed and expanded to new pilot rayons
starting with the next year, while per capita financing needs to be expanded to more rayons
within the same oblast. In parallel, Government decided to develop expenditure reallocation
mechanism at the oblast levelto ensure equity of citizensin access to respectivemedicalservices
regardless of geographical distance and locationof different groups of population.

          Government is extending its gratitudeto the internationalcommunityand donors for their
continuous support of the ongoing reforms in public health by means of active participation in
above mentionedreform agenda and financingof specific projects aimed at improvingquality of
healthservices and increasingeffectivenessof allocated financialresources.

          CONCLUSION

          Taking into account special importance of ongoing social and economic reforms in the
country, as well as actions targeted at improving investment climate and private sector
development in the process of ensuring sustainable economic growth and improved quality of
public services, Government of the Republic of Tajikistan is firmly committed to continue the
implementationof respective reforms.

          In this context, World Bank support of efforts undertaken by the Government of the
Republic of Tajikistan and its contribution to implementation of reforms will be significant
throughapproval ofthe ProgrammaticDevelopmentPolicyFinancing.




                                                62

     We look forwardto further fruitful cooperationwith the World Bank in implementingthe
abovementionedreformprogram.

     Please accept, Your Excellency, the assurancesof my highestconsideration.

                                                                         EmomaliRahmon




                                           63

' 0
E '

5
e,

0
C
.e
c)

k
.e
d     C


      u
      e
h     h
v
d

h
i?
9
h
v

u
0
v)  sa


e
L




     0

e,
f
b.
0




.-C

I   I

         sa,


         Annex 3: Link betweenthe PDPG, AnalyticalWork, and otherBank and Development
                                         Partner-SupportedPrograms

Reform Area           AAA                             Other BankOperation           Other Donors
                      Macroeconomicreview,            PDPGoperations                DFID, EC, Switzerland, Japan,
management            country economic                                              IMF
                      memorandum,programmatic
                      public expenditurereview 1
                      and2, public sector and civil
                      service pay note and update,
                      public expenditure and
                      financial accountability
                      assessment.
                      Investment Climate              PPIAF program                 Switzerland
Inspections           Assessment                      IFC BEE Project               Asian Development Bank-
                      Enterprisesurvey                MIGA ForeignInvestment        (tax code modernization)
                      IFC BusinessEnabling            Advisory Service              USAID -(licensing)
                      Environmentand small and
                      mediumsize enterprisessurvey
Privatization Program InvestmentClimate               PPIAF program                 Switzerland
                      Assessment                      IDF Grant for Strengthening
                      Trade diagnostic study          Capacity of the State
                                                      InvestmentandProperty
                                                      Commission
                      Trade diagnostic study                                        EBRD
                      Aviation study                                                FrenchGovernment(both
                                                                                    airport infrastructure)
                      Trade diagnostic study          Energy Loss ReductionProject  Asian DevelopmentBank-
                      Energy utility sector review    PamirPrivatePower Project     (Power Rehabilitation)
                      Povertyand social impact        EnergyEmergencyProject        Germany
r                     analysis of impact on the poor                                EC
                      of tariff adjustments.                                        IslamicDevelopmentBank
                      Central Asia Regional                                         Switzerland
                      Electricity Export Potential                                  UK
                      Study                                                         US
                                                                                    Organizationfor Securityand
                                                                                    Cooperationin Europe
Cotton Sector Reform  Trade diagnosisstudy;           FarmPrivatizationSupport      Asian DevelopmentBank
                      Agricultural development        Cotton Sector Modernization   USAID
                      strategy                        Project                       Switzerland
                      Poverty assessmentupdate        Rural InfrastructureProject,  DFID
                      Cottonsector review             Community Agriculture and     UNCTAD - (Standards)
                                                      WatershedManagement           UNFAO-(LandReform)
                                                      Project,LandRegistrationand   EC
                                                      Cadastre, FarghanaValley      EBRD
                                                      DevelopmentProject.
                      Programmaticpublic              Public Sector ReformProject   EC
Reform                expenditurereview 1and 2,       (FY06)                        Asian DevelopmentBank
                      public sector and civil service IDF Grant for Strengthening   DFID
                      pay note and update, public     Civil ServiceCapacity         UNDP
                      expenditureand financial        Public FinancialManagement    UNICEF
                      accountabilityassessment.       ModernizationReformProject    USAID
                                                      (FY09)                        Sweden
                                                      IDFPublic Sector              Organizationfor Securityand
                                                      Accountability                Cooperationin Europe
                                                      Institution Building and
                                                      TechnicalAssistance2
                      Public expenditure review 1     Public Sector ReformProject   EC
reform                md 2, public sector and civil   (FY06)                        Asian DevelopmentBank
                      service pay note and update




                                                       74

Public Financial   Reportonthe Observanceof     PublicFinancialManagement       IMF
Management Reform  Standardsand Codes (ROSC)    ModernizationReformProject      DFID
                   on accounting and auditing,  (FY09)                          EC
                   financial accountability     IDF Public Sector               USAID
                   assessment,                  Accountability                   Switzerland
                                                IDFProcurementAgency            Germany
                                                StatisticalCapacity Building    UNICEF
                                                Project                          WHO
                                                IDF-Governancein Tax
                                                Services

                                                Communityand Basic Health       Asian Development Bank
                                                Project                          Sweden
                                                EducationModernization           Switzerland
                                                Project                          EC
                                                CentralAsia HIV/AIDS Project     DFID
                                                Fast Track Initiative Trust Fund USAID
                                                SocialProtectionReformGrant
                                                Youth Social andEconomic
                                                Opportunities
                                                Avian-Flu
                                                Food Security and Seed Import
                                                Municipal Infrastructure
                                                Project
                                                Pipelineprojects:Health Sector
                                                SupportProgram(FY09),
                                                NationalQuality Education
                                                Project(FYIO).




                                                 75

                  Annex 4: Relationswith the International Monetary Fund

The Bank'sCountry Partnership Strategy, endorsed by the Bank'sBoardof ExecutiveDirectors
on July 26, 2005, focuses on the following three priorities, which are in line with the country's
PRS 2:

            To improvebusiness opportunitiesin ruraland urbanareas

e           To enhanceandpreservethe quality of the humancapital

e           To improveenergy service deliveryand increaseelectricityexports.

In addition, in each of the above areas, the World Bank Group and government agreedto work
to improvegovernment capacity andefficiency,andreduce corruptionby giving specialemphasis
to measures that increase transparency of resource use, reduce discretionary controls, and
encouragethe participationof users inthe provisionof services.

Macroeconomic management aims at establishing a stable economic environment through
appropriate fiscal, monetary, exchange rate, and sustainable debt policies. In support of these
policies, the authorities are tightening payment discipline, especially in the energy sector,
hardening budget constraints for state-owned enterprises, and pursuing enterprise and banking
privatization and restructuring. Recent improvements in macroeconomic management have
supported the current economic recovery. However, to maintain strong growth the authorities
will need to accelerate structural reform to support private sector development and investment,
andencourage foreign investment.

The IMF has taken the lead in assisting Tajikistan in enhancing macroeconomic stability.
The Fund has encouraged the authorities to continue with fiscal consolidation, maintain a
restrictivemonetary policy, and restructureexternal debt to enhance debt sustainability.

The World Bank has taken the lead inthe policy dialogue on structural issues, includingpoverty
reduction measures, agriculture sector reforms, private sector development, institution building,
and governance. A range of instruments is used to conduct the dialogue. Policy based lending
and technical assistance is supporting reforms in a number of sectors. The Policy Based Grant
currently under preparation will engage the government in the areas of public administration
reform, public expendituremanagement, social service deliveryand privatesector development.

This broad-based approach is combined with sector projects in health, education, municipal
infrastructure,power, agriculture, environment, and poverty alleviation. Over the last two years,
the Country Procurement Assessment Review, the Country FinancialAccountabilityAssessment,
a Trade Diagnostic Study, an InvestmentClimateAssessment, a Note on Public Sector Wages and
the Public Expenditure and Institutional Review have been finalized in collaboration with the
government of Tajikistan. An Aviation Sector Note and a Note on Remittances will be issued
soon.

The table below illustrates division of labor between two institutions inspecific areas:



                                              76

Area          SpecializedAdvice from        SpecializedAdvice        Key Instruments
              the Fund                      from the Bank

Economic      Monetarypolicy, exchange      Economic growth,        IMF: PRGFperformancecriteria
Framework/    rate, fiscal, andtrade        economic statistics      andbenchmarkson monetaryand
Management    policies, economic statistics                          fiscal targets.

                                                                     Bunk: TAJSTAT (under
                                                                     implementation),and Public
                                                                     FinancialManagement
                                                                     Modernization (underpreparation).

Budget        Medium-termbudget             Budgetmanagement,        IMF: PRGFperformancecriteriaon
              framework,tax andcustoms      debt managementand       overall fiscal balance,including
              policy andadministration,     statistics, Public       PIP. Structural benchmark on
              andtreasury and debt          ExpenditureReview,       treasury development
              management                    Country Procurement
                                            Assessment               Bunk: Public Financial
                                                                     ManagementModernization (under
                                                                     preparation), technicalassistance.

Public Sector                               Civil servicereform,     IMF: PRGF
Reform                                      public sector wage
                                            policy, administrative   Bunk: Public Sector Reform (FY06),
                                            restructuringandhealth   Public FinancialManagement
                                            and educationfinancing   Modernization (under preparation).

SocialPoverty                               Povertyanalysis;         ZMF:PRGF
                                            reforms ineducation,
                                            health, social           Bunk: Community and Basic Health
                                            protection; supportto    (under implementation), Public
                                            community driven         FinancialManagement
                                            development              Modernization, HealthSector-Wide
                                                                     Program(under preparation).
                                                                     EducationModernization.

Private and   Bankingsupervision;           Cottonexportpricing,     IMF:PRGF.
Financial     development ofthe             developingand
Sector        interbankmarket and           implementingthe          Bunk Public Financial
Development   increasingcompetitionin       privatizationstrategy,   ManagementModernization (under
              the bankingsector             farm privatization, bank preparation), FIRST Trust Fund
                                            closure and              technical assistance(under
                                            restructuring.           implementation).

Other Sectors                               Reforms inagriculture,   Bunk: Public Financial
                                            energy sector, water and ManagementModernization, Cotton
                                            sanitation, environment, Development, Municipal
                                            infrastructure.          Infrastructure, Energy Loss
                                                                     Reduction, Dushanbe Water
                                                                     Supply, Community Agriculture
                                                                     andWatershedManagement,
                                                                     FerghanaValley, Avian Flu, Pamir
                                                                     PrivatePower, LandRegistration
                                                                     andCadastre.




                                              77

                           Annex 5: Tajikistan's Status inRelationto the MDGs




 Tuberc,losis    cases detected Lnder DOTS      ( O h )                      I       I    33




1                                                                --       -
 Figures In italics refer to periods other than those specified.               _______




                                                             78

     Annex 6: Assessment Letter from the International Monetary Fundto the World Bank

                                           February 24,2009

Economic developments in 2008 were favorable, and the authorities completed the June-
December 2008 Staff Monitored Program (SMP). Driven by a 50 percent growth in remittances,
real GDP grew by 8 percent, and the National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT) increased its net international
reserves position to $181 million (1 month of imports). With buoyant activity, the government
achieved an estimated overall fiscal surplus (excluding the externally financed public investment
program, PIP) of 1 percent of GDP. Inflation receded to 12percent year-on-year in December as
international prices eased. The authorities also made good progress on their structural reform agenda,
including by setting up a supervision unit for state-owned enterprises and preparing legislative
changes to the central bank and commercial banks laws. The special audit o f the NBT has been
completed, and the report's Executive Summary will be published on the NBT's website. Tajikistan
also repaid all noncomplying disbursements to the IMF.

The external environment is weighing on the 2009 outlook. The global slowdown i s expected to
impact Tajikistan mainly via a 30 percent decline in remittances and falling exports. Real GDP
growth i s projectedto reach 3 percent at best, mainly drivenby government spending and a continued
expansion inthe non-cotton agriculture sector. Inflation i s likely to stabilize around 13 percent, with
the decline in international commodity prices being offset by a depreciating somoni against the US.
dollar.

In this adverse external environment, macroeconomic policies need to be geared primarily
toward maintaining external stability. The authorities are targeting an overall deficit (excluding
PIP) o f 0.5 percent o f GDP in 2009, while ensuring that there i s sufficient space for social spending
needed to alleviate the impact of the crisis on the population. They have committed to a flexible
exchange rate regime, which will be key to facilitate external adjustment. Tajikistan's debt dynamics
are sustainable, but remain vulnerable to less favorable macroeconomic developments, and
Tajikistan's risk o f debt distressremains high.

Withthese policies inplace, Tajikistan has a remainingbalance-of-payments financing gap of at
least $135 million in 2009 and $45 million in 2010. The authorities have requested financial support
of at least $51 million in 2009 and $35 million in 2010 from the IMF under the Poverty Reduction
and Growth Facility. The IMF's Executive Board i s expected to consider the request in early April,
subject to the authorities completing five prior actions. The remaining financing needs are expected to
be met through budget support from the Asian Development Bank ($40 million in2009), the World
Bank ($20 million in 2009 and $10 million in2010), and the European Union ($24 million in 2009).
With this, Tajikistan's external position remains vulnerable to a further worsening of the external
environment. For example, the external financing gap would increase by $110million if remittances
declinedby an additional 5 percentagepoints.




                                                   79

The authorities have committedto pushing ahead with ambitious structuralreforms.They will
follow up on key recommendations o f the report on the special audit o f the NBT, including an
external audit o f net international reserves. Structural reforms over the remainder o f 2009 will focus
on improving fiscal management, enhancing transparency at state-owned enterprises, and putting
these enterprises on a sound financial footing. The authorities also intend to resolve the debt problem
inthe cotton sector, and lay the foundation for sustained growth inthe agricultural sector.




                                                    80

MAP SECTION


                                       68E      KAZAKHSTAN                            70E                                                      Rayons                            39 Kulob
                                                                                                                                                 1  Tursunzoda   20 Murghob        40 Baljuvon                      TAJIKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                 2  Shahrinav    21 Nosir Khusrav  41 Moskva
                                                                                                                                                 3  Rudaki       22 Shahrituz      42 Shurobod                             SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                 4  Hissor       23 Qabodiyon      43 Khovaling
                                                                                                                                                 5  Varzob       24 Jilikul        44 Muminobod                            AUTONOMOUS OBLAST CENTER*

                                                                                                                                                 6  Fayzobod     25 Khuroson       45 Pandjakent                           OBLAST CENTERS
                                                                             To                                                                  7  Vahdat       26 Qumsangir      46 Ayni
                          TAJIKISTAN                                       Tashkent                                                              8  Roghun       27 Bokhtar        47 Shahriston                           NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                 9  Nurobod      28 Kolkhozobod    48 Zafarobod                            MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                 57                          To                 10  Rasht        29 Jomi           49 Istaravshan
                                                                                          Fergana                          Andijon
                                                                                                                                                11  Tojikobod    30 Vakshs         50 Ghonchi                              RAILROADS

                                                          To                                                                                    12  Tavildara    31 Yovon          51 Spitamen
                                                       Tashkent                    Taboshar Valley                                                                                                                         JAMOAT (SUB-DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES
                                                                        52                             Darya     UZBEKISTAN
                                                                                                                        To                      13  Jirgatol     32 Sarband        52 Matchin
                                                                                   55             Syr
                                                                                                                      Andijon                   14  Darvoz       33 Panj           53 Jabor Rasulob                        RAYON (DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES

                                                                       Khodjand    Kayrakkum
                                                                                    Reservoir                                                   15  Vanj         34 Danghara       54 Kuhistoni Mastchoh                   AUTONOMOUS OBLAST BOUNDARY*
                                                                                                     Konibodom                                  16  Ishkoshim    35 Farkhor        55 Ghafurov
                                                                          Chkolovsk          56                                                 17  Roshtqala    36 Norak          56 Konibodom                            OBLAST BOUNDARIES

                                         To            48              51   53                                                                  18  Rushon       37 Vose           57 Asht
         40N                                                                                       58                                                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                       Bukhoro                                                                                                  19  Shughnon     38 Sovet          40N
                                                                                                                                                                                   58 Isfara
                                SOGD                         49Ura-                                                                                                                                              * Area with no oblast-level administrative divisions,
                                                                 Tyube                                                       To
                                                                                                                         Kyzyl-Kiya          72E                                                                 where rayons are under direct republic jurisdiction.
                               REGION
            To                                                   50                                                                   KYRGYZ REP.
          Bukhoro                                       47
                                                                                                                                          To                                    To                       74E

                                                                                                                                       Sary-Tash                               Osh

                           Pendzhikent           Ayni                     Zeravshan                                                                                                                                    0      20       40     60      80 Kilometers

                                                                                  54
                                  45
                                                      46                                                                                                            Pik Lenin                                          0            20          40            60 Miles
                                                                                                                Jirgatal'        13                                 (7134 m )
                                                  Tr a n s  A l a i - R a n g e                  10
                                                                                              Rasht                                    Pik Imeni                              Lake
                                                                                                               11                 Ismail Samani                            Karakul'
                                                                          Komsomolabad                                                (7495 m )


                   Region under                                                           9                           12
                                                     4     5            7         8
                   direct Republic          DUSHANBE                            Obigarm                                                                          G H O R N O -
                   subordination         1                                                                    14
                                                 2                      6
                                                                                   40                  Kalaikhum                         Pik Revolution      B A D A K H S H A N                                         Rangkul'

                                                                                                                                 Vanj        (6,974 m)                                                                                           CHINA
          UZBEKISTAN                                                     Nurek           43
                                                                      36                                                                                        Rukhch   A . O .            20
                                                   3                                                                                                                                                 Murgab
                                                             31                                                                     P15a
                                                                                          44                                                    m    Bartang                             Murgab
                                                                            38                     Panj                                                            Lake
         38N                                        25                                                                                               i     r   Sarezskoye                                                                                               38N

                                                         29          34
                                                                          Kulyab   39                                                             18            s
                                                      27 Kurgan-
                                                            32                          42                                                                                                                                         Aksu
               To                                         Tyube             37
             Qarshi                                                                                                                                                                   Alichur
                                                 24         30                     41
                                    22                                          Moskovskiy
                                        Garavuti                                                                                                  19
                                                       28            35                                                                                                                  Pamir
                                                                                                KHATLON                              Khorog

                                Shahrtuz  23h        26        33
                                                                 Pyanj                           REGION
                                 21        Vakhs                                                                                  Andarob              Pik Karl Marx

                                                                                                                                              17          (6723 m )

                                                                                                                                                   Vrang

                                                            To                                                                                   Panj
                                                          Baghlan
                                                                                                                                    Ishkashim
                                                                                                                                         16                                                                                                                                  IBRD

MA                                                                 AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information       33493R
  Y2007                                                                                                                                             PAKISTAN                                               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                  68E                                                70E                                                     72E                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

