                   PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                             CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                                             <Date>
                                                                           Report No.: AB7090
                                            (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)


Operation Name                    Comoros Development Policy Grant 2
Region                            AFRICA
Country                           Comoros
Sector                            Central government administration (100%)
Operation ID                      P122941
Lending Instrument                Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                       UNION OF THE COMOROS
Implementing Agency               VICE PRESIDENCY IN CHARGE OF FINANCE
Date PID Prepared                 July 5, 2012
Estimated Date of Appraisal       October 8, 2012
Estimated Date of Board           November 29, 2012
Approval
Corporate Review Decision         Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                  proceed with the preparation of the operation.
Other Decision {Optional}         Teams can add more if they wish or delete this row if no
                                  other decisions are added

     Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

  1. Comoros has experienced protracted political instability and slow growth, with more than
     20 coups and coups attempts since independence. Tensions have eased somewhat in
     recent years with the last broadly fair and democratic election in end December 2010, and
     the new President taking function in May 2011. No major election is expected during 4
     years, which presents an opportunity to advance policy reforms.

  2. Comoros is one of the smallest and poorest African countries. With an estimated 670,000
     inhabitants, spread among three islands, the country remains mired in poverty. Gross
     Domestic Product (GDP) per capita is estimated at US$785 and, on 2004 estimates, about
     45 percent of the population lives below the poverty line. Poverty incidence varies
     considerably across regions and is typically higher in rural areas and on the island of
     Anjouan. Under their recent PRSP, the authorities, with donor assistance, have managed
     to sustain some progress on key social indicators. But a resumption of economic growth,
     fiscal stabilization and improving governance remain core challenges.

  3. In 2009, the Government of the Union of the Comoros officially adopted the final version
     of the country’s Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy Paper (PRGSP) 2010-14. The
     PRGSP continues the efforts begun under the I-PRSP to stabilize the economy promote
     private sector growth and improve delivery of social services. It focuses on six clusters
     of outcomes, namely, economic stabilization and growth, institution-building and private
     sector development, strengthening governance and social cohesion, improving health, and
   promoting education and vocational training and finally promoting environment
   sustainability and civilian security

4. Key structural measures currently pursued by the government to sustain economic
   stabilization and growth include the focus on restoring macroeconomic and fiscal
   sustainability by keeping the wage bill under control, strengthen Public Financial
   Management and advance on civil service reform, adopt structural reforms in state owned
   enterprises (electricity and water company, telecom and hydrocarbon), strengthen
   governance and anti-corruption, promote economic governance in key sectors such as
   fisheries and electricity and promote reforms that address the binding constrains to
   private sector development. Moreover, having reached the HIPC decision point in June
   2010, the government has a major milestone to reach the HIPC completion point by end
   December 2012.

5. The rationale for Bank’s involvement rests on (a) its ability to provide resources to
   narrow the gap between the financing needs for the implementation of the PRGSP and
   available resources from Comoros’s own sources and other donors, (b) its technical
   contributions to the policy dialogue for reforms, based on the combination of the Bank’s
   international experience combined with a set of analytical work that supports those
   reforms, and (c) the preference by the Comorian authorities to receive part of IDA
   resources as general budget support with the objective of enhancing domestic ownership,
   capacity building through learning by doing, and accountability to domestic stakeholders
   by using the government’s budget process for the use of donor resources.

   Proposed Objective(s)
6. The Development Objective of this DPO is to strengthen state capacity and
   accountability, thereby addressing some of the key underlying causes of fragility in
   Comoros. The reforms supported by this operation are structured around three broad
   policy clusters: (i) improving public financial management (PFM), public sector
   efficiency and accountability; and strengthening governance and anti-corruption, (ii)
   strengthening the economic governance of the fisheries and energy sectors; and (iii)
   addressing the country’s critical vulnerability to natural disaster.

   Preliminary Description
7. The proposed Development Policy Operation (DPO) is a standalone operation that would
   support the implementation of the Comoros Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy.
   Within the overall PRGS framework, this DPO focuses in four of the country’s PRGSP’s
   six axes, namely (i) economic stabilization and equitable growth, emphasizing
   improvements in public financial operations and transparency; (ii) strengthening policy
   in key sectors by focusing on the fisheries and energy sectors; (iii) strengthening
   governance and social cohesion, focusing on improvements in core government
   personnel management systems and stepping up the fight against corruption, and (iv)
   promoting environmental sustainability and civilian security, emphasizing disaster risk
   management.
       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects


Poverty and Social Impacts

   8. The policy reforms supported by this DPO are expected to have a positive poverty and
      social impact. Improvement of public financial management, strengthening of public
      sector efficiency and accountability, better governance and declining corruption,
      removing economic governance constraints to fisheries and energy sector’s development,
      and addressing disaster management vulnerabilities have been identified as core
      objectives under the PRSP. Improved budgetary and expenditure management will
      benefit the general public and particularly the poor through (i) a reduction in leakages and
      (ii) a greater focus on poverty reducing expenditures. Increased resources for poverty
      reduction are expected to be made available through tightened controls over expenditures
      and stronger Treasury management, as well as through improved management of the
      wage bill and by reducing the duplication of administrative structures and programs
      across different levels of government. Moreover the efficiency with which these
      resources are allocated toward priority expenditures will be improved through more
      efficient tools to track such expenditures in the budget (both ex ante and ex post) and
      better economic governance along with anti-corruption. Taken together, improvements in
      the reform areas targeted by this DPO should enable the government move forward with
      implementation of its PRGSP and focus scarce resources on priority social sector
      expenditures and disaster risk management.
Environment Aspects

   9. As the DPO focuses primarily on institutional reforms, there are no direct significant
       effects on Comoros’s environment, forests, and other natural resources. However the
       benefits to the environment stemming from reforms supported under the proposed
       operation could ultimately be significant, particularly as they reinforce the Government‘s
       PRSP which has environmental sustainability as one of its six core themes. Through
       improved disaster risk management, public financial and public sector accountability, the
       government is expected to be able to make better use of planning and funding instruments
       to design and implement activities that will help the Comoros sustain its fragile island
       environment. Through stronger economic governance, especially in the fisheries and
       energy sectors, the Union and Island Governments will be able to address critical
       environmental issues, a process that has proved difficult before now. In summary, the
       proposed operation is helping put in place the institutional fundamentals for disaster risk
       management that ultimately should yield positive environmental outcomes
      Tentative financing

Source:                                                                    ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                           0
IDA Grant                                                                    5
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
                                                                   Total

        Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Noro Aina Andriamihaja
Title: Economist
Tel: 5339+6045 / 261-20-225-6045
Fax:
Email: nandriamihaja@worldbank.org
Location: Antananarivo, Madagascar (IBRD)

Borrower
Contact:     Mohamed Ali Soihili
Title:       Vice President in Charge of the Ministry of Finance
Tel:         +2697644101
Email:       zainabaomar@yahoo.fr

       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
