                                Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR3037



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H8210)



                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.3 MILLION
                       (US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                          UNION OF THE COMOROS

                                   FOR AN

            ECONOMIC REFORM DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT



                                 June 16, 2014




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 1
Country Department AFCS2
Africa Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  Exchange Rate as of December 31, 2013

                  Currency Unit = Comorian Franc (KMF)
                         1.00 KMF = US$ 0.0028
                         US$ 1.00 = 356.4 KMF

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 – December 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AfDB    African Development Bank
CCA     Climate Change Adaptation
CREF    Cellule des Réformes Economiques et Financières
CNLPC   Commission Nationale de Lutte pour la Prévention de la Corruption
DCPT    Public Accounting and Treasury
DGCPT   Direction Générale de la Comptabilité Publique et du Trésor
DPL     Development Policy Lending
DPO     Development Policy Operation
DRM     Disaster Risk Management
DRR     Disaster Risk Reduction
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GNP     Gross National Product
EC      European Commission
ECF     Extended Credit Facility
EGRG    Economic Governance Reform Grant
EGTA    Economic Governance Technical Assistance
ERG     Economic Reform Development Policy Grant
EPCA    Emergency Post Conflict Assistance
ESRP    Electricity Sector Recovery Project
ERG     Economic Reform Grant
EU      European Union
FAO     Food and Agricultural Organization
GFDRR   Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery
GISE    Gestion Intégrée des Salaires et Effectifs (Computerized Civil Service
        Management System)
FDI     Foreign Direct Investment
HIPC    Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICRR    Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA     International Development Association
IFC     International Finance Corporation
IMF     International Monetary Fund
ISN     Interim Strategy Note
LDP     Letter of Development Policy
LOFE    Loi des Operations Financières de l’État
MAMWE   Gestion de l’Eau et l’Electricité aux Comores (Water and Power Utility in
        Comoros)
MDAs    Ministries, Departments and Agencies
MOF     Ministry of Finance
NGOs    Non-Government Organizations
PEFA    Public Expenditure and Financial Assessment
PFM     Public Financial Management
PRGSP   Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy Paper
PV      Present value
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
SOE     State Owned Enterprises
UNDP    United Nations Development Program




                     Vice President:   Makhtar Diop
                   Country Director:   Mark R. Lundell
                    Sector Manager:    John Panzer
                  Task Team Leader:    Maria Teresa Benito-Spinetto
                  ICR Team Leader:     Maria Teresa Benito-Spinetto
                                     UNION OF THE COMOROS
                               Economic Reform Development Policy Grant


                                                         CONTENTS



DATA SHEET .................................................................................................................... ii
A. Basic Information........................................................................................................... ii
B. Key Dates ....................................................................................................................... ii
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................... ii
D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................... iii
E. Bank Staff ...................................................................................................................... iii
F. Results Framework Analysis ......................................................................................... iv
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs ..................................................................... vi
H. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................................... vi

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 9
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................. 15
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 21
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 24


ANNEXES

Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................ 25
Annex 2: Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 26
Annex 3: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 27
Annex 4: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 28
Annex 5: Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.......................... 29
Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 30

TABLES

Table 1: Comoros Main Economic Indicators, 2010-2012 ................................................. 2
Table 2: ERDPG -Prior Actions Status............................................................................. 10
Table 3 ERDPG - Anticipated Risks and Mitigation Factors ........................................... 13
Table 4: Anticipated and actual outcomes of the ERDPG................................................ 16

MAP IBRD 33389




                                                                    i
DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                          Comoros Development
Country:                Comoros                 Program Name:
                                                                          Policy Grant 2
Program ID:             P122941                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H8210
ICR Date:               06/16/2014              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          UNION OF THE
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          COMOROS
Original Total
                        XDR 3.30M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 3.23M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 3.23M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance Comoros
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/28/2012     Effectiveness:                 -            12/17/2012
Appraisal:            10/15/2012     Restructuring(s):              -                 -
Approval:             11/29/2012     Mid-term Review:          03/18/2013        03/28/2013
                                     Closing:                  12/30/2013        12/30/2013


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:         Not Applicable
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                     Not Applicable
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                ii
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     76                  76
Irrigation and drainage                                               12                  12
Transmission and Distribution of Electricity                          12                  12


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               12                  12
Natural disaster management                                           12                  12
Other accountability/anti-corruption                                  13                  13
Other public sector governance                                        19                  19
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                      44                  44
procurement


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Makhtar Diop
Country Director:          Mark R. Lundell                      Haleh Z. Bridi
Sector Manager:            John Panzer                          John Panzer
Program Team Leader:       Shireen Mahdi                        Noro Aina Andriamihaja
ICR Team Leader:           Maria Teresa Benito-Spinetto
ICR Primary Author:        Maria Teresa Benito-Spinetto




                                                   iii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The overarching project development objective of the DPO is to strengthen state
transparency and accountability, thereby addressing some of the underlying causes of
fragility in Comoros. The Economic Reform Grant (ERG) supports implementation of
Government-owned reforms spelled out in four of the Poverty Reduction and Growth
Strategy Paper’s (PRGSP) six strategic axes, namely: (i) axis one, on economic
stabilization and equitable growth, emphasizing improvements in fiscal policy and public
financial management; (ii) axis two, on strengthening key sectors by focusing on
institution-building and ensuring a broader role for the private sector, with this
operation's focus on the electricity sector; (iii) axis three, on strengthening governance
and social cohesion, focusing on improvements in core government personnel
management systems, stepping up the fight against corruption and fostering transparency
in the issuance of fishing licenses and agreements; and (iv) axis six, on promoting
environmental sustainability and civilian security, emphasizing improved disaster risk
management.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original
approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)         Values         Target Years
                   Timely transmission of budget circular to Ministries, Departments, and
Indicator 1 :
                   Agencies (MDAs).
                                           At least six weeks
                                                                              The Budget circular
                   Less than ten days      before the start of
Value                                                                         was transmitted in
                   average before the      the budget
(quantitative or                                                              July 2013 for the
                   budget conference       conferences, i.e.
Qualitative)                                                                  preparation of the
                   2009-2011               not later than July
                                                                              2014 Budget Law.
                                           31, 2013.
Date achieved      10/30/2012              07/31/2013                         07/31/2013
Comments
                   Met (100%). The Budget circular was transmitted in July 2013 for the
(incl. %
                   preparation of the 2014 Budget Law.
achievement)
                   Quarterly budget monitoring reports published, including data on social sectors
Indicator 2 :
                   not later than eight weeks after the end of the quarter.
                   Publication of less      Regular (i.e, no                 Second quarter of
Value              comprehensive            later than eight                 2012 budget report
(quantitative or   quarterly reports, more weeks after the                   published and
Qualitative)       than eight weeks after end of the quarter)                included detailed
                   the end of the quarter. publication of                    information of


                                                 iv
                                           quarterly budget                    social expenditures.
                                           monitoring
                                           reports, including
                                           data on social
                                           sectors
                                           expenditures.
Date achieved      10/30/2012              12/31/2013                          04/30/2013
Comments
                   Partially met (25%). However, in April 2014, an annual execution report for
(incl. %
                   the full 2013 year was published on the government finances website.
achievement)
                   Number of timely consolidated cash balance statements of the Union
Indicator 3 :
                   government produced by the DGCPT.
                                         At least three
Value                                    timely
(quantitative or   None                  consolidated cash                   None
Qualitative)                             balances by
                                         September 2013.
Date achieved      10/30/2012            09/30/2013                          12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Not met (zero %). The Treasury has not produced any cash balance statements.
achievement)
                   Reflect existing information on staffing and wages in civil services disclosed to
Indicator 4 :
                   public.
Value              Limited information on Publication of six
                                                                                One bi-monthly
(quantitative or   total wages disclosed to bi-monthly
                                                                                report published
Qualitative)       the public.              reports.
Date achieved      10/30/2012               12/31/2013                          08/30/2013
                   Partially met (25 %). Information on staffing and wages in civil services are
Comments           not done systematically. Data for July and August 2012 was available to the
(incl. %           public in August 2013, but it is no longer available. Data for January to August
achievement)       2013 is available in the MoF website as part of the annexes for the 2014
                   budget.
                   Public awareness of a legal basis for limiting corruption by high official,
Indicator 5 :
                   numbers of newspaper reporting on the existence of this legal basis.
                                                                                Six communication
                                                                                campaigns
                                            At least five
Value                                                                           including informing
                                            articles in the
(quantitative or   None                                                         the government,
                                            newspaper by
Qualitative)                                                                    civil society and
                                            September 2013.
                                                                                press article have
                                                                                been done.
Date achieved      10/30/2012               09/30/2013                          06/28/2013
                   Met (100%). Six communication campaigns including informing the
Comments
                   government, civil society and press article were done already by June 2013.
(incl. %
                   More recently, high government officials including the President of Republic
achievement)
                   have managed to declare their assets.
Indicator 6 :      Public access to information on fishing licenses and agreements.
Value                                       Information                         Updated and
                   None
(quantitative or                            available to the                    available on the


                                                  v
Qualitative)                                 public and updated               CREF site
                                             at least once a
                                             year.
Date achieved      10/30/2012                12/31/2013                       12/31/2013
Comments
                   Met (100%) Last updated for data for 2013 and available on the CREF website
(incl. %
                   (www.cref-comores.org).
achievement)
Indicator 7 :      MAMWE’s overall collection ratio to the value of electricity sold.
Value
(quantitative or   32%                       40%                              58%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/30/2011                12/31/2013                       03/31/2013
Comments
                   Met (100%). By March 2013, the collection ratio to value of electricity was
(incl. %
                   already at 58%.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :      Mechanism for coordinating government’s responses to disasters.
                                                                             The National
                                            Formal and                       Platform for
                                            systematic, at least             Preventing and
Value                                       two meetings of                  Reducing Disaster
(quantitative or   Ad hoc and irregular. the national                        Risk in
Qualitative)                                commission by                    Union of Comoros
                                            end-September                    met for a training
                                            2013.                            workshop in June
                                                                             2013.
Date achieved      10/30/2012               09/30/2013                       06/30/2013
                   Partially met (50%). The National Platform for Preventing and Reducing
Comments
                   Disaster Risk in
(incl. %
                   Union of Comoros met for a training workshop in June 2013. However,
achievement)
                   meetings are not yet systematic.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                               Values (from                      Achieved at
      Indicator        Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                 approval                       Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                       Target Years


G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
                                                                                   Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP               Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1      08/03/2013           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   5.08

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


                                                   vi
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      At appraisal, the Government showed commitment to the reform process. The
country had embarked on a sustained program for economic reforms. The Government
successfully complied with the IMF Program and implemented the required measures to
reach HIPC Completion Point in December 2012, one month after the conclusion of
appraisal. This operation aimed at re-enforcing and deepening the government
achievements following the HIPC completion point, particularly in areas that
complemented the reform process supported by the HIPC. As the HIPC completion point
supported major Public Finance Management reforms, this operation sought to reinforce
the transparency of public resources. In the Comorian fragile context that was expected to
reinforce transparency and accountability of resource allocation between Union and
Islands governments while promoting national cohesion following nearly four decades of
political instability.

2.      Macroeconomic developments were judged positive. Economic growth reached 3
percent in 2012, the highest growth rate since 2006. This was the result of improved
macroeconomic management combined with a favorable performance of the agricultural
sector, substantial activity in construction and public works, robust remittances, and
increased direct foreign investments.

3.      Fiscal performance further improved in 2012. Spending controls became more
effective, as simplified by a general restraint in the wage bill which stabilized at 8 percent
of GDP (see Table 1). Revenues increased by 4 percent in 2012, mainly on account of the
exceptional revenues from the Economic Citizenship Program. After clearing all wage
arrears at end-2011, the government regularly paid civil service salaries. As a result, the
domestic primary fiscal balance recorded a surplus of 3 percent of GDP. In addition,
several Public Financial Management (PFM) reforms advanced, including the completion
of the civil service census, the implementation of the new computerized wage
management system, and parliamentary approval of PFM related reforms. These
improvements allowed the country to complete the third IMF Extended Credit Facility
(ECF) program review in June 2012 while the completion of the fourth review was
approved by the IMF Board in December 2012.

4.      Despite temporary deviation, inflation decreased in 2012, as a result of the fixed
exchange rate regime and the concomitant fiscal consolidation. The Comoros maintains a
peg against the euro under the Comorian franc zone monetary arrangement, and thanks to
the fiscal consolidation, had maintained broadly stable inflation over the decade.
Temporary deviations from a low trend reflected mainly movements in world prices of
food (especially rice) and fuel imports, and domestic supply conditions in food crops.
Inflation declined to 6.3 percent (down from 6.8 percent in 2011) despite strong growth
in money supply (16 percent from beginning period) as only part of this increase was
injected into the economy.



                                               1
5.     The current account balance improved in 2012. The current account deficit
decreased from 9 percent of GDP in 2011 to 3.8 percent of GDP in 2012. Increases in
imports were offset by increases in transfers, mainly private ones, and increased donor’s
budgetary assistance. Foreign exchange reserves increased from 6.7 to 7.1 months of
imports of goods and services in 2012 from 2011.

Table 1: Comoros Main Economic Indicators, 2010-2012

                                                                                 At appraisal                Actual
                                                    2009         2010         2011        2012           2011       2012
                                                            (In percent of GDP, unless otherwise indicated)
National Income and Prices
 Real GDP growth (% change)                             1.8          2.1         2.2         2.5           2.2       3.0
 Inflation (% change, annual average)                   4.8          3.9         6.8         6.0           6.8       6.3
Public Finance
Domestic Revenues (excl. grants)                       13.9         14.3       16.1         18.2         16.1       19.3
   Tax revenues                                        10.8         11.1       10.9         11.8         10.9       11.8
   Non-tax revenues                                     3.1          3.2         5.2         6.4           5.2       7.6
Grants                                                  9.7         14.9         7.5        10.2           7.5       9.8
Total expenditures (incl. net lending)                 23.0         22.1       22.1         25.8         22.1       25.3
    Current expenditures                               18.1         16.4       16.6         17.1         16.6       18.4
      of which: wages and salaries                      9.0          9.2         8.5         8.0           8.5       8.0
    Capital expenditures                                4.7          5.7         5.4         8.3           5.4       6.8
    Net lending                                         0.2          0.0         0.1         0.4           0.1       0.1
Domestic primary balance                               -2.6         -1.6         1.6         2.2           1.6       3.0
Overall balance (incl. grants)                          0.8          0.9        -1.9         2.2          -1.9       2.9
Financing gap                                           0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0           0.0       0.0
External Sector
Imports of goods and services                          47.7         49.9       50.2         52.0         50.2       53.9
Exports of goods and services                          14.5         15.7       16.2         16.8         16.2       14.9
Current account balance                                -7.8         -5.4        -9.0        -6.9          -9.4      -3.8
Gross reserves (months of imports)                      6.8          6.4         6.7         7.2           6.7       7.1
External debt
 External debt, NPV 1/                                 46.2         38.9       30.9         31.8         33.1        8.4
 External debt service (% of exports)                  13.5         19.5       10.6          6.3         10.0       10.6
 NPV of external debt (in% of exports)               329.7         308.0      201.0        202.7        203.9       56.5
Source: IMF and World Bank staff estimates.
1/ Actual 2012 reflects external debt ratio after full HIPC.


6.      The joint IMF-World Bank debt sustainability analysis available at appraisal
indicated that Comoros remained in debt distress. At the end of 2012, the present value
(PV) of the country’s public and publicly guaranteed external debt was projected at 31.8
percent of the GDP. Given the small export base, the PV of debt exceeded 200 percent of
exports, and remains well above the 100 percent HIPC-threshold for most of the
projection period.




                                                             2
Rationale for Bank Assistance

7.      This operation, a stand-alone single tranche DPO, was aimed to strengthen state
transparency and accountability. The reforms supported by this operation were structured
around two broad policy pillars: (i) fostering public transparency and accountability,
covering PFM, civil service management, anti-corruption and fisheries reforms; and (ii)
addressing economic and social vulnerability emanating from both the weak performance
in the energy sector and the weak natural disaster risk management. These policy clusters
are aligned with the strategic objectives spelled out in the country’s Poverty Reduction
and Growth Strategy Paper (PRGSP). As a result, this operation supported the
implementation of Government-owned reforms. This operation was originally expected
to be the second part of a programmatic series of two DPOs. However, due to delays in
the reforms supported by the first operation and delay in implementation of the IMF
program, the second operation was de-linked from the first one.


8.      The four axes of the PRGSP supported by the Economic Reform Development
Policy Grant (ERG) were: (i) axis one, on economic stabilization and equitable growth,
emphasizing improvements in fiscal policy and public financial management; (ii) axis
two, on strengthening key sectors by focusing on institution-building and ensuring a
broader role for the private sector, with this operation’s focus on the electricity sector;
(iii) axis three, on strengthening governance and social cohesion, focusing on
improvements in core government personnel management systems, stepping up the fight
against corruption and fostering transparency in the issuance of fishing licenses and
agreements; and (iv) axis four, on promoting environmental sustainability and civilian
security, emphasizing improved disaster risk management.

9.      The operation built on the momentum of the HIPC process and supported specific
implementation steps beyond the HIPC triggers. The operation supported continued
efforts toward fiscal stabilization and improved public service delivery. The operation
was designed to foster public sector transparency and accountability, with a particular
focus on the budget and the management of the civil service. It has also helped in
advancing the government’s anti-corruption strategy and promoting transparency in the
government issuance of rights to exploit the country’s fisheries sector, one of its most
important economic activities. It aimed to help alleviate economic and social
vulnerability by (i) taking steps to improve energy sector performance, mitigating one of
the main sources of risks to the private sector, and (ii) supporting the shift from a
response-oriented approach to disaster risk management towards a preparedness-oriented
approach by fostering governmental cooperation at the national and regional (Island)
level.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)




                                             3
10.    The overarching project development objective of the DPO is to strengthen the
transparency and accountability of PFM, thereby addressing some of the underlying
causes of fragility in Comoros.

Key Outcome Indicators:

Improving public financial management

   •   Timely transmission of budget circular to sector Ministries, Departments, and
       Agencies (MDAs) at least six weeks before the start of the budget conferences,
       i.e. not later than July 31, 2013.
   •   Availability of public information of budget execution through the regular (i.e.,
       not later than eight weeks after the end of the quarter) publication of quarterly
       budget monitoring reports, including data on social sectors expenditures.
   •   Improvement in cash management with at least three timely consolidated cash
       balances of the Union government produced by the DGCPT (Direction Générale
       de la Comptabilité Publique et du Trésor) by September 2013.

Improving public sector efficiency and accountability

   •   Availability of public information on staffing and wages in the civil service
       through the publication of six bi-monthly reports.

Strengthening governance and anti-corruption

   •   Availability of public information on the legal basis for limiting corruption by
       high officials, with at least five articles in the media reporting on the existence of
       this legal basis by September 2013.

Strengthening the economic governance of the fisheries sector

   •   Availability of public information on fishing licenses and agreements issued by
       the government, with annual disclosure to the public.

Improving reliable availability of electricity
   • Overall collection rate of MAMWE’s (Gestion de l’Eau et l’Electricité aux
      Comores -Water and Power Utility in Comoros) electricity sales to reach at least
      40 percent in the first semester of 2013.

Improving coordination of government bodies involved in natural disaster risk
prevention and management (DRM)

   •   Governmental DRM coordination mechanisms made formal and systematic, with
       at least two meetings of the national Disaster Risk Management (DRM)
       commission by end-September 2013.



                                              4
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification

11.    The DPO and Key Indicators were not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program

12.     The program had two main pillars: fostering public sector transparency and
accountability, and addressing economic and social vulnerabilities. Policy areas under
the first pillar focused on: (i) improving public financial management; (ii) improving
public sector efficiency and accountability; (iii) strengthening governance and anti-
corruption; and (iv) strengthening the economic governance of the fisheries sector.
Policy areas under the second pillar focused on: (i) improving reliable available
electricity; and (ii) improving coordination of government bodies involved in natural
disaster risk prevention and management.

Pillar I: Fostering Public Sector Transparency and Accountability

Improving public financial management (PFM)

13.      The program supported the Government’s adoption of a PFM Action Plan for
2010-2012 to support implementation of the country’s PFM strategy. This strategy was
articulated around four objectives: (i) modernizing the legislative and regulatory
framework and strengthening institutional capacity; (ii) rationalizing budget preparation;
(iii) strengthening budget execution; and, (iv) increasing transparency through improved
internal and external controls. The authorities implemented the majority of the action
plan with the help of the Bank funded Economic Governance Reform Support Grant.
These efforts led to improvements in the implementation of the legislative and
institutional framework, the budget execution process, and improved the transparency of
the budget process. A new PFM Law was promulgated in August 2012 by the National
Assembly (Loi des Opérations Financières de l’Etat) (prior action 1), and quarterly
execution reports were issued for the last quarter of 2011 and first and second quarters of
2012.

14.     The new PFM Law represented a significant improvement over the previous one
as it provided more clarity in the roles and responsibility of the Federal government and
autonomous Islands in the management and accountability of public finances. Despite
this significant improvement in the legal and institutional framework for PFM, the
remaining challenge was to ensure its implementation. The Government had taken steps
in this direction, such as, creating a new Directorate of Public Accounting and Treasury
(DCPT) and appointing by decree the new Director General of Public Accounting and
Treasury (part (i) of prior action 3). With the Government reshuffle in mid-2013, the
position of the DCPT was unfilled for more than 6 months. However, the Government
appointed the new DCPT in February 2014.




                                             5
15.     The Government has also improved transparency in PFM by producing and
publishing quarterly budget execution reports. Quarterly budget execution reports for the
last quarter of 2011, the first quarter and the second quarter of 2012 were published on
the website of the Policy Coordination Unit (CREF) of the Ministry of Finance
(http://www.cref.gouv.km). Until then, the budget execution reports did not include data
on public spending in social sectors and were not made publicly available. The budget
execution report for the second quarter included, in its annex, detailed information on
social spending (prior action 2).

Improving public sector efficiency and accountability

16.     The program supported reforms to improve the efficiency and accountability of
the public sector focusing, in particular, on the civil service wage bill. During the period
1999-2008, the number of civil servants had doubled to about 12,000 individuals and the
wage bill had increased from 6.2 percent to 9 percent of GDP. In 2009, civil service
wages and salary expenditures were equivalent to 65 percent of domestic revenues. This
largely reflected a disorderly process of decentralization agreed in 2001 to resolve
tensions between the Union and the Islands. At the time, many central administrative
entities were simply duplicating the administrative entities present in the autonomous
Islands (with the Union and each Island having a President, Cabinet and National
Assembly).

17.     The Government set the basis for a reform of the civil service sector. The
authorities conducted a civil service census from June through October of 2011. The
information provided by the Census was then systematically used in the GISE (Gestion
Intégrée des Salaires et Effectifs /Computerized Civil Service Management System), the
Government’s computerized wage payment system implemented in 2010. Since July
2011, most civil service wages were paid through GISE. This would inter alia entail
implementation of the organic frameworks (“cadres organiques”), including organigrams
and staffing of all ministries, aimed at streamlining the civil service and making the wage
bill consistent with a sustainable medium term fiscal framework. Moreover, the
authorities prepared and disclosed on the Government website (www.cref-comores.org)
an exhaustive and detailed list of civil servants per department at the Union and at the
Islands’ level, on a monthly basis, covering the period from July to August 2012. It also
included detailed wage bill data and information on recruitment by gender (prior action
4). These GISE generated reports provided updated information on wage payments and
arrears, with the same level of breakdown, and allowed identification of all changes in
staffing due to factors such as recruitment, retirement, death, and transfers within
different entities. By providing public access to this information, the reform helped
promote a public debate surrounding these critical issues. The open dissemination of the
data set the foundation for enhanced dialogue and trust-building between the Islands and
Union governments, by allowing them to collectively track each other’s progress towards
improved wage bill management and negotiate the necessary steps forward.




                                              6
Strengthening governance and anti-corruption

18.     The program supported the Government’s efforts to combat corruption and
strengthen governance. In August 2011, the National Anticorruption Commission was
established and several of its members designated. The law establishing the Commission
Nationale de Prévention et de Lutte contre la Corruption (CNLPC) was adopted 3 years
earlier and promulgated by Presidential decree in June 2011. The law established the
CNLPC and defined its mandate, composition and prerogatives. It also established
various forms of corruption offences to be incorporated into the Penal Code, and
prescribed the corresponding criminal sanctions. The CNLPC is responsible for the
implementation of the national strategy to combat corruption. It conducts investigations
and acts as an advisory body on the subject. It also sensitizes the public on the adverse
consequences of corruption and mobilizes support to combat it. The CNLPC has the
authority to collect, file and analyze declarations of assets. The CNLPC is also
responsible for submitting an annual report on its activities to the President and to the
National Assembly.

19.      The law also established the obligation for a certain category of senior officials
and heads of institutions to declare their assets on an annual basis. In this context, the
President signed in September 2012 the decree on declaration of assets (prior action 5).
The law targets the President, elected officials, judges and magistrates, as well as heads
of institutions. Despite the fact that the CNLPC code of ethics is still under preparation,
the adopted national strategy to combat corruption (September 2012) and the internal
rules of the CNLPC are key to step up the fight against corruption. To its credit, the
CNLPC has already completed its investigation into five separate complaints involving
various enterprises and agencies, the results of which have been forwarded to the judicial
authorities for action. To date the judicial authorities have not acted on any of those cases.
The internal rules governing the procedures and practices of the CNLPC, as well as the
code of ethics, are still work in progress. The CNLPC is counting on donors and other
external partners for assistance both in terms of training and equipment support in its new
role.

Strengthening the economic governance of the fisheries sectors

20.     The program supported Government efforts to strengthen economic governance
of the fisheries sector through a more systematic disclosure of fishing agreements,
licenses and related revenues. Lack of transparency and monitoring of fishing agreements,
licenses and related revenues undermined the sector’s governance. The tuna fisheries
sector was an important source of public revenues and financial transfers. Information on
the three existing fishing agreements in force in 2012, including information about the
related fishing licenses and payments, were not made systematically available to the
public, with the exception of the agreement with the EU. During the project period,
systematic disclosure of fishing agreements, licenses and related revenues contributed to
a better monitoring by the public sector and stakeholders.




                                              7
21.     The authorities have undertaken an inventory of the existing agreements and
requested authorization from relevant parties to disclose the agreements, subject to
written consent of the parties. With a view to improve transparency, the authorities have
disclosed on the Government website (http://cref-comores.org/pubs/Protocoles/) the
contents (including payments) of all existing fishing agreements and fishing licenses
issued (foreign and nationals, in the context of a fishing agreement or not) which were in
force in the previous 12 months and which have no confidentiality provisions, or which
have confidentiality provisions but for which written authorization to disclose by the
necessary parties have been obtained (prior action 6).

Pillar II: Addressing Economic and Social Vulnerabilities

Improving reliable availability of electricity

22.     The program supported the Government in its efforts to address economic and
social vulnerabilities through improvements in the reliability of available electricity.
Electricity supply in the capital Moroni was very unreliable, with six hours of planned
interruption of service each day, and frequent unplanned load shedding. For the last
couple of years, in the rest of the Island of Grand Comores, users only benefited from
five hours of supply once every three days. In Moheli, power availability was slightly
better with 12 to 18 hours per day, but available only to a very small number of clients.
The impact of this situation with regard to socio-economic and fiscal vulnerability were
dramatic: (i) small businesses, which couldn’t afford very costly individual generators,
lost as much as five hours of production daily due to idling of electricity powered
equipment; (ii) the quality of social services was negatively affected, particularly health
services supplied by small health facilities outside of Moroni which couldn’t afford
individual generators; (iii) long load shedding or discontinuation of power supply
services affected disproportionately vulnerable social groups in rural and semi-rural areas
which were in the lower income brackets and received electricity only a few hours a
week, when available; and, (iv) large subsidies ($18.7 million) to the state-owned
enterprise, MAMWE, diverted scarce budgetary resources from other priority uses,
including social services.

23.     The poor availability of electricity was mainly due to the inability of MAMWE to
pay for the fuel and maintenance of their equipment. The revenue collected by MAMWE
was well below operating costs, and as a result the utility was heavily dependent on
Government financial support to purchase fuel. To improve the commercial performance
of MAMWE, the Cabinet adopted on August 15, 2012, a comprehensive action plan to
reorganize MAMWE’s commercial function (prior action 7). The action plan defined the
actions to be undertaken at operational level, the implementation schedule, the
responsibilities for implementation, as well as the cost of the equipment and services
required for implementation in order to provide adequate technical documentation to start
the process of implementation of The Plan. The Plan aimed at reducing power thefts and
non-payments by at least 1/3 through: (i) the inspection of the distribution system and the
disconnection of illegal connections, with the support of police forces; (ii) the
establishment of a commercial system increasing the accountability of MAMWE staff for



                                                 8
the billing and collection of bills in assigned areas; (iii) the reinforcement of sanctions of
delinquent staff; and (iv) the development of an efficient client database to monitor
individual consumption and ensure the integrity of the billing cycle. The next step would
be the timely implementation of the plan and the establishment of an effective
implementation monitoring mechanism.

Improving coordination of government bodies involved in natural disaster risk prevention
and management

24.     The program also addressed economic and social vulnerabilities by supporting the
Government effort for improving coordination of government bodies involved in natural
disaster risk prevention and management. Comoros had been highly vulnerable to natural
disasters such as tropical cyclones, excessive rainfall (which causes landslides), and
volcanic eruptions from the active volcano, Karthala, on the main Island of Grand
Comoros. Although there had not been any formal national policy on disaster risk
reduction (DRR), there were key policy instruments which addressed vulnerability and
resilience to natural disasters, such as the Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy Paper
(PRGSP) adopted in 2009. Furthermore, the authorities had been committed to adopting
and implementing a comprehensive Disaster Risk Management (DRM) agenda.

25.     A National Platform for DRM and Climate Change Adaptation (CCA) was
created by ministerial decree (Arreté ministeriel) on September 15, 2012 (prior action 8).
This platform took into account Union and Islands government structures as well as the
mandate of the Direction Générale de la Protection et de la Sécurité Civile. The
authorities were committed to further strengthen the country’s capacity in the DRM and
CCA area, by preparing an integrated National Strategy for Disaster Risk Management
and Climate Change Adaptation that would include clear short and medium term
provisions to address the impact of disasters and climate change on social outcomes.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

26.    Policy areas were not revised.

1.6 Other significant changes

27.    No other significant changes occurred.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

28.    The program was supported by a single tranche operation. The Economic Reform
Development Policy Grant approval was subject to the implementation of eight prior
actions (see Matrix below). All prior actions were satisfactorily met before Board
approval on November 29, 2012; although prior action 3 suffered from setbacks. The
operation became effective on December 17, 2012, and closed on December 30, 2013.


                                               9
                       Table 2: ERDPG -Prior Actions Status

                          Prior Actions from Legal                            Status
                        Agreement/Program Document
                          A. Improving public financial management

Pillar 1 – Fostering   Prior action 1. The Recipient has     Met. Voted and promulgated in August
public transparency    adopted and promulgated its Public    2012 by the National Assembly (Loi des
and accountability     Financial Management Bill (Loi        Opérations Financières de l’Etat).
                       des Opérations Financières de
                       l’Etat - LOFE) in form and
                       substance satisfactory to the
                       Association.
                       Prior action 2. The Recipient has     Met. Quarterly budget execution reports
                       published its quarterly budget        for the last quarter of 2011, the first
                       execution reports, for at least two   quarter and the second quarter of 2012
                       quarters, including information on    were published in the website of the
                       spending in social sectors and        Policy Coordination Unit (CREF) of the
                       otherwise in form and substance       Ministry of Finance
                       acceptable to the Association, on a   (http://www.cref.gouv.km). The budget
                       public website or in a newspaper of   execution report for the second quarter
                       national coverage.                    included in its annex detailed information
                                                             of the social spending.
                       Prior action 3. The recipient has     Met. A new Directorate of Public
                       adopted the decree on the new         Accounting and Treasury (DCPT) and the
                       treasury administration reform and    appointment by decree (Decree No.12-
                       the reform of the treasury            047/PR of February 29, 2012) of the new
                       administration is being               Director General of Public Accounting
                       implemented, with: (i) the            and Treasury were adopted.
                       appointment of the Director
                       General of the Public Accounting
                       and Treasury, and (ii) the
                       appointment of the Recipient’s
                       Paymaster General of the Union of
                       Comoros.
                           B. Improving public sector efficiency and accountability

                       Prior action 4. The Recipient has     Met. The authorities prepared and
                       prepared and disclosed on a public    disclosed on the government website
                       website or in a newspaper of          www.cref-comores.org an exhaustive and
                       national coverage, at least one bi-   detailed list of civil servants per
                       monthly report covering the period    department at the Union and at the Islands
                       from July to August 2012 on           level, on a monthly basis, covering the 2
                       recruitments (each including an       month period from July to August 2012.
                       update on wage payments and           It also includes detailed wage bill data
                       arrears and otherwise in form and     and information on recruitment by
                       substance satisfactory to the         gender. These GISE-generated reports
                       Association) in the central and       provide updated information on the
                       Autonomous Islands’ governments,      situation on wage payments and arrears.
                       by ministry and commissariat and



                                            10
                        by gender.

                            C. Strengthening governance and anti-corruption

                        Prior action 5. The Recipient has      Met. The decree on declaration of assets,
                        adopted a decree requiring key         Decree # 12-183, was signed by the
                        officials to submit an annual asset    President on September 15, 2012.
                        declaration under conditions which
                        strike a balance between individual
                        rights to privacy and the overriding
                        need to access information relevant
                        to combating corruption and
                        avoiding conflicts of interest.

                            D. Strengthening the economic governance of the fisheries sector

                        Prior action 6. Subject to the       Met. The authorities have disclosed on
                        Recipient’s pre-existing             the Government website http://cref-
                        confidentiality obligations, the     comores.org/pubs/Protocoles/ the
                        recipient has disclosed the list of  contents (including payments) of all
                        all fishing agreements and all       existing fishing agreements and fishing
                        fishing licenses in force during the licenses issued (foreign and nationals, in
                        previous twelve months, (including the context of a fishing agreement or not)
                        for each agreement and license,      which were in force in the previous 12
                        information in form and substance months.
                        satisfactory to the Association, on
                        its cumulated duration and all
                        related fees paid per category and
                        access regime) on a public website
                        and in a newspaper of national
                        coverage.
Pillar 2 : Addressing        E. Improving reliable availability of electricity
economic and social
vulnerabilities         Prior action 7. The Recipient        Met. The Cabinet adopted on August 15,
                        (through its Minister responsible    2012 a comprehensive action plan for
                        for energy) has approved a           reorganization of MAMWE’s commercial
                        comprehensive action plan, in form function.
                        and substance satisfactory to the
                        Association, for the reorganization
                        of state own enterprise MAMWE’s
                        commercial function.
                             F. Improving coordination of government bodies involved in natural
                                 disaster risk prevention and management
                        Prior action 8. The Recipient has    Met. The National Platform for DRM and
                        established the national platform    Climate Change Adaptation (CCA) was
                        for disaster risk management, in     created by ministerial decree (Arreté
                        form and substance acceptable to     ministeriel) on September 15, 2012.
                        the Association.




                                              11
2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

Adequacy of government’s commitment

29.    The Government commitment to reform has been strong. Since elections in May
2011 and the assumption to power of President Ikililou Dhoinine, the country has been
enjoying greater stability and renewed efforts to pursue reforms. The Government
embarked on an ambitious reform program supported by the IMF, the World Bank and
the European Union and reached HIPC Completion Point in December 2012. The
successful completion of HIPC and the development of this operation are examples of the
Government’s commitment to reforms.

30.     There were, however, a few areas where, despite government efforts, the intended
outcome was not fully achieved. For example, the quarterly budgetary monitoring
reports for 2013 became only one annual report. Also, the information disclosure on
staffing and wages in civil services were not done as systematically as expected.
Although these reports were used by the authorities in the management of civil service
and PFM, the fact that they were not systematically disclosed undermined somehow the
efforts to ingrain a more transparent management of the public resources. Likewise, the
National Platform for Preventing and Reducing Disaster Risk did not meet as often as
planned. As the country moves to the next level of reforms, particularly in PFM, the
government is facing increasing institutional resistance to change. Nonetheless, this DPO
served well to maintain government commitment for the reform after HIPC completion
and, although slowly, paved the way for the programmatic support provided in 2014.

Soundness of background analysis

31.     The operation’s design drew on country-specific analytical work and findings
from ongoing technical assistance in the Comoros. These included, in the PFM area, the
2007 Public Expenditure and Financial Assessment (PEFA), the Debt Management
Performance Assessment report completed and disclosed in June 2012, as well as lessons
from the diagnostic and dialogue supported by trust funded (LICUS and IDF) technical
assistance in 2006 and 2008, respectively. With regard to civil service reform, the policy
dialogue benefited from a 2005 diagnostic of the civil service wage bill and EGTA-
funded analytical support to the development of integrated civil service management
software. A political economy analysis on civil service recruitment was completed in
August 2012, highlighting the importance of transparency in recruitments and wages to
underpin efforts to improve HR and wage bill control against the background of inter-
Island conflicts over shared public resources. This analysis also underscored the role of
the media on the demand side of transparency. In the Energy sector, a short and medium
term Diagnostic and Sector Review of the power and petroleum sectors was undertaken
with Bank support and completed in August 2012, along with a political economy
analysis of Governance issues in the power sector. These studies were coordinated with a
long term Energy Sector Study funded by the EU.




                                             12
32.     The operation’s design also drew on a number of analytical pieces on fragility and
conflict such as the Africa Region Research paper on “Avoiding Fragility Trap in Africa”,
a review of PDOs in fragile environments and the World Development Report 2011 on
Conflict and Fragility. These documents stressed three areas of relevance for the
operation: (i) the importance of transparency in the use of public resources; (ii)
identification of early wins on social and economic developments to support the
momentum of stability; and, (iii) continuity in the support of reforms.

33.     This DPO was an integral part of the ISN (April 29, 2010) and a key component
of a broader package of assistance. Although the ISN covered the years of 2010-12, this
operation is consistent with the planned support aimed at tackling the underlying causes
of fragility (political, economic and environmental) by strengthening government
capacity and accountability and reducing social vulnerabilities. This operation addressed
some of these issues alongside other Bank operations (Economic Governance TA
(EGTA), Electricity Sector Recovery Project, Community Development Support Project)
and donor operations (UNDP-WB grant from the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction
and Recovery (GFDRR).

Assessment of the operation’s design

34.      The scope of reforms supported by this operation was appropriate. It covered
critical areas of reform as envisaged in the ISN and the government’s own reform agenda
as stated in their PRGSP (see section 1.2). The DPO reforms also complemented and
strengthened Comoros’ effort to achieve the HIPC Completion Point.

Relevance of the risks identified at appraisal and effectiveness of mitigation measures

35.      Risks were identified in the PDO, and were mostly mitigated but resulted in a
partial implementation of objectives.

                 Table 3 ERDPG - Anticipated Risks and Mitigation Factors
Risks identified at appraisal                 Mitigation Factors
Political risk                                2013 was a year of political stability. The
                                              international community supported the
                                              constructive dialogue between the Union and
                                              the Island governments and carried on their
                                              assistance in support of the ongoing reform
                                              agenda.
Opposition to reforms risk                    Link to the political risk was the opposition to
                                              reforms due to lack of full disclosure of
                                              measures related to PFM, civil service
                                              management, fisheries and fighting corruption
                                              in a weak environment. However, this risk was
                                              somehow      mitigated     through    increased
                                              transparency and technical assistance, namely
                                              through the support of change management and
                                              leadership program through the economic


                                             13
                                           governance project and the rapid result
                                           initiative through the World Bank Institute.
Implementation capacity risk               It is a persistent problem which both donors
                                           and government are tackling through: (i)
                                           providing parallel technical assistance and
                                           capacity building to interventions; (ii)
                                           coordination of interventions and (iii) focusing
                                           reform agenda in a limited number of
                                           implementation measures.
Sustainability of reforms risk             This risk materialized partially. After the
                                           HIPC process, which was a catalyst of reform,
                                           the momentum waned a little bit. The measures
                                           to recover it are being taken now through the
                                           new DPO which is addressing reforms to move
                                           the agenda forward.
Macroeconomic risk                         The      macroeconomic       environment     was
                                           challenging, but the economy performed
                                           relatively well in 2013. GDP growth is still
                                           projected at 3.5 percent and inflation at less
                                           than 3 percent, although the fiscal finances
                                           remained fragile. Comoros continues to face
                                           macroeconomic vulnerabilities due to a
                                           slowdown in transfers and unexpected
                                           increases in fuel and food prices.
Fiduciary risks                            The mitigation of the fiduciary risks was
                                           intended through the focus of the operation on
                                           improvements on fiduciary standards and
                                           continued assistance in PFM and public
                                           administration reforms. However, fiduciary
                                           risks are still significant and the PEFA report
                                           of 2013 identified areas of fiduciary
                                           weaknesses for future action.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

M&E design

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

36.     The design of the indicators to monitor DPO progress was adequate. The
selection of the indicators was designed in collaboration with the Government of the
Union of Comoros and other donors, including the IMF, AfDB, EC, the French
Government and the Arab Funds. Indicators were also selected to complement indicators
in other Bank operations, such as the IDA-supported Economic Governance TA (EGTA).
The next steps in the prior actions envisaged in the PDO were also relevant and the
triggers for next steps were formulated and designed in the same manner.



                                          14
M&E Implementation and utilization

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

37.     The Economic and Financial Reforms Unit (CRFF) was identified as the
responsible authority to monitor reforms, report progress and coordinate actions with all
ministries and entities, including at the Island level. CRFF was expected to provide
quarterly updates to the IDA on progress of indicators, however this materialized only for
a few indicators and not with the expected frequency. The Bank conducted regular
supervision in collaboration with the government to ensure continued implementation of
the program. Given Comoros’ weak national monitoring system, the Bank, the AfDB and
the EC, gave support to strengthen and develop their capacities to design, implement,
monitor, and evaluate their development and poverty reduction strategy. The
Government’s Annual Progress Report on the PRGSP was shared with the Bank on a
timely basis.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

38.     This Economic Reform Grant was a stand-alone operation and did indicate the
possibility of a follow up operation. It listed possible triggers for a follow up operation.
It acknowledged that going forward, sustained engagement by the Bank, IMF and donors
would remain critical to supporting reforms in the post-HIPC period. A follow up
programmatic DPO, the Comoros Economic Governance Reform Grant (EGRG), was
approved by the World Bank Board on April 29, 2014. The new operation is the first of
this kind for the Union of the Comoros. It builds on the reforms sustained as part of the
HIPC process and previous operations and seeks to provide a longer term engagement
that maintains government focus around few and relevant key constraints.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

39.      Objectives (Rating: Satisfactory). The overarching objective of this operation, to
strengthen state transparency and accountability to address underlying causes of fragility,
still is very relevant to the current country and global priorities. Comoros widespread
poverty and unemployment continue to be a big challenge despite progress in economic
management. In this post-HIPC scenario, continued support focusing on macro-economic
stability, strengthening governance through PFM and public sector reforms continue to be
highly relevant to the Bank’s current ISN.

40.    Design (Rating: Satisfactory).The design was appropriate and relevant. It
supported the implementation of core reforms in Comoros’ PRGSP covering the period
2010-14. The two main pillars of focus, namely, fostering public transparency and
accountability, covering PFM, civil service management, anti-corruption and fisheries;



                                              15
and, addressing economic and social vulnerability emanating from weak performance in
the energy sector and weak natural disaster risk management, are still at the center of the
areas addressed by the PRGSP. The design could have benefited from a more active
inclusion at the design stage of Island government authorities to promote faster
implementation of reforms.

41.     Implementation (Rating: Moderately Satisfactory). The Economic and Financial
Reform Unit (CREF) was responsible for monitoring the reforms, reporting progress and
coordinating actions with all ministries and entities, including at the Island level.
Although they were instrumental in providing information, improvements could have
been made to maintain the flow of information throughout the implementation period as
reporting was sporadic and not always complete.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

42.     Program Development Objective achievements are summarized in the table below.
Progress was made in seven out of the eight DPO areas, with four fully met and three
partially met. Therefore, the overall rating for the achievement of the development
objectives is rated moderately satisfactory.

                  Table 4: Anticipated and actual outcomes of the ERDPG
                Anticipated Result                                        Actual Outcome
Improving public financial management
Indicator1: Timely transmission of budget circular      The Budget circular was transmitted in July 2013 for
to Ministries, Departments, and Agencies (MDAs)         the preparation of the 2014 Budget Law according to
                                                        the indicator target to transmit it at least six weeks
                                                        before the start of the budget conferences, i.e. not
                                                        later than July 31, 2013.(Rating: Satisfactory).
Indicator 2: Quarterly budget monitoring reports        Instead of quarterly execution reports, one annual
published, including data on social sectors not later   report was published on April 2014 for the year
than eight weeks after the end of the quarter           2013. 1 The indicator target called for regular
                                                        reports, not only one annual report (Rating:
                                                        Moderately Satisfactory).
Indicator 3: Number of timely consolidated cash         The Treasury hasn’t produced any cash balance
balance statements of the Union government              statement. The indicator target was at least three
produced by the DGCPT                                   timely consolidated cash balances by September
                                                        2013. (Rating: Unsatisfactory)
Improving public sector efficiency and accountability
Indicator 4: Reflect existing information on Information on staffing and wages in civil services



1
  Available at:
http://www.finances.gouv.km/v1/files/Budget2013/Execution%Budget%202013.pdf




                                                        16
staffing and wages in civil services disclosed to      are not done systematically. July-August 2012 was
public                                                 available to the public in August 2013, but is no
                                                       longer available. Data for January to August 2013 is
                                                       available in the MoF website as part of the annexes
                                                       for the 2014 budget. The indicator target was for the
                                                       publication of six bi-monthly reports. (Rating:
                                                       Moderately satisfactory)
Strengthening governance and anti-corruption
Indicator 5: Public awareness of a legal basis for   Six communication campaigns including informing
limiting corruption by high official, numbers of     the government, civil society and press article were
newspaper reporting on the existence of this legal   done already by June 2013. More recently high
basis                                                government officials including the President of
                                                     Republic have managed to declare their asset and fill
                                                     out the form. This surpassed the target of at least five
                                                     articles in the newspaper by September 2013.
                                                     (Rating: Satisfactory)
Strengthening the economic governance of the fisheries sector
Indicator 6: Public access to information on fishing Information for 2013 on fishing licenses and
licenses and agreements                              agreements were last updated in January 2014 and it
                                                     is     available    on      the     CREF        website
                                                     (http://www.cref.gouv.km). This met the target of
                                                     having the information available to the public and
                                                     updated at least once a year. (Rating: Satisfactory)
Improving reliable availability of electricity
Indicator 7: MAMWE’s overall collection ratio to By March 2013, the collection ratio to the value of
the value of electricity sold                        electricity sold was already at 58 percent, over the
                                                     target of 40 percent by September 2013. This is one
                                                     step in the right direction towards improving the
                                                     commercial operation of the sector, a pre-requisite to
                                                     improving supply.(Rating: Highly Satisfactory)
Improving coordination of government bodies involved in natural disaster risk prevention and
management (DRM)
Indicator 8: Mechanism for coordinating The National Platform for Preventing and Reducing
government’s responses to disasters                  Disaster Risk in Union of Comoros met for a training
                                                     workshop in June 2013. However, meetings are not
                                                     held systematically. The target called for at least
                                                     two formal and systematic meetings of the national
                                                     commission by end-September 2013. (Rating:
                                                     Moderately Satisfactory)




Public Financial Management

43.     Comoros took important legal and institutional steps towards improving public
financial management, i.e., the adoption of the Public Financial Management Bill in 2012
and the achievement of targets as mentioned in the matrix above. However, the next step
is to bring legislation into concrete actions. This will be more difficult and calls for
strong political will. For example, Comoros continues to operate with four parallel
treasuries at the Union and Island levels which make it very difficult to have a clear
assessment of their finances. Furthermore, implementation of the PFM law has been
slow. The 2013 PEFA report emphasizes the need to accelerate the implementation of
the law to improve transparency and fiscal coverage. The recently approved


                                                      17
programmatic DPO, the EGRG, supports efforts to improve treasury management by
effectively making operational the Directorate of Public Accounts and Treasury. For
example, one of the prior actions of EGRG was the identification in the 2014 Budget Law
of a dedicated budget line for the DGCPT and the appointment of key DGCPT staff.

Public Sector Efficiency and Accountability

44.    In this operation the initial means to improve public sector efficiency and
accountability was to start addressing civil service reform through a more systematic
public disclosure of existing information on staffing and wages. Information was
published in August 2013 reflecting data from 12 months earlier, but no further
information has been disclosed since then. However, the government has moved forward
on other fronts: it has updated the civil service payroll drawing on the civil service
census, and is moving on the use of a new computerized payroll system.

Governance and Anti-corruption

45.     Regarding the anti-corruption agenda, the country has created an Anti-Corruption
Commission (Commission Nationale de Prévention et de Lutte contre la Corruption).
The Government has issued the Decree no. 12-183/PR dated September 15, 2012 that
requires mandatory asset declaration for public officials in order to increase
accountability. Such an asset declaration initiative suffers from a lack of compliance with
the targets of the measure. As of late 2013, 30 percent of the government officials have
complied with the dispositions of the decree and filed an asset declaration. The names of
the compliant public officials have been published in the country’s official gazette. It is
expected that by 2015, 80 percent of government officials concerned by the measure will
undertake asset declarations. The new DPO (DGRG) continues to support efforts in this
area.

Strengthening the economic governance of the fisheries sector

46.     The disclosure of fishery agreements, fishing licenses and related revenue
information through government sites and local newspapers has contributed to improved
transparency and accountability for the sector. Not only was the information published in
Comoros, but it has been disseminated by some NGOs, such as Transparentsea. This will
also contribute to improve management of the fisheries resources where all sectors
involved (stakeholders, fishing agreement signatories and neighboring coastal countries)
will get the same information. The DGRG continues to support efforts to enhance
transparency in the management of the fisheries resources. It is expected that by 2015
access to information on revenues and its use will be regularly documented and disclosed.




                                              18
Improving reliable availability of electricity

47.     The adoption of a comprehensive action plan for reorganization of MAMWE’s
commercial function by the Cabinet on August 15, 2012 was a necessary step for
improving the commercial performance of MAMWE. By March 2013, the collection
ratio to the value of electricity sold was already at 58 percent, improving the commercial
operation of the sector, a pre-requisite for increasing energy supply. The next step will be
the timely implementation of the plan and the establishment of an effective
implementation monitoring mechanism. The World Bank financed Electricity Sector
Recovery Project (ESRP) builds on previous sector re-organization supported under the
DPO2 and will help implement the reform by funding senior experienced managers to
work with the existing management to significantly improve billing, collection and
overall operational management. The DGRG complements the ESRP by supporting the
Government efforts to improve performance in this sector.

Improving coordination of government bodies involved in natural disaster risk prevention
and management

48.    The National Platform for Preventing and Reducing Disaster Risk in Union of
Comoros met for a training workshop in June 2013. The workshop recognized the
importance of conducting more regular meetings for monitoring the progress of activities
and strengthening the capacity of its members. However, meetings have not been held
systematically.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance and achievement
of PDOs)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

49.     Combining relevance and efficacy of the achievement of the objectives, the
operation’s overall outcome rating is rated moderately satisfactory. The objectives of the
operation were and remain very relevant to the current country and global priorities as
shown by the reform agenda supported by the new DPO series. Progress was moderately
satisfactory or better in seven out of the eight DPO indicators. The unmet indicator was
related to PFM where the Treasury failed to produce cash balance statements.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

50.    The operation is expected to have a positive poverty and social development
impact in the medium to longer term. Improvements in PFM are expected to benefit the
poor through a reduction in fiscal leakages and greater focus on poverty reduction
expenditures. The MAMWE Commercial Action Plan could also have a positive social
impact. The improvement in the collection performance of MAMWE is expected to


                                                 19
reduce subsidies from the Government, allowing public resources to be allocated towards
development spending in the medium term. But as reforms in this area move forward,
there might be some potential redistributive impacts that would need to be addressed.
Removing economic governance constraints to fisheries, energy sector development and
addressing disaster management vulnerabilities will also enable the government to move
forward with its implementation of its PRGSP and focus scare resources on priority
social sectors expenditures and disaster risk management.

51.    Comoros GDP is estimated to have grown by 3.5 percent in 2013, up from 3
percent the previous year due to a strong agricultural performance, increase in
construction and resilient remittances. Comoros’ medium term outlook is positive.
Growth is expected to increase to 4 percent in 2014 and remain at that level through 2018
driven by macroeconomic stability and supported by investment in tourism and fishing
while inflation should remain around 2.5 percent. GDP per capita in nominal dollars is
expected to increase from $859 in 2012 to $1,236 in 2018.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

52.    This operation supported institutional reform mainly through public financial
management, but despite significant improvement in the legal and institutional
framework for PFM, there remain significant challenges for continued and deeper
implementation. The most important challenge is to ensure the implementation of the
newly adopted PFM law through the creation of a new Directorate of Public Accounting
and establishment of a Single Treasury Account.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not Applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

53.     The risk to development outcomes is substantial. It is mostly associated with the
country’s vulnerability to external shocks, high risk of debt distress and potential political
difficulties to implement reforms. Historically, difficult inter-islands relations over the
use of public resources, within the context of weak governance, structural weaknesses in
PFM and high politicization, have been at the root of the country's protracted fragility.
This was reflected in the limited impact of some of the expected reforms and the pace at
which others were implemented. The new DPO series proposes to address this challenge
by identifying reforms which are endorsed by the Union and Island governments,
providing technical assistance to facilitate the consensus, and by seeking to foster trust
among the parties by improving transparency in the use of public resources.




                                               20
54.     The country is highly vulnerable to external shocks (natural disasters, increases in
international fuel and food prices, and slowdown in transfers), and potential political
difficulties to continue implementing reforms. Government finances remain fragile,
limiting the capacity of the authorities to respond to external shocks and maintain the
country on a steady macroeconomic path.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

55.      Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated moderately satisfactory.
Section 3.1 shows the relevance of objectives and design to the current country and
global priorities and how it was designed to support the implementation of core reforms
in Comoros’ PRGSP covering the period 2010-14. The operations’ identification and
appraisal drew from existing analytical work (see section 2.2) and Bank lessons from the
previous DPO (TA complementarity to budget support and importance to push for core
institutional reforms in fragile states). In the PFM area, the DPO benefited from the
diagnostic and dialogue supported by trust funded (LICUS and IDF) technical assistance
in 2006 and 2008, respectively. With regard to civil service reform, the policy dialogue
benefited from a 2005 diagnostic of the civil service wage bill and EGTA-funded recent
analytical support to the development of integrated civil service management software.
During identification 2 , preparation and appraisal, the Bank worked closely with the
Government teams and donors (i.e., IMF, AfDB, EU and France) to identify areas of
focus of the operation based on the Government’s own reform agenda. In the pillar
“Fostering public transparency and accountability”, the Bank team worked with the Vice-
presidency of Finance, the High Authority of Public Finance, the General Treasury and
the Ministry of Justice. The operation benefited from analytical pieces, such as, the
Africa Region Research paper “Avoiding Fragility Trap in Africa” (November, 2011),
which stressed the importance of transparency in the use of public resources. The Bank
Economic Governance Support Project team collaborated on issues of transparency and
civil service reform. In the area of transparency and accountability in the fisheries sector,
the Bank worked closely with the Comorian Fishing Authority. In the Energy Sector, the
operation benefited from the Diagnostic and Sector Review of the power and petroleum
sectors completed in August 2012 with Bank support and funded by the EU. The Bank
worked closely with the Vice-presidency of Finance, Vice-presidency of energy and
MAMWE to discuss reforms of the commercial function of this utility. Regarding
implementation of the National Platform for Disaster Management, the Bank benefited


2
    Please refer to Aide-memoire of May 23, 2012.



                                                    21
from the collaboration with UNDP related to the Bank’s funding in this area through the
department of “Global Facility for Disaster Risk Reduction (CFDRR)”, implemented in
partnership with UNDP. In this area, the Bank worked with the Ministry of Defense and
the Director General of Civil Protection.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

56.     The quality of supervision of this operation is rated moderately satisfactory. There
was one supervision mission in May 2013, combined with the identification mission of
the next programmatic DPO series. This helped assess the status of the outcome
indicators and informed the design of the new operation. The supervision mission was
also done simultaneously with an IMF mission to assess the implementation of the fifth
and sixth review of the IMF EFC supported program. At the same time, the supervision
missions of the Economic Governance TA (EGTA) operation also helped to follow up on
a continuous basis on the triggers related to PFM and economic governance. However,
there was no ISR late in the year and the government could have benefited from more
guidance from the Bank in a few areas, for example on following up with them to sustain
the publication of reports required to comply with the M&E of the operation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

57.     Given that the Bank performance for quality at entry is rated moderately
satisfactory, and quality of supervision is rated moderately satisfactory, the overall Bank
Performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance 3

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

(a) Government Performance (see Overall Borrower Performance)

58.     The Government overall performance for this operation is rated moderately
satisfactory. Comoros has made good progress with the adoption of relevant PFM
legislation and the establishment of institutions, as well as progress in the electricity and
fisheries sectors (see Table 4). Section 3.2 explains in detailed the actual achievements
of the anticipated outcomes. Despite the shortcomings in capacity, the Government still
managed to fully or partially achieve all indicators but one (the government was not



3
  According to the ICRR Guidelines, if Government and Implementing Agency are
indistinguishable, only an overall rating is necessary.



                                              22
successful in producing cash balance statements as per indicator 3). The Government
committed to move the agenda forward beyond HIPC related triggers and measures
(section 2.2). Fiduciary issues related to the PDO were adequate during project
implementation. The M&E arrangements were also adequate, but strengthening M&E
continues to be a medium term goal supported by donors. Furthermore, the relationship
and coordination with the Bank and other donors was highly satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance (see Overall Borrower
Performance)

59.     According to the ICRR Guidelines, if Government and Implementing Agency are
indistinguishable, only an overall rating is necessary and coordination with the Bank and
other donors was highly satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance (see Overall
Borrower Performance)

60.    Given that the Government performance is rated moderately satisfactory, and as
the Government and Implementing Agency are indistinguishable, the overall Borrower
Performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

61.     First, timely capacity assistance through adequate coordination with other sector
operations and other donors is critical to improve Government’s capacity to implement
reforms. The implementation of the reforms was facilitated by targeted technical
assistance provided by the Bank, i.e., through the IDA-supported Economic Governance
TA (EGTA) operation and in coordination with other donors. The AfDB provided
support through a capacity building and technical assistance project and direct budget
support. Donors routinely exchange information and coordinate missions to ensure
congruency of policies and maximize aid effectiveness.

62.      Second, although technical assistance is critical to support the implementation of
reforms, it is not always sufficient for entrenching change in national processes. The
design of reforms must also complement the existing capacities, be of relevance from a
political economy perspective and be tailored to the existing practicalities. This is of
particular relevance in fragile and low-capacity states. For example, transparency
initiatives may need to draw on both modern (internet) and traditional (press, radio,
notice boards) communication channels to be relevant and effective in establishing the
demand for good governance.

63.    Third, additional consensus may be warranted when implementing reforms that
touch upon the power sharing between the Island governments and the Union. For
example, the Bank may want to ensure that the Islands participate in relevant meetings to
ensure that the reforms that the Union Government wants to pursue are understood
among all key stakeholders. Better understanding should foster trust among the parties



                                             23
and help move the agenda forward. Also, the Bank needs to be more cautious and less
ambitious on these reforms to take into account the political economy.

64.    Forth, Bank supervision needs to follow up with the Government more closely
regarding the steps they need to take to achieve the indicators supported by the operation.
For example, during this operation, the government had information for publishing the
execution reports, but it was not clear to them that they needed to do it after the DPO was
disbursed, despite being part of indicator 2. A closer follow up might be sometimes
needed for the full success of an operation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

65.     The Borrower received a French version of this draft document and provided
several comments. The authorities concurred with the overall gist of this report which
will provide important lessons for the implementation of the on-going programmatic DPL
(see Annex 4).

(b) Co-financiers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                             24
Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
           Names                            Title                 Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Marcelo R. Andrade          Consultant                          AFTP1
Noro Aina Andriamihaja      Economist                           AFTP1
                            Lead Financial Management
Siaka Bakayoko                                                  AFTMW
                            Specialist
Helene Bertaud              Senior Counsel                      LEGAM
Fabrice Karl Bertholet      Senior Financial Analyst            AFTG2
M. Ananda Covindassamy      Consultant                          AFTG1
Bienvenu Rajaonson          Senior Environmental Specialist     AFTN1
Dieudonne
                            Senior Economist                    AFTP1
Randriamanampisoa
                                                                LEGAF-
Renganaden Soopramanien     Consultant
                                                                HIS
Xavier F. P. Vincent        Senior Fisheries Specialist         AFTN1
                            Senior Governance and Public
Hajarivony Andriamarofara                                       AFTP1
                            Sector Specialist
Anne- Lucie Lefebvre        Senior Public Sector Specialist     AFTP1

Supervision
Noro Aina Andriamihaja      Economist                            AFTP1


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                                             USD Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending/Supervision/ICR                          52                    243,643

                            Total:              52                       243,643




                                               25
Annex 2: Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable




                                      26
Annex 3: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not Applicable




                                      27
Annex 4: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                     28
Annex 5: Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not Applicable




                                       29
Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents


World Bank, Program Document for Economic Reform Development Policy Grant,
Report No. 72392-KM, October 30, 2012.

World Bank, Comoros, DPO (P122941) Implementation Status Report, June 2013.

World Bank, Electricity Sector Recovery Project, report No.PAD553, August 7, 2013.

World Bank, Program Document for the Economic Governance Reform Operation,
Report No. 81671-KM, March 27, 2014.

World Bank, Comoros ISN, April 2014.

World Bank, Avoiding the Fragility Trap in Africa, WPS5884, November 2011.

International Monetary Fund, IMF Country Report No.13/32, Union of the Comoros,
Staff Report for the 2012 Article IV Consultation, Fourth Review Under the Three-Year
Arrangement Under the Extended Credit Facility, February 2013.

International Monetary Fund, IMF Country Report No.13/371, Union of the Comoros,
Sixth Review Under the Three-Year Arrangement Under the Extended Credit Facility,
December 2013.

World Bank, BTOR – PREM - Mission to the Comoros - GAC TA (P143164), Economic
Governance and Public Sector DPO (P101688), Economic Governance Technical
Assistance - AF (P144381) and Statistical Support to Comoros (P146708), November 4 –
17, 2013.




                                           30
MAP IBRD 33389




                 31
