GRANT NUMBER H821-KM
Financing Agreement
(Economic Reform Grant)
between
UNION OF THE COMOROS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  10  DEC  2012  ,2012


﻿GRANT NUMBER H821-KM
FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated     ' J DEC 2012 , 2012, entered into between UNION OF THE
COMOROS ("Recipient") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
("Association") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in
the Appendix to this Agreement). rhe Association has decided to provide this financing on the
basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions whicf the Recipient has already taken under the Program and
which are described in,Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient's
maintenance of an ad-quate mac.roeconomic policy framework.  The Recipient and the
Association therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01.  The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of t-iis Agreemnt.
1.02. Unless the contc:xt requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to ihem in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II - FINANCING
2.01.  The Association agrees to uxtend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to three million three
hundred thousand Special Erawing Rights (SDR 3,300,000) ("Financing").
2.02.  The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03.  The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn
Financing Balance shall be )ne-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
2.04. The Payment DE.tes are June 15 and December 15 in each year.
2.05.  The Payment Currency is tl-e Euro.


﻿2
A: TICLE III - PROGRAM
3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end:
(a)    the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange vi.ws on the Recipient's macroeconomic policy framework and
the progress achieN ed in carrying out the Program;
(b)    prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
Association for it, review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, and
(c)    withoul limitation upor the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would
have tfe effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any
action iaken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV -- REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
4.01. The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation
has arisen which shall mak. it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will
be carried out.
ARTICLE V -- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01.  The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the
Program and wth the adequacy of the Recipient's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02. The Effectiveness Deadlinm is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01.  The Recipient's Representative is the Recipient's Vice President responsible for the
Ministry of fin.nce.


﻿3
6.02.  The Recipient's Address is:
Vice-Presidency rtsponsible for the Ministry of Finance, Economy, Budget,
Investment and For -ign Trade, and for Privatizations.
B.P. 324
Moroni
Union cf the Como -os
6.03.  The Association's Address is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:       Telex:               Facsimile:
INDEVAS              248423(MCI)          1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
AGREED at _c, !                     0   DEC 2012, as of the day and year first
aboN-e written.                              --
UNION OF THE
4 VAuthorized Representative
Name: M    kA KmjLj) A& I
Title:  t__0 ____   h_____v*
INTERNA IONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSO              ION
By
Authorized Representative
Name: _
Title:                      (A&   I


﻿4
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds
Section I.    Actions under the ProEram
The actions taken by the R ,cipi -nt under the Program include the following:
1. Fostering Public Transpar ?ncy and Accountability.
(a)    The Recipient has adopted and promulgated its public financial management bill
(Loi dey Opiratioi!s Fiancibres de l'Etat) in form and substance satisfactory to
the Association.
(b)    The Recipient has published its quarterly budget execution reports, for at least
two quarters, inch ding information on spending in social sectors and otherwise
in form and substence acceptable to the Association, on a public website or in a
newspaper of naticnal coverage.
(c)    The Recipient has adopted the decree on the new treasury administration and the
reform of the treasury administration is being implemented, with: (i) the
appoiniment of tho Director General of the Recipient's General Directorate for
Public Accounting and Treasury (Direction Ginirale de la Comptabilitj
Publique et du Trisor'; and (ii) the appointment of the Recipient's Paymaster
General of the Union of Comoros.
(d)    The Recipient has prepared and disclosed on a public website or in a newspaper
of national coverage, at least one bi-monthly report, covering the period from
July to August '012 on recruitments (each including an update on wage
payments and arrears and otherwise in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association) in th- central and Autonomous Islands' governments, by ministry
and commissariat and ty gender.
(e)    The Recipient has adopted a decree requiring key officials to submit annual asset
declarations, under conditions which strike a balance between individual rights to
privacy and the cverriding need to access information relevant to combating
corruption and avc iding conflict of interest.
(f)    Subject to the Reipient's pre-existing confidentiality obligations, the Recipient
has disclosed the list of all fishing agreements and all fishing licenses in force
during the previous twelve months (including for each agreement and license,
information in form and substance satisfactory to the Association on its
cumulated durationi and all related fees paid per category and access regime) on a
public website and in a newspaper of national coverage.


﻿5
2.    Addressing Economic and Social Vulnerabilities.
(g)    The Recipient (throug- its Minister responsible for energy) has approved a
comprehensive act on plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association,
for the reorganization of MAMWE's commercial function.
(h)    The Re:ipient has established the national platform for disaster risk management,
in form and substa-Ice satisfactory to the Association.
Seclion H.   Availability of Fiuancing Proceeds
A.     General. The Recipient r ay withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
the provisions af this Sec:ion and such additional instructions as the Association may
specify by notice to the Re,ipieit.
B.     Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single withdrawal
tranche, from which the Rec pient may make withdrawals of the Financing. The
allocation of the amounts cf the Financing to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocatiots               Amount of the Financing Allocated
(expressed in SDR)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche                       3,100,000
(2) Preparation Advance                              200,000
TOTAL AMC'UNT                                       3,300,000
C.     Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
No withdrawal shall be mede of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Association is
satisfied (a) with the Prcgrarn being carried out by the Recipient, and (b) with the
adequacy of the Recipient's ma-roeconomic policy framework.
D.     Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise agree:
1.    all withdrawals from the F inancing Account shall be deposited by the Association into an
account designated by the kecipient and acceptable to the Association; and
2.     the Recipient siall ensure that apon each deposit of an amount of the Financing into this
account, an eqiivalent air ount is accounted for in the Recipient's budget management
system, in a manner accepi able to the Association.
E.     Audit. Upon the Associat on's request, the Recipient shall:
1.    have the account referred 10 in Section II.D. 1 of Schedule I to this Agreement audited by
independent auditors accptale to the Association, in accordance with consistently
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association;


﻿6
2.    furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four (4)
months after th. date of the Association's request for such audit, a certified copy of the
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request; and
3.     furnish to the Association suc.i other information concerning such accounts and their
audit as the Association shall reasonably request.
F.     Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded
Expenditure, the Recipien sha1, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the
Association upon such request Ehall be cancelled.
G.     Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 30, 2013.


﻿7
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1      "Autonomous Islands" mans collectively the three constituent islands of the Union of
the Comoros, Crande Cornore, Anjouan and Moh9li.
2.     "Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a)    for goods or se vices supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan;
(b)    for goods includcd in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
Interna:ional Trad- Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient:
Group         Sub-group            Description of Item
112                                Alcoholic beverages
121                                Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122                                Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525                                Radioactive and associated
materials
667                                Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718           718.7                Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728           728.43               Tobacco processing
machinery
897           897.3                Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971                                Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)


﻿8
(c)    for goods intend -d for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which
the Recipient is a party';
(e)    on account of an y payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
and
(f)    with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coer:ive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or
other sich recipie:it) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to
the Association to address such practices when they occur.
3.    "General Conditions" means the "International Development Association General
Conditions for Credits and Grants", dated July 31, 2010 with the modifications set forth
in Section II of this Appendix.
4.     "MAMWE" means Socid.d Comorienne d'Eau et d'Electriciti, the Recipient's state-
owned public power and wNater itility company.
5.     "Preparation Advance" inans the advance referred to in Section 2.05 of the General
Conditions (renumbered a, such pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section II below), granted by
the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter agreement (No. Q802) signed on
behalf of the Association cn January 31, 2012 and on behalf of the Recipient on February
7, 2012.
6.     "Program" means the pro.)ram of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
growth and achieve sustai iable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
letter dated October 6, 2012 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the
Recipient's conmitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from
the Association in support of th. Program during its execution.
7.     "Single Withd -awal Tranche" means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section
II of Schedule to this Ag -eement.


﻿9
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1. The last sentence of pa-agraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in is entirety.
2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
3.     Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Auaits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
Article IV are renumbered accordingly.
4.     Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
relating to Use 9f Goods, Work- and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5.     Paragraph (c) of Section .1.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follow,.:
"Section 4.06. Plaas; Documents; Records
...    (c)    TI e Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the
Association's reprosentatives to examine such records."
6.     Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as
follows:
"Section 4.07. Pro gram Monitoring and Evaluation
...    (c)    Tle Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a report of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association
of their respect ve obligations under the Legal Agreements and the
accomplishment o'the purposes of the Financing."


﻿10
7.     The following lerms and d.fini:ions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
follows, and th- following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
(a)    The delinition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as follows:
"'Elig.ble Expenciture' means any use to which the Financing is put in support
of the Program, (ther than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the
Financing Agreement."
(b)    The term "Financial Statements" and its definition as set forth in the Appendix
are deleted in their entirety.
(c)    The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified
to read as follows:
"'Progiam' means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support
of which the Fina icing is made." All references to "Project" throughout these
General Condition are deemed to be references to "Program".


