('Aflh) n JRETRESTRICTED
FILE     COrPI                    Report No. P-391
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIIT
TO BECHUANALAND
FOR A ROAD PROJECT
July ZO, 1964



REPORT AND RESCOI4iNPATIONS CF THE PRESIDEINT 1To THE
EXEzUTrt.E DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED EVELOPiEW1N  C DEDIT
TO BECHUANAII`E) FCF A RCAD PROJECT
1.        I submit herewith the following report and recommendations on a
proposeed development credit to Bechuanaland in an anou-n7 in various cur-
rencies equivalent to $3.6 mldlion to assist in the improvement of
Beehuanaland's roads.
PART I - IINTRODUCTICN
2,        Bechuanaland is one of three United Kingdom dependencies in
southern Africa (Basutoland, Becluanaland and Swaziland klnown collec-
tively as the High Commrission Territories. The administration of
Bechuanaland is the responsibility of Her 2Iajesty' s Commissioner in the
territory.
3.        In 1959 an Economic Survey Mission, headed by Professor Chandler
Morse, visited the High Commuission Territories and made recommendations
concerning their econonic problems and develonment plans.  Following these
recormendations, the United Kingdom Government in 1961 requested financial
assistance for a number of projects in the Territories.  The mo1st important
projects were for roads and an IDA mission subsequently visited the Terri-
tories to st,udy the need for inwroved roads and the Territories' plans for
meeting it. A first IDA credit to Swasiland, for an amount of E2.8 million,
was made in March 1962.
4.        The Bechuanaland Governrent first submitted its road project at
the beginning cf 1961. An IDS mismson visited Bechuanaland in April 1 961
and found that various technical aspects of the project were unsatisfac-
tory. A more detailed proposal was subritted in December 2961, and in
January 1962 a second mission was sent to Beehuanaland.  The revised pro-
ject, which suffered from some of the same defects as the earlier subinis-
sion, was again revised, and after a third mission, in May 1963, a new
proposal was presented to IDA in October 1963. Negotiations on the pro-
posed credit were completed in June,
PART II - DESCRIETIOT OF THE PROPOSED DEVELOPYENT CREDIT
5.        The miain features of the proposed credit are as followst
Borrower:                 Bechuanaland Protectorate
Amount:                   The equivalent in various currencies
of $3,6 million,



-2-
Purpose:                  To help finance the construction and
reconstruction of three roads, a better-
rent scheme for the main north-south
road, and the strengthening of the
road .maintenance organization.
Term and Amortization:    50 years with no amortization for the
first 10 years. Repayment to be in
80 installments, 1/2 of I% of the prin-
cipal amount to be repaid semi-annually
beginning January 15, 1974 and ending
July 15, 1983 and 1-1/2% semi-annually
thereafter to July 15, 2013.
Service Charge:           3/  of 1% per annum on the principal
amount of the credit disbursed and
outstanding0
Payment Dates:            January 15 and July 15.
PART III - APPRAISAL OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
The Economy of Bechuanaland
6.        A report on the economy of Bechnanaland (No. EA-15b) is attached
(No. 1).
7.        Bechuanaland, land-locked between South-West Africa, Southern
Rhodesia and the Republic of South Africa has a large area (220,000
square mileo) but is sparsely populated (4o0-500,000 persons). Incomes
average about $60 a head. Political development is gaining momentum ard
Bechuanaland will probably attain internal self-government in 1965. The
timetable for independence is less certain, but independence is not ex-
pected before 1968. Relations with the Republic of South Africa may pres-
ent problems in the future. Bechuanaland has become a haven for political
refugees from South Africa, which has recently introduced border controls
and permits for migrant workers.  These difficulties, which are tempered by
a sense of realism on the part of Bechuanaland's leaders, should not be an
insurmountable obstacle to an orderly transition to independence.
7.        Most of the people are engaged in cattle-rearing and subsistence
farming. IWhat paid employment there is consists mainly of temporary work
by migrant laborers in South Africa. The major economic potential lies in
continued development of cattle production which, although hampered by
primitive husbandry, has grown substantially since the mid-fifties when an
abattoir was established.  The chief markets for Bechuanaland's cattle are
South Africa, Southern Rhodesia, the Congo (Leopoldville) and the United
Kingdom. Further growth of agriculture is likely, based on import sub-
stitution and increased exports. There is some mining of asbestos and
manganese ore. Additional mineral resources (mainly copper and salt brines)
are being surveyed, and the next few years may witness some development in
this sector.



- 3 -
8.        At present, Bechuanaland is part of the monetary and customs area
of the Republic of South Africa and the currency in use is the South
African Rand. 3echuanaland does not therefore have a balance of paymen-ts
position distinct from that of the Republic. Bechuanaaland receives subs-
tantial financial assistance from the Uj'ted Kingdom far both current and
capital expenditures. Without this assistance Bechuanaland would not only
be unable to grow but couild not support its present adninistrative services.
A large 5-year develonment plan has recently been launched, giving priority
to expenditure for animal husbandry, agriculture, roads and education. It
also provides for the construction of a new capital; the present capital
is at Mafeking, in South Pfrica. The plan represents a well-directed
effort towjards making the economy of Bechuanaland viable.
9.        Dependence on British financial assistance is likely to continue
for some years. The United Kingdom has therefore provided certain
assurances concerning future financial s-aport and the availability of
foreign currencies to service the credit (No. 2).  Considering Bechuana-
land's inability to service debt on cornventional terms, the po-verty of its
people and its satisfactory economic performance, I consider it appropriate
to provide assistance to Bechuanaland to promote its economic develo-pment
and to make this assistance available on IDA terms.
The Project
10.       Attached is a report (No. TO-hOèa) on the project (No. 3).
11,       The proposed project consists of the design, construction and
reconstruction of three roads totalling 355 miles in length, the better'ncrct
of the main north-south road, and the strengthening and expansion of Bechua-
nalandts road maintenance orgariZation. Although the number of -vehicles
registered in the territory is at present quite small, there is a consider-
able traffic of South African ard Rhodesian vehicles in the Protectorate
and the project shows a significart return in terms of savings in transport
costs. The project is also justified by the ex-pected developmzent of road
traffic and by the economic benefits which  ill accrue to Bechuanaland by
opening up its vast and unexploited territory.
12.       The principal road, from Francistomn to Naun, forms the main east-
west link across the country; it will result in increased cattle exports
from the regions served, as the road will permit trucking of cattle tc the
railhead for shipment to the aDattoir at Lobatsi. In addition, the road
will make possible a variety of new agricultural and mining activities. A
second road, from Serowe to Palapye, wfill irprove access to a large cattle
and agricultural district. The third road, from Gaberones - the new
capital city - to the border with the Republic of South Africa, is required
primarily for the flow of traffic between  the two coumtries. The improve-
ment of the north-south road, which is the backbcne of the territoryrs road
system and carries the heaviest traffic, will make possible all-weather
traffic between the largest towns in Bechuanalard; it will help to develon
agriculture in the regions served by it and will stimulate through-traffic



between Central and Southern Africa. Strengthening of the maintenan(ce
crganization is essential if inivestmrent in the e%isting roads and in those
included in the project is to be preserzred. The maintenance Fart of the
project includes the prOvisiOn of maintenar.ce equipment, a road training
scheme and the building of depots aloig the main roads.
23.       The cost of the project is estimated to be the equivalent of IJ.S.
$4.6 million,  Of this total, $3.6 million (smneuhat less than the exoend-
it-re expected to be incurred outside Bechuanalaind) i-would come from the
IDA credit and the remainder would be provided by the Government of
Bechuanaland from its own budget and from United Kingdom Colonial Develop-
ment and Welfrare fuunds.
14A.     =The ?blie \4orks Department, vihich ill be respoiboe for the
execution ard maintenance of the project, is ccmpetently staffed. It will
be assisted by engineering consultants in the design and supervision of
the project, as needed. The oulk of the construction work will be carried
out under cortracts aw-arded on the basis of irternational competitive
bidding. The execution of the project is not expecated to encouanter any
special problems. The Goverrnment has given assurances that road mainte-
nance allocations in its current budget, which until now have not been
adequate, will be increased.
PART IFJ - IGAL INSTPLUPENTS AID LEGAL AUTU OF_IY
15.       Attached is a draft Develonir ent Credit Agreemaent bet-een Bechia-
naiarfd andM the Association (Ks.. j). -he Daevlopment Credit regulations
would te applicable with the necessary modificaticns to take acconrnt of
the fact that t-he 3orroaler is a dependent territory of a member. The
draft Agreement ccr?-crts generally to the pazttern of Xssoiation credits
for projects of this type. The credit would be disbursed as a percentage
of expenditures on the project (Sections 2.0C3 and 3.01).
16.       The Report of the Cormmittee required by Article V, Section 1 (d)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Association is attached (No.5).
PART V - CCM?PLI.kCE WJIPR ARTICLES OP AGREUiEEiT
17.       I am satisfied that the proposed developrmnt credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreerent of the Association,
PART VT - RECOIH7I:DPATICTJS
18.       I recomrmend that the Association make available a developrenit
credit to Bechuanaland in an amount in variouls currencies equivalent to
$3.6 million for a total term of 5O years, with a service charge of 3/4



of 1% per annum, and on such other terms as are specified in the attached
draft Development Credit Agreement, and that the Executive Directors
adopt a resolution to that effect in the form attached (No. 6).
Washington, D.C.                                   George D. Woods
July 20, 196L                                        President



