Report No. 344a-SE                                                                        FILE
Senegal: Appraisal of
SOFISEDIT
(Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement Industriel et Touristique)
May 9, 1974
Development Finance Companies Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



OURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFAF
CFAF 1 = US$0.004
US$1   = CFAF 250
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB        African Development Bank
BCEAO      Banque Centrale.des Etats de l'Afrique de lOuest
BIAO       Banque Internationale pour 1'Afrique Occidentale
BICIS      Banque Internationale pour le Commeroe et l'Industrie au S&nfgal
mmDS       Banque Nationale de Dgveloppement du S6nJgal
CCCE       Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
DM,        Deutsche &atwicklung Gesellschaft
FMO        Nederlandee Financierings Maatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden
-.rZw      Kreditanstalt fu'r Wiederaufbau
SGBS       Soci6t4 Ggnerale de Banques au Senegal
5OFISEDIT  Socie'te Financidre S4negalaise Pour le Dfreloppement
Industriel et Touriatique
SOGPI      Societg Nationale dEtudes et de Promotion Industrielle
-SB        Union Senegalaise de Banques
This report was prepared by Mr. Diego Hidalgo on the basis of his mission
to Senegal in November 1973.



APPRAISAL OF A FIRST PROJECT TO ASSIST
THE SOCIETE FINANCIERE SENEGALAISE POUR LE
DEVELOPPMEENT INDUSTRIEL ET TOURISTIQUE (SOFISEDIT)
Table of Contents
Page, No.
SUMMARY ' ..  ................ ......................i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ......................................    ......  1
II.   INDUSTRIAL AND TOURISM DEVELOPMENT ..................        1
Summary of Economic Developments and Prospects.        1
The Tourism Sector ...        ............... *....    2
Industry ................................              4
Government Policies .....  .... . . .... . .  ....... .    7
SONEPI ...................................             8
Other Promotional Institutions ................    10
III.    FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS .....o. .....                        10
Credit System of the BCEAO .e.A O............         10
The BNDS .......                    ,                 11
The USB .............                                 12
The Commercial Banks ....................             13
IV.   THE SOFISEDIT PROPOSAL ......................               15
Background ..............                             15
Legal Basis .......16
Ownership                                             16
Two-Stage Formation ........... . ...... * .....    17
Objectives and Powers ...........09 ........   17
Policies .. ....... ............                      17
Management and Staff          ......                  18
Appraisal Procedures ......                           19
Relations with Other Institutions                     21
Auditors .........21
V.   OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL FORECAST .........         .      21
Business Outlook and Forecast Operations              21
Resource Requirements ...............0.00...   22
Projected Profitability and Financial Position.   22
VI.   CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS                              23
Conclusions         .         .      .       .23
Recommendations       ...........                     23






LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   SENEGAL - Approvals under Investment Code
2.   SENEGAL - Government Incentives to Investment
3.   SONEPI - Financial Assistance 1969-73
4.   BNDS - Summary Financial Statements 1970-73
5.   USB - Summary Financial Statements 1968-69/1971-72
6.   SENEGAL - Interest Rate Structure
7.   SENEGAL - Analysis of Outstanding Medium and Long-Term Credit 1963-73
8.   SOFISEDIT - Present and Contemplated Shareholding and Board Structures
9.   SOFISEDIT - Draft Statement of General Policy
10. SOFISEDIT - Board of Directors
11. SOFISEDIT - President's Curriculum Vitae
12. SOFISEDIT - List of Possible Projects
13. SOFISEDIT - Assumptions for Financial Projections
14. SOFISEDIT - Projected Operations
15. SOFISEDIT - Projected Income Statements
16. SOFISEDIT - Projected Balance Sheets
17. SOFISEDIT - Projected Cash Flow
18. SOFISEDIT - Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed Bank Loan






SUiARilY
i.        Although fixed investment in industry and tourism in Senegal has
averaged over $25 million for the last five years there has been no industrial
and tourism development bank in the country, which has an agricultural develop-
ment bank and four commercial banks providing medium-term financing. The
Bank Group was requested to participate in the establishment of a new indust-
rial development bank in Senegal in early 1970. At that time the Bank con-
cluded that immediate investment prospects did not warrant a new institution.
In 1972 the Government of Senegal proposed the creation of SOFISEDIT, an in-
dustrial and tourism development bank, as a joint venture with the participa-
tion of the Government, financial institutions in Senegal, IFC, Caisse Centrale
and other foreign institutions. One of the main issues considered was the
desirability of creating a new institution against choosing BNDS, an agri-
cultural development bank being reorganized, or USB, a sound and dynamic
commercial bank which had received lines of credit from foreign institutions
for long-term industrial financing. None of the latter alternatives had the
support of the Government or of the financial community. The Bank Group
concluded that SOFISEDIT was the most feasible means of establishing a well-
managed long-term industrial and tourism-financing institution in Senegal.
ii.       A Working Group including representatives of SOFISEDIT's prospective
shareholders and SONEPI, and industrial promotion institution, was formed in
June 1973. The Group has discussed SOFISEDIT's prospective policies, organi-
zation and staff, projected operations, and relationships with existing fi-
nancial and promotion institutions in the country. SOFISEDIT was incorporated
in March 1974; its share capital will be raised to CFAF 650 million of which
the Senegalese Government and public sector institutions will hold 46% and
Senegalese private shareholders 6%. IFC, Caisse Centrale (France), FMO
(Holland) and three foreign controlled commercial banks operating in Senegal
will take the remaining 48%. The Government has nominated and the Board
elected Mr. N'Diaye, a capable Senegalese, as Chief Executive of SOFISEDIT;
he will be assisted by an expatriate Deputy General Manager and a Director of
Investments who will be expected to train Senegalese Project Officers. The cost
of the expatriate team will be financed out of the Bank loan. SOFISEDIT will
start operations in June 1974.
iii.      IFC's participation in SOFISEDIT is important to bring in other
participants and to ensure a good start, the adoption by the company of sound
policies, and a stronger and more independent Board of Directors. IFC's
proposed investment in SOFISEDIT will be approximately US$200,000, about 7.7%
of total share capital. IFC will have a seat in SOFISEDIT's Board. While it
should be recognized that the financial return to IFC on this small investmeut
will be marginal for the foreseeable future, its involvement in SOFISEDIT is
of major importance for SOFISEDIT to ensure a good start, bring in other
participants and contribute to a stronger Board of Directors.
iv.       SOFISEDIT will make long and medium-term loans and equity invest-
ments in industrial and tourism projects in Senegal. SOFISEDIT will work in



- ii -
close cooperation with SONEPI to ensure consistency in economic analysis of
projects and that projects receiving incentives from the Government are
financially and economically viable.
v.        Prospects for investment in Senegal and projects now under prepara-
tion which could come for consideration to SOFISEDIT indicate that SOFISEDIT's
commitments through 1976 would amount to about $8 million.  A Bank loan of
$3 million would cover two-thirds of foreign currency requirements through
1976, and include up to $200,000 to finance the cost of the expatriate team.
vi.       The proposed loan would have an amortization schedule reflecting
the repayment schedules applied to subprojects, with maximum maturities of
20 years for tourism projects and 15 years for all other projects. The
foreign exchange risk would be borne by SOFISEDIT's borrowers. To help
SOFISEDIT through its initial operating stages, SOFISEDIT would be granted
concessional treatment on commitment charges. The free limit for individual
subprojects would be $100,000, with an aggregate free limit of $600,000.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In February 1970 a Banlk mission visited Senegal at the request of
the Government to examine the feasibility of creating a new development bank
to specialize in long-term financing for industrial projects. The mission
concluded that immediate investment prospects were not sufficient to warrant
the establishment of a new institution. In mid-1972 the Government again
raised the idea of creating a development bank to specialize in providing term
finance to industry and tourism. Government proposed the creation of Societe
Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement Industriel et Touristique (SOFIS-
EDIT) with a share capital of CFAF 600 million (US$2.4 million) as a joint
venture with the participation of the Government, Central Bank, local financial
institutions, IFC, Caisse Centrale and other foreign institutions. The Govern-
ment also requested a Bank loan for the institution. A Bank mission which
went to Senegal in November 1972 concluded that investment prospects in Senegal
had improved sufficiently to warrant a specialized institution, and recommended
Bank Group support of the SOPISEDIT proposal. During 1973, Bank and IFC staff
assisted in planning the establishment of the new institution. This report
is a result of a mission in November 1973 to appraise SOFISEDIT for an IFC
investment and a Bank loan.
II.  INDUSTRIAL AND TOURISM ENVIRONMNT
Summary of Economic Developments and Prospects
2.01      Since independence in 1960 the rate of economic growth in Senegal
has been less than the population growth rate due to the difficult process
of adaptation to the more limited economic, political and administrative role
of the country as compared to its pre-independence role in French West Africa.
Moreover, during the second half of the decade, the rural sector was seriously
affected by unusually adverse weather conditions, aggravated by a fall in
groundnut producer prices. As a result, groundnut production (which accounted
during 1960-70 for about half of value added by the agricultural sector and
for more than half of Senegal's export earnings) fell from a peak of 1.1 mil-
lion tons in 1965 to less than 600,000 tons in 1970; production in 1972 was
only 350,000 tons following the catastrophic drought in West Africa. In 1973
groundnut production may have reached 650,000 tons.
2.02      In spite of these difficulties, the annual rate of growth in the
industrial sector reached 4.7 percent during the period 1960-1971 (6.2 per-
cent excluding the groundnut processing sector), or about four times that of
the rest of the economy. While the growth in the first half of the decade
is largely explained by the implementation of import substitution policies,
the major explanatory factor during 1966-71 has been a marked increase in
exports, mainly towards neighboring countries with which Senegal forms a
partial customs union. By 1970, 25 percent of local manufacturing production



-2-
(other than groundnuts) was exported, accounting for about $60 million, or
almost 40 percent of Senegal's total exports, as coapared to 23 percent in
1965 and 17 percent in 1960.
2.03      Bank projections of economic growth during the next several years
(4.8 percent per annum at constant prices) point to a sizable improvement
as compared to past performance. As a result of drastic financial measures
taken in favor of the rural sector, a marked recovery is expected in this
sector in the 1970's. The Bank has projected that value added in manufactur-
ing could grow at about 6 percent per annum between 1971 and 1980. Growth
should also be stimulated by the Government's successful efforts to diversify
agriculture and to stimulate the expansion of fishing and tourism already
underway.
The Tourism Sector
2.04      Senegal has important assets for the development of tourism, in-
cluding attractive beaches, a long warm and sunny season, and reasonable
accessibility to Dakar from Western Europe and America, with over 40 inter-
continental flight landings per week. However, tourism development, while
growing rapidly, has been limited, due mainly to the lack of hotel accommoda-
tions. No detailed tourism statistics had been gathered until January 1972;
however the evolution of air arrivals in the last five years allows the
following estimates to be made (in thousands):
Estimated
Nio. of
Arrivals by Air        All Arrivals       Tourists  Hotel Bednights
1968        72                    88               30            108
1969        83                    99               34            122
1970        92                   106               37            133
1971       102                   116               40            144
1972       131                   171               59            256
1973
(6 months)  81                   100               54            228
While the rate of growth in tourists and hotel bednights has been spectacular
since 1971, the estimated 228,000 hotel bednights for the first six months of
1973 compare with about 10 million annual hotel bednights in the neighboring
Canary Islands. The average stay of tourists is short (4.2 days in 1973),
reflecting a high proportion of airplane crews and of travellers combining
Dakar with other stops in package tours, but it is gradually increasing as
the proportion of "pure tourists" grows. Over 80% of tourists come from
Western Europe, only 10% from America and less than 10% from Africa and Asia.
2.05      Tourism statistics for the first six months of 1973 show that
average room occupancy of hotels has been about 80% (over 90% in the peak



winter menths), which suggests that lack of hotels has been a bottleneck for
tg4rim development. At the end of June 1973 the total hotel capacity in
Senegal suttable for international tourism was 1,771 rooms, over two thirds
of which were in Dakar, with only about 580 rooms scattered throughout the
reat of the country, About 800 rooms (all directed toward the foreign visitor
mark.et) are presently under construction, of which half are in the Dakar area;
this will bring total capacity suitable for foreign visitors to about 2,500
rooms, of which about 1,500 will be in Dakar.
2.06      Because of a high import component, weak project planning and lack
of sufficiont control, costs have been on the high side in some cases, par-
titeula4rly for luxury hotels where costs have been as high as $35,000 per room
(Hotel Teranga and Village Cap Skirring). However, for other hotels (Necker-
man, Sunugal, Twabacounda) investment costs are lower (about $12,000/room) and
thus there will be a mix of various categories of rooms available on the
market. Even the expensive hotels are quite profitable because of relatively
high prtces and favorable occupancy ratios.
2,07      Except for two hotels financed entirely by equity funds, initial
debt/equity ratios for hotels have ranged between 70/30 and 60/40. Long-term
finAncing has been arranged on a case-by-case basis from abroad, mostly from
Catae Centrale de Cooperation Economique, and the implementation of several
other proposed hotels has been delayed considerably by lack of long-term funds.
Medium-term loans rediscountable at BCEAO account for about 20% of total hotel
financing. About 30% of the hotel capacity existing or being added in Senegal
belongs to natlonals.
2.08      Tourism Prospects.  The growth in hotel bednights by over 70% in
1972 and 78% in the first half of 1973, and the high occupancy ratio of hotels
in Senegal show that the main bottleneck for tourism expansion in the country
has been the inxufficieney of hotel accommodations. Although the planned
increase in hotel capacity is likely to keep up with demand in Dakar, con-
siderable potential exists in other regions, particularly in the Petite Cote
(4 long string of beaches 60 miles south of Dakar). A UNDP-financed feasibil-
ity study of the development of the Petite Cote is presently underway; the
Government has also requested World Bank financing for the required infra-
structure but, if the results of the study are positive, the necessary works
will probably delay the start of hotel construction for another three or four
yeares Other regions with considerable potential are Casamance (south of
Gambia) and the Sine Saloum islands, where several hotels are planned or under
construction. A tourism school (possibly to be financed by the World Bank)
is expected to open in 1977 and will help solve manpower problems.
2.09      Recent tourism demand studies undertaken for Senegal show that if
the right kind of accommodations in price and category were available, tour-
ism bednights could increase annually by over 30% for the next ten years.
It is now diffieult to assess the possible long-term effects of the energy
crisis on Senegal's tourism prospects; the effects in 1974 and 1975 appear



- 4 -
minimal because supply of hotel capacity is and will probably continue to be
the bottleneck. The Fourth Development Plan (June 30, 1973 - June 30, 1977)
includes the construction of 6,270 hotel beds with a total investment cost of
CFAF 18.4 billion, with an additional 5,000 beds and CFAF 8.8 billion in
"optional projects" in the Petite Cote. Although this target appears un-
realistic due to constraints in infrastructure and trained personnel, about
fifteen medium-to-large hotels with about 3,000 rooms and a total investment
cost of over CFAF 10 billion are scheduled to start construction in the period
1974-1976. Although Senegal would need almost 1,000 new hotel rooms a year
to keep up with likely demand, plans based on advanced proposals indicate that
at least 500 hotel rooms at an average cost of CFAF 4-5 million/room will be
built in each of the next four years; annual investments would therefore be
on the order of SFAF 2-3 billion.
Industry
2.10      Historical Development and Orientation.  Modern industry was intro-
duced into Senegal well before World War II. The industrialization process
accelerated during the 1950's, when French firms established plants to serve
all of former French West Africa (FWA), i.e., a market of about 20 million
people. The industrial sector, however, faced a difficult situation in the
early 1960's after transformation of FWA into a number of independent states,
because of the loss of Dakar's privileged position as the capital of FWA,
and a depressed local demand for manufactured goods due to the departure of
most French civil and military personnel.
2.11      In spite of difficulties encountered, the manufacturing sector
played a relatively important role in the 1960-71 period. During this period
annual growth of industrial output reached 4.7% at constant prices (6.2% ex-
cluding the groundnut processing sector which accounts for 11% of total value
added in industry), compared with an over-all growth of only 1.4% in GDP.
Growth of exports in the latter part of the 1960's contributed about one third
of the increase in industrial output. Exports of manufactured products (ex-
cluding processed groundnuts) rose to $60 million in 1970-71, compared to
$35 million and $25 million five and ten years before. They now account for
25% of the production in the manufacturing sector (groundnut processing
excluded). These new markets were found largely within former FWA, although
some firms, mostly in textiles, have proved to be competitive in the markets
of developed countries.
2.12      The relative importance of the textile, mechanical, and electrical
sectors, has increased since independence: while they accounted together
for 32% of value added in manufacturing (excluding groundnut processing) in
1959, they now represent 45%. Another important sector is foodstuffs,
although its share of value added in manufacturing has decreased from 38% to
25% during the period. Chemical industries now contribute 9% of total value
added.



-5-
2.13      The present position of manufacturing within the national economy
may be briefly summarized as follows.  Value added in manufacturing d,mounts
to CFAF billion 28.5 ($110 million) equivalent to 12% of GDP at factcir costs.
Not counting the artisan, sector, modern industry provides employment for
approximately 20,000 persons, against an estimated 13,000 persons a decade
ago.
2.14      Investment.  New investment in the manufacturing sector increased
at about 14% per annum between 1962 and 1967. Gross investment excluding a
large sugar complex is estimated to have amounted to over CFAF 4 billion per
annum in 1969-71, against CFAF 2.5 billion per annum per annum in 1964-66.
This growth of investments in the past recent years may suggest that the
problem of over-capacity in manufacturing sector, due to shrinkage of market
in the early 1960's, is now over, except for groundnut processing industries
which, following decreasing crops, were working at only 68% of their capacity
in 1969-71 and at less than 40% in 1973 due to the drought.
2.15      The annual sectoral breakdown of approvals under the Investment
Code shown in Annex 1 provides a good indication of the growth of investor's
interest in recent years. In the period January 1, 1970-August 31, 1973
approvals by the Investment Commission have totaled over CFAF 44 billion, or
three times the approvals in the eight preceding years. Excluding projects
in tourism, a tire project later withdrawn, and a large sugar mill approved
in 1970, industrial investments approved have averaged CFAF 4 billion annually
since 1970.
2.16      Geographical Distribution.  From its inception, Senegal's industry
has been located primarily in Dakar and in the Cap Vert region. Around 70%
of all industrial enterprises are situated there. They benefit from the con-
centration of Senegal's infrastructure and purrhasing power in the Cap Vert
region where 20% of the population lives and where per capita GNP is two and
a half times the average in the country, and nearly eight times the average
for the population living in the hinterland. Although the Government has
tried to encourage investments outside Dakar (see para. 2.23) the concentra-
tion of industry in Dakar is unavoidable because few large projects would be
viable outside. Annex 1 shows that almost two-thirds of investments receiving
incentives since 1962 have been in the Cap Vert region.
2.17      Ownership.  Modern industry is almost completely in the hands of
expatriates, although it is not possible to express in quantitative terms
the distribution of enterprises according to size and nationality of ownership.
However, it is estimated that 85% of industrial assets are still owned by
French investors. There are about 400 enterprises in the modern sector (i.e.,
with over 20/30 workers) of which less than 10% are owned by Senegalese; this
proportion is probably significantly more than it was three years ago due to
SONEPI's action (see para. 2.26). Modern industry is almost completely pri-
vate; the Government, until now, has taken few equity investments in industrial
companies. The main exception relates to fisheries: the State has associated
with French companies to develop tuna fishing and canning.



2.18      Labor and Wages.  Labor productivity in Senegal may be as high as
in Europe in the case of mechanized or repetitive industrial operations. In
contrast, productivity may be lower, and sometimes much lower, than in European
countries when skills requiring years of training are involved and/or when
the work pace is not controlled by the machine. Senegalese industry has also
benefited from a relatively low rate of increase in industrial wages. Indi-
cations are that, despite the heavy and increasing cost of expatriates, the
rate of wage increases may have been less than 5% per annum in the 1960's as
compared to about 8% between 1950 and 1961. Present wages range from a
minimum of CPAF 25/hour (CFAF 2,000/week) to about CFAF 140/hour (CFAF 5,600/
week) for highly qualified labor.
2.19      Senegalization.  The Government wants to maintain its encouiragement
of foreign private investment and welcomes the establishment of foreign-owned
firms in Senegal, although it also seeks increased opportunities for Sene-
galese-owned enterprises and joint Senegalese-foreign ventures. However, it
has decided that with the exception of top management and of experts of un-
usual skills or qualifications, all labor and supervisory jobs in new and
existing industrial enterprises should be filled by Senegalese by 1981. All
enterprises have been asked to submit to the Government a timetable for train-
ing of Senegalese and their replacement of expatriate staff. Progress of the
implementation of timetables will be reviewed yearly by the Government.
2.20      Prospects.  Except for capacity expansions to meet increases in
domestic consumption there seems to be little scope for further import sub-
stituting industries. The real future for Senegalese industries lies with
exports to developed countries and, to a minor extent, with development of
exports to countries associated with Senegal in the recently established
Communaute Economique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest which succeeded UDEAO. A free
port and free trade area in Dakar projected by the Government may help export
oriented investments but is still at a preliminary stage of preparation.
Senegal will also have to cope with the three following obstacles: (a)
quality needs to be improved; this fact puts special pressure on the need
for skilled labor and the development of managerial ability; (b) most products
would have to be manufactured on a larger scale that at present, requiring
substantial investments; (c) Government incentives to industry (protection
and the Investment Code - see below) have artificially protected a few sectors
of Senegalese industry from international competition (and even domestic
competition in some cases).
2.21      The Government's Fourth four-year Development Plan 1973-1977 projects
investments in manufacturing totalling CFAF 17.6 billion or CFAF 4.4 billion/
year. The Plan projections include an investment of CFAF 3 billion in a tire
project which has subsequently been found unviable and abandoned. They ex-
clude, however, any investments in the free port as well as the Dakar-Marine
project (a proposed major ship-repair project) and any side-effects that this
project might have on Senegalese industry. A few large projects not included
in the Plan are now under preparation: they include investments of CFAF 3
billion needed by the five main groundnut oil processingxlenterprises to comply



- 7 -
with new toxicity standards recently imposed by the EEC on its oilcake imports.
These and other firm proposals suggest that annual investments in manufactur-
ing will probably not fall below of CFAF 4 billion in the next few years; they
may exceed that amount considerably if the Dakar Marine project is finally
implemented and if the Government is successfuL in promoting the installation
of industries exporting to Western Europe.
Government Policies to Promote Investment
2.22      Since independence the Government has continuously endeavored to
promote industrial investment by financial incentives to enterprises, parti-
cularly through an Investment Code, protection of the local market against
foreign competition, and the creation in 1969 of a semi-public institution,
SONEPI, for the promotion of Senegalese small and medium-scale enterprises.
2.23      The Investment Code.  Detailed provisions of the Investment Code
are shown in Annex 2. In June 1972 the Investment Code was amended to extend
financial incentives to agricultural and tourism investment; a special bill
was enacted at the same time to grant specific advantages to small- and medium-
scale Senegalese enterprises. Incentives included in the Code are greater for
enterprises outside the Cap Vert. The new Code guarantees foreign investors
in industry, tourism, agriculture and research the free repatriation of their
invested capital and subsequent earnings. Enterprises in such sectors may
also be given by decree the status of a "priority enterprise", provided they
undertake investments of at least CFAF 100 million or create a minimum of 50
new jobs for Senegales. A "priority enterprise" may be granted exemption of
duties and taxes on imported equipment for the investment, reduction of duties
and taxes on imported equipment for the investment, reduction of duties on
imported raw materials required for manufacture, partial protection against
foreign competition, and up to five-year exemptions of income taxes (33%).
Tax holidays can be of up to 8 years for enterprises located outside the
Cap Vert. Enterprises undertaking investments of at least CFAF 500 million
over three years may sign an "Establishment Convention" with the Government,
thereby being granted, in addition to part or all of the above advantages, a
guarantee that the level of fiscal charges levied on them for a period of up
to 20 years will not be changed. Small- and medium-scale Senegalese enter-
prises owned by nationals may also benefit from fiscal advantages under a
special bill enacted in June 1972, when they invest at least CFAF 5 million
in two years (CFAF 3 million in agriculture); as of June 1973, 35 enterprises
(for a total investment of CFAF 645 million) had received incentives under
this Act.
2.24      Applications for benefits under the Investment Code with a project
appraisal prepared by SONEPI (see para. 2.28 below) are discussed by a Technical
commission headed by the Ministry of Planning and then submitted to an inter-
ministerial Committee which meets in principle monthly. Decisions are taken
unanimously. Since 1962, 114 enterprises have benefited from the Code for a
global investment of CFAF 59.1 billion ($263 million); most decisions were
taken in the past four years (see Annex 1).



- 8 -
2.25      The loss of revenue for the Government and other economic costs of
benefits granted under the Investment Code are not being estimated. A regime
of duties, taxes and other charges levied on imported commodities has provided
excessive protection to some import substitution projects. In addition, partial
or complete import bans for selected products can be negotiated on a case-by-
case basis between the Government and industries. Thus the existing incentive
system has often encouraged import substitution more than world-wide export-
oriented projects, and may jeopardize competitiveness in the export market
outside CEAO by pushing up prices of intermediate goods. It is important
that the Government acquire the skills to undertake sound economic analysis;
during negotiations Sofisedit agreed with the Bank on guidelines for calculat-
ing the economic return of project proposals, and Government agreed that
Sofisedit will be invited to become a member of the T.C.. (See paras. 4.18-
21.)
The Societe Nationale d'Etudes et de Promotion Industrielle (SONEPI)
2.26      SONEPI was established in 1969 as a predominantly public corporation
with a share capital of CFAF 55 million of which the Government has 24%, BNDS
23%, the Central Bank 18%, USB 4%, and the other commercial banks 2% each;
the remaining 25% is evenly distributed among seventy companies established
in Senegal. SONEPI's primary objective is the development of small and medium-
scale industrial enterprises controlled by Senegalese. To this end, SONEPI
makes feasibility studies of selected industrial projects, seeks Senegalese
investors to sponsor feasible projects it has identified, and assists them
in project development, organization and management, improvement in methods
of production and in providing finance and acts as technical counselor of the
Government for policies regarding Senegalese entrepreneurship. SONEPI has
also been used by the Government to analyze industrial projects applying for
incentive under the Investment Code.
2.27      SONEPI's professional staff totals 23; it includes three members
from a UNIDO team, three experts from the Fonds d'Aide et Cooperation (FAC)
and one financed by German aid. The UNIDO team is scheduled to leave SONEPI
at the end of 1974, and German aid is expected to replace it.
2.28      Assistance to small Senegales enterprises.  SONEPI's assistance
has been given in the three following forms:
(a) Equity Participations and Guarantees. To ease difficulties for
small Senegalese enterprises to have access to credit from commercial
banks SONEPI was endowed at the end of 1970 by FAC, Caisse Centrale
and the Government with two funds totaling CFAF 80 million: an "equity
participation fund" and a "guarantee fund". Annex 3 shows the 27 proj-
ects which have so far received equity participations and guarantees.
Except for two large ones, investment costs of the projects have
averaged CFAF 10 million. SONEPI's funds are scarce and almost fully
committed. SONEPI's participation fund will probably be increased by



- 9 -
CFAF 40 million by a long term loan from KfW in 1974, which should
provide sufficient resources for about a year. The guarantee fund
will also be increased through allocations of 1.5% of the amount out-
standing on a KfW loan to USB.
(b) MIanagement training. SONEPI's role in training Senegalese entre-
preneurs is particularly interesting. A specific department with five
professionals under the guidance of a UNIDO expert gives a technical
assistance to about sixty enterprises; special training courses of ten
weekly morning or evening sessions (16 to date) are also organized for
entrepreneurs in order to give them an elementary knowledge of business
management, including shop organization, bookeeping and calculation of
costs. All applicants for equity participations and guarantees from
SONEPI must enroll in these courses.
(c) Industrial estates for small scale industry. SONEPI has so far
created a small industrial estate in Thies where ten small enterprises
are now established. These companies have experienced difficulties,
mainly because of lack of continuous assistance but they are now improv-
ing. Another industrial estate is to be created soon in Zinguinchor,
to be followed by one in Kaolack; and three more are now under study.
2.29      Evaluation.  Even though at a modest scale, SONEPI is slowly proving
to be a useful and effective institution, probably among the best in Africa
in promoting indigeneous entrepreneurs. In the short period since its creation,
SONEPI has given technical and/or financial assistance to some 80 Senegalese
enterprises which have increased their aggregate sales from CFAF 273.5
million in 1970 to an estimated 824.5 million in 1973, and their employment
by almost 500 jobs. Several enterprises including two furniture companies,
two in construction and a shrimp freezing operation, have been very successful
following SONEPI's assistance, and about thirty others have good prospects.
There have been very few failures so far. Its equity participations and
guarantees which have a modest limit of CFAF 3 million per operation have
succeeded in mobilizing other sources of funds and resulted in an aggregate
investment of CFAF 561 million (see Annex 3). While in two or three instances
there have been some pressures on SONEPI to finance doubtful ventures, SONEPI's
Executive Committee has reached its decisions exclusively on project viability
grounds. The relative success of SONEPI's assistance and the small number of
failures prove the soundness of SONEPI's entrepreneurs selection process.
2.30      SONEPI has been much less effective in its role as appraiser of
industrial projects applying for incentives to the Investment Commission; its
economic analysis has been weak, and has supported some projects with doubtful
economic justification. (See paragraph 4.21)
2.31      SONEPI faces several increasingly severe problems.  First, it will
lhave an increasing workload in assisting the small scale industrial sector
as the number of companies under its supervision increases. Second, as



- 10 -
SONEPI is a relatively efficient institution the Government tends to rely on
it and give it increasing and varied responsibilities which may conflict with
its main objectives. Third, the UNIDO team will leave at the end of 1974
and SONEPI will have to attract, develop and keep an increasing number of
Senegalese staff. To cope with these problems SONEPI, whose present budget
of about CFAF 50 million (excluding external technical assistance) is now
substantially financed by the Government, will need to develop other sources
of revenues. This should include not only further foreign technical assist-
ance but also an attempt to generate income from its financial assistance and
technical services.
Other Promotional Institutions
2.32      Two other promotional institutions lhave recently been created by
the Government: (a) Societe Nationale de Garantie et d'Assistance au Commerce
(SONAGA) which gives accounting assistance and manages a guarantee fund for
loans to Senegalese-owned commercial and transport enterprises; and (b)
Societe Nationale de Promotion de Tourisme (SNPT) which will manage the port-
folio of Government's minority participations in hotel companies in Senegal,
and will gradually develop a technical bureau to undertake feasibility studies
of hotel projects.
III. FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
Credit System of the BCEAO
3.01      Senegal is a member of the Western Africa Monetary Union established
in 1962 and composed of six countries with a common central bank, the
Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO). Banking and credit
institutions in Senegal include four commercial banks (BICIS, BIAO, SGBS, USB),
an agricultural development bank (BNDS), and, with relatively limited roles,
SONEPI and SONAGA.
3.02      The Monetary Union makes possible the pooling of reserves among the
seven member countries, and guarantees the convertibility of the CFA Franc
into the French Franc and the freedom of capital movements and remittances.
IHowever, a direct consequence of this system is also to place the burden of
external stability on credit policies. The degree of difficulty of the task
of the Central Bank to maintain monetary stability is a function of the
balance of payments situation of the individual country (in spite of the
pooling of reserves, no individual country can run an external deficit at
the expense of the zone over an extended period of time). In Senegal, this
task is particularly difficult due to a tight balance of payments situation
and an increasing demand for credit.



- 11 -
3.03      The major instrument of monetary policy is the qualitative and
quantitative control of credit exercised by BCEAO through a global rediscount
ceiling set for the country as a whole, individual ceilings for each bank
and each borrower, and detailed study of each individual application for
rediscoxnt facilities. In order to ensure that the financial resources of
the country are used internally, except for the normal outflow of expatriate
remittances and investment income payments, the rediscount ceiling on a
country basis is defined as the difference between the forecast needs of the
economy (subject to the limits imposed by the balance of payments equilibrium)
and its internal resources.
3.04      Individual bank ceilings for rediscountable short-term credit (less
than two years) and medium-term credit (two to seven years) are determined
separately. To date medium-term financing is provided in Senegal by BNDS
and the four commercial banks: most credits are rediscountable at BCEAO,
within the individual bank's ceiling. Medium-term rediscountable loans
generally finance local currency costs and cover the import component of an
investment when external long-term loans and suppliers' credits are not
available. The proportion of credit to project cost is generally limited to
a maximum of 65%. There has been no internal source of long-term financing
(over seven years). Long-term credit to industry has been extended only
by CCCE, directly or through BNDS 1/ (until 1970, see para. 3.06) at low
interest rates (3-1/2 - 6-1/2%).  However, USB has recently obtained from ADB
and KfW two long-term loans totalling CFAF 700 million (US$2.8 million). No
commitments under these loans have yet been made by USB (see para. 3.10
below). Those loans are to be used for the long-term financing of small and
medium-scale industries.
3.05      The short-term rediscount ceiling for an individual bank cannot
exceed 65% 2/ of its short-term financing operations. As regards development
banks (BNDS) the medium-term rediscountable ceiling is defined by BCEAO as
150% of the sum of the bank's equity (minus fixed assets and its equity
investments), and its long and medium-term resources (minus term loans not
rediscountable). Medium-term rediscountable credits guaranteed by the
Government are not included in the ceiling, although they nevertheless are
eligible for discounting. A less favorable definition applies to commercial
banks.
Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal (BNDS)
3.06      BNDS was established in 1964 by merging two financial institutions:
Banque Senegalaise de Developpement and Credit Populaire Senegalais. Its
1/   Between 1951 and 1973 CCCE made loans to private sector amounting to
CFAF 7.3 billion of which CFAF 4.2 billion for one company. "Les
Phosphates de Taiba".
2/   50 percent for banks which do not participate in the financing of agri-
culture crops.



- 12 -
main shareholders are the Senegalese Governmen: (65%), CCCE (23%), and
BCEAO (6%). The present share capital of CFAF 1,700 million will be
increased in 1974 to CFAF 2,400 million through Government's subscription
(CFAF 100 million) and conversion of Government's advances (CFAF 600 million).
Formerly a multi-purpose development bank lending to all sectors of the
economy, using CCCE funds for long-term loans and BCEAO rediscount facilities
for medium-term lending, BNDS has specialized, since a Government decision
in 1970, in operations to the agricultural and agro-business sectors. BNDS
is primarily responsible for providing short-term crop loans; in 1971-72 it
extended 70% of the short-term consortial groundnut crop credit. The total
portfolio of BNDS short and medium-term loans to agriculture has grown from
CFAF 6 billion in 1969 to CFAF 8.1 billion in 1973. BNDS is used to lend to
cooperatives a part of two IDA credits of $6 million granted in 1969 and 1973
for developing production and yields of groundnut and millet-sorghum in the
Groundnut Basin. BNDS long-term and medium-term operations to the private
sector developed as follows (years ending September 30):
1969         1970         1971         1972         1973
No. Amount   No. Amount  No. Amount  No. Amount  No. Amount
Industry /      2     72      1     36    7   816 /2  3       42    4    256
Fisheries       -      -      2    100    2   226       -      -    -       -
/1   Including agro-industry.
72   Of which CFAF 500 million to Campagnie Sucriere Senegalaise.
3.07      Comparative balance sheets and income statements of BNDS are given
in Annex 4. After experiencing a loss of CFAF 22 million in 1970/71 and a
breakeven year in 1971/72, operational surplus for the year ending September 30,
1973 is CFAF 172 million before depreciation and provisions for bad debts, and
should result in a small net profit. For the past two years BNDS has been
trying to improve its organization and clarify its accounts. A competent and
dynamic General Manager has been appointed by the Government, its organization
has been changed and most accounts clarified. Societe Fiduciere Suisse, an
audit firm designated by IDA, has reorganized BNDS' accounting system.
I
Union Senegalaise de Banques
3.08      USB was established in 1961 to take over Credit Lyonnais' activites
in Senegal. USB has a share capital of CFAF 1 billion distributed among the
Government (32% directly and 19% held by BNDS), Credit Lyonnais (37%), and
three German, Italian and US banks (about 4% each). Its Board of Directors
has 12 members of whom 6 are Senegalese. Since its creation, USB has had
the same Senegalese General Manager, who is assisted by a Deputy Managing
Director seconded by Credit Lyonnais. Comparative financial statements of USB
are shown in Annex 5.



- 13 -
3.09      The Government decided in 1970 to transfer from BNDS to USB the main
responsibility for medium and long-term financing to industry. This, and USB's
dynamism, explain the increase of USB's medium-term loans from 8 credits for
CFAF 267 million in FY 1970 (year ending September 30) to 21 loans for
CFAF 1.2 billion in FY 1972; and 20 loans for CFAF 1.1 billion in FY 1973,
of which about half was for manufacturing projects. USB accounted for 37%
of medium-term rediscountable loans made in FY 1972 in the country. USB's
financial situation is good, although net profits have been moderate and
now run at about 8% on equity.
3.10      To carry out its role in the long-term financing of industry, and
particularly Senegalese enterprises, USB was recently granted, with the
Government's guarantee, two lines of credit from KfW and the African Develop-
ment Bank which are to finance small and medium-size projects in industry and
services. 1/ The KfW line of credit is only to finance Senegalese controlled
enterprises. To handle this business USB has created a department of
"Industrial Development, Projects and Studies", which consisted of a senior
officer and a young Senegalese university graduate as of November 1973. Their
studies focus on basic questions of creditworthiness as opposed to in-depth
project appraisal. USB has found it difficult to commit its loan from ADB
because of the latter's rigid documentation requirements and may have to
cancel it, as it has been paying a commitment charge since April and no com-
mitments had been made as of November 1973; the credit line from KfW is expected
to be fully committed by the end of 1974. USB has already sent eight projects
to KfW which, is approved, would use three fourths of the loan. The Government
and other lenders have agreed that future lines of credit for industrial
financing will be channelled through SOFISEDIT. However USB will continue
to grant medium-term loans rediscountable at BCEAO.
The Commercial Banks
3.11      The three other commercial banks operating in Senegal besides USB
are BICIS, BIAO and SGBS. BICIS, with a share capital of CFAF 750 million,
is 37% owned by the French Banque Nationale de Paris and 51% by Societe
Financiere pour les Pays d'Outre Mer which has among its shareholders BNP,
Dresdner Bank, Banque Lambert and Bank of America. Private Senegalese hold
12%. First National City Bank has 49% of BIAO, the rest belongs to the French
Compagnie Financiere France-Afrique. SGBS is a subsidiary of French Societe
Generale. Its share capital was recently raised from CFAF 500 million to
CFAF 625 million; private Senegalese investors are expected to hold 10%.
3.12      The three banks, which are approximately of the same size, are
basically commercial banks. According to the banking law, they can make
medium and long-term loans, as well as subscribe to equity investments. So
far, their contribution to the financing of industrial investments in Senegal
has been mainly through granting or participating in medium-term credits
rediscountable at BCEAO.
1/   ADB:  UA 1,500,000 (CFAF 400 million).
Fifteen years (including three years' grace).
Interest rate 7%, plus a 0.75% commitment fee.
KfW:    - 4,000,000 (CFAF 300 million).
Thirty years (including ten years' grace).
Interest rate 3.5% (of which 1.5% will be given to SONEPI's
Guarantee Fund), plus a commitment fee of 0.25%.



- 14 -
Interest Rates
3.13      Annex 6 summarizes the interest rate structure prevailing in the
Western Africa Monetary Union.  This structure is built around the rediscount
rate of the Central Bank, which remained unchanged until the end of 1972 at
3.5 % and was then increased to 5.5% following recommendations by the Bank
and the IMF. The interest rates charged to industrial firms for medium-term
rediscountable loans ranges average 9%, while the interest rates on non-
rediscountable loans average 11% per annum. These rates include various
commissions which amount to about 1 percentage point on the average. Long-
term rates (over 7 years) have been close to those charged for medium-term
non-rediscountable loans.
Need for Long-Term Credit
3.14      Outstanding balances of medium-term and long-term loans extended
in Senegal to industrial sector by banks and CCCE (details in Annex 7) are
given below (September 30 of each year):
1968     1969      1970      1971     1972      1973
(in CFAF million)
Medium-term (2-7 yrs.)       990    1,369    1,557    1,756    1,644    1,805
Long-term (7 + yrs.)       3,313    4,010    5,080    4,914    4,551    4,270
Long-term loans, as pointed out before, are extended by CCCE directly or
tlhrough BNDS; of the outstanding 1973 balance, about two-thirds repr,>sent
loans extended to a phosphate company, and the rest are loans to lest than
ten companies. Most medium-term loans are rediscountable at the Central Bank.
3.15      There are several indicators that the Central Bank's policies have
been restrictive. Between 1963 and 1970 money supply declined as a proportion
of GDP, while credit to the private sector increased at less than 2 percent
per annum. This in part reflects the poor economic performance of the 1960's;
to some extent, however, this is the result of economic policies. Restrictions
have also been felt with respect to the maturity of loans. Short and
medium-term loans (2-7 years) are rediscountable with the Central Bank, but
there was no local source of longer-term finance; moreover, it appears that
the distribution of medium-term credit has been concentrated at the lower end
of the 2-7 years term.
3.16      In the context of this credit system, the creation of a specialized
long-term lending institution as desired by the Government and the commercial
banks subscribing to its capital woulc be expected to contribute in three
ways to economic growth in Senegal. First, medium-term credit is limited in
amount and duration by BCEAO rules, so that banks tend to provide it primarily
to well-established and non-risky large companies for their expansion projects.
In that respect, the impact of the medium-term credit program is limited, and



- 15 -
has done little to give impetus to the development of Senegalese entrepreneurs
(hence the SONEPI financing shceme).  Moreover, currently available credit is
too short a term for some new projects, particularly in the tourism sector.
Several projects have been delayed through lack of long-term financing, partic-
ularly in tourism. The new institution would fill the existing gap in long-term
financing. Second, a specialized long-term finance institution not ligned
with one particular bank is desirable to have a more national institntion with
reasonably broad international contacts at the center of Senegal's future
industrialization efforts. Third, such an institution would not merely be a
channel for foreign long-term funds into the country, but also help attract
foreign investors and play a promotional role in economic growth.
IV. THE SOFISEDIT PROPOSAL
Background
4.01      In 1969, following the difficulties experienced by BNDS, the
Gove7nment decided that BNDS should specialize in the agricultural and
agribusiness sectors. A Bank mission visited Senegal in February 1970,
at the Government's request, to examine the feasibility of creating a new
development bank to specialize in long-term financing for industrial
projects. Following this mission the Bank advised the Government that
potential business at that time was not sufficient to justify the creation
of a new institution and suggested instead that USB extend its activity to
long-term lending. In 1972, the Government proposed the establishment of
SOFISEDIT, whose capital would be subscribed by Government, BCEAO, BNDS,
USB and the other three commercial banks, Caisse Centrale and IFC. In
view of the time elapsed since the 1970 mission and the additional business
possibilities which hotel financing would bring to the new institution,
the Bank sent a mission in November 1972 to re-evaluate the situation and
consider the SOFISEDIT proposal.
4.02      There were three alternative channels of long-term financing for
industry and tourism: BNDS, USB and SOFISEDIT.' The Government strongly
believed that BNDS should focus in its own reorganization and concentrate
on agricultural lending; also, BNDS had no desire or capability in its
present form to undertake any significant industrial financing. Concerning
USB, which had no particular industrial financing expertise, the Government
felt that it would not have the support of the banking community; if USB in
addition to its commercial banking operations, had the competitive edge of
long-term financing facilities it would become dominant, and the Government
and other banks wanted to avoid this. The third alternative involving the
creation of SOFISEDIT, which had the firm support of the Government, implied
considerable efforts and costs in creating and building up an institution
with its own staff. However, in view of the reasons explained in para. 3.16,
it was considered the most feasible means of establishing a well-managed



- 16 -
long-term industrial and tourism financing institution in Senegal; its
operational outlook appeared sufficient to ensure its financial viability
(although with modest profits) without asking for inordinate advantages in
the form of low interest subordinated loans from the Government.
4.03      After discussions with the Government over the pros and cons of all
the alternatives the Bank and IFC decided to support the proposal. The
Government believed that SOFISEDIT should be an independent institution
basing its decisions on businesslike criteria and wanted to have an inter-
national group of shareholders represented in the institution. The IFC
participation in SOFISEDIT is importart to bring in other participants, to
ensure a good start, the adoption by the company of sound policies, and a
stronger and more independent Board of Directors; and it was for these
reasons that the Government was keen to involve the Bank Group.
4.04      A Working Group including representatives of the prospective share-
holders of SOFISEDIT as well as SONEPI was formed in June 1973. The Group
did a thorough job of preparing the proposal. It discussed SOFISEDIT's
prospective policies, organization and staff, projected operations and
relationships with existing financial and promotion institutions in the
country. SOFISEDIT was incorporated on March 19, 1974.
Legal Basis
4.05      SOFISEDIT is a societe anonyme under the Senegalese Commercial Code
and a financial institution subject to Banking legislation from BCEAO.
SOFISEDIT's functions are determined by its statutes, which were prepared
by the Working Group in consultation with IFC and the Bank. A Law and a
"Convention d'Etablissement" enabling SOFISEDIT to benefit from the advantages
granted by the Investment Code are expected to be passed before June 1974.
These benefits are a 5-year income-tax holiday, a 5-year exemption of "patente"
(licensing fees) and an exemption of the registration tax on the constitution
of the company.
Ownership
4.06      SOFISEDIT's present share capital of CFAF 460 million will be
raised to CFAF 650 million divided into shares of CFAF 100,000. The Govern-
ment will be the largest shareholder; its investment, together with the Central
Bank, BNDS, USB and private Senegalese investors, will represent about 52%
of SOFISEDIT's share capital. Other shareholders are expected to include
BICIS, SGBS and BIAO, Caisse Centrale, IFC and FMO (Holland). Annex 8 shows
the present and contemplated Board of Directors and ownership structures.
Although there will be a clear Senegalese majority ownership in SOFISEDIT,
it is in the intention of all parties that the company will represent a
cooperative effort and that due respect will be paid to the views of minority
shareholders. Accordingly, a two thirds majority of votes will be required to
increase or reduce SOFISEDIT's share capital, to amend its Statutes and
Policy Statement, and to elect and delegate powers to the President of
SOFISEDIT.



- 17 -
Two-Stage Formation
4.07      The establishment of SOFISEDIT is being achieved in two steps to
facilitate the entering into agreements with IFC and foreign shareholders by
an established legal entity. The first stage already accomplished has included
the incorporation of the company, the paying-in of their part of the share
capital by shareholders accounting for over two-thirds of the share capital
(mainly the Government, Central Bank, BNDS, and four commercial banks) and
the appointment of a Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer. The
second stage, which should be accomplished in the summer of 1974, will be in
the form of an increase in SOFI1EDIT's share capital with the existing share-
holders waving their preemptive rights to the new shares. This stage will
include the paying-in of their part by the new shareholders, (IFC, Caisse
Centrale and FMO), the expansion of the Board to include the foreign Directors,
the signing of the Bank loan, the assumption of duty by the foreign experts
occupying senior positions in SOFISEDIT, the recruitment of Senegalese staff
and the opening of SOFISEDIT's doors for business.
Objectives and Powers
4.09      SOFISEDIT's Policy Statement (para. 4.11) adopted by the Board of
Directors on March 21, 1974 states that SOFISEDIT will take part in the economic
development in Senegal by promoting the establishment, expansion and moder-
nization. of enterprises in industry and tourism. To this end, it will provide
medium and long-term loans, invest in equities, underwrite securities and
guarantee credit from other sources.
4.10      The Government is conscious of the need to define the role of
SOFISEDIT and to avoid competition among long-term financing institutions
which in a small market like Senegal, could result in a relaxation of
economic and financial criteria. Accordingly, it plans to give SOFISEDIT
priority in long-term financing of industry and tourism. This priority,
reflected in the Establishment Convention, will prevent other existing
or future institutions in Senegal from making long-term loans to tourism or
industrial enterprises unless SOFISEDIT has decided not to finance such
projects or has decided to invest jointly with them; this measure will not
apply, however, to USB's existing lines of credit from KfW and ADB (see
paragraph 3.10). To determine the limit of responsibilities with BNDS,
the Working Group decided that BNDS would have the leadership of apppraising
agribusiness projects in which the industrial operation is directly tied to
an agricultural crop grown by the prospective client (e.g. a cotton ginnery,
a tomato canning plant tied to a tomato plantation); such projects, however,
could be co-financed with SOFISEDIT, which is likely to have more resources
for long-term financing than BNDS. SOFISEDIT will be responsible for
appraising and financing other projects involving processing of agricultural
goods in which the plant is not tied to a plantation.



8-
Policies
4.11      SOFISEDIT's operations will be guided by its Policy Statement
(Annex 9) which was drafted in consultation with the Bank Group. It con-
forms in most respects to policy statements adopted by other development
finance companies. According to it SOFISEDIT will normally limit its total
financial assistance to a single enterprise to 20% of its own share capital
and free reserves, which will amount initially to CFAF 130 million (about
$520,000). Its minimum amount of assistance wuill be CFAF 2 million. Its
equity investment in one enterprise will not ecceed 15% of its own share
capital and free reserves. In accordance with Senegal's banking legislation,
its total equity holdings will not be greater than 75% of its own share
capital and free reserves. It will normally not hold more than 25% of an
enterprise's share capital. SOFISEDIT will normally finance only up to 50%
of the cost of a project, including permanent working capital.
Board of Directors
4.12      The Board of Directors will be responsible for overall policies,
procedures and operations. The number of Board members will be twelve (see
Annex 10); six will represent the Government and strictly senegalese institu-
tions, while the other six will represent the three foreign-owned commercial
banks, plus CCCE, FMO and IFC. The Chairman, a Senegalese, will have a cast-
ing vote in the event of a tie. The term of office of the Directors will be
six years. The Statutes require the Board to meet at least four times a year.
Since most of SOFISEDIT's shareholders will be in Senegal, there will be
no Executive Committee. The Board Meetings will be scheduled in such a way
that Foreign Board members who cannot attend a meeting will receive the
Agenda and documents with ample time to transmit their comments and vote.
4.13      Government Directors and representatives of the other shareholders
in the public sector (see Annex 10) are persons of independent judgment and
of high caliber, stature and experience in banking and will contribute to
form a strong and qualified Board of Directors.
Hanagement and Staff
4.14      President.  The full time President of SOFISEDIT will also be the
Chairman of the Board of Directors and will be responsible for operations and
the implementation of policies and procedures laid down by the Board. The
W4orking Group, IFC and the Bank stressed that the selection of the Chief
Executive is fundamental to the proposal; the Government nominated and the
Board elected Mr. Ibrahima N'Diaye as President. M4r. N'Diaye, 46, has been
Director of the Senegalese Post Telephone and Telegraph Office; although he
has no banking experience, he has a reputation of being honest, intelligent
and an able administrator. He has good relations in both the private and
public sectors and an excellent standing in Senegal. Mr. N'Diaye summarized
curriculum vitae is shown in Annex 11.



- 19 -
4.15      Deputy General Manager.  The President will be assisted by a
foreign Deputy General Manager, who should be able to help the President in
establishing SOFISEDIT, recruiting its personnel, setting up procedures,
coordinating the staff, preparing the budget and financial projections,
formulating policy proposals, developing outside contacts and any other
functions. The Bank Group proposed candidates to the Government and SOFISEDIT
and is in the process of recruiting the candidate selected by the Senegalese.
4.16      Staff.  Initially, only a small Senegalese professional staff will
be required, including an accountant, an engineer, and three project financial
analysts/economists. This staffing is expected to be adequate for SOFISEDIT's
intial forecast business of about twelve projects a year, since it will also
be able to draw occasionally on SONEPI's expertise (see para. 4.20). Given
the need to train Senegalese for developing banking work, an experienced
Director of Investments is being sought by SOFISEDIT. The Bank Group also
proposed candidates to the Government and SOFISEDIT has recruited the
candidate they selected. During negotiations SOFISEDIT agreed to recruit a
qualified engineer and at least one suitable project officer before the Bank
loan becomes effective.
4.17      Financing of foreign experts.  In several recently created develop-
ment finance companies, the initial external technical assistance has been
financed by a UNDP grant. Such assistance is costly relative to the budgets
of new, small institutions; unfortunately UNDP funds for Senegal are fully
committed and not available for the SOFISEDIT project. Bilateral assistance
was also not available, and the Government prefers the World Bank Group,
rather than bilateral donor countries, to propose candidates. Since the
Government has budgetary problems, and SOFISEDIT cannot afford the full amount
of up to $200,000 needed to cover the cost of the expatriates team for a
two-year period, the cost will have to be financed out of the Bank loan and
be partially reimbursed to SOFISEDIT by the Government. The Government has
agreed to assume 80% of the cost of the experts with SOFISEDIT financing 20%.
The amount utilized will be repayed to the Bank in ten equal semiannual
installments at the end of the amortization scheduled of the proposed Bank
loan.
Appraisal Procedures
4.18      Given the important role that SOFISEDIT will play in Senegal
SOFISEDIT will need to develop rapidly a good capability in the economic
analysis of projects. During negotiations, SOFISEDIT and the Bank have
agreed on guidelines to estimate the economic rate of return of projects
financed by SOFISEDIT.
4.19      SONEPI's economic analysis of projects applying for incentives
under the Investment Code has been weak. Several projects of doubtful
economic justification have been recommended by SONEPI and obtained incen-
tives. Any economic analysis undertaken by SOFISEDIT of a project submitted
to it yielding negative conclusions would result in SOFISEDIT rejecting the



- 20 -
project but not necessarily in preventing its implementation if the project
has already obtained incentives. Thus, upgrading of SONEPI's economic
appraisal capacity and close coordination between SONEPI and SOFISEDIT are
essential to ensure:
(a) That as many projects as possible receiving incentives and
submitted to SOFISEDIT for financing are economically viable.
(b) A consistent method of economic analysis by SONEPI and
SOFISEDIT.
(c) Occasionally, coordination of appraisal and follow-up of
industrial projects, so that SOFISEDIT can draw on expertise
SONEPI may have in a particular technical or market area and
SONEPI on SOFISEDIT's financial skills.
4.20      To assure coordination three measures have been taken:
(a) SOFISEDIT's Managing Director will sit on SONEPI's Board
and Equity Participation Committee and the President of
SONEPI will be invited to SOFISEDIT Board Meetings as an
observer.
(b) SOFISEDIT will be invited to attend all meetings of the Technical
Commission, (see para. 2.24) so that it receives the project
studies submitted by SONEPI and has the opportunity to discuss
them at an early stage and to express an opinion as to the merits
of projects.
(c) Coordination at the staff level will be encouraged while still
leaving SOFISEDIT free to accept/reject projects.
Finally, it would be worthwhile for SOFISEDIT to consider giving SONEPI a
long-term loan of about CFAF 20 million. All future SOFISEDIT shareholders
are in favor of such contribution which would reinforce SOFISEDIT's ties with
SONEPI, contribute to increase the proportion of SOFISEDIT's assistance to
Senegalese-owned enterprises, and increase SONEPI's scarce resources for its
equity participation and guarantee fund. The Government has agreed to
guarantee the loan, which would be considered as a one-time interim arrange-
ment with a view to a future possible Bank Group project involving direct
assistance to SONEPI.
4.21      SONEPI's appraisal capacity should improve and consistency in
economic analysis of both institutions should be sought. A SONEPI staff mem-
ber is now attending the industrial projects course at the Economic Develop-
ment Institute. SONEPI's management expects to organize a seminar attended
by staff of SONEPI and SOFISEDIT where guidelines for economic appraisal of
projects adopted by SOFISEDIT will be explained and discussed. Bank staff



- 21 -
members are expected to participate in this seminar. Other measures to up-
grade SONEPI's economic appraisals will include attendance by SONEPI staff to
a good course in project evaluation at the University of Dakar.
Relations with Other Institutions
4.22      SOFISEDIT will have access to medium-term rediscounting facilities
at the Central Bank and will have to work closely with the four commercial
banks in the appraisal and follow-up of jointly financed projects. The
commercial banks' shareholding and board memberships in SOFISEDIT should be
conducive to good relations with SOFISEDIT.  A close association with SNPT
will also be important and useful for SOFISEDIT to facilitate its technical
appraisal of hotel projects.
Auditors
4.23      SOFISEDIT is now in the process of selecting its Auditors; they
will, under the terms of the Bank's loan agreement with SOFISEDIT, have to
be satisfactory to the Bank Group.
V. OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL FORECASTS
Business Outlook and Forecast Operations
5.01      SOFISEDIT will start operations in mid 1974.  Thus the relevant
period for investment forecasts would commence in 1975. As noted earlier
(para. 2.21) projections of annual industrial investment of CFAF 4 billion
in 1974/75 $16 million equivalent) increasing to about CFAF 5.0 billion in
1978/79 appear reasonable, while investment in tourism of CFAF 2 billion in
1974/75 should grow at least at 15% annually and reach CFAF 3.5 billion in
1978/79.
5.02      Annex 12 shows a sizable list of projects now under preparation
which could come for consideration to SOFISEDIT in its first three years
of operations. While most medium and large industrial projects (partic-
ularly new projects in food processing and extensions of existing enterprises)
will be adequately financed with medium-term funds, SOFISEDIT's long-term
financing will be needed for tourism projects, for some new industrial
projects for investments needed by groundnut oil processing companies to
maintain their exports and for small-scale industry.
5.03      Since long-term loans for industry and tourism have not been
available locally, the proportion of investment which could be financed by
SOFISEDIT is difficult to predict. About 30% of total investment in tourism
to date has been financed through long-term loans (12 years or more) from
CCCE, EIB and other foreign institutions. An additional 22% has been



- 22 -
financed by medium-term rediscountable loans part of which might have been
financed by long-term loans had they been available locally. Thus, it
would appear at first glance that SOFISEDIT could finance up to one half
of total investment in tourism. However, important hotel projects will
probably be units of 400 or more beds which, at a cost of about CFAF 2.5
million/bed, would imply total investment of CFAF 1 billion, while SOFISEDIT's
maximum single commitment to a single project would be about CFAF 130 million
(20% of SOFISEDIT's equity) equivalent to 12% of the capital cost of a hotel.
It is estimated that in its initial years SOFISEDIT will finance through loans
67' of total industrial and tourism investment in Senegal, increasing to 10%
in the third year of operations and remaining at 11% after the fourth year.
This seems a reasonable target.
Resource Requirements
5.04      Assumptions for SOFISEDIT's forecast operations are shown in
Annex 13 while Annex 14 shows the projected level of operations from 1974/75
to 1979/80. On these assumptions, SOFISEDIT's operations through 1976 are
projected as follows (in CFAF million):
Jun-Dec
Approvals                                  1974/75  1975/76   1976
(a)  Long-term loans                                430       625      425
(b)  Medium-term loans (5% of investment)           360       390      215
(c)  Equity Investments (10% of (a))                 43        62       43
833    1,077      683
Commitments
(a)  Long-term loans                                 215      525      370
(b)  Medium-term loans                               180      375      205
(c)  Equity Investments                              21        53       37
416      953      612
5.05      While medium-term loans will be rediscounted at the Central Bank
and equity investments will be financed by SOFISEDIT's own equity, SOFISEDIT
will need to finance up to 90% of its long-term loans with foreign borrowings.
A Bank loan of $3 million will cover about two thirds of SOFISEDIT's long-term
borrowings required to cover long-term loan commitments totalling CFAF 1.1
billion through 1976. KfW and CCCE are expected to finance one third of SOFISEDIT's
long-term borrowings; KfW after its present line of credit to USB is fully com-
mitted early in 1975, and CCCE on a project by project basis.
Projected Profitability and Financial Position
5.06      The financial projections assume that SOFISEDIT will be able to
lend at 9-1/2' on long-term loans, with an average spread of 2-3/4% (2-1/4%
on its World Bank loans and 3-1/2% on its other foreign loans). It is



- 23 -
expected to lend at 8% for medium- tenm loans, with a spread of 2.5%. Equity
investments are forecast to yield 4% in the fourth and 5% in the fifth year
following the ivestment. SOFISEDIT's administrative expenses, including
20% of the foreign technical assistance, will total CFAF 35 million in
1974/75 and CFAF 40 million in 1975/76. On the basis of these assumptions,
even without subsidies (except for the technical assistance grant and the
liberal tax-regime), SOFISEDIT will have modest profits in its first few
years of operations. Net profits after adequate provisions could exceed 10%
after five years and SOFISEDIT could then start paying a dividend to its
shareholders.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMEN2DATIONS
Conclusions
6.01      The Government has emphasized the need for a long-term financing
institution in Senegal for industrial and tourism projects and the Bank
Group concurs with the Government's view that SOFISEDIT is the most feasible
means for creating a viable and well-managed channel of funds for industry
and tourism. Its establishment as a joint venture between the Government and
foreign institutions corresponds to the wishes of the Government and should
contribute to make SOFISEDIT a stronger, more independent institution. The
participation of all relevant financial institutions established in Senegal
in the proposal should ensure institutional coordination and contribute to
the success of SOFISEDIT.
6.02      The proposed Bank loan and IFC investment would enable the Bank
Group to make a significant contribution towards the successful establishment
of SOFISEDIT and, through it, the expansion of industry, tourism and small
Senegalese enterprises. The Bank Group involvement will also enhance
SOFISEDIT's useful role by ensuring that projects undertaken are considered
on their economic as well as financial merits. The Bank's and IFC's contri-
bution would be through providing not only capital but also, and more
importantly in the early stages, both direct and indirect technical assistance.
Active support of and involvement in SOFISEDIT could further IFC's objective
of developing other business in Senegal. The proposal set forth in this
report represents a suitable basis for commencing SOFISEDIT's operations.
Recommendations
6.03      Disbursements.  The loan of $3 million would finance the CIF cost
of imported goods and/or the estimated foreign exchange component of imported
goods purchased through normal trade channels, of civil works and of goods
made in Senegal substantially with imported materials. However, up to $200,000
may be used to finance the foreign costs of the expatriate team of an Assistant
General Manager and of a Director of Investments of SOFISEDIT's first two
years of operations. Annex 18 shows the estimated disbursement schedule for
the proposed loan.



- 24 -
6.04     IThe terms of the proposed loan should be those normally applied on
Bank loans to development finance companies. However, since SOFISEDIT is a
new company which has not started operations, it is recommended that it
receive concessional treatment regarding commitment charges. Accordingly, the
normal commitment fee should not be charged until specific projects are
authorized for withdrawal. The foreign exchange risk should be borne by
subborrowers.
6.05      The Bank should require prior approval of each project using
$100,000 or more of the proceeds of the proposed loan. An appropriate
aggregate free limit would be $600,000 which would ensure that projects
involving about 80% of the amount of the loan would come to the Bank for
approval.
6.06      The effectiveness of the Loan would, in addition to the standard
provisions relating to Bank loans, be conditioned on:
(i) the recruitment by SOFISEDIT of an engineer and of one
project analyst;
(ii) the signing of by SOFISEDIT and the Government of a satis-
factory Convention giving priority to SOFISEDIT for the
financing of industrial and tourism projects in Senegal.
6.07      On the basis of the above arrangements, a Bank loan of-$3 millicin
and an IFC equity investment of CFAF 50 million (about $200,000 equivalent:)
are recommended to assist in the establishment of SOFISEDIT and meet a sub-
stantial part of its import financing requirements through 1976.



SENEGAL - APPROVALS UNDER INVESTMENT CODE
(a) Breakdown of Investments approved by Year and Sector
1973   Total Investment
Sectors             1962   1963   1964   1965   1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972 (8months)(No. of Projects)
Extractive                                                                                                                    (4)
Industries                -     500      -   1,000     _-            -       600     -   2,600      -       -           4,700
(+ research)                     -
Food                      -     353    500      -      -       _      45  1,232 12,750    193  1,293  1,362            17,728(26)
Fishing                   -     185      _      -      29      -      -      317     -      240    224      56           i,o05(13)
Textiles &                _-         -          -     120      _   1,900      43     -       -     155    103            2,321(9)
Clothes
Wood -                    -     106      _-                            -      -      -       18    205      59             388(6)
Paper
Rubber                                   _      _       _                                    _   3,594      -            3,58()
Chemicals              3,000     -   2,O4O             4 40    101   1i3    148      54      -     175    379            6,080(15)
Construction              -     275    105      _-                            -     650      -     961      10           2,001(7)
Metal Articles            -      63    223      _       74     _       _      50     -       85      -      -              495(5)
Metal Processing          _-                    -       -          -              -          -     500    327              827(6)
Energy                    _      _       _   1,500    130      _      _       _     250      -      -      336           2,216(4)
Tourism                   _-                            -                            42  3,960  9,211  1,426            14,639(16)  
Sundry                    _      _       _      _      100     _       _      _   1,000    107  1,570    331             3.108(8)      i-4
Total         -6                           ) 20       46)   (2,0(0   ,39                     (1 )   (26)    (27)
_~~~~~~~~~~~Oj                                   13     (9       1|   .                          ( , _
No./projects      14,0         ,4 22                   49    Al02,014,746  7,203  7,878  4,3                            59,138
DFCD  -  D-ce-mber ., 1973



(b) O oqMauioAl Brea#domm of lnveatnenta biPro=v*
t973
1962    1963    1964    1965    1966    1967 .          1968    1969    1970    19l   -1972   8 month) LD)TAL
Cap-Vert                3,oOO     538   2,723   1,500      464     101      770   1,136   2,746   3,483  14,292   3,887       34,640
Thies                      -      944     145   1,000       _        _    1,250      10       _      925   1,721       38      6,033
Fleuve                     _       -       -                - _  _                  282  12,000       -       -       121     12,403
Casamance                  -       _       _        _       29       _       -      612      -       195   1,500       85      2,421
Diourbel                   -       .       _        _       _        _       68      _ -              -       -        -          68
Sine-Saloum                _       _       _        _       _        _              350      _        _      230      258        838
S6n6gal Oriental           _- _             _                                                                135       -         135
Other                      _       _        _       _       _        _       _       _        _    2,600      _        _       2,600
TOTAL                   3,000   1,482   2,868   2,500      493     101   2,088   2,390  14,7146   7,203  17,878   4,389       59,138
DFCD
December 14, 1973



f
ANNEX 2
Page l
SSNEGAL
Goverriment Incentives to Investment
Senegal grants tax incentives for industrial investments.  The various
incentives are of three types:
a) benefits for which industrial companies are eligible upder the
statutory regime;
b) additional benefits to enterprises investing large amounts which
obtain, by administrative act ('decret') the qualification of
priority enterprises ('entreprises prioritairesI). The extent
and duration of these additional benefits vary; and
c)  benefits to enterprises which have invested very large amounts
and which have obtained an establishment agreement ('convention
d'etablissement').  This conventior. guarantees that various
financial and fiscal laws, as applied to those companies, will
not be modified over a long period.
Both the provisions un ir (b) and (c) are embodied in the Investment
Code revised in June 1972 to extend the benefits beyond the industrial
sector to the agriculture and tourism and tr introduce benefits to Sene-
galese businessmen engaged in small-scale jidustry.
L.  Statutory Regime.  The Tax Code provides various incentives to invest-
ment.
(i) A company may deduct from its income tax up to 50% of the invest-
ment made during the same year. Deduction is also limited to 50%
of the profit made during the year, but with a possibility of
spreading the surplus over eight years;
(ii) Industrial firms obtain when created an exemption from income
tax (33-1/3%) for a period of 5 years.  Exemption, however, is
limited to the amount of the initial investment. Industries
may also be exonerated for the same period from the license tax.
2.   The Investment Code.  First, the Code guarantees to foreign investors
the free repatriation of their invested capital and of earnings on such
capital. Second, the Code offers special advantages to two categories of
enterprises: priority enterprises ('entreprises prioritaires') and con-
ventional enterprises ('entreprises conventionn'ees').
a) Priority enterprises are generally defined as those investing
at least CFAF 100 million or creating a minimum of 50 new Sene-
galese jobs. Exceptions are provided for firms investing outside
the Cap Vert region or those particularly export-oriented, or
those creating important employment.



ANN( E
Page 2
These enterprises may be granted by decree part or all of such
advantages: (i) exemption for three years from import taxes,
duties and turnover tax on imported capital goods, (ii) exemp-
tion for five years from import duties and taxes on spare parts,
(iii) exoneration of tax on purchases of land and buildings
located outside the Cap Vert region, (iv) reduction of the duties
on imported raw materials, (v) exemption from duties and taxes
on exported products, and (vi) partial protection against imports,
under the condition that the firm guarantees a given quality and
a given price.
b) Priority tourist and agricultural enterprises (provided, in the
latter case, that they are export-oriented or import-substituting),
in addition to above advantages, are included with industry as
regards exemption from income tax and license tax (see (ii) above).
They may also be granted various specific advantages. Particularly
for tourist enterprises, the State may participate in infrastruc-
ture expenditures, and these enterprises may be exonerated from
the turnover tax for five years if they invest at least CFAF 500
million mainly outside the Cap Vert region. Tourist and agricul-
tural enterprises may also be granted special tariffs for water
and electricity consumption.
c) Conventional enterprises are priority enterprises the investment
program of which is at least CFAF 500 million over a period of
three years, and which are considered specially important for the
development of the country. In addition to advantages offered
to priority firms, concessional firms may be granted an unchanged
level of taxes and duties for a period of up to 20 years. Such
enterprises sign with the Government an establishment agreement,
"Convention d'Etablissement", which details the investment program,
the advantages granted, the fiscal regime applicable, together
with the obligations of the firm.
Advantages Granted to Small-and Medium-Scale Enterprises
3.   In the former Investment Code priority enterprises were defined as
those investing at least CFAF 40 million, so that small enterprises could
not benefit from the Codets advantages. Wnereas the new Code has brought
this lower limit up to CFAF 100 million, the Government enacted on the
same date a Bill granting specific advantages to small-and medium-scale
enterprises which invest in the following sectors: industry, agriculture,
tourism, fishing, and livestock. Such enterprises must be either Sene-
galese or have a majority Senegalese shareholding, and must invest at
least CFAF 5 million within two years (OFAF 3 million for agriculture).
Those enterprises may receive the following incentives:
(i) license tax exemption; exemption from import duties and taxes
on imported capital goods and on spare parts (up to a period
of 5 years); 1/
2/ given automatically after due agreement.



Annex 2
Page ,3
(ii)  reduction of tax on land and building purchases; exemption of
import duties on materials to be incorporated in products to be
exported; exemption of export taxes; protection (up to five
years) against imports; income tax exemption (up to five years);
jiii) license tax and income tax exemption for eight years.2J
1] mar be obtained
SJ  if they invest outside the Cap Vert region
1 CD
April 25, 1974






ANNEX3
Page 1
SONEPI
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE 1969-1973
(CFAF millionY
SONEPI's
Total           Equity           Total      SONEPI        Main
Company                  Investment     Participation      Equity      Guarantee     Lender
1.  COMAPECHE                  61                2             23            -           USB
2.  ROTABILLETS                 9                1              4            -           USB
3.  SS ARTISANS A.             10               15              h           2.5          BIAO
4.  S. CINE4A A.                5                1.5             3           -           USB
5.  S.I.S. MENUISERIE          12                2               5           -           USB
6.  NEGOCIA                    10                2               3          1.2          USB
7.  BOULANGERIES              100                2             17            -           BIAO
8.  MENUISERIE CAP VERT        10                3              5           2.0          USB
9.  B.I. GAYE                  12                2               3           -           BNDS
10.  GARAGE G. MOSQUEE           5                2              4           1.0          USB
11.  S.I.C. BOIS                12                2.5             5          1.0          BNDS
12.  COOP. TEINTURIERES          4                1               3           -           BNDS
13.  TROPIC                    205                0.5           100           _           USB
14.  CARBUCHERIE                 3                1               2           -           USB
15.  SOCOINSAF                   4                1.5             3                       USB
16.  STE MECANIQTJE             13                2.5             5           -           BICIS
17.  .ROYAGERIE ORIENTALE       10                2.5             7            -          BNDS
L8.  T2NETTES SOLAIRES          10                2.5             5          2.0          BICIS
19.  SODACO                      7                2               4          2.0          BICIS
20.  SODIZI                     11                1.5             7           -           SGBS
21.  SS ALUMINUM VERRE          10                0.1             3           -           SGBS
22.  CONFECTION THIES            3                1.5             3          1.0          BICIS
23.  FER FORGE                   8                 -              3          2.5          BIAO
24.  MET. N'DAO & DIENG          6                                2          2.2          USB



Page 2
SONHPI - FINNCIAL ASSIAJEE 1969-1973
(muA dillion)
SONm3I 's
Total        E1quity         Total    SOwPI          Nain
Comnany                Investent   Participation    E            Guarantee     Lender
25. BD'O)NS SALE 8H                                          3        2.8         SOBS
26. CLICHES fIwPRflRTE        6                             1         3.0        SUPPLIM-
27. ENT. DIODtL               7               -              3        2.3         BICIS
561             38.1          240       25.5
DFCD
December 14, 1973



ANNEX 4
BNDS - Sumnary Financial Statements 1970-73
(in millions of CFAF)
1970      1971      1972       1973
I - INCOME STATEMENTS
Income
Agricultural Operations            366        457       648
Industrial Operations              104         81        93        ;
Financial Operations               135       137         96       1 1
Other Operations                    87         77         -
Other Income                       118         26        22
780       778       953        395
Expenses
Personnel                          185       166        166       167
Financial                          232       248        329       413
Other                              213       195        184       134
Depreciation                        47        40         38        ?
Provisions                          51       156        235        ?
Extraordinary Losses/(Profits)      49        (5)        -         ?
777       800       952        714
Net Income                           3        (22)        1       l8l 
II - BALANCE SHEETS
Assets
Deposits                           606       245        384
Short-Term Loans                 4,194     5,035      9,496
Term Loans                       4,549     4,485      4,447
Equity & Other Investments      .2,250     2,246      1,993
Fixed Assets                       231       209        220
Operations on Behalf,of Gov't.    827     1,470      2,073
12,657    13,690    18,613
Liabilities and Equity
Deposits                         4,648     2,727      4,194
Other current liabilities          409     2,846      5,114
Government Advances              1,102     1,351      2,023
Other Term Debt                  4,063     4,008      4,470
Provisions                         700     1,048      1,261
Share Capital & Reserves         1,735     1,710      1,711
12,657    13,690    18,613
./' Before depreciations and provisions.
DFCD
January 22, 1974






aNNEX 5
USB - S=umary Financial Statements 1968-69/1971-72
(CFAF million)
1968/69     1969/70      1970/71     1971/72
I - INCOME STATEMENTS
Income
Interest                     268         323          353          421
Commissions                  1n          113          112          158
Other                         33           30          54           36
412   466   499          615
Expenses
General                      282          298         337          400
Provisions                    28           36          26           22
Depreciation                  30           33          36           47
Taxes                         -           20           10           30
340         387          409         499
Net Profit                    72           79          90          116
September 30                1969        1970         1971         1972
II - BALANCE SHEETS
Assets
Cash and Deposits            803         551        1,89
Short-Term LoFns           4,165       4,708        4,884
Other Loansi/                207         263          368
Equity Investments            46          53          149
Fixed Assets                 336          385         377
Other Assets                 215         689          438
5,772       6,649        7,405
Liabilities and Eqiuity
Deposits                   2,424       2,826        3,471
Short-Term Borrowings     2,098        2,392        2,325
Term Borrowings              271          301         424
Net Worth                    979       1j132        1,i85
5,772       6,649        7,405
g/  Loans rediscounted at the Central Bank are not included in Balance Sheets.
The totals were CFAF 24,583,331, 2,623 and 3,052 million for the years
ended September 30, 1969, 1970, 1971 and 1972.
DFCD
January 22, 1974



ANNEX 6
SENEGAL
Interest Rate Structure
(after 1/29/1973)
A. Credit Interest Rates (CFAF million)
0-0.2   0.2-0.5   0.5-1.0   1.0-5.0   Over -j0
minimum
0     3.00%      3.5%       2.75%      425%
1) Demand Deposits
2) Time Deposits
- less than 6 months   3.00%   3.75%       4.25%       4.75%     5.50%
- 6 months - 1 year    4.50%   4.75%       5.00%       5.50%     6.50%
- 1-2 years             5.50%   5.75%      6.0o%       6.50%     6.75%
- Over 2 years          6.50%   6.50%      6.75%       6.75%     7.00%
3) Savings Accounts        5.25%
4) Rediscount Rate at
Central Bank           5.50%
B. Debit Interest Rates
Loans Rediscountable with the Central Bank              Interest Rate
,hort-term (0-2 years)
Public enterprises, "privileged status"
enterprises, and agricultural campaigns            6.50-7.25
Other loans rediscountable                          7.50-8.50
Medium-term (2-7 years)
Loans for building of public interest
or "privileged status" enterprises                  7.50-8.25
Loans for trade or industry                         7.75-8.50
Loans for buildings of no public interest           9.50-10.00
Loans Not Rediscountable with the Central Bank
Short-term   below CFAF 1,000,000                      8.00-10.00
above CFAF 1,000,000                    10.00
Medium-term                                            9.50-10.50
DFCD
December 14, 1973



SENEGAL
Analysis of Outstanding Medium and Long-Term Credit, 1963-1973_'
(Billion CFAF, as of September 30)
1963'  1964    1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972          1973
-                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(August 31)
Agriculture                    0.57    0.21    0.17    0.18    0.22    0.19    0.19    0.20    0.29    0.51          0.37
Industrial Activities          3.67    4.32    4.82    5.01    4.69    4.22    5.37    646   6.79    6.20            5.02
Of which:  Mines                    1.02    2.20                              2.84    3.72    3.70    3.46        2.33
Housing                        1.66    2.15    2.37    2.20    2.01    2.18    2.18    1.96    1.98    2.86          4.16
Transport                      0,12    0.05    0.08    0.18    0.15    0.14    0.14    0.17    0.25    0.61          0.75
Cammerce                      0l4    0.09    0,16    0.79    0.43    0.41    0.19    0.39    0.40   0.46            0.46
Services                       0.15    0.36    0.55    0.63    0.72    o.68    0.67    0.67    0.64    0.61          1.96
Financial Institutions,        0.15    0.51    0.06    0.04       -       -      1.01    1.05    0.85    0.95        1.26
incl. agricultural coop.
Total declared credit      6.46    7.69    8.21    9.03    8.22    7.82    9.75   11.08   11.20   12.20         13.98
Of which:  Medium-Term   n.a.    2.81    2.89    3.20    2.81    2.75    3.19    3.56    3.76    4.88          7.02
Long-Term     n.a.    4.88    5.32    5.83    5.41    5.07    6.56    7.52    7.44    7,32          6.96
Private Sector           n.a.    5.31    5.71    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    7.78    7.81          8.N)
Public and Semi-
Public Sector           n.a.    2.38    2.50    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    3.42    4.39          5.94
CCCE/ (excl. BNDS)       n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    4.55    4.28    4.22    5.03    5.73    5.81    5.87          5.55
Risks not declared       n.a.    n.a      n.a.    1.06    1.32    10o4    0.76    0.19    o.64    0.63         0.67
Total credit             n.a.    n.a.    n.a.   10.09    9.54    8.86   10.51   11.27   11.8U   12.83         14.65
1/ Credit extended by the CRmmercial Banks, the Development Bank and the CCCE.
2 Loans to the private sector, public and semipublic enterprises, as of December.
Source:  BCKAO, based on declarations to the Centrale des Risques, and BCEAO Bulletins foreign aid tables.
D?CD
December 14, 1973



ANNEX 8
SOFISEDIT
Present and Contemplated.Shareholding and Board Structures
(CFAF million)
Present                 Contemplated
Amount      Seats         Amount       Seats
Locally Controlled
Government                  120           3            120           3
BCEAO                        80           1             80           1
BNDS                         50           1             50           1
USB                          50           1             50           1
Private Senegalese           -            -             40           -
Subtotal               300           6            340          6
Foreign Controlied
BICIS-SFOM                   50           1             50           1
BIAO                         50           1             50           1
SGBS                         50           1             50           1
IFO                          -            -             50          1
COCE                                      -             50          1
FM(                          -            -            50           1
Fidelity Bank                10           -             10           -
Subtotal               160           3           310           6
TOTAL                  460           9           650          12
DFCD
April 18, 1974



ANNEX 9
Page 1.
SOFISEDIT
DRAFT STATENIT OF GENERAL POLICY
I.  OBJECTIVES AND OPERATIONAL CRITERIA
1. The company shall assist in the development of soundly managed
enterprises in Senegal in all the productire sectors of the economy, includ-
ing tourism, mining, agro-industries, services and engineering. The Company
will not, however, engage in financing projects concerned exclusively with
agriculture production or housing.
2. The Company shall extend its assistance on the basis of economic
and financial criteria only. Enterprises that submit projects to the Com-
pany shall be required to have efficient management, be technically sound,
have satisfactory market prospects for their production, be able to generate
an adequate financial return on the investment and generally to contr:'bute
to the economic growth of the country in accordance with the objectives of
the Governments Development Plan.
3. The Company shall extend all kinds of assistance, financial and
other. The Company shall invest in the capital of enterprises and shall
subscribe to issues of shares and other securities it will endeavor to
assist in broadening the ownership base of industry in Senegal by assisting
in public share issues.  It shall grant medium and long-term loans, for
periods depending on the type of project involved, with an appropriate grace
period.  The company may also furnish guarantees.  It will not engage in
refinancing operations.
II.  INVESTMENT POLICY
4. The Company's assistance in the form of loans or participations or
both forms combined. may not normally amount to less than CFAF 2 million.
5. The total amount of loans granted by the Company together with its
participations and any other commitments of a financial nature in favor of
a single enterprise will not normally exceed 20% of the Company's paid-up
share capital and reserves.
6. The Company's total investments in the form of equity participations
may not exceed 75% of the Companyys share capital and reserves.
7. As a general rule the Company shall limit its equity participation
in any one enterprise to a maximum of 15% of its own share capital and
reserves.
8. Generally, the Company shall not assume managerial responsibilities
in enterprises it assists and shall limit its share participations to 25%
of the share capital of any given enterprise. It may, however, by unanimous
decision of the Board, exceed this percentage and even assume managerial
responsibilityr if this is justified by the circumstances or the nature of
the enterprise.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
9. When deciding upon the amount and form of financial assistance it
shall provide, the Company shall take into account all the financial require-
ments of the project and the financial situation of the enterprise in ques-
tion. In principle, the Company shall not finance more than 50% of the
total cost of the project. It may, however, exceed this limit if there is
special justification, such as in the case of an expansion project.
10. The Company shall endeavour to maintain a balanced portfolio by
distributing ite loans, participations and other commitments geographically
and amongst all the sectors of industrial and economic activity within the
range of its objectives.
III. FINANCIAL POLICY
11. The general aim of the Company's financial policy is to maintain
the value of its own capital, to manage its funds in such a way that it is
at all times able to meet its obligations and to achieve earnings that
mnables it to form adequate reserves and distribute reasonable dividends
to its shareholders. To this end the Company will:
- maintain a satisfactory balance between the maturities of its own
obligations and those of the loans it grants;
- not incur debt having an original maturity of more than one year,
in excess of the limits imposed by the Banking regulations;
- take adequate steps to protect itself from exchange risks in respect
of those of its borrowings that are repayable in foreign currencies;
- require appropriate security for the loans and guarantees it grants;
- fix its interest rates, camnissions and other charges at a level.that
reflects the cost of capital in Senegal and that will enable it to
obtain a satisfactory return;
- make adequate provisions agains potential losses and build up reserves
to a level consistent with sound financial practices, taking into
account the size and quality of its portfolio of loans and investments
as well as the need to pay adequate dividends to its shareholders.
IV. ORGANIZATION
12.    The Company shall strive to develop and maintain a solid and well-
balanced organization with qualified management. It shall give special and
continuous attention to the training of its professional staff both locally
and abroad.
13.    The Company shall supervise the execution of projects it finances
so as to protect its interests and to assist in the execution to the maximum
extent possible.
14.    The Company's own accounts shall be kept in accordance with gen-
erally accepted international accounting principles. The Company shall
engage the services of ar inderendent firm of professional and independent
auditors to audit its annual accounts.
DFCD



ANNEX 10
SOFISEDIT - Board of Directors
Messrs. Ibrahima N'Diaye      President Director General
M. Mbengue            Director of Financing, Ministry of Finance
Sikh Sarr             Director of Investment, Ministry of Planning
Amadou Sow            President Director General, USB
Djibril Sakho         President Director General, BNDS
Ady Niang             Deputy Director, BCEAO
BICIS            )
BIAO             )     Not yet nominated
SGBS             )
CCCE             )
IFC              )
FMO              )
Observer - Faly Ba   President, SONEPI
DFCD
April 18, 1974






Annex 31
SOFISEDIT
President's Curriculum Vitae
3Brn           : 1927
Ful-l Name     : Ibrahima N'Diaye
Nationality    : Senegalese
Education      : License in Law, Paris 1956
Diploma in Mathematics, Paris, 1952
1961 - Present : Managing Director of Post and Teleconnunications Office
(PTT) of Senegal
1960 - 1961    : Deputy Managing Director, PTT, Senegal
1960           : Director, Caisse Nationale d'Epargne, Senegal
1959 - 1960    : Director of Budget, Mali Federation
1956 - 1959    : Telecommunications Office, France and Niger
IBRD/DFC
January 23, 1974






ANNEX 12
Page I'of 2
SOFISEDIT
List of Possible Projects
(CFAF million)
Total        Potential
Contemplated               Project       SOFISEDIT
Sector and Project                  Activity                    Cost         Financing
I. TOURISM
1. Independence                  Hotel Dakar                     700           110
2. Intercontinental              Hotel Dakar                   2,000           110
3. Ile de N'Gor                  Hotel Dakar                     320           100
4. Langue Barbarie               Village, Saint Louis          1,300           120
5. Village Sienndou              Village Sine Saloum              60            10
6. Village Pointe Sangomar       Village Sine Saloum              80            30
7. Hotel Pinelli                 Hotel Nianning                1,500           120
8. Hotel Hertz/J TH             Hotel Toubab Dialaw            1,200           120
9. Hotel Touristik Finance       Hotel Toubab Dialaw             900           120
10. Boeing Project                Hotel SALI                    4,500           300
11. USIMA                         Hotel Casamance               1,300           120
12. Simenti                       Hotel Eastern Region            200            50
Total                                          14,060         1,310
II. MEIE-JM AND LARGE INDUSTRY
1. Manioc                        Manioc Processing               300            60
2. Usine Thon                    Tunafish canning                200            40
3. SOSAP                         Sardine - Tunafish              875           120
4. Crevettes                     Shrimp processing               120            25
5. SEFA                          Tomato processing               200            25
6. Lesieur          )            Investments needed
7. SODEC            )            by groundnut oil processing
8. V.Q. Petersen   )             companies to comply with      3,000           600
9. SEIC            )             EEC's new regulations on
10. SEIB             )            maximum toxicity
11. Mineral Water                 Mineral Water                   300           120
12. Palm Oil                      Palm oil processing             240            40
13. Seven-Up                      Carbonated Drinks               110            20
1h. Ceramique Keou                Tile production                 156            60
15. SOCOCIM                       Extension Cement plant        1,100            55
16. SENAC                         Construction materials          160            10
17. Tannery Gonaki6               Leather tannery                 300           120
18. Linge maison                  Textiles                        300           100
19. Bags                          Bag production                  205            50
20. SIES                          Gypsum production               230           100
21. Aluminum sulfate              Aluminum sulfate                100            30
Total                                            7,896          1,500



A  12
age 2 of 2
bt;t.        Potential
(Znteqflated               Project      SOFISEDIT
Sector and Pro;Ject                ALctiltr                    cest           n i
III.SACSCAIZ IWflS7Y
1. Farlne Poisson               Fish flour                       90            30
2. C. Hydropbfle                lrtrpblic coto                   70            25
3. 55AV                         Chicken feed                      o            1i5
4. STSPA                        Neat processing                  21             7
5. FrigorSfiqae !Lougia         Fresin                            2            10
6.  frigoritique A 'ackl Preesing                                5o            20
7. Frigorifique TabacoidL   Freesing                             la            20
8. FFrigorifique Thi&s           Iressing                        4              S
9. Prrodtte ?61che             ltah freang                        7             3
10. Poisor. ThPiroye             Wish processigg4                                5
11. Orevetteas 1port             3brkqmp e-Vorta                  20             5
12.  1Races                      Ice crea fatsory                 13             6
13. Petita Cftk boul.            Bakery                           42            15
14. GuetawaFt Boral.             Wary                             12             4
15. XLuballage                   Food Packaging                   21.            7
16.                              Put P3er proficts                66            30
17. Usrie Oorecation (a)         Gcntn                            6o            30
18. 0oufection (2) 0;                                                          2
19. chauostes couteouc           Shoes                                          40
20. DiEaues Loan                 kordt                                          25
21. RAdio Montage                Pa:to anww   '                                 36
221.     %                       kdn !Miption                     24 
23.  tIlC                        V-11  sircA4                                    o S
24. o,d  toa                                                                    30,
25. Pwn,-   f5a                  rooma tactory                   2&            1
26.       n       4p;c &r ttaigs                                                 3 3
27. ts'&wa.mCopenrw                                               -7             3
28. Lsbtn t2\                    UbO .Zl)ir<
29. Au%c;o Tt4ii-                Atito  -Mi                        6             3
30. Style                              t                     _ _
2rard Totol                                    239145          39302
DXJ~~~~ c 8
Dz22~17



Annex 13
Page 1
S O F I S E D I T
Assumptions for Financial Projections
I. ASSUMPTIONS
(a) Total investment in industry: CFAF 4 billion in 1974/75, increas-
ing by 6% annually (excluding the Dakar-Marine project)
(b) Total investment in toursim: CFAF 2 billion in 1974/75, increas-
ing by 15% annually
Industry                       Tourism
1974/75                    4,000                          2,000
1975/76                    4,240                          2,300
1976/77                    4,495                          2,645
1977/78                    4,765                          3,040
1978/79                    5,050                          3,500
1979/80                    5,350                          4,020
1980/81                    5,675                          4,625
(c) SOFISEDIT's share (approvals)
1. Long-term financing: 6% during first year, increasing by 2%
annually in the next two years and 1% to 5th year.
2. Medium-term financing:  5% of total investment in industry and
tourism.
3. Equity investments: 5% total financing by SOFISEDIT.
(d) Commitments: six months after approvals.
(e) Disbursements:
1. Long-term loans: 30% of commitments disbursed in the same
year, 50% in next year and 20% in following year.
2.  Medium-term loans:  50% of commitments disbursed in the same
year, and 50% in the next year.
3. Disbursements for equity investments: 100% disbursed same year
as commitment.
(f) Average loan maturity: 12 years including 3 years of grace for
long-term loans, and 5 years including six months of grace for
medium-term loans.



Annex 13
Page 2
(g) Terms of long-term loans: 9-1/2% interest rate.
(h) Import financing: 90% of total long-term loans (56% of total opera-
tions in third year).
(i) Borrowings: Two-thirds fram IBRD/IDA at 7-1/4 repayable under standard
terms; one third from KfW and CCCE at 6% (average borrowing cost -
6-3/4%) repayable in 20 years with 5 years of grace.
(j) Spread on msdium-term loans (rediscountable at BCEAO): 2.5%
(k) Incame from equity investments: 4% in the fourth year of investment
increasing by 1% annually.
(1)  Administrative expenses:  CFAF 35 million in 1974/745increasing by
6% annually.
(in)  In,ome on short-term  investments:  7.5%
(n) Share capital: CFAF 600 million
(o) Provisions for losses: 2% of annual increase in long-and medium-term
portfolio.
(p) Income Tax: It has been assumed that SOFISEDIT would be exempted
from income tax for the first five years of operations. Dae to
fiscal exemptions available, income tax would be insignificant
during the following year.
1/ This includes the salary and fringe benefits of the President (CFAF 5
million), 20% of the cost of the two expatriates (CFAF 5 million) and
salaries for the Engineer (CFAF 3 million), four pr9fessionals (each
at CFAF 2 million) and five non-professionals (each at 0.8 million),
rental (CFAF 4 million) and travel and other administrative expenses
(CFAF 6 million).
DFCD
December 14, 1973



Annex 24
S 0 F I S E D I T
Pro4ected Operations
CFAF Million)
1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80
Approvals
Long-term loans       430       625       855        937     1,030     1,130
Medium-term loans     360       390        430       470       510       550
Equity investments     43        62         86        94       103       113
Total             833     1,077     1,371     1,501      1,643     1,793
Commitments
Long-term loans       215       525        740       900       982     1,082
Medium-term loans     180       375       410        450       490       530
Equity investments     21        53         74        90        98       108
Total             416       953     1,224     1,440      1,570     1,720
Disbursements
Long-term loans        65       265       520        750       900     1,000
Medium-term loans      90       280        390       430       470       510
Equity investments     21        53         74        90        98       108
Total             176       598       984     1,270      1,468     1,618
DFCD
December 14, 1973






Annex 15
S 0 F I S E D I T
Projected Income Statements
(in CFAF million)
1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80
Income
Long-term loans                       3        19       56      114       181      255
Medium-term loans                     3        17       34       52        66       76
Dividend income                       -         -        -        1         3        8
Income from short-term
investments                        50       49        45       38        28       42
_        F       137       2 0      2 7       3g1
Expenses
Borrowing costs:
medium-term                         2        10       23       37        46       53
long-term                           2       11        31       66       110      156
Administrative expenses              35        40       42       45        48       51
39       __      97        147      207      2_0
Profit before provisions               17        24       39       57        73      121
Provisions                              3         7       15       23        28       34
Taxes                                   -         -        -         -        -        2
Net Profit                             14        17       24        34       45       85
Dividends declared                      -         -        -        -        26       33
- of share capital                      -         -        -         -        4        5
Gross income as % of average
total assets                          7.7       8.2      8.3      8.5       8.7      8.9
Administrative expenses as %
of average total assets               4.8       3.9      2.5      1.9       1.5      1.2
Profits before interest and taxes
as % of average total assets          2.9       4.3      5.6      6.6       7.2      7.2
Net profit as % of average equity       2.1       2.6      3.5       4.8      6.o      9.0
Net profit as % of year-end
share capital                         2.1      2.6       3.7      5.2       6.9      8.8
DFCD
April 24, 1974



Annex 16
S O F I S E D I T
Projected Balance Sheets
(CFAF million)
1974/75 1975/76 1976/77 1977/78 107Z/7) l?Y9/80
ASSErS
Short-term investments           650       604      529       438       322
Loans:
medium-term                 72       278      516       708      846       930
long-term                   65       330      830    1,506    2,258    3j020
Equity investments                21        74      148       238       336      444
(less provisions)                         (10) (l)  (25)     (48)      (76)    (110)
Net Portfolio                    155       672    1,469    2,404    3,364    4,284
Total Assets                     805    1,276    1,998    2,842    3,686    4,843
LIABWIITIES AND EQUITY
Short-term liabilities            10        20        30       40       50        60
Long-term borrowings:
- BCEAO                       72       278      516       708      846       930
- CCCE/KfW)                   59       297      747    1,355    2032    2,718
- IBRD/IDA)                                                       _03
Total Borrowings                 131       575    1,263    2,063    2,878    3,643
Share capital                    650       650      650       650       650      975
Retained earnings                 14        31       55        89       108      160
Total Equity                     664       681       705      739       758    1,135
Total Liabilities and Equity    805    1,276    1,998    2,842    3,686    4,843
Debt/Equity                      0.2       0.8      1.8       2.8       3.7      3.2
DFCD
April 24, 1974



Annex 17
S 0 F I S E D I T
Pro ected Cash Flow
(CFAF million)
1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80
SOURCES
Cash generation                   17        24        39       57        73        121
Collections:
Medium-term                    18        74       152      238       332        426
long-term                      -         -         20       74       148        238
Borrowings:
- BCEAO                        90       280      390       430       470        510
- CCCE/K!'W)                   59       238      468       675       810        900
- IBRD/IDA)
Current liabilities               10        10        10       10        10         10
Share capital                    650        -         -        -         -         375
Total Sources                    844       626    1,079    1,484    1,843        2,580
USES
Dividends                              -              -                  26         33
Taxes                             -         -         -         -        -           2
Disbursements:
medium-term                    90       280       390      430       470        510
long-term                      65       265      520       750       900      1,000
equity                         21        53        74       90        98        108
Repayments:
- BCEAO                        18        74      152       238       332        426
- CCCE/KfW)                    _         _        18        67       133        214
- IBRD/IDA)
Increase in cash                 650       (46)      (75)      (91)    (116)       287
Total Uses                       844       626    1,079    1,484    1,843        2,580
DFCD
April 24, 1974



Annex 18
SOFISEDIT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed Bank Loan
Amount ($'000)
1974
Third quarter                                 10
Fourth quarter                                30
1975
First quarter                                 50
Second quarter                                70
Third quarter                                100
Fourth quarter                               120
1976
First quarter                                170
Second quarter                               200
Third quarter                                230
Fourth quarter                               240
1977
First quarter                                250
Second quarter                               260
Third quarter                                270
Fourth quarter                               260
1978
First quarter                                250
Second quarter                               240
Third quarter                                170
Fourth quarter                                80
3,000
IBRD/DFCD
April 25, 1974



