Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9369
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREE CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1269-IN/LOAN 2186-IN)
FEBRUARY 21, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
India Department
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY FOQUIYALENT
Name of Currency:  Rupee (Rs)
Rate of Exchange:   Appraisal (May 1981)            US$ 1.00 = Rs 8.00
Intervening Years (average)     US$ = Rs 11.81
Completion Year                 US$ 1.00 = Rs 16.00
Fiscal Year of Borrower: GOI and GOK: April 1 to March 31
Weights and Measures: Metric System
GLOSSARY
kharif             -      Wet season: June to October
Krishi Bhavan      -      Agricultural Support Services Center
rabi               -      Dry season: November to April
chak               -      Watercourse CCA
Watercourse        -      Small channel below outlet serving a chak down to 5 ha blocks
(sub-chaks) with capacity to take full outlet discharge from head to
tail.
watercourse        -      A rotational water supply (RWS) system of allocating water among
fanners by fixed turns and time periods; flow rate is constant, and
time periods are proportional to land holding size.
ABBREVIATIONS
CAD                -      Command Area Development
CCA                -      Cultivable Command Area
CWC                -      Central Water Commission
DSP                -      Dam Safety Panel
ERR                -      Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP             -      FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
GOI                -      Government of India
GOK                -      Govemmernt of Kerala
ha                 -      hectare
KIP                -      Kallada Irrigation Project
km                 -      kilometer
LMC                -      Left Main Canal
M                  -      Million
mm                 -      millimeter
MCS                -      Micro-Conveyance System
MIS                -      Management Information Systems
O&M                -      Operation and Maintenance
PMCC               -      Project Monitoring and Coordination Cell
R&R                -      Resettlement and Rehabilitation
RMC                -      Right Main Canal
SAR                -      Staff Appraisal Report
SADU               -      Special Agricultural Development Unit



FOR OFFICIAL UU ONLY
THE WORLD bANK
Washington. D.C 20433
U.S.A
Officer of Diu.ctnt.Gonval
Opeustimt Eval t"In
February 21, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India Kallada Irrigation and
Tree Crop Development Proiect (Credit 1269-IN/Loan 2186-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on India - Kallada Irrigation and Tree Crop
Development Project (Credit 1269-IN/Loan 2186-IN)" prepared by the Asia
Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. It contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREE CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1269-IN/Loan 2186-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFA CE   ....... .....................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................................... iii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity .1
Background ...................................... 1
Project Objectives and Description.                                     2
Project Design and Organization.                                        3
Project Implementation.                                                 4
Project Results.                                                        5
Project Sustainability.                                                 7
Bank Performance.                                                       7
Borrower Performance.                                                   8
Project Relationships.                                                  9
Consulting Services.                                                   9
Project Documentation and Data ...................... I . . .10
PART II PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .1
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION                               .13
Table I       Related Bank Loans and Credits .14
Table 2       Project Timetable .......................... 16
Table 3    Schedule of Disbursements .17
Table 4    Project Implementation ............. .18
Table SA  Project Costs .22
Table SB  Project Financing .25
Table 6A  Direct Benefits .27
Table 6B      Economic Impact ............... 8.2
Table 6C  Studies.                                                     39
Table 7    Status of Covenants .44
Tacne 8A  Stall Inputs ...
Table 8B  Missions.                                                    49
Table 9       Physical Implementation Schedule for MCS .5.2..    52
MAP           IBRD 16023R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1269-IN/Loan 2186-IN)
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Kallada Irrigation and Treecrop
Development Project in the State of Kerala, India for which Credit 1269-IN in the amount of SDR
52.2 M and Loan 2186-IN in the amount of US$ 20.3 M were approved on June 24, 1982. The
Credit/Loan were closed on March 31, 1989, some two years behind schedule. The last
disbursement, was on February 9, 1989 for the Credit and October 17, 1989 for the Loan.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Agricultural Operations Division of the Asia Regional
Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part III), and the borrower (part II).
Preparation of this PCR was initiated during the Bank's final supervision mission of the
project in January/February 1989, and is based inter alia on the Staff Appraisal Report, Legal
Documents, supervision reports, correspondence files, and various reports.



iMi
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROFECT
(Credit 1269-IN/Loan 2186-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The Credit and Loan were made to the Government of India (GOI) for onward lending to
Government of Kerala (GOK) to assist in the financing of elements of the Kallada Irrigation and
Treecrop Development Project (KIP). The project was a time slice to complete KIP major
structures, such as the dam, main and branch canals, and to install an innovative low pressure
pipe/open field channel system to irrigate coconut and spice gardens on hilly lands, and paddy in the
valley bottoms. The scheme was commenced in the 1960's, but due to paucity of State funds had
made slow progess. The project was to complete the dam and right main canal, to extend the right
main canal, to fully construct the left main canal, and to install irrigation facilities down to plot level
over 37,600 ha. This was to be a 'pilot project', as it was considered that such an untried (in India)
and innovative concept for the micro conveyance system (MCS) would not be justified over the
whole project amounting to about 61,600 ha. The major benefits were to derive from coconuts,
spices, tapioca, and paddy.
Implementation Experience
2.    The project was slow to mobilize, and although the dam, main canals and branch canals
construction proceeded satisfactorily (with the exception of a major tunnel on the left main canal),
the distribution network and micro conveyance system installation were very delayed, and fell
significantly short of the original target of appraisal, in that only some 12,700 ha had been achieved
out of a target of 37,600 ha. This was due variously to land acquisition delays, inadequate survey
and design staff, contractor problems due to labor disputes and litigation, to the lack of enabling
legislation to install the piped systems until January 1985, and procurement delays for PVC pipes
and fittings.
3 .   Due to the appreciation of the SDR and US dollar against the rupee, large funds would have
been surrendered had the original project scope been adhered to. Thus at the mid-term review in
1986, the project scope was enlarged to include about 50,000 of the typical upland/valley bottom
terrain. Due to this and delays in construction, the project was granted a two year extension. Beyond
this the project area descends to the flat coastal plain, and this was not included due to concems over
the practicality and desirability of bringing irrigation to this area.
4.    The aspects causing major concem during implementation were dam safety measures, lack of
MCS staff, late legislation for MCS installation, slow execution of studies, the failure to produce a
detailed operational plan, the failure of GOK to introduce revised water charges, and the lack of
facilities (water supply) for the families displaced by the Kallada reservoir. The major physical delay
was the very slow construction of tunnel No. 3 of the left main canal due to inadequate geological
investigations, contractor litigation, and inadequate support by GOK for prescribed facilities, in
addition to minor failings by the contractor.



iv
Results
5.    A'. little irrigation has yet commenced, it is premature to consider enhanced production due
to the project. However, in spite of the shortcomings and delays noted above, the project may be
considered to have achieved positive results in the following aspects:
-  the Irrigation Department staff have gained valuable training and experience in dam safety
measures, canal system design, and piped micro-system design;
-  the development of a newly introduced MCS system is suitable for hilly terrain, which
will act as a pilot project for similar application elsewhere in India;
-  the provision of a comprehensive road system for 0 & M and public use;
-  Parapar dam safety has been improved;
-  the routine monitoring of project development; and
- the introduction of an improved agricultural support system.
6.    Estimated costs have risen from Rs. 38,300/ha at appraisal to over Rs. 49,700/ha at present.
Due to this and slow delivery of benefits, the ERR has reduced from 20% for a 37,600 ha project to
12.4% for a 50,000 ha project, which includes benefits from power generation.
Proiect Sustainability
7.    As the civil works and MCS installations have been generally constructed to acceptable
quality standards, it is envisaged that the project will operate optimally with normal maintenance. An
uncertainty is whether or not the beneficiary farmers will replace the flexible hoses in the pipe
system from their own resources as intended. If they do not, the project will not maintain its
predicted productivity. Additionally, if a comprehensive operational plan is not developed, the
project will not perform satisfactorily.
Findings and Lessons Learned
8.    No irrigation project with major structural components should be appraised until the Bank is
satisfied that relevant data on site conditions is adequate, and preliminary designs are completed.
Unit rates for construction should be more carefully scrutinized, and those of the local construction
industry used instead of hIrigation Department rates.
9.    In view of the prolonged analysis of factors contributing to dam safety, much more clearly
defined procedures and remedies should be prescribed by the Bank at appraisal including the
obligation by the borrower to utilize expert consultants on technical matters beyond its competence.
In respect of MCS works, which required controversial legislation to enable installation to proceed,
the Bank should have awaited ratification of such legislation before declaring the project effective. In
the event, this legislation was not available for some 30 months after effectiveness.
10.   Finally, as found in many irrigation projects in India, the Irrigation Department was more
concerned with constructing the project than how it would operate to best efficiency. In spite of the
introduction of Command Area Development concepts and services in the 1970's, this and other
similar projects still do not have comprehensive operational plans, which are essential on complex
power cum irrigation system such as KIP.



1
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1269-iN/Loan 2186-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identhy
Name                     Kallada Irigation and Treecrop Development Project
Credit Number            1269 IN
Loan Number              2186 IN
RVP Unit                Asia Region
Country                 India
State                    Kerala
Sector            :     Agriculture
Background
1.    At the time of appraisal, India had a population of about 700 M, growing at a rate of about
2.2% per year. Some 50% of the population were at or below subsistence level, and in order to
alleviate poverty and to create employment, especially in the rural areas, Government of India (GOI)
gave high priority to agricultural development. This sector is dominant in the Indian economy, and
contributed some 40% of GDP, employed about 70% of the population, and was responsible for
about 45% of the country's exports.
2.    As a major factor in agricultural production, irrigation development was thus given a high
priority in this expansion. In 1982, it covered about 54 M ha, and supported about 60% of
agricultural production. Results from irrigation project inv_stments were however disappointing,
and a considerable proportion of the area nominally developed was yielding poor output due to low
efficiency of systems, improper and inequitable operation, and low investment in inputs by the
farmers due to low confidence. Recognizing the serious underutilization of valuable resources on
which the growth in the economy depended, GOI in the early 1970's developed the concept of
Command Area Development (CAD). Its aims were to concentrate attention on irrigation system
operation, and the refining of physical infrastructure such as field channels to deliver water to the
farmners' plots. Also included were support components such as the supply of inputs, agricultural
extension, and credit.
3.    The agriculture of Kerala and parts of neighboring Karnataka and Tamil Nadu is unique in
India, influenced by the hilly topography, high rainfall, and tropical climate. Except on the flat
coastal strip and along inland creeks where paddy and coconuts are predominant, the inland areas are
typified by two distinct ecological units - the steep hilly lands with limited soil cover, and the flat
valley bottoms with deep alluvial soils. Here, the former carries mainly treecrops such as coconuts,
intercropped with various spices and tapioca. The bottom lands were previously exclusively paddy,
but now due to high labor costs this is declining in favor of vegetables, bananias and coconuts. Large
estates of rubber and oil palm exist, with complimentary small holder production of these crops.
Kerala is the largest producer in India of rubber, cashew, coconut, cardamom and ginger.



2
4.    Due to the very rugged topography and the tropical climate with average annual rainfall of
2600 mm, irrigation development in Kerala is less than in most Indian States except those in the
Himalayas. The net area irrigated in the State was only about 9% of net sown area, compared with
the national value of 25%, with little scope for increase. The major application for irrigation has been
on paddy, where its main role is to permit double-cropping by advancing the planting date of the
first crop, unlike much of India where it is a supplement to the monsoon rainfall, or to assist dry
season cropping.
5.    In spite of the high average annual rainfall, prolonged drought periods occur which
significantly reduce crop yields, especially those of coconuts and paddy. Another important
constraint to coconut production is th"' incidence oZ root-wilt disease which has been endemic in
parts of the State for over 100 years, for which there is no known cure. Its effects can be reduced by
cultural means however, including the use of hybrid strains, increased fertilizer application, and by
irrigation.
6.    The project, by serving both treecrops and paddy, responds to climatic and cultural
requirements, thus assisting the State to increase production of its two major crops. A further factor
is the very high population density, which with the small area of the State requires a high production
per unit of area.
Project Obiectives and Description
7.    The Kallada Irrigation Project (KIP) is located ia the valley of Kallada river flowing
westwards into the Arabian Sea. It rises in the western ghats (mountains). Its location is to the
northeast of Quilon city, situated in the southern most part of Kerala. A project layout plan is given
in Figure 1.
8.    The scheme was planned as early as the 1950's, initially to increase paddy production in the
State. Due to relative price changes, however, in which tree crop products became more attractive
than rice, the concept was modified. Construction of the dam, river diversion structure, and
elements of the main canals commenced in the 1960's. The project comprises a 85 m high
concrete/masonry dam, and a diversion structure on the Kallada river at Ottakal, feeding main canals
to right and left bank commands. After passing through very hilly terrain requiring numerous
tunnels, aqueducts and syphons, the system was intended to also serve the flat coastal areas. The
ultimately commandable area was estimated at 61,600 ha, of which about 50,000 ha is upland terrain
of mixed garden lands and paddy, and the remainder is flat coastal paddy lands interspersed with
coconuts.
9.    Under State funding, the scheme made very slow progress, and by appraisal in 1981, only
some 80% of the dam and 63% of the right main canal (RMC) had been completed. In view of the
introduction by, GOI/GOK of an advanced piped distribution system for irrigation of garden lands
on the steep areas, combined with an open channel system to supply the bottom lands in the same
block, the Bank considered that as this mode of irrigation had not been previously applied in India, it
would be unwise to support a project to the full potential of 61,600 ha. Instead, it was agreed that a
first phase project commanding 37,600 ha would be assisted in the form of a pilot project, which if
successful could be followed by a second phase to complete development.



3
10.   With a view to completing irrigation facilities up to 37,600 ha, the balance works were
defined, and are given in Table 4 of Part III. This 'time slice' was estimated to have a base cost of
about Rs. 967 M (US$ 113.8 M), with cost details as shown in Table 5A, Part III. The major
components were:
a)    completion of Parapar (Kallada) dam;
b)    completion of RMC with a further 24 km;
c)    construction of 49 km of Left Main Canal (LMC);
d)    construction of 26 km of branch canals in the right command and 73 km in the left
command;
e)    construction of the distributaries and minors in the areas commanded;
f)   installation of the composite piped/channel supply system over an area of 50,000 ha,
i.e. including a portion of phase JJ;1
g)    construction of about 275.5 km of canal service roads;l
h)    provision of buildings, equipment and materials for irrigation and agricultural
agencies;
i)   the formation of a Kallada Wing of Special Agricultural Development Unit (SADU);
and
j)    the creation of a Planning, Monitoring and Coordination Cell (PMCC).
The State agency responsible for implementation was the Irrigation and CAD Department,
Government of Kerala (GOK). The project became effective in September 1982, and was scheduled
to close in March 1987. A Credit of SDR 52.2 M (US$ 60.0 M) and a Loan of US$ 20.3 M were
made to GOI for onward financing of GOK under arrangements then currently in force. Financing
details are given in Table SB, Part III.
Project Design and Organization
11.   The project as conceived by GOK with the assistance of Central Water Commission (CWC)
was clearly defined. The Bank during preparation and appraisal refined the details of construction,
management, infrastructure and operation. The project was very innovative in the Indian context, in
that it traversed very rugged terrain through tunnels and aqueducts, and in that it utilized a low
pressure buried piped micro-distribution system in combination with field channels. In retrospect, it
would have been more appropriate for the Bank to have ageed to fund a first phase project covering
the entire 50,000 ha of typical upland/bottom land terrain, rather than a 'pilot project'of 37,600 ha.
Bank preparation and appraisal missions should have accepted the feasibility and practicality of the
project physical components, following the detailed preparation with the assistance of the FAO/CP.
IL This has been revised to take into account comments received from Government.



4
12.   The organization and management structure proposed to construct and operate the project
were appropriate, which included ageement by which the management would modify durnng the
project period from construction oriented to the G A M role. A major delaying effect on project
development was the need to pass legislation enabling GOK to install the piped micro conveyance
system such that the small percentage of potential beneficiaries who raised objections could be
circumvented legally while installation was in progress, and to authorize GOK to recover a
proportion of the cost of such installations. Following very tedious process, the enabling Ordinance
was not passed until January 1985, and the Act was finally ratiried in December 1986. This
obstruction should have been identified by the Bank during preparation, appraisal and negotiations,
and an alternative process applied.
Project Implementation
13.   As indicated in para 12, the major discrepancy between planned and actual achievement was
with respect to the micro conveyance system construction. It was scheduled L'. some 37,600 ha
would be installed by March 1986, the original completion date. Due to a combination of:
-  lack of enabling legislation until January 1985;
-  delays to topographic surveys;
-  shortage of trained staff due to rapid rotation of those who had received training from
FAO/Cl,
-  inadequate MCS installation divisions; and
-  procurement formalities for pipes and fittings,
at revised closure date of March 1989, only 12,600 ha MCS had been installed, of which about
3000 ha had been commissioned.
14.   The other major cause for delay to irrigation potential creation is the very slow construction
of tunnel No. 3 at km 6.4 on LMC. Without the completion of this 3.5 km long lined tunnel in the
head reach of the canal, no irrigation may take place in the left command. GOK procedures, failures
in funding, periodic inadequate support for the contractor, and lack of geological information for the
design of this tunnel in rock of poor integrity were major factors in the delay to the tunnel
construction. The GOK and Bank preparation engineers should have insisted on the fullest site
investigations before Credit/Loan effectiveness. In the event, after successive rock falls requiring a
major realignment, this tunnel will not be operational until late 1I- '
15.   The need for strict adherence to dam safety procedures to satisfy Bank requirements was a
factor in the delay to the completion of the Kallada dam. This did not in the event cause a delay to the
introduction of irrigation, as the distribution and micro-networks were not advanced enough to
permit it. As a result of clear legal documents, the Dam Safety Panel (DSP) was introduced into the
project. It immediately identified certain weaknesses, including doubts over the dam's inability to
pass the maximum probable flood safety, and structural modifications were required late in the
project period. The improved safety of this dam, considering the large population downstream, is a
major achievement of the project.
16.   A major institutional weakness has been the role and activities (or rather lack of) SADU. It is
recalled that it was to mainly concern itself with the distribution of hybrid coconuts and in arranging



5
credit for project farners. Late in the project period, after litde had been contributed by it, GOK
suspended its activities and replaced it with a more broadly based support system known as Krishi
Bhavans (literally agricultural centers). It is felt in retrospect that the project preparation should have
anticipated this weakness, and made more positive specific support arrangements for the project.
Due to this, even today only some 20-30 of the required 52 Krishi Bhavans are in place.
17.   Althoug'h the preparation by the Bank considered the resettlement and rehabilitation (R & R)
of some 277 landless families from the reservoir area, and reference is made to procedures in the
SAR, no specific covenant was included in legal documents to enforce satisfactory treatment. 410
families were evicted from the submerged area of the Parapur dam. 36.4 ha of forest land were
sanctioned by GOK for rehabilitation purposes and distributed to 391 families, so far. About 4.86
ha of land are to be issued to the remaining 19 families.1 Although GOK was generous in that it
allotted a good village site to families who were previously illegal encroachers, throughout the
project period Bank supervision missions had cause to report unfavorably on the delay in the
provision of a perennial water supply.
Project Results
18.   The physical achievements under the project to the revised closing date of March 1989,
following a two year extension, can be seen from Table 4. From this, major components such as the
dam, the RMC, LMC, and right command branch canals are virtually completed. In this command,
distributaries are about 85%, but minors are lagging at only 68% of revised targets. In the left
command, the branches are about 65% complete, but completion of tunnel No. 3 is anticipated only
by late 1990. Here also distributaries and minors are lagging at about 60% of revised targets.
19.  It is in the micro-conveyance system that the most serious delays have occurred, in that at
closure date only 12,600 ha had been installed out of a revised target of 50,000 ha. Thus although
some early installations of the complex pipe/open channel systems are now starting to operate, their
characteristics and problems cannot be assessed fully. This is due to the inexperience of the
beneficiary groups, and to the lack of regular rotational supplies from the canal system as it is still
unfinished. However, site inspections of those blocks which are installed and operating in an ad hoc
manner indicate that the system functions as intended, and that the farmers are cooperating in its
management. Table 9 in Part Ill gives the projected build up of the MCS installations.
20.   A major failing of the project has been the reluctance by GOK to formulate a compreL.nsive
operational plan, in spite of persistent Bank representations. The covenant under Section 3.04 of the
Project Ageement required that a study be made on operation and maintenance management, which
was completed satisfactorily. However, it has not been possible for the Bank to assess the future
impact or success oi the plan.
21.   The time-slice project underwent some modifications in physical quantities as a result of final
design and the extension of target command area from that at appraisal of 37,600 ha to about 50,000
ha, as shown in Table 4. This extension of project size was agreed following a mid term review,
when the project revised costs and increase in the rupee values of the Credit and Loan due to the
dollar and SDR appreciation were resolved. The expansion to the limits of the hilly topography
satisfies the objection made above on project scope, and the project can no longer be considered a
"pilot project". The revised cost commensurate with this increased physical scope is given in Table
5A. As a result of this expansion, it was ageed that the feasibility study to be carried out to
determine the scope of a Phase II to complete KIP development would have little meaning, and this
3/ This has been revised to take into account comments received from Govemnment.



6
was aborted. It was prescribed in the covenant under Section 3.02 of the Project Ageement. In view
of the very different mode of irrigation system in the area beyond about 50,000 ha, doubts over the
desirability or practicability of providing irrigation to an area near the sea and densely populated, and
the very small area involved (about 12,000 ha), the suspension of the studv is justified.
22.   Two additional physical aspects should be noted. Modifications to the Parapar dam have
been referred to above, and it should be recorded that following pressure from the Dam Safety Panel
(DSP) from its inception in 1982, certain structural measures were carried out which improved the
dam's integrity and operation, and ensured its safety. The second refers to project canal roads.
Under the terms of the minutes of negotiations, a feasibility study was carried out to determine the
extent of canal side roads to satisfy 0 & M and public transport requirements. Although this study
was made, albeit very delayed, many revisions were required to both scope and specifications before
the Bank could agree to support its recommendations. This resulted in a physical increase by more
than 140% over appraisal estimates.
23.  In retrospect, the following positive results have emanated from the project:
a)    Parapar dam was made safe as far as present analytical methods and data would
permit, and its water retention properties and structural integrity improved;
b)   the canal system operation characteristics were improved by the addition of cross-
regulators and escapes;
c)    the concept of piped/open channel MCS installations introduced by GOI and GOK
project planners without detailed design and operational considerations was translated
into practice for the first time in India;
d)    farmers' block committees were formed;
e)    the ineffective SADU system was modified to the Krishi Bhavan approach; and
f)    an effective multipurpose road network has been initiated.
24.   Direct project benefits, both appraisal and present estimates, are shown in Table 6A of Part
RI. In interpreting the differences between the two esdmates, it should be remembered that appraisal
estimates were made on the basis of 37,600 ha command development, whereas the revised present
estimates are on a 61,600 ha command. For a 50,000 ha command, interpolation
has been used.
25.   Turning to financial indicators, project cost estimates are shown in Table SA. Reference to
this table, considering a command of 50,000 ha, indicates a 107% cost increase over appraisal
estimates for-a 37,600 ha command. Translating this to a common base, this is an increase from Rs.
36,260/ha to Rs. 56,420/ha, with all costs prior to project inception in 1982 considered sunk costs
and not included. Major cost increases are evident on all items, far in excess of pro rata increase in
command area, and beyond the contingencies applied. Table 4 indicates that significant physical
increases were introduced only on canal structures, MCS installations, and road network. Indeed,
reductions in quantities were made with respect to certain branch, distributary and minor canals.
Thus on civil works, the preparation/appraisal teams cou:d not have realistically assessed unit rates,
a common failing in many irrigation project appraisals in the late 1970's and 1980's. This has arisen
by taking the Irrigation Departments' schedules of rates, which are invariably much below those of
the local construction industry. A second major increase, beyond prediction, has been the increased



7
cost of land acquisition due to high demand by returning migrant labor, making rural land values
here some of the highest in India.
26.   Table 6B, Part III gives economic indicators, with the Economic Rate of Retum (ERR)
estimates at appraisal, at first Credit/Loan extension in December 1986 by FAO/CP, and at present.
Considering a project command of about 50,000 ha, the present ERR estimate excluding sunk costs
is 12.4%, compared with that for 37,600 ha at appraisal of 20% . Although the December 1986
estimates show only a marginal effect due to inclusion of power generation (not funded under the
project), this is somewhat more pronounced in present estimates.
27.   Inspite of these reduced ERR estimates, the project may be considered to be moderately
successful, for the reasons given in para 23 above and in Table 6A, and for the improvement it will
make to the rural economy of the region. Because of the project, the Irrigation Department has
derived considerable expertise in dam, tunnel, canal and MCS design, in system operations, and in
project monitoring and coordination. The MCS system utilized, following evaluation after normal
operation commences, may be used as a pilot project for irrigation in other hilly areas in India, such
as in the watershed projects.
Project Sustainabilitv
28.   As construction has been to a generally satisfactory standard, and as the socioeconomic
aspects have been given due regard, it is confidently anticipated that the project, based on a firm
foundation and providing the necessary infrastructure, will give prolonged operation. What is not so
evident is the way in which the project will be operated and maintained, in view of persistent failure
by GOK to produce an operational plan for the system. If this is not done, and only an adhoc
operation continues, the benefits may be substantially lower than indicated in this report. With
respect to maintenance, it is assumed that the farmers will themselves replace the final delivery pipe
system. Experience elsewhere in India however indicates that this may not occur. If these fears are
proved correct, then the efficiency and equity of water supply within the blocks will decline.
Bank Performance
29.   The identification and preparation of the project were not adequately staffed by engineers to
ensure that all pertinent technical and cost aspects were fully covered. Examples are the minimal
amount of site investigation carried out for major structures, and the use of unrealistically low unit
rates for construction. In addition, it is questioned why only 37,600 ha was selected for Phase I -
this is too large for a pilot project, but fell significantly short of the potential development of about
61,600 ha.
30.   The appraisal was prolonged over some six months, due to the need to field a second
(reappraisal) mission in May 1981 in order to revise and finalize the aspects of agricultural services
organization and capability, the predicted impact of coconut root-wilt disease, the role of SADU, the
without-project situation, subsidies, and to phase MCS installation to keep pace with new plantings.
The appraisal report, although somewhat lacking in detail (a draft Supplemented Data Volume was
produced but not released), nevertheless gave a complete coverage of most of the project
components. One major weakness was the very cursory treatment given to system operation.
31.   Reference to Tables 8A and 8B, Part III indicates an above average Bank staffing input for
the proiect. This is due to the very high level of technical assistance provided in the absence of
consultants retained by GOK. From late preparation stage until well into execution, the engineer



8
from FAO/CP responsible for translating the pipe MCS concept into practical designs carried out
frequent visits to monitor design and installation, and to provide staff training.
32.   A further heavy Bank input was with respect to dam safety. From mid 1984 until
Credit/Loan closure, the Bank closelv monitored the unsatisfactory actions by GOK in meeting the
DSP's recommendations for revised flood estimation. Bank consultants were utilized on several
occasions to assist in the analysis. Other technical consultants were provided by the Bank to assist
with modifications to tunnel No. 3, LMC, without which progress would have been significantly
slower than at present, and the cost overrun would have been much higher.
33.   Review of Bank supervision manning and frequency indicates a balanced program
throughout, with the appropriate expertise invoked. Bank representations to GOK in many cases
resolved problems and reduced delays. At Credit/Loan first extension in March 1987, the Bank
made a critical review of weaknesses and shortcomings in implementation, and made their
improvement or resolution conditions for such extension. This was repeated for the second
extension in March 1988. These exercises produced very positive results, and were implemented in
the project reaching its present level of development.
Borrower Performance
34.   There were major startup problems to the project, in that there was excessive staff rotation,
and serious delays in the mobilization and staffing of the PMCC. Although FAO/CP training and
design assistance missions were frequent, their effectiveness was diluted by the transfer of trained
staff within a short time of their training. Serious bottlenecks developed due to the slow rate of
surveys for MCS installations due to inadequate staff and facilities, such as transport and survey
equipment.
35.   During project execution, once these constraints were largely resolved, the project proceeded
satisfactorily on the larger civil works. An exception to this was tunnel No. 3, due to inadequate
power supply and explosives, and inadequate geological data with which to design the tunnel.
Inadequate field divisions continued to delay MCS works. In the latter part of the project period,
when attention should have been focussed increasingly on operational aspects, no adequate
provision was made for 0 & M establishment for project needs. At project closure, the staff were
impeded in their supervision by inadequate or unserviceable vehicles, which had progessively
deteriorated over the project period without replacement.
36.   Funding for the project was most inadequate at effectiveness, but thereafter improved. At
two intervals during the implementation period thereafter funding was severely constrained,
including the period before final Credit/Loan closure. Fund allocation for FY 90 is only 50% of
requirements, with the result that flow of benefits will be further delayed.
37.   The studies rescribed under the project, and those subsequently introduced, are detailed in
Table 6D with notes on their execution and impact. The major studies concerning dam safety, water
charges, project management, roads, telecommunications, and base line survey were competently
carried out, although not all to schedule. Minor studies of farmer involvement in MCS operation and
maintenance and their acceptance of hybrid coconuts were not carried out. Of more concern is the
lack of progess on the production of an operational plan, and on reservoir siltation.
Hydrometeorologica! studies are making slow progess.



9
38.   The attention by GOK to major covenants is detailed in Table 7, Part 111. During
implementation, most covenants were in compliance or were being addressed. Four major
exceptions were however:
a)    Section 3.03 - Adequate 0 & M units for the project have not been provided.
b)    Section 3.04 - Inadequate consideration was given to the detailed operation of the
project.
c)    Section 3.05 - Revised water charges have not been introduced.
d)    Section 3.08 - It was not ensured that MCS works were carried out together with the
conveyance system.
39.   For the major part of the project period, the covenant under Section 3.06 (dam safety) was
not complied with. Inspite of periodic recommendations of the DSP to revise flood studies and
persistent representations by the Bank, only nomimal action was taken. CWC took an excessive time
to carry out revised analysis, and ultimately became involved in a dispute with GOK's consultant
meteorologist which was only resolved by the introduction of an independent expert into the DSP.
Such reluctance to utilize new data to update flood studies in order to improve the safety of the dam,
especially with a large population immediately downstream, is not understood. CWC, as the
nation's observer on dam safety, should have instead taken the lead in ensuring its safety.
40.   Project monitoring by the PMCC was initially unsatisfactory, in that there was little
communication between Chief Engineer (PMCC) and the Chief Engineer (KIP). This subsequently
improved, and at project closure periodic reports by PMCC were to the required standard and
promptly submitted. The PMCC, which suffered from very frequent rotation of Chief Engineers,
did not however perform well generally, and a lack of coordination with Chief Engineer (KIP)
persisted throughout. Project management at the level of Chief Engineer (KIP) was consistently
satisfactory or above average, and the construction units throughout performed satisfactorily.
Procurement procedures were generally satisfactory and followed Bank guidelines.
Project Relationships
41.  Throughout the project cycle, the GOK and project officials cooperated fully with Bank and
FAO/CP staff, and the most cordial relations were maintained throughout. Only during the latter
stages of the darn safety review was strain evident, but the decision by GOK to seek expert opinion
to arbitrate in the sensitive meteorology dispute resolved the issue.
Consulting Services
42.   A weakness of the project was GOK's reluctance to utilize the services of expert consultants.
This was evident until the final stages of the dam safety review, on tunnel data collection and design,
on MCS design, on the formation of farmers'groups, and on the various studies, including the
derivation of an operational plan. This was thought to be partly due to lack of experience of working
with consultants, to reluctance by the Irrigation Department to subcontract their work, and to the
tedious process of gaining government sanction for consultant appointment.
43.   All construction was carried out by private contractors. In Kerala, the contracting industry is
beset with labor problems, which frequently caused work stoppages, onsite violence, cost
escalation, and even abandonment of works by the contractors. Many structures were seriously



10
delayed due to this factor. Indeed, the problem reached such proportions that it is questionable
whether construction projects in the State may be subjected to normal scheduling criteria, and the
environment is not at present amenable to the introduction of further time bound projects on which
economic indicators are based.
Project Documentation and Data
44.   The SAR gave adequate guidance to executing staff and Bank supervision missions, except
for lack of technical details on system operation, and on the issue of introduction of revised water
charges and procedures for R&R, where it was particularly weak. These exceptions resulted in
imprecise language in the legal documents which made these covenants difficult to enforce.
45. At all stages of the project cycle, GOK through Chief Engineer (KIP) provided adequate data
required for preparation, appraisal, supervision, and PCR preparation. Had a computer based MIS
system been introduced, data retrieval could have been more readily achieved, and project
monitoring would have been facilitated.



11
PART 11
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Confirmation of Adequacy and Accuracy of Information in Parts I and Part III
46.   Information contained in Parts I and III have been verified and found to be generally
satisfactory. Paras. 10 (f) and (g) and 17 of Part I and Tables 4 and 6C of Part III have been
revised, as indicated, to take account of Government's comments.
Evaluation of Bank's Performance During Project Evolution and Implementation
47.   Like other irrigation projects in the State, the original concept of Kallada Irrigation Project
was to provide irrigation water to paddy lands with a view to step up rice production for food self-
sufficiency. But when the project was submitted to the World Bank for credit assistance in 1980,
the focus of the scheme was changed to cover irrigation of tree crops also.
48.   The Kallada Irrigation and Tree Crop Development Project is the first World Bank
involvement with on-farm irrigation in Kerala. It was the first major gravity irrigation in India with
an on-farm delivery system based on low-pressure underground PVC pipes for the irrigation of
garden lands.
49.   Bank officials gave GO1/GOK sufficient guidance especially regarding on-farm irrigation
system by MCS which was a new concept in the State of Kerala.
50.   During the implementation period, Bank officials made several visits to the project and
contacted GOK and project officials, and gave timely instructions for the proper execution of the
works. The Bank's suggestions, such as constitution of a Dam Safety Panel for KIP, forming of
farmer's committee, solving problems in the critical work of Tunnel No. HI, forming of Special
Agriculture Development Unit, additional Krishi Bhavan Units, communication facilities, etc.,
were some of the important achievements of the Project.
Evaluation of Borroweer's Own Performance During roject Evolution and Implementation
51.   Before placing the project before the World Bank for financial assistance, the work of
Kallada Irrigation Project was in slow progress due to paucity of funds. During 1981-82, the
project was taken up for execution with World Bank assistance. As per the agreement with the
World Bank, the project should have been completed by March 1989. During this period, a major
portion of the work has been completed. Delay in completion was due to various reasons noted
below:
(a)   scarcity of cement, steel and explosives in certain periods;
(b)   non-completion of Tunnel No. III in LBMC;
(c)   labor problems in various work sites;
(d)   delay in land acquisition;
(e)   abandonment of works by contractor and works rearrangement;
(f)   paucity of funds during certain periods;
(g)   non-shifting of electric lines in some reaches in certain canal



12
system;
(f)   inadequacy of staff, survey equipment and vehicles during the
initial stage of project execudon especially for MCS works;
52.   The following factors also contributed to the delay in completing the project:
(a)   the minor conveyance system under the topographic condition
of the project area was a new activity requiring more time for
planning, designing, and installation of underground pipes, and
staff training;
(b)   the build-up of agricultural support services to promote
on-farm development also needed considerable lead time.
53.   Most of the suggestions made by the World Bank officials during their field visits in
solving the above problems were taken into consideration and timely actions were taken to
implement the same.
Assessment of Bank-Borrower Relationship During Project Implementation
54.   Relationship between the Bank and project officials was good and effective in all respects.



13
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION



Table I
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1269 IN/Loan 2186 IN)
TABLE 1
Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit                      Purpose                    Year               Status                       Comments
Details                                                      of
Approval
1. Credit 680-IN:         To plant or rehabilitate             1977          The project closed         The project was fairly
Kerala Agricultural       coconuts, pepper, seed                             on 9/30/86,                successful, although there >
Development Project       gardens and cashew, to                             following a one year       was a significant cost
(USS 30.0 M)              establish crumb rubber                             extension.                 overrun. Some USS 0.5 M
factories and markets, to                                                    remained undisbursed.
strengthen agricultural
research, and to improve
agricultural extension
facilities.
2. Credit 824-IN:         To improve milk                      1978          The project closed         The project was considered
National Dairy            collection, to procure                             on 12/31/85 on             successful.  The Credit was
Project                   processing equipment, to                           schedule.                  fully disbursed.
(US$ 150.0 M)             construct milk plants,
and to provide training
to staff.
3. Credit 855-IN:         To strengthen location               1978          The project closed         The results of the project
National                  specific research in the                           on 3/31/86 having          were disappointing. Only USS
Agricultural              agro-climatic zones of                             had a 3 year               19.5 M of the Credit was
Research Project I        India, including Kerala.                           extension.                 utilized.
(USS 27.0 M)



Table 1
Page 2 of 2
Loan/Credit                      Purpose                    Year               Status                       Comments
Details                                                      of
Approval
4. Credit 1012-IN:        To finance cashew                    1980          The project closed         The project was considered
Cashew Project            production in Kerala,                              on 9/30/87 following       to be moderately successful.
(USS 22.0 M)              Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh                          a two year                 The Credit was fully
and Orissa, with new                               extension.                disbursed.
plantations, research and
training.
5. Credit 1028-IN:        To reorganize and                    1980          The project closed         The project was successful,
Kerala Agricultural       strengthen agricultural                            on schedule in June        and the Credit was fully
Extension Project         extension in Kerala, with                          1986.                      disbursed.
(USs 10.0 M)              improved training,                                                                                       U
research, equipment,
staff and facilities.
6. Credit 1209-IN/        To finance a 2 year slice            1982          The project closed         Although most of the
Loan 2095-IN:             of ARDC's lending                                  on 6/30/84 on              physical targets were
Agricultural              programme.                                         schedule.                  achieved, the project was
Refinance and                                                                                           disappointing due to
Development                                                                                             incorrect assumptions on its
Corporation IV                                                                                          effect on policy and
(USS 350.0 M)                                                                                           institutional improvement.
Some USS 9.1 M remained
undispersed.
7. Credit 1631-IN:        To strengthen location               1985          The project is still       The project is oaking modest
National                  specific research in the                           in progress.  The          progress.  The Kerala
Agricultural              agro-climatic zones of                             prescribed closing         component is above the
Research Project II       India, including Kerala.                           date is 12/31/92,          national average level of
(USS 69.9 M)                                                                 but it is                  progress.
anticipated that a
two-year extension
will be required.



16
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1269 IN/Loan 2186 IN)
TABLE 2
Project Timetable
Item                                Date            Date             Date
planned         revised         actual
Identification (EPS)                                                     12/29/78
-   Preparation                                                             12/78 - 5/81
-  AppraiFal mission                                                        09/80 - 10/80
& 05/81
-  Credit/Loan negotiations                03/16/81                         03/5/82
-  Board approval                          04/28/81                         06/24/82
-  Credit/Loan signing                                               8      07/06/82
-  Credit/Loan effectiveness                                                09/21/82
-  Credit/Loan completion                  03/31/86         03/31/88        03/31/89
-  Credit/Loan closure                     03/31/87         03/31/88        03/31/89



17
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1269-IN/Loan 2186-IN)
TABL 3
Schedule of Disbursements
Bank FY/                           Cumulative Disbursements                         X Actual
Quarter                Appraisal            Revised            Actual              to SAR or
Projection          Projection                             revised
projection
--------------------(US $M)----------------
1983   1st                    -
2nd                  3.5                                   -
3rd                  7.3                                  12.3                   168
4th                 11.1                                  13.9                   125
1984   1st                  15.1                                  15.6                  103
2nd                 19.1                                  17.8                    93
3rd                 23.2                                  22.6                    97
4th                 27.4                                  24.1                    88
1985   1st                  32.3                                  24.9                   77
2nd                 37.3                                  26.3                    71
3rd                 42.3                                  30.9                    73
4th                 47.4                                  31.1                    66
1986   1st                  52.2                                  32.8                   63
2nd                 57.1                                  36.2                    63
3rd                 60.3                                  39.9                    66
4th                 63.5                                  43.3                    68
1987   1st                  71.1                                  45.7                   64
2nd                 80.0                 55.0             45.7                    83
3rd                 80.3                 60.0             50.9                    85
4th                                      65.0             55.7                    86
1988   1st                                      70.0              57.7                   82
2nd                                      75.3             59.3                    79
3rd                                      80.3             61.7                    77
4th                                      64.8             65.6                   101
1989   1st                                      67.9             69.2                   102
2nd                                      71.0             69.4                    98
3rd                                      74.1             76.8                   103
4th                                      77.2             78.5                   102
1990   1st                                      80.3              80.3                  100
Disbursement ceased on October 17, 1989.



Table 4
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DmLOFMNT PBDJECT
(Credit 1269-IN/Loan 2186-IN)
TABLE 4-
Pro.iect InDlementation
1/             2y 2J
Indicator                 Unit          Appraisal         Revised        Actual            Completion       Istimated
estimate         estimate        achievement          (Z)          Completion
date
c-
1. Dan
- earthwork                  Tb..3          20.0               580.0           550.0            100                C
- masonry/concrete           Tb..3          97.0               440.0           430.0              98             11/89
- saddle dam                 Th.m3          63.0              7710.0          7700.0            100                C
- gates                                      no                100              100             100                C
2. REiht CoanLad
a) Main canal
- earthworks              km             24.0              69.7            69.7              100                C
- lining                   km             us               69.7            69.7              100                C
- structures              No              106             248             234                 94               6/90



Table 4
Page 2 of 4
1/                             2J
Indicator                 Unit          Appraisal         Revised        Actual            Completion       Estimated
estimate         estimate        achievement          (X)          Completion
date
b) Branch canals
- earthwork                km            26.0              47.6            47.5              100                C
- lining                   km             ns               43.3            43.2              100                C
- structures               No             159             287             248                 86.4             6/90
c) Disnet to 60 ha
- earthwork                km           273.0             357.0             311.8             87.4             6/90
- structures               No             ns               16.83           1430               85               6/90
d) Minors 60 ha - 10 ha
- earthwork                km           374.0              63.0              44.76            71.05            9/90
3. Left Command
a) Main canal
- earthwork                km            49.0              56.0              55.24            99              12/89
- lining                   km             ns               56.0              53.94            96              12/89
- structures               No             198               297                283            95               6/90
b) Branch canals
- earthwork                km            73.0              64.2            47.2               74               3/90
- lining                   km             us               62.8             34.4              55               6/90
- structures               No             195               332             206               62               9/90



Table 4
Page 3 of 4
1/                             2/
Indicator                  Unit          Appraisal         Revised          Actual            Completion       Estimated
estimate          estimate        achievement           (S)          Completion
date
c) Disnet to 60 ha
- earthwork                km            236.0              263.0            141.3               54               12/90
- structures               No               Ds                572              343               60               12/90
d) Minors 60 ha   10 ha
- earthwork                km             280.0              18.0             12.3               68                6/90
4. Micro Conveyance Syste-
(MCS) below 10 ha
a) garden lands              '000 ha          27.6            36.7
*  )         12.6                25               3/92
b) paddy lands               '000 ha          10.0            13.3 )
3/
c) tanks                       No             D.8               ni                Di                  -                 -
5. Canal Roads                    K             113.0             275.5            153.6                56
6/
6. Buildings                      X               us               100                 92               92



Table 4
Page 4 of 4
Notes:
1/ Based on command area of 37,600 ha.
2/ Based on com_and area of 50,000 ha.
3/ Tanks initially included for night storage, but subsequently deleted.
4/  No further road or building construction beyond current con%.racts.
5/ Time slice quantities only.
6/ This takes into account Government comments.
Abbreviations:
ns - not specified.
ni - not included.



Table 5A
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1269-IN/Loan 2186-IN)
TABLE SA
5/
Pro.iect Costs
Revised                       Estimated
Item                            ApDraisal estimate              estimate       Actual at       balance cost
Local        FE         Total        (1/89)         6/89            after 6/89
Total            Total          Total
(US$ M) 1/                (US$ M) 2/      (US$ M) 3/      (US$ M) 3/
A. Civil works
Dam                                                     2.87          6.30           5.21             0.56
Right Command
- main canal                                            8.82         11.26          10.20             0.10
- branch canals                                         5.86          5.37           5.06             0.46
- distributaries to 60ha                                7.26         17.21          15.04             1.91
- minors 60ha - 10ha                                    1.33          3.24           0.61             2.36
Left Comand
- main canal                                           30.95         30.07          28.22             0.61
- branch canals                                         5.20          8.96           6.16             2.65
- distributaries to 60ha                                6.06         15.66          11.64             3.89
- minors 60ha - 10ha                                    0.99          1.13           0.01             1.63
Micro Conveyance System
(below 10ha)
- distribution system                                  11.71         25.12          12.02            13.40
- tanks                                                 0.81           - .                             -



Table 5A
Page 2 of 3
;  ised                      Estinated
Item                           Apnraisal estimate                timate      Actual at       balance cost
Local        FE        Total         "'89)        6/89            after 6/89
Total           Total           Total
(US$ M) 1/              (US  M) g/      (US$ M)        ( (US$ M) 3/
Canal Roads                                               1.21         3.26           0.81            0.61
Buildings                                                 1.67         1.94           1.55            0.23
Sub-total civil works         59.32     25.42       84.74        129.52         96.53            28.41
B. Ancillary Items
Equipment and materials         0.62      0.91         1.53.        2.52          2.15             0.16
Land Acquisition               13.50       -          13.50        21.04          19.62            0.30
C. Administrative Overheads
6/
SADU - Kallada Wing             0.92       -          0.92          0.79           0.19            0.53
Planning/Monitoring             0.34       -          0.34          0.87          0.25             0.55
Engineering Supervision        12.72       -          12.72        21.21         19.50             2.78
Total base cost               87.42     26.33      113.75        175.95         138.24           32.73
D. Contingencies
Physical contingencies          9.81      2.91       12.72           -            -                 -
Price contingencies/           26.11      7.81       33.92           -            -                 -
cost escalation
Total Project cost (US$ M)      123.34     37.05       160.39       175.95         138.24           32.73
Total Project cost (Rs M)      1047.7     315.6       1363.3       2656.8        2281.0            540.00



Table 5A
Page 3 of 3
Notes:
1/ US$ 1.0 = Rs. 8.50 at appraisal.
2/ US$ 1.0 = Rs. 15.10 at January 1989.
3/ US$ 1.0 = Rs. 16.50 at June 1989.
4/ Deleted from project.
5/ Appraisal estimates based on command area of 37,600 ha, but all other estimates and expenditures based
on comand area 50,000 ha following mid-term review.
i/  Now converted to Krishi Bhavans.



25
Table SB
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEiVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1269-IN/Loan 2186-IN)
TABLE5B
Erject Finanng
Source                Planned at  Revised     Final actual  Estimated at
appraisal    (11/88)    at 6/89     project
completion
(US$ '000)  (US$'000)  (US$ '000)   (US$ '000)
A. IDA Credit Categories
1. Civil works         56,615       69,606      66,049      66,049
2. Equipment, vehicles   3270        1686        1601        1601
and materials
3. Monitoring and        115         359         340          340
evaluation
4. Unallocated
Sub-Total             60,000       71,651       67,990      67,990
B. IBRD Loan Categories
1. Civil works          12,315      18,000     19,846      19,846
2. Equipment, vehicles   500         1927          4            4
and materials
3. Monitoring and        185          73          150         150
evaluation
4. Fee                   300         300         300          300
5. Unallocated          7000         7000          -           -
Sub-Total           20,300      20,300     20,300       20,300
C. Cofinancing Institutions  nil       nil         nil          nil
D. Other external sources  nil         nil         nil          nil
E. Domestic (GOK)          80,300      59,654     50,755      73,614
A/
Total (US$'000)          160,600     151,605     139,045     161,904
4/
Total (Rs M)             1365.9      2228.6       2285.9      2661.7



26                 Table SB
Page 2 of 2
Ns:
.1/ US$ 1.15 = SDR 1.0 at appraisal
US$ 1.00  Rs. 8.50
2/ US$ 1.37 = SDR 1.0 at November 1988
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 14.7
l-/ US$ 1.30 = SDR 1.0 at June 1989
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 16.44
4A/ Includes fee on Loan of US$ 300,000.
:/  Based on actual expenditures at June 1989.
6/  Using latest cost estimate for time slice project of Rs. 2656.8 at
January 1989, but converted at June 1989 rates.
11 Appraisal estimates based on a project command of 37,600 ha. All other estimates and actual
expenditure based on a project command of 53,500 ha.



27
T1DTA
KALLADA TRRIQATION4 AND IREEERO DWMEWro PROJECTr
Credit 1269-IN/Loan 2186-IN
TARLE6A
Direct Bnefits
1/                    2/                    2//
Indicator                    Appraisal           Closing date          Full development
estimate           estimate              estimate
1. Increase in income on          17,000               8200                  28,918
coconut holdings (Rs/ha`year)
2. Increase in total income       21,000             11,312                  36,217
on garden lands (Rs/ha/year)
3. Increase in net income on       4,000               4901                    4901
paddy lands (Rs/ha/year)
4. Increase in copra              37,000               5120                  41,000
production (ton/year)
5. Increase in rice               10,000             31,320 5/               40,920
production (ton/year)
6. Work created by project          33                 21                      35
civil works (million man days)
7. Increase in employment           90                 43                     121
from intensified coconut
cultivation (Man days/ha/year)
8. Total employment generated        2                0.12                    4.1
in garden lands (million man
days/year)
9. Total employment generated        1                0.04                    1.4
on paddy lands (million man
days/year)
10. Fall in households in      from 70 to 40              not  estimated
project area below poverty
line (%)
Note:  1/  Using 19e1 prices; based on command area of 37,500 ha.
2/ Using 1988 constant prices.
3/ By pro-rata.
9/ Based on an ultimate comnand area of 61,600 ha.
5/ Due to increase in yield of paddy from 1800-2000 kg/ha to 3000-3200, based
on a 5-year moving average of paddy yield from 1983-1988 in project area.



28
INDIA
KALLAI)A IRRIGATION AND TREESCROP DEYEDOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1269-1N/Loan 2186-lN)
ECONOMIIC ANALsSIS.
A. Economic Impact
The ERR was calculated using 37,600 ha and 50,000 ha as the command area. The cost
and benefits were scaled down to reflect the decline in area from the original SAR area of 61,600
ha. The results are given below:
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN (%)1/
APPRAISAL       REVISED2/       PRESENT3/
SCI   WSC       SCI   WSC       SCI   WSC
I. With Power
a. 37,600 ha             14.00   20.00    7.10   10.30    6.50    9.70
b. 50,000 ha                               9.10   12.60    8.80   12.40
c. 61,600 ha                               9.10   12.50    8.50   12.10
II. Without Power
a. 37,600 ha              not estimated    6.80    9.90    5.20    6.60
b. 50,000 ha                               8.80   12.30    7.50    9.30
c. 61,600 ha                               8.80   12.20    7.20    9.10
III. Dam Used for Power
Alone                  7.00   1 3.00                    2.10    9.40
When the conmmand area is 50,000 ha, the ERR is slightly higher as compared to the
61,600 ha command area. This is due to the fact that increasing the scope from 50,000 ha to
61,600 ha involves difficult terrain and so the marginal cost is higher than the marginal benefit. If
the cormnand area is only 37,600 ha, the ERR is lower as compared to the command areas of
50,000 ha and 61,600 ha.
Footnotes:
1/ SCI=Sunk Costs included in analysis.
WSC=Sunk Costs excluded from analysis.
2/ By FAO/CP, December 1986.
3/ March 1989.



29
(i) Irrigated Area Assumptions
The estimates of increased production from the project are based on the assumption that
under each phase, only one-third of the area would be irrigated in the first year, two-thirds in the
second year and the entire area from the third year onwards. The area that would be irrigated each
year is given below:
Cumulative
As of        Phase         (h a)
Sep-89          I              3,500
Sep-90          I I           12,500
Sep-91          III          45,000
Sep-92          IV            50,000
Mar-93          V             61,600
Total                       61,600
(ii) Yield and Area Under Major Crops
Without             With                With
Project (SAR)       Project (SAR)     Project (revised)
Yield    Area      Yield     Area      Yield     Area
(T/Ha)    (%)    (T/Ha        (%)    (T/Ha)    (%)
Coconut (Tall)1/      27        46        68       46        54        46
Coconut (Hybrid)1/                       1 25      24        90        24
Cassava              16.5       10        25       10        25        10
Paddy                 2.1       30       2.4       30        3.2       30
Net Return Rs/ha    8,086              35,400              20,862
1/ Coconut yields are in nuts per tree.



30
(iii). Projections of Yield For Coconuts
(With Project)
A. Current Yield Estimates (per Tree Model):
Nuts/Treo:          Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7  Year8  Year 9
Tall Coconut(existing)   27   34      40      54      54      54       54      54      54
Hybrid Coconut                                        30      65      70       90      90
B. Appraisal Yleld Estimates (per Tree Model):
Nuts/Tree:         Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7  Year 8  Year 9  Year 10
Tall Coconut(existing)   30   40      50      60      60      60       60      60      60      60
Hybrid Coconut                                10      25      50      80      100    115    125
Note: For other tree crops, appraisal and current estimates are more or less similar.



31
(iv) a.  Benefit and Cost Streams
(1988.89 Constant Valuos)
61,600 ha                   Llfe Span e 60 years
Economic    Main-    Total  Increm.      Net
Cost  tonance Economic    Econ.  Increm.
(Base)    Cost     Cost  Benefit  Benefit
No.    Year      (A)      (B)  (C-A+B)      (D)    (D-C)
1    61-62     0.89              0.89              -0.89
2    62-63     2.63               2.63             -2.63
3    63-64      1.77              1.77             -1.77
4    64-65      1.26              1.26             -1.26
5    65-66     1.04               1.04             -1.04
6    66.87     4.53               4.63             -4.53
7    67-68     9.63               9.63             -9.63
8    68-69    17.20              17.20            -17.20
9    69-70    21.07              21.07            -21.07
10   70-71    24.83              24.83            -24.83
11   71-72    13.77              13.77            -13.77
12   '2-73    18.19              18.19            -18.19
1 3   73-74    24.98             24.98            -24.98
14   74-75    23.58              23.58            -23.58
15   75-76    37.73              37.73            -37,73
1 6   76-77    57.46             57.46            -57.46
17   77-78   117.91             117.91           -117.91
1 8   78-79   140.78            140.78           -140.78
19   79-80   128.03             128.03           -128.03
20   80-81    139.34            139.34           -139.34
21   81-82   199.18             199.18           -199.18
22   82-83   210.97             210.97           -210.97
23   83-84   272.52             272.52           -272.52
24   84-85   276.89             276.89           -276.89
25   85-86   351.06             351.06           -351.06
26   86-87   330.89             330.89           -330.89
27   87-88   279.49             279.49           -279.49
28   88-89   304.10             304.10    33.49  -270.61
29   89-90   148.15      2.34   150.49   133.10   -17.39
30   90-91   242.29      5.76   248.05   251.43     3.38
31   91-92   226.46      6.96   233.42   338.13   104.71
32   92-93    90.70      7.39    98.09   373.32   275.23
33   93-94               7.39     7.39   432.94   425.55
34   94-95               7.39     7.39   530.94   523.55
35   95-96               7.39     7.39   642.72   635.33
36   96-97               7.39     7.39   732.62   725.23
37   97-98               7.39     7.39   788.42   781.03
38   98-99               7.39     7.39   817.87   810.48
39   99-00               7.39     7.39   826.09   818.70
40   00-01               7.39     7.39   828.12   820.73
41   01-02               7.39     7.39   828.12   820.73
42   02-03               7.39     7.39   828.12   820.73
43   03-04               7.39     7.39   828.12   820.73
44   04-05               7.39     7.39   828.12   820.73
45   05-06               7.39     7.39   828.12   820.73
46   06-07               7.39     7.39   828.12   820.73
47   07-08               7.39     7.39   828.12   820.73
48   08-09               7.39     7.39   828.12   820.73
49   09-10               7.39     7.39   828.12   820.73
50   10-11               7.39     7.39   828.12   820.73



32
(iv) b. Benefit streams (At Economic Prices)  61,600 ha
(in Rupees Millions)
Without Project
Garden    Wet   Punia  Total            Total
No.   Year   Land    Land    Land    Crop  Power Benefits
1  88-89    54.55   -1.43    0.00   63.12    0.00   53.12
2  8b-90    188.82   -4.96    0.00  183.87    0.00  183.87
3  90-91    361.07   -9.21    0.00  341.86    0.00  341.86
4  91-92   468.86  -12.30    0.00  456.66    0.00  456.56
6  92.93   506.91  -13.30    0.00  493.61    0.00  493.61
6  93-94    516.98  -13.56    0.00  503.42    0.00  503.42
7  94-95    616.98  -13.56    0.00  503.42    0.00  503.42
8  95-96    516.98  -13.56    0.00  603.42    0.00  503.42
9  96-97    516.98  -13.56    0.00  603.42    0.00  503.42
10 97-98    516.98  -13.56    0.00  503.42    0.00  503.42
11 98-99   516.98  -13.56    0.00  503.42    0.00  503.42
12 99-20    516.98  -13.56    0.00  603.42    0.00  503.42
13 00-01    616.98  -13.56    0.00  503.42    0.00  503.42
14 01-02    616.98  -13.56    0.00  503.42    0.00  503.42
With Prolect
Garden    Wet   Punja  Total            Total
No.   Year   Land    Land    Land    Crop  Power Benefits
1   88-89   78.37    8.23    0.01   86.61    0.00   86.61
2   89-90  275.03   28.49    0.02  303.54   13.43  316.97
3   90-91  513.40   52.98    0.04  566.42   26.87  593.29
4   91-92  683.68   70.75    0.06  754.39   40.30  794.69
5   92-93  750.08   76.49    0.06  826.63   40.30  866.93
6   93-94  817.99   78.01    0.06  896.06   40.30  936.36
7   94-95  915.99   78.01    0.06  994.06   40.30 1034.36
8   95-96 1027.77   78.01    0.06 1105.84   40.30 1146.14
9   96-97 1117.67   78.01    0.06 1195.74   40.30 1236.04
10   97-98 1173.47   78.01    0.06 1251.54   40.30 1291.84
11  98-99 1202.92   78.01    0.06 1280.99   40.30 1321.29
12  99-20 1211.14   78.01    0.C8 1289.21   40.30 1329.51
13  00-01 1213.17   78.01    0.06 1291.24   40.30 1331.54
14   01-02 1213.17   78.01    0.06 1291.24   40.30 1331.54
Incremental Benefhts
Garden    Wet   Punja  Total            Total
No.   Year   Land    Land    Land    Crop  Power Benefits
1  88-89    23.82    9.66    0.01   33.49    0.00   33.49
2  89-90    86.21   33.44    0.02  119.67   13.43  133.10
3  90-91    162.33   62.19    0.04  224.56   26.87  251.43
4  91-92    214.72   83.Ob    0.06  297.83   40.30  338.13
5  92-93    243.17   89.79    0.06  333.02   40.30  373.32
6  93-94    301.01   91.57    0.06  392.64   40.30  432.94
7  94-95    399.01   91.57    0.06  490.64   40.30  530.94
8  95-96    510.79   91.57    0.06  602.42   40.30  642.72
9  96-97    600.69   91.57    0.06  692.32   40.30  732.62
10 97-98    656.49   91.57    0.06  748.12   40.30  788.42
11 98-99   685.94   91.57    0.06  777.57   40.30  817.87
12 99-20   694.16   91.57    0.06  785.79   40.30  826.09
13 00-01    696.19   91.57    0.06  787.82   40.30  828.12
14 01-02   696.19   91.57    0.06  787.82   40.30  828.12



33
(v) a.   Benefit and Cost Streams
(1988-89 Constant Values)
60,000 ha      Life Span = 50 years
Economic   Main-   Total Increm.    Nei
Cost tenance Economic   Econ. Increm.
Base    Cost   Cost Benefit Benefilt
No.     Year    (A)    (8) (C=A+B)    (D)   (D-C)
1  61-62       0.89            0.89          -0.89
2  62.63       2.63            2.63           -2.63
3  63-64       1.77            1.77           -1.77
4  64-65       1.26            1.26           -1.26
5  65-66       1.04            1.04           -1.04
6  66.67       4.53            4.53           -4.53
7  68-68       9.63            9.63           -9.63
8  68-69      17.20           17.20          -17.20
9  69-70      21.07           21.07          -21.07
10  70-71     24.83           24.83          -24.83
11  71-72     13.77           13.77          -13.77
12  72-73     18.19           18.19          -18.19
13  73-74     24.98           24.98          -24.98
14  74-75     23.58           23.58          -23.58
15  75-76     37.73           37.73          -37.73
16  76-77     28.73           28.73          -28.73
17  77-78     58.96           58.96          -58.96
18  78-79     70.39           70.39          -70.39
19  79-80     76.82           76.82          -76.82
20  80-81     83.60           83.60          -83.60
21  81-82     199.18         199.18         -199.18
22  82 83    210.97          210.97         -210.97
23  83-84    272.52          272.52         -272.52
24  84-85    276.89          276.89         -276.89
25  85-86    245.74          245.74         -245.74
26  86-87     173.72         173.72         -173.72
27  87-88    209.62          209.62         -209.62
28  88-89    243.28          243.28   27.19 -216.09
29  89-90     81.63    2.34   83.97  108.05   24.08
30  90-91     114.48    5.70  120.18  204.09   83.91
31  91-92     152.87    6.96  159.83  274.47  114.64
32  92-93     81.63    5.99   87.62  303.02  215.40
33  93-94              5.99    5.99  351.41  345.42
34  94-95              5.99    5.99  430.95  424.96
35  95-96              5.99    5.99  521.69  515.70
36  96-97              5.99    5.99  594.66  588.67
37  97-98              5.99    5.99  639.95  633.96
38  98-99              5.99    5.99  663.86  657.87
39  99-00              5.99    5.99  670.53  664.54
40  00-01              5.99    5.99  672.18  666.19
41  01-02              5.99    5.99  672.18  666.19
42  02-03              5.99    5.99  672.18  666.19
43  03-04              5.99    5.99  672.18  666.19
44  04-05              5.99    5.99  672.18  666.19
45  05-06              5.99    5.99  672.18  666.19
46  06-07              5.99    5.99  672.18  666.19
47  07-08              5.99    5.99  672.18  666.19
48  08-09              5.99    5.99  672.18  666.19
49  09-10              5.99    5.99  672.18  666.19
50  10-11              5.99    5.99  672.18  666.19



34
(v) b  Benefit Streams (At Economic Prices)  50,000 ha
(In Rupees Millions)
Without Project
Garden    Wet   Punja   Total           Total
ND.    Year   Land    Land    Land    Crop  Power Benefits
1 88-89      44.28   -1.16    0.00   43.12    0.00   43.12
2  89-90     153.26   -4.02    0.00  149.24    0.00  149.24
3  90-91    284.96   -7.46    0.00  277.48    0.00  277.48
4  91-92    380.57   -9.99    0.00  370.58    0.00  370.58
5  92-93    411.45  .10.80    0.00  400.65    0.00  400.65
6  93-94    419.63  -11.01    0.00  408.62    0.00  408.62
7  94.95    419.63  -11.01    0.00  408.62    0.00  408.62
8  95-96    419.63  -11.01    0.00  408.62    0.00  408.62
9  96-97    419.63  -11.01    0.00  408.62    0.00  408.62
10 97-98     419.63  -11.01    0.00  408.62    0.00  408.62
11 98-99     419.63  -11.01    0.00  408.62    0.00  408.62
12 99-20     419.63  -11.01    0.00  408.62    0.00  408.62
13 00-01     419.63  -11.01    0.00  408.62    0.00  408.62
14 01-02     419.63  -11.01    0.00  408.62    0.00  408.62
15 02-03     419.63  -11.01    0.00  408.62    0.00  408.62
16 03-04     419.63  -11.01    0.00  408.62    0.00  408.62
With Project
Garden    Wet   Punla   Total           Total
No.    Year   Land    Land    Land    Crop  Power Benefits
1 88-89      63.62    6.68    0.01   70.31    0.00   70.31
2  89-90    223.24   23.13    0.02  246.39   10.90  257.29
3  90-91    416.72   43.00    0.04  459.76   21.81  481.57
4  91-92    554.86   57.43    0.05  612.34   32.71  645.05
5  92-93    608.83   62.08    0.05  670.96   32.71  703.67
6  93-94    663.95   63.32    0.05  727.32   32.71  760.03
7  94-95    743.49   63.32    0.05  806.86   32.71  839.57
8  95-96    834.23   63.32    0.05  897.60   32.71  930.31
9  96-97    907.20   63.32    0.05  970.57   32.71 1003.28
10 97-98     952.49   63.32    0.05 1015.86   32.71 1048.57
11 98-99     976.40   63.32    0.05 1039.77   32.71 1072.48
12 99-20     983.07   63.32    0.05 1046.44   32.71 1079.15
13 00-01     984.72   63.32    0.05 1048.09   32.71 1080.80
14 01-02     984.72   63.32    0.05 1048.09   32.71 1080.80
15 02-03    984.72   63.32    0.05 1048.09   32.71 1080.80
16 03-04     984.72   63.32    0.05 1048.09   32.71 1080.80
Incremental Benefit
Garden    Wet  Punja   Total            Total
No.    Year   Land    Land    Land    Crop  Power Benefits
1 88-89      19.34    7.84    0.01   27.19    0.00   27.19
2  89-90     69.98   27.15    0.02   97.15   10.90  108.05
3  90-91    131.76   50.48    0.04  182.28   21.81  204.09
4  91-92     174.29   67.42    0.05  241.76   32.71  274.47
5  92-93    197.38   72.88    0.05  270.31   32.71  303.02
6  93-94    244.32   74.33    0.05  318.70   32.71  351.41
7  94-95    323.86   74.33    0.05  398.24   32.71  430.95
8  95-96    414.60   74.33    0.05  488.98   32.71  521.69
9  96-97    487.57   74.33    0.05  561.95   32.71  594.66
10 97-98     532.86   74.33    0.05  607.24   32.71  639.95
11 98-99     556.77   74.33    0.05  631.15   32.71  663.86
12 99-20     563.44   74.33    0.05  637.82   32.71  670.53
13 00-01     565.09   74.33    0.05  639.47   32.71  672.18
14 01-02     565.09   74.33    0.05  639.47   32.71  672.18
15 02-03     565.09   74.33    0.05  639.47   32.71  672.18
16 03-04     565.09   74.33    0.05  639.47   32.71  672.18



35
(vi) a.Benefh and Cost Streams
(1988-89 Constant Values)
37,600 ha      Life Span  50 years
Economic   Main-   Total Increm.    Net
Cost tenance Economic   Econ. Increm.
Base    Cost   Cost Benefit Benefit
No.    Year    (A)    (B) (C=A+B)    (D)   (D-C)
1    61-62    0.89            0.89           -0.89
2    62.63    2.63            2.63           -2.63
3    63-64    1.77            1.77           -1,77
4    64-65    1.26            1.26           -1.26
5    65-66    1.04            1.04           -1.04
6    66-67    4.53            4.53           -4.53
7    67-68    9.63            9.63           -9.63
8    68-69   17.20           17.20          -17.20
9    69-70   21.07           21.07          -21.07
10   70-71   24.83            24.83         -24.83
11   71-72   13.77            13.77         -13.77
12    72-73   18.19           18.19         -18.19
13   73-74   24.98            24.98         -24.98
14   74-75   23.58            23.58         -23.58
15   75-76   37.73            37.73         -37.73
16   76-77   28.73            28.73         -28.73
17   77-78   58.96            58.96         -58.96
18   78-79   70.39            70.39   20.43  -49.96
19   79-80   76.82            76.82   81.24    4.42
20   80-81  249.33           249.33  153.47  -95.86
21    81-82  349.18          349.18  206.39 -,42.79
22    82-83  367.00          367.00  227.88 -139.12
23    83.84  272.52          272.52  264.27   -8.25
24    84-85  276.89          276.89  324.08   47.19
25    85-86  315.95          315.95  392.32   76.37
26    86-87  208.46          208.46  447.20  238.74
27    87-88  251.54          251.54  481.26  229.72
28   88-89                    0.00  499.23  490 ';
29    89-90            1.30    1.30  504.25  502.95
30    90-91            2.01    2.01  505.49  503.48
31    91-92            3.22    3.22  505.49  502.27
32    92-93            4.49    4.49  505.49  501.00
33    93-94            4.49    4.49  505.49  501.00
34    94-95            4.49    4.49  505.49  501.00
35    95-96            4.49    4.49  505.49  501.00
36    96-97            4.49    4.49  505.49  501.00
37    97-98            4.49    4.49  505.49  501.00
38    98-99            4.49    4.49  505.49  501.00
39    99-oC            4.49    4.49  505.49  501.00
40    00.01            4.49    4.49  505.49  501.00
41    01-02            4.49    4.49  505.49  501.00
42    02-03            4.49    4.49  505.49  501.00
43    03-04            4.49    4.49  505.49  501.00
44    04-05            4.49    4.49  505.49  501.00
45    05-06            4.49    4.49  505.49  501.00
46   06-07             4.49    4.49  505.49  501.00
47    07-08            4.49    4.49  505.49  601.00
48    08-09            4.49    4.49  505.49  501.00
49   09-10             4.49    4.49  505.49  501.00
50    10-11            4.49    4.49  505.49  501.00



36
(vi)b. Benefits Streams ( At Economic prices)  37,600 ha
(In Rupees Million)
Withou Project
Garden    Wet   Punja   Total            Total
No.     Year   Land    Land    Land    Crop   Power Benefits
1     88-89   33.30   -0.87    0.00   32.43    0.00   32.43
2     89-90  115.26   -3.02    0.00  112.24    0.00  112.24
3     90-91  214.29   -5.62    0.00  208.67    0.00  208.67
4     91-92  286.19   -7.51    0.00  278.68    0.00  278.68
5     92-93  309.41   -8.12    0.00  301.29    0.00  301.29
6     93-94  315.56   -8.28    0.00  307.28    0.00  307.28
7     94-95  315.56   -8.28    0.00  307.28    0.00  307.28
8     95-96  315.56   -8.28    0.00  307.28    0.00  307.28
9     96-97  315.56   -8.28    0.00  307.28    0.00  307.28
1 0    97-98  315.56   -8.28    0.00  307.28    0.00  307.28
1 1    98-99  315.56   -8.28    0.00  307.28    0.00  307.28
12    99-20  315.56   -8.28    0.00  307.28    0.00  307.28
1 3    00-01  315.56   -8.28    0.00  307.28    0.00  307.28
14    01-02  315.56   -8.28    0.00  307.28    0.00  307.28
1 5    02-03  315.56   -8.28    0.00  307.28    0.00  307.28
1 6    03-04  315.56   -8.28    0.00  307.28    0.00  307.28
With Project
Garden  Wet    Punja       Total           Total
No.     Year Land    Land    Land       Crop  Power Benefits
1     88-89   47.84    5.02    0.00   52.86    0.00   52.86
2     89-90  167.88   17.39    0.01  185.28    8.20  193.48
3     90-91  313.37   32.34    0.03  345.74   16.40  362.14
4     91-92  417.25   43.18    0.04  460.47   24.60  485.07
5     92-93  457.84   46.69    0.04  504.57   24.60  529.17
6     93-94  499.29   47.62    0.04  546.95   24.60  571.55
7     94-95  559.10   47.62    0.04  606.76   24.60  631.36
8     95-96  627.34   47.62    0.04  675.00   24.60  699.60
9     96-97  682.22   47.62    0.04  729.88   24.60  754.48
1 0    97-98  716.28   47.62    0.04  763.94   24.60  788.54
1 1    98-99  734.25   47.62    0.04  781.91   24.60  806.51
12    99-20  739.27   47.62    0.04  786.93   24.60  811.53
1 3    00-01  740.51   47.62    0.04  788.17   24.60  812.77
1 4    01-02  740.51   47.62    0.04  788.17   24.60  812.77
1 5    02-03  740.51   47.62    0.04  788.17   24.60  812.77
1 6    03-04  740.51   47.62    0.04  788.17   24.60  812.77
Incremental Benefits
Garden  Wet    Punja       Total           Total
No.     Year Land    Land    Land       Crop   Power Benefits
1     88-89   14.54    5.89    0.00   20.43    0.00   20.43
2     89-90   52.62   20.41    0.01   73.04    8.20   81.24
3     90-91   99.08   37.96    0.03  137.07   16.40  153.47
4     91-92  131.06   50.69    0.04  181.79   24.60  206.39
5     92-93  148.43   54.81    0.04  203.28   24.60  227.88
6     93-94  183.73   55.90    O.C4  239.67   24.60  264.27
7     94-95  243.54   55.90    0.04  299.48   24.60  324.08
8     95-96  311.78   55.90    0.04  367.72   24.60  392.32
9     96-97  366.66   55.90    0.04  422.60   24.60  447.20
1 0    97-98  400.72   55.90    0.04  456.66   24.60  481.26
1 1    98-99  418.69   55.90    0.04  474.63   24.60  499.23
1 2    99-20  423.71   55.90    0,04  479.65   24.60  504.25
1 3    00-01  424.95   55.90    0.04  480.89   24.60  505.49
1 4    01-02  424.95   55.90    0.04  480.89   24.60  505.49
1 5    02-03  424.95   55.90    0.04  480.89   24.60  505.49
1 6    03-04  424.95   55.90    0.04  480.89   24.60  505.49



(vii)     ECONOMIC PRICES OF FERTII/110, f(MPDoeT 1'AHITY PRICE)
11988 CONSTANT PRICES)
---------------------------------------------------- ----_- --- _  _- ___________________
PARTICULARS                   NITROGEN  PHOSPNATE POTASII
PRICE    PER METRIC  TON
WORLD MARKET PRICE (US$)      147.74    157.58    87.23
QUALITY ADJUST1IENTS IX)      100       100       loo
WORLD MARKET EQUIVALENT (US$) 147.74    157.58    87.23
INTERNATIONAL FREIGHT         70.00     70.00     70.00
AND INSURANCE (US$)
CIF PRICE,8O0BAY (US)         217.74    227.58    157.23
CIF PRICEPROMBAY IRS)
AT EXCHANGE RATE OF
US$ 1.0 = RS 14.70          3200.70   3345.48   2311.34
DOMESTIC HANDLING AND         80.00     80.00     80.00
TRANSPORT (RS)
WHOLESALE PRICE OF PROCESSED  3280.70   3425.48   2391.34
PRODUCTS (RS)
PROCESSING/NUTRIENT RATIO I%) 46        48        60
VALUE OF BY-PRODUCT IRS)
PROCESSINC RATIO, BY-PRODUCT
1%)
PROCESSING COST (RS)
WHOLESALE PRICE OF RAW        7131.97   7136.43   3985.57
PRODUCT (RS)
TRANSPORT TO FARM-            100.00    100.00    100.00
GATE (1RS?
FARN-GATE PRICE (RS)          72Z1.97   7236.43   4085.57
(APPROXIMATELY)              7232      7236       4086
FARM-GATE PRICE PER XG        7.23      7.24      4.09
SOURCE: COMMODITY PRICE FORECASTS AND QUARTERLY REV'EW
OF COMMODITY NARKETS-egPTEHBER 1988.
348I5: HiTROCEN: UREA IANY ORICIN)DBAGGED,fob N.W.EUROPE.
PHOSPHATE: TSP (TRIPLE SUPERPHOSPHATE),BULX,fob US GULF.
POTASH: POTASSIUM CHLORIDE.BULK,fob VANCOUVER.
EXCHANGE RATE             14.70
NOS:   A CONVERSION FACTOR OF 0.8 IS USED FOR DOMESTIC HANDLING
AND TRANSPORT AND TRANSPORT TO THE FARM GATE.
IHPORT PARITY PRICES WERE ALSO CALCULATED FOR 1989, 1990, 1995, AND 2000.



(Viii)    ECONOMIC PRICES OF TRADED COMMODITIES
11988 CONSTANT PRICES)
________________- ---------- ---------------------- --------- ---     --- --- _ _ _ _ _ _-
PARTICULARS                   RUBBER   PADDY      COCONUT   GROUNDNUT
PRICE    PER METRIC   TON
-----------------------------------------------------------------------___
WORLD MARKET PRICE (US$)      1449.21   302.51    396.77    547.32
QUALITY ADJUSTMENTS (%)       85        75        100       100
WORLD MARKET EQUIVALENT (US$) 1231.83   226.88    396.77    547.32
INTERNATIONAL FREIGHT         200.OC    0.00      300.00    300.00
AND INSURANCE (US$)
CIF/FOB PRICE,BOMBAY (US$)   1431.83   226.88    696.77    847.32
CIF/FOB PRICE,BOMBAY (RS)
AT EXCHANGE RATE OF
US$ 1.0 = RS 14.70          21047.88  3335.12   10242.58  12455.65
DOMESTIC HANDLING AND         120.00    -80.00    160.00    160.00
TRANSPORT IRS)
WHOLESALE PRICE OF PROCESSED  21167.88  3255.12   10402.58  126!,.65
PRODUCTS (RS)
PROCESSING/NUTRIENT RATIO I%) 100       67        100       68
VALUE OF BY-PRODUCT (RS)
PROCESSING RATIO, BY-PRODUCT
1%)
PROCESSING COST (RS)          0.00      130.00    0.00      150.00
WHOLESALE PRICE OF RAW        21167.88  2050.93   10402.58  848.464
PRODUCT (RS)                                                                                                                      O
TRANSPORT TO/FROM FARM-       -80.00    -75.00    -80.00    -80.00
GATE (RS)
FARM-GATE PRICE IRS)          21087.88  1975.93   10322.58  8348.64
(APPROXIMATELY)               21088     1976      10323     8349
FARM-GATE PRICE PER KG        21.09     1.98      10.32     8.35
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - _ _ _- - _ _ _- - _ _ _-- - --- _ _ _ _ _ _--- - _ _ _-- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-
SOURCE: COMMODITY PRICE FORECASTS AND QUARTERLY REVIEW
OF COMMODITY MARKETS-SEIpTEMBER 1988.
BASIS:. PADDY: RICER (THAI), WHITE MILLED. 5% BROKEN, fob BANGKOK.
GROUNDNUT: OIL (NIGERIA/W.AFRICA), BULK cif UK, SUBSEQUENTLV,ANY ORIGIN
cif ROTERDAM.
RUBBER: RSS NO.1, IN BALES. SPOT NEWYORK.
COCONUT: COPRA (PHILIPPINES/INDONESIA, BULK, CIF, N.W. EUROPE.
NOTE:   A CONVERSION FACTOR OF 0.8 IS USED FOR DOMESTIC HANDLING
AND TRANSPORT AND TRANSPORT TO/FROM THE FARM GATE.
INDIA IS A NET EXPORTER OF RICE AND A NET IMPORTER OF GROUNDNUT (VEGETABLE OIL).
SINCE, GROUNDNUT IS AN IMPORT SUBSTITUTE, IN Tl11S CASE, FARM-
GATE TRANSPORT COST IS SUBTRACTED FROM TIIE WIIOLESALE I'RICE TO
OBTAIN THE FARM-GATE PRICE.
SINCE RICE IS AN EXPORT COMMODITY AND fob PRICE IS GIVEN, THERE IS
NO JNTERNATIONAL FREIGHT CHARGE.
1ND14 IS A NET IMI'ORIEH OF RUBBER. TIIE INTERNATIONAL FIEIG11T CIIARGE IS THE DIFFERENCE
RII  1 WEFK IIAKSlI'R1 CrOST 1ROM NEWIORI, TO INI)ONISIA AN? I'. iJ(Nl:S IA 10
jil1IA%  1'(1111  1111   1(( NI  TII0S'PORTATIc0r   CISI   I NCI.11I   11ll   S  01
QN   &I Ihl   |  "I  1  '11'\\ I A(tloHI  11/  j.Ljt Nj.



Table 6C
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TRRECROP DEVBLOPNENT PROJRCT
(Credit 1269-IN/Loan 2186-IN)
TABLE 6C
Studies
Title of               Purpose as defined      By whom        Reference             Status                   I-pact of
Study                  at appraisal            carried         in SARI                                       study
out           documents
1. Telecom-unications   To review the            Messrs.           4.17 SAR     The study was completed       Based on the
network study            requirements of the    Electronics                      by December 1984, and        consultants'
project, and to         Corporation                    recommendations made.         recommendations, the
recomaend suitable      of India                                                     system was procured
equipment for           Ltd.                                                         and is being ins-
procurement.            (Consult-                                                    talled. 1/
ants)
2. Study to assess       To review the           PWD, GOK.         4.19 SAR      Although the study should   The roads programme
the feasibility for      requirements and                        Minutes of      have been completed and      in general has been
linking canal service   desirability of                          Negotiations   its recommendations           unsatisfactory with
roads to the public      providing link roads                                    submitted to the Bank by    serious delays, ard
road network.            from the canal                                          December 31, 1984, the       with GOK increauing
service roads to the                                   report was not received       the standard of
public road network,                                   until July 1986.              surfacing, and thus
and to establish                                       Following review by Bank,   cost, above the
physical                                               the programe of               agreed criteria.
specifications for                                     development was agreed.
these and vulnerable
sections.
1/ This takes into account Government comments.



Table 6C
Page 2 of 5
Title of               Purpose as defined       By whom        Reference              Status                    Impact of
Study                  at appraisal             carried          in SAR/                                        study
out            documents
3. Feasibility study    To study the              PMCC, PWD,      # 5.08           Following the decision to   Study abandoned.  GOR
for Phase 2 of the        feasibility of          GOK             * 8.02 (g)       expand the area covered       to consider any
scheme.                  extending the                               SAR           by the present project        extension of
project to its full                        and           from 37,600 ha up to          irrigation under
development                              t 3.02          about 53,500 ha to            State funding.
potential as a                             PA            utilize Credit/Loan value
second phase                                             increase, it was
project.                                                 considered that any area
near the coast remaining
would be unsuitable for
canal irrigation. The                               >
study was abandoned with                            0
Bank's concurrence.
1. Baseline survey of   To proxide without-    Economics          t 5.08 SAR      Survey completed.              To be used in impact
project farmers.         project situation        and                                                            evaluation.
data for impact         Statistics
monitoring.             Department,
GOK
D. Planning and          To consider              PMCC, PWD,      * 5.08 SAR       Study not carried out.        Not applicable.
testing of               alternative designs    GOK
alternativet              for the micro-
corn'eyance systcms.     conveyance system to
the pipe system
being utilized.
6. Study of farmers'    To assess the             PMCC, PWD,         5.08 SAR      Study not carried out.        Not applicable.
management of piped       willindness and         GOK
micro-con%eyance         competence of
systems                   farmers to operate
and maintain the
piped MCS as
installed by the
project.



Table 6C
Page 3 of 5
Title of               Purpose as defined       By whom        Reference              Status                    Impact of
Study                  at appraisal             carried         in SAR/                                         study
out            documents
7. Study of farmers'    Self explanatory          PMCC, PWD,      x 5.08 SAR      Study not carried out.         Experience indicates
collaboration on                                  GOK                              Night storage tanks           that in India farmers
field channel                                                                     eliminated from the            not willing to
construction for                                                                   project description.          construct channels
summer irrigation in                                                                                             unless paid by
lowlands, and methods                                                                                            government, unless on
of water distribution                                                                                            their holdings. Night
from night storage                                                                                               storage tanks concept
tanks.                                                                                                           dropped.
8. Studs of factors      Self explanatory         PMCC, PWD,      # 5.08 SAR       Study not carried out.        Not appli^able.       >
influencing farmers'                              GOK
acceptance of hybrid
varieties of coconut.
9. Water charges         To review water and    GOK               $ 5.17           Study completed in 11/83    No impact to date.
study                    water related                            # 8.02           ahead of schedule. In
charges in Kerala.                         SAR           spite of persistent Bank
and           representations, the
# 3.05          recommendations were not
PA            reviewed by GOK, nor
introduced.
10. 0 A M management    To establish rules,    PMCC, PWD,         # 5.18          Study compieted by             Th- project has no
stud~                    procedures and           GOK             4 8.02           6/30/83, on schedule.         operational plan to
requirements for                           SAR           Since that time, GOK has    date, which is
effective operation                      4 3.0a          failed to implement its       unfortunate in view
and preventive                             PA            recommendations. In spite   of commencement of
maintenance of                                           of persistent Bank            irrigation.
irrigation systems                                       representations, a
under the project.                                       deta.iled operational plan
was never produced.



Table 6C
Page 4 of 5
Title of               Purpose as defined       By whom       Reference               Status                    Impact of
Study                  at appraisal             carried        in SAR/                                          study
out           documents
11. Dam flood studies   To update the             IITM, Pune;         -           As a condition of second    The study produced
probable maximum        Anna                             Credit/Loan extension         positive results
flood for Kallada       University,                      this study was finalized    which permitted the
dam, in order to        Madras; CWC                      by March 31, 1988             Dam Safety Panel to
check dam safety.                                        following prolonged           prescribe improved
disagreement between CWC    safety measures for
and IITM over PMP             the dam.
rainfall.
12. Dam spillway         To design the most       KERI, Peechi        -            At the final supervision    Designs are being
model studies            appropriate spillway                                      mission in January 1989,    modified on the basis4-
energy dissipation                                       studies were still            of model results.
device, and to study                                     continuing at the             These studies should
tail water                                               recommendation of the         have been completed
conditions.                                              DSP.                          during the design
stage, not when the
dam is almost
complete.
13. Dam leakage          To study the leakage   Irrigation            -            Following initial             Leakage reduced to
studies                  rate of the masonry    Department                         impounding of the dam,        acceptable levels.
dam.                    GOK                              some leakage was
perceived. This wa-
studied, and the DSP
subsequently recommended
grouting, and guniting
the upstream face.
14. Reservoir            To monitor the rate    Irrigation            -            In spite of persistent        Not applicable.
sedimentation studies   and pattern of            Department                       Bank representation, the
siltation in the        GOK                              study was never
reservoir.                                               initiated.



Table 6C
Page 5 of 5
Title of             Purpose as defined    By whom       Reference             Status                  Impact of
Study                at appraisal           carried       in SARI                                      study
out          documents
15. Geological         To provide             Irrigation        -           Study completed.            Tunnel No. 3 LMC
studies for tunnel     geological             Department                                                realigned in inlet
No. 3 LfC               information to        GOK                                                       reach to avoid
assist in                                                                       unsuitable rock
redesigning tunnel                                                              conditions.
No. 3 LMC.
16.Hydro-              To establish           Irrigation        -           Study initiated, with       Not applicable.
meteorological          rainfall and climate  Department                    construction of climate
studies                stations in the        GOR                           stations in progress, and
catchment and                                       some procurement.
commands in order to
improve hydr6met
data for monitoring.



INDIA                                       Table 7
Page 1 of 4
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1269-IN/Loan 2186-IN)
TABLE 7
Status of Covenants
Covenant                        Subject                         Deadline                           Status
Reference                                                          for
Compliance
Pro.iect Agreement
Section 3.01           GOK shall maintain an adequately               -            This was formed and commenced operations.  Late
staffed Kallada Wing of Special                            in the project period, however, GOK suspended its
Agricultural Development Units                             activities during a review of its role.            >
(SADU) to promote and organize on-                         Subsequently, as from September 1987, the
farm investment in the project                             agricultural support was provided by 'Krishi
area.                                                      Bhavans', which merged the roles of SADU and
extension services. Since that date, these have
been progressively established in the project
area.
Section 3.02 (i)       GOK shall establish and thereafter          9/30/82         PMCC established and staffed satisfactorily.  At
maintain a project Planning,                               times during project period, communications
Monitoring and Coordination Cell in                        between the project design/construction/operati'n
its Irrigation Department for                              staff and PMCC were unsatisfactory, and in
monitoring and coordinating project                        general monitoring ana reporting was weak.
development.
Section 3.02 (ii)      GOK shall cause the PMCC to carry           12/31/84        The study was initiated, but following an agreed
out a feasibility study of the                             expansion of the area to be included in Phase I,
second phase of the project.                               and in view of the small area near the coast
remaining, which is unsuitable for canal
irrigation, the study was abandoned with the
agreement of the Bank.



Table 7
Page 2 of 4
Covenant                        Subject                         Deadline                           Status
Reference                                                          for
Compliance
Section 3.03           GOK shall maintain in its                      -            Although one 0 & M division was formed, this has
Irrigation Department (i) an 0 L M                         been considered by the Bank to be inadequate to
division and (ii) a Minor                                  operate the dam and both commands. Two further
Conveyance dixision for the                                divisions were considered necessary, but inspite
implementation of the minor water                          of persistent Bank representations, GOK has not
conveyance system.                                         complied. In the case of the minor conveyance
division, this has been satisfactorily formed and
staffed. Covenant partly complied.
Section: 3 04 1iH      GOK shall furnish the Bank with             9/30/82         TOR's provided by 11/82.  Covenant complied.
Terms of Reference for a management                                                                           4
study to establish rules,
procedures and requirements for
ensuring effective 0 & M of the
irrigation system.
SecttionI  .04 (ii)    Carry out study in 3.04 (i).               6/30/83          Study completed by 2/84.  Covenant complied.
Section 3.04(iiii      As soon as feasible thereafter,                -            GOK has not taken steps to implement the
implement the 0 & M procedures                             recommendations.  Covenant not complied.
based on the study.
Sect.on 3.'5 i!       GOK shall furnish to the Bank a            9/30/82          Plan submitted and study team established by
plan for its review of water and                           11/15/82.  Covenant complied.
hater-related charges.
Section 3.05 (tii      Carry out study in 3.05 (i).                12/31/83        Review completed in 11/83.  Covenant complied.
Section 3.05(iii)      As soon as feasible thereafter, GOK            -            GOK has persistently delayed taking a decision on
shall implement the system of                              the rates of water charges required.  Covenant
charges based on recommendations                           not complied.
arising from the review.



Table 7
Page 3 of 4
Covenant                        Subject                         Deadline                          Status
Reference                                                         for
Compliance
Section 3.06 (a)       GOK shall constitute a panel of               -            Dam Safety Panel (DSP) formed early in the
experts of acceptable                                     project period, which met regularly and produced
qualifications to review designs of                       reports on time.  Covenant complied.
Kallada dam, and to make periodic
inspection of works during
construction.
Section 3.06 (b)       The DSP should periodically inspect           -            All conditions met, and fully complied.
the dam to ensure it is being
constructed to good engineering
standards, such that its safety is                                                                          X
not compromised.  The Bank should
be provided with adequate data for
its review not more than one year
before expected completion.
Section 3.07           GOK shall take all measures                  -             Covenant complied.
necessary to minimize risk of
malaria and other water related
diseases in the project area.
Section 3.08           GOK shall ensure that the                    -             There has throughout been a serious lag between
construction of the micro-                                completion of main, branch and distributary
conveyance system ia carried out                          canals and of micro-system.  GOK in default
together with or soon after                               throughout.
construction of upper supply works.
Section 4.01           GOK shall cause its agencies to              -             Covenant complied.
maintain adequate accounts and
financial statements, and submit
these to the Bank following
certification not more than nine
months following the end of each
financial year.



Table 7
Page 4 of 4
Covenant                        Subject                         Deadline                          Status
Reference                                                         for
Compliance
Section 4.02           GOK shall cause each of its                                            Covenant complied.
agencies involved in the project to
have its accounts audited, and to
furnish the reports to the Bank.
Minutes of             GOK shall cause PWD to conduct a                                       Condition complied.
Negotiations           feasibility study for linking the
Page 9                 canal service roads to the public
road network.                                                                                               >



INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREE CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1269-IN/Loan 2186-IN)
TABLE 8A
Staff Inputs
Stage of
Project Cycle   FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   Total
Up to Appraisal   1.4            25.9    8.2    0.3                                                                    35.7
Appraisal to
Board Approval                    0.7   50.7   24.9                                                                    76.3
Board Approval
to Effectiveness                  2.2    8.4   11.8                                                                     24.9
Supervision                               0.7            23.4   28.1      25    35.8   43.4   23.8   16.2    0.6  197.1
Project Completion                                                                                       0.9    5.3    6.1
Other                                             0.2                    0.3                                             0.5
Totals             1.4           28.8   68.1   39.6   23.4   28.1   25.3   35.8   43.4   23.8   17.1    5.9  340.6



INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1269-IN/Loan 2186-IN)
TABLE 9
1/
Physical Implementation Schedule for MCS
(below 10 ha)
Activity                                           Cumulative Achievement
12/88       9/89        3/90        3/91       9/91        3/92        9/92       3/93
VI-
--------------------------------- (ha '000) ------------------------------------------
Survey                  54.0         54.7       57.0        61.6        61.6        61.6       61.6        61.6
Scheme Preparation      39.2         39.7       47.0        55.0        61.6        61.6       61.6        61.6
Award of Contracts      24.9         32.6       35.0        44.0        50.0        55.0       61.6        61.6
Completion               8.9         12.7        15.0       30.0        40.0        50.0       55.0        61.6
Commissioned             2.5          3.5          -          -           -           -          -           -
Notes:
1/ At October 1989.
2/ Beyond 50,000 ha, the method of irrigation will change from pipe distribution to open channel
distribution due to topography. Thus MCS thereafter becomes conventional chak layout which is more
rapid than for piped systems.



Table 8Es
Page 3 of 3
Stage of Project       Month/    Number       Days      Specializations    Performance       Types of             Coaiments
Cycle                  Year         of         in       represented l/      rating 2J        Problems 3/
Persons    Field
9/88       2           5        EN                  1/1/2/2          T/PR/RR/        Periodic Supervision
OP/M
3/89       1           4        EN                  3/2/2/2         M/RR/FIN/        Final Supervision
LEG/OP/PR
4/89       2           4        EC/AG                                                PCR Preparation
10/89       1           1        EN                                                   PCR Preparation
Notes:
1/ Abbreviations used:
EN - Engineer;    EC - Economist;   AG  - Agriculturist;  PROC - Procurement Specialist;  FIN - Financial Analyst;
SOC - Sociologist; MAN - Management; HYD - Hydrologist
2/ Performance ratings;
a)  Previous nomenclature
1st indicator: 1 - minor problems; 2 - moderate problems; 3 - major problems
2nd indicator:  I - improving;         2 - static;               3 - deteriorating
b)  Present nomenclature
rating: 1 - minor problems; 2 - moderate problems; 3 - major problems being addressed by borrower;
I - major problems not being addressed by borrower
subject: Ist indicator - funding; 2nd indicator - project management; 3rd indicator - development impact;
4th indicator - overall status.
3!  Abbreviationis used:
M - managemeint problems, including staffing, infrastructure, attention to project components and schedules;
T - to-chnical shortcomings (engineering); FIN - financial problems; RR - resettlement and rehabilitation shortcomings;
05 - dam safety shortcomings; LA - land acquisition delays, including forest land release;
PR - procuremerit infringement or delays; OP - system operation deficiencies; LEG - serious non-compliance with
covenanIts, requirement for government powers; AG - agricultural support shortcomings;



Table 8B
Page 2 of 3
Stage of Project       Month/    Number       Days      Specializations    Performance       Types of             Comments
Cycle                  Year         of         in       represented 1/      rating 2/        Problems 3/
Persons    Field
1/83       2           9        EN/EC                                                FAO/CP Design & Training
4/83       3           5        EN/AG/EC                                             Expediting
7/83       2           5        EN                                                   FAO/CP Design & Training
9/83       2           5        EN/EC               2/1             T/M/LEG          Periodic Supervision
11/83        1          7        EN                                                   FAO/CP Design & Training
11/83       2           4        FIN/PROC                                             Fin./Procurement Review
1/84       1           4        MAN                                                  Management Visit
2/84       2           5        EN/AG/EC            2/1             M/LEG/LA/RR    Periodir Sunpr%iRion
7/84                            EN                                                   Design and Training
9/84        1          4        PROC                                                 Procurement Review
12/84       3           5        EN                  3/2             M/RR/PR/         Periodic Supervision
ST/DS
3/85       1                    EN                                                   Design and Training
4/85       1           5        EN                                                   Road's Re%iew            >
5/85       5           5        EN/AG/PROC          2/1             T/DS/M/          Mid-term Review
OP/PR
7/85       1           5        EN                                                   Tunnels Review
10/85       1           7        EN                                                   Design and Training
11/85       6           6        EN/AG/PROC/FIN       1/2/2/2         DS/RR/FIN       Periodic Supervision
3/86       2           4        EN/HYD                                               Dam safety
4/86       2           5        EN                                                   Expediting
4/86       4           1        EN                                                   Design and Training
5/86       1           3        FIN                                                  Finance review
6/86       8           5        EN/AG/PROC          1/2/2/2         T/M/LEG          Periodic Supervision
10/86       6           2        EN/SOC                                               Sociology Review
12/86       2          10        EC/AG                                                Economic Ree aluation
12/86       3           6        EN/PROC                                              Expediting/Credit Extn.
1/87       4           7        EN/AG               1/2/2/2         DS/PR/RR/FIN   Periodic Supervision
2/87        1          3        PROC                                                 Procurement Review
4/87        1          4        EN                                                   Expediting
6/87        1          4        PROC                                                 Procurement Review
7/87       4           5        EN/AG/PROC          1/2/2/2         DS/PR/T/OP       Periodic Supervision
9/87       2           3        PROC                                                 Procurement Review
10/87       1           3        FIN                                                  Finance Review
1/88       4           6        EN/AG/PROC          3/1/2/2         FIN/PR/T         Periodic Supervision
7/88       1           3        FIN                                                  Finance Review
8/88        1          3        EN                                                   Tunnels Review



Table 8B
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
KAILADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1269-IN/Loan 2186-IN)
TABLE 8B
Missions
Stage of Project       Month/    Number       Days      Specializations    Performance       Types of             Comments
Cycle                  Year         of         in       represented 1/      rating 2/        Problems 3/
Persons    Field
1. Before Appraisal
12/78       2           5        EN/MAN                                               Identification
1/79       3           5        EN/AG/EC                                             Identification
4/79       2          20        AG/EC                                                Preparation
9/79       3           7        AG/EC                                                Preparation
9/79       3           7        EN/AG/EC                                             Preparation
11/79       2           5        PROC                                                 Procurement Preparation
12/79       2           6        EN/EC                                                Preparation
2. Appraisal to Board
Approval
9-10/80     6          22        EN/AG/PROC/EC/HYD                                    Appraisal mission
12/80       1           7        EN                                                   FAP/CP Design
2/81       3           3        EN/EC                                                FAO/CP Design/Post Appr.
5/81       2          10        EC                                                   Reformulation
7/81       1                    EN                                                   FAO/CP Design & Training
11/81       1                    EN
2/82        1                   EN
4/82       1           5        EN
6/82        1          4        EN
J. Board Approval to
Effectiveness
9/82       2           5        EN/EC                                                Familiarization
X. Supervision
10/82       1           5        EN                                                   FAO/CP Design & Training
12/82       3           6        EN/EC               1/-             T/M/FIN          Initial Full Supervision



_     W_V16
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K                                                        ?
\~~   iW.   ~~~~    I. ~~INDIA
.;. .i' E  .... ;t  q         <                       0,,(<,<                                                                                    KALLADA IRRIGATION AND
............A                                                                                                                                              TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJEC
..    .     .     .    .     .    .     .     .           .   1. ., .    .     . e . a    .
S  *  X ' 9' ' g |~~~~~A                                                                                           A'                                                                               CAfAt.NAfL(K
z X a, Z <~~~~~~~~N~                                                                                                                                                                KILAKAAAAKS
. ...;t                                                                                                                                     
0      2     A      6      Ar
.  .A       .  .  AO  .                  . .  .
f  .   .   .   .A.   . . . . .                                            ,               
I                                                                                        Of/a*o/ We,'
C , v v r  sho_   Qn th, msp,                    K
IA-~~~~~~~~~~~~
AK     A' AANAA  AA AAA  V/ rlloKQAA.A,AA,,



