Document of                       : -
The World Bank                                      vEk 7
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3657-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 24, 1982
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division C
f This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Rupees (Rs) 8.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                             =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                        =   0.62 miles (mi)
I hectare (ha)             3            =   2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters (Mm )            =   810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 thousand million cubic feet (TMC)         28.32 Mm                          3
1 cubic foot per second (cusec)         =   0.028 cubic meters per second (m /s)
1 ton                                   =   1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 ton                                   =   2,205 pounds (lb)
1 megawatt (MW)                         =   1,000 kilowatts (10 W)        6
1 gigawatt-hour (GWh)                   =   1 million kilowatt-hours (10 kWh)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS
AF,O     -   Agricultural and Extension Officer
ARDC     -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CA       -   Command Area
CE'CRI   -   Central Plantations and Crop Research Institute
CWC      -   Central Water Commission
DCIA     -   Department of Agriculture
ER.      -   Economic Rate of Return
GOI      -   Government of India
GOK      -   Government of Kerala
HY'V     -   High Yielding Variety
ICAR     -   India Council of Agricultural Research
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
It)      -   Irrigation Department
JAO      -   Junior Agricultural Officer
KADP    -   Kerala Agricultural Development Project
KAU      -   Kerala Agricultural University
LCB      -   Local Competitive Bidding
LMC      -   Left Main Canal
PtICC    -   Planning, Monitoring Coordinating Cell
PVC      -   Polyvinyl Chloride
PWD      -   Public Works Department
RMC      -   Right Main Canal
SADU     -   Special Agriculture Development Unit
T&V      -   Training and Visit System of Extension
TOR      -   Terms of Reference
WCT      -   West Coast Tall Coconuts
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I
I



INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
General  .                     .  .  .  . .  . .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  1
Agriculture in India. . . .              ..                   1
Irrigation in India           . . .  ..  .                    2
Agriculture and Irrigation in Kerala . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Agricultural Support Services in Kerala  . . . . . . . . .    5
II.  PROJECI FORMULATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Project Scope    ..7
III. THE PROJECT AREA         ..                                        8
General. .                                                    8
IV.  THE  PROJECT    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
A.  General   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
B.  Detailed Features . . . . . . . . . . . .                12
C.  Water Supply and Demand . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
D.  Resettlement  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    16
E.  Dam Safety  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    16
F.  Construction Methods  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
G.   Schedule of Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
H.   Cost Estimates .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
I.  Financing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
J.  Procurement ..                        . . . . . . .      18
K. Disbursement   ..19
L.  Accounts and Audit .20
M.  Environmental Effects of the Project.                    21
This report was prepared by Messrs. P.F. Dax, E.L.M. Kramer (IBRD/IDA),
W. Barber and R. Shepherd (Consultants) and D. Campbell (FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program), with contributions by Messrs. G. Tibor, C. Helman, R. Vick, and
M. Herman. Messrs. R. Rowe, Thillairajah and Dax visited the project in
May 1981 to complete the appraisal of the agricultural support services for
the project.



- ii -
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
The Irrigation Department  ...  .  .  .   ..... .  .  .  .   .    21
The Department of Agriculture  . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .    21
Operation of Minor Conveyance System . . .  . . . . . . .       23
Coordination and Monitoring, Evaluation
and Technical Assistance  . . . . . .  . . . . . . .       24
Cost Recovery  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    25
VI.   AGRICULTURAL PROSPECTS ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    27
Markets and Prices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
Project Impact ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    30
Economic Rate of Return  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risks . . . . . . . . . .    32
VIII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:  Agricultural Development Prospects and Institutional Support
ANNEX 2:  Project Costs
Table 1:  Project Costs
Table 2:  Equipment and Materials
Table 3:  The Kallada Wing of SADU
Table 4:  Disbursement Schedule
Table 5:  Proposed Allocation of the Credit
ANNEX 3:  Economic Analysis
Table 1:  Changes in the Cropping Pattern
Table 2:  Generation of Incremental Benefits at Full Development
Table 3:  Irrigating Existing WCTS:  One Tree Model
Table 4:  Uneconomic Trees - One Tree Model
Table 5:  Hybrid Coconut Tree - One Tree Model
Table 6:  WCT Coconut Tree - One Tree Miodel
Table 7:  Crop Budget for Tapioca
Table 8:  Crop Budget for Cocoa Interplanting
Ta'ble 9: Crop Budgets for Rice Production
Table 10: Farm Budget for a Typical Coconut Holding
Table 11: Price Projection for Copra
Table 12: Price Projection for Paddy
Table 13: Estimated Farm Budget and Project Rent at Full Development
for a Typical Coconut Farm
Table 14: Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis
Table 15: Cost Recovery



- iii -
LIST OF ANNEXES (Cont.)
ANNEX 4: Implementation
Table 1:  Summary Implementation Schedule
Table 2: Schedule of Land Acquisition
Appendix 1:  Design of Water Conveyance below the Minor Canal
Appendix 2: Specifications of Main Canal Bank Roads
ANNEX 5: Organization and Management
Chart I : Project Organization
Chart II : Planning, Monitoring and Coordinating Cell
Chart III: Kallada Operations and Maintenance Wing
Table 1: Kallada Wing of SADU: Field Units
MAPS
IBRD 15597 - Irrigation Map of Kerala
IBRD 16023R - The Project Area



I
I



INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
General
1.01       KeraLa, located in the southwest extremity of the Indian peninsula,
is a coastal strip bounded on the east and south by Tamil Nadu, on the north-
east by Karnataka and on the west by the Arabian sea. It is divided into 11
administrative districts.  In 1976, the population of 2the State was 23.7 mil-
lion.  The total geographical area is about 39,000 km , and the average popu-
lation density nearly 550/km, the highest of any Indian State and about three
times the all-India average. Per capita income in 1978/79 was about Rs 1090.
1.02      While Kerala receives abundant rainfall (some 3,000 mm annually)
and benefits from two monsoons (the southwest monsoon between June and August
and the northeast monsoon between October and December), a prolonged dry-
season between January and May imposes severe constraints on the productivity
of KeralaTs tree-crop-based agriculture and increases the farmer's risk in
moving into moclern high-cost technologies for tree crop cultivation.
1.03       Kerala's agriculture is assisted by five ongoing Bank Group proj-
ects.  The Kerala Agricultural Development Project (1977, Credit No. 680-IN)
centers on credit for tree-crop-based smallholdings and includes components
for two government cashew-plantations (3750 ha), cooperative rubber processing,
and strengthening selected inputs and services of the Department of Agriculture
(DOA). The National Dairy Project (1978 Credit No. 824-IN) has a component in
Kerala which seems particularly promising in view of the relatively advanced
state of crossbreeding in the State. The multistate Cashewnut Project (Credit
1012-IN, 1980) provides credit for smallholders for planting some 10,000 ha
of cashew, and for a further 2,300 ha of Government cashew plantations. The
Kerala Extension Project (Credit 1028-IN, 1980) will reorganize and strengthen
the statewide extension service of the DOA. The Fourth ARDC Credit Project
(Credit 1209-IN/Loan 2095-IN, 1982) is an all India project which also assists
Kerala's agriculture.
Agriculture in India
1.04       India has a population of about 700 M which is growing at an annual
rate of about 2.2%. Since 1960, per capita income has grown at an annual
rate of 1.2% and reached US$240 in 1980. Although the average per capita
income has increased and access to public services has improved in general
there has been little change in the incomes of the vast masses of urban and
rural poor, who comprise about 50% of the total population. Accordingly,
GOI's development plans give priority to alleviating poverty and creating
employment, especially in rural areas.



1.05      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy and contri-
butes about 40% of GNP. It engages about 70% of the labor force and provides
the base for about 45% of India's exports. During the last decade, GOI devel-
opment plans have emphasized agriculture and sought to raise food production
by increasing the use of fertilizers, plant protection chemicals, and improved
seed varieties. In support of this, GOI has modernized and expanded its agri-
cultural credit institutions and accelerated the development of irrigation.
1.06      In the period 1950/51 to 1980/81, the production of foodgrains rose
at an annual rate of 2.6% (to about 130 M tons) and population at 2.1%. The
average annual increase in per capita production has thus been only 0.5%.
Between 1950/51 and 1964/65, production increased by about 3.1% p.a.; about
50% of this was the result of an expansion in the area under foodgrains and
the proportion of the area double-cropped. But between 1964/65 and 1980/81,
the gross area planted increased by only 6.5%; thus output growth over the
period was overwhelmingly the result of a growth in yields. In this second
period, there were two concentrations of rapid growth (independent of weather
conditions) 1/: (i) 1966/67-1970/71, largely due to the introduction of wheat
varieties on irrigated land in the northwestern States; and (ii) 1973/74-
1977/78, mainly due to significant increases in rice yields. In all cases,
progress was dependent upon the continuing expansion of the gross area
irrigated (22.6 M ha in 1950/51 and 49.5 M ha in 1977/78) and the increase in
the use of fertilizers (2.23 kg/ha in 1960/61 and 21.11 kg/ha in 1977/78).
Irrigation in India
1.07      Irrigation has been given the highest priority from the beginning of
the planning era in 1950. Some 54.0 M ha are irrigated at present, about 60%
of which is from surface sources and 40% from groundwater. Irrigated areas
are almost four times as productive as rainfed areas and they account for
about 60% of all agricultural output. More significant is the fact that the
expansion of irrigation facilities and the productivity growth on irrigated
lands have together accounted for at least three-quarters of agricultural
growth since 1960.
1.08      The area commanded by irrigation schemes is expected to grow to 62.3
M ha by the end of 1982/83 (35% of the cropped area of 180.03 M ha, of which
59% will be from surface sources and the remainder from groundwater sources). 2/
With little idle land left for cultivation, very little increase is expected
in the net sown area in the future and the main increases in agricultural
production will need to come from double cropping and from improvements in
water management and use of agricultural inputs. However, much greater
efficiency in water use is required. In most completed projects the actual
irrigated areas are less than planned and yields have been much lower than
1/   Source:  "Foods Trends and Prospects in India," the Brookings Institute,
1979; and "Economic Situation and Prospects of India," IBRD Report No.
3872-IN, 1982.
2/   Draft Five Year Plan, 1978-83, GOI Planning Commission.



- 3 -
originally forecast. GOI and the State Governments are aware of the challenge
and are seeking solutions to the dual problem of low irrigation intensities
and poor yields. Solutions involve improved efficiency of the physical system,
more flexible and imaginative water management practices and improvements in
the supply of agricultural inputs as well as in support services such as
credit and extension.
1.09      The typical irrigation schemes of the early 1960s consisted of a
storage or diversion dam and a main canal system, leaving distribution of
water from the project outlets to the farmers. As some of these outlets
served areas in excess of 100 ha, conveyance of water to the farmgate neces-
sitated the construction of minor channel networks that were sometimes several
kilometers long. In most projects, farmers were unable to finance or organize
the construction of the minor channels without outside assistance, which was
available in a meaningful way in only a very few instances. The very long
delays between water availability in the main conveyance system and its use
by farmers made these irrigation projects a marginal investment.
1.10      In the early 1970s, the concept of the Command Area Development
Authority (CADA) evolved.  Its objective was to coordinate the activities of
the Irrigation and Agriculture Departments and to assist farmers in obtaining
institutional credit for the construction of the minor systems and levelling
and bunding of their fields. Undoubtedly there have been benefits from the
creation of the CADA; however, the results have been less than expected.
Further analysis of the reasons for the gap between potential created and
actually utilized and lower irrigated cropping intensities and yields than
forecast indicates that more emphasis should now be placed on improving the
efficiency and reliability of the conveyance system, and that the Government
should assume responsibility for conveying water much closer to the farmgate.
Only when the farmer is confident of his water supply will he undertake the
necessary investments to make full use of the water supplied. The project
proposed in this report would focus, inter alia, on guaranteeing project area
farmers a water supply at their farmgate.
Agriculture and Irrigation in Kerala
1.11      Kerala's rugged topography, tropical climate, and high rainfall
are well suited for the cultivation of tree crops. Kerala's agriculture is
atypical of agriculture in India, being predominantly commercial tree crop
cultivation--partly because of climatic conditions but also as a result of
a long tradition of commercial plantation and agro-industries in the State.
Thus foodgrain production accounts for a relatively small proportion (36%)
of the area under cultivation and of agricultural production.
1.12      Rice is by far the most important staple food in Kerala although
about half of rice consumption is imported from other States. Tree crop
produce is exported from the State, some almost entirely abroad (e.g. cashews),
some for the Indian market (e.g. rubber).
1.13      The typical cropping pattern is a mix of perennial and field crops.
More than 60% of the net cropped area is occupied by three major crops: paddy,
coconut and tapioca.



-4 -
% of Cultivated Area
Net            Gross
Paddy                     22.5            31.4
Coconut                   28.8            24.8
Tapioca                   12.4            10.9
Rubber                     9.1             7.9
Cashewnut                  5.4             4.8
Spices                    10.2             8.9
Other Qilseeds             3.8             3.3
Other Crops                7.8             8.0
100.0          100.0
1.14      Kerala is the major Indian producer of pepper (94% of India's produc-
tion), rubber (94%), cashewnut (80%), coconut (66%), cardamom (62%), and ginger.
Most farmers grow several crops thus it is quite typical for one farmer to
grow coconut, pepper, banana, cashew and a variety of root crops all of them
on a smallholding.
1.15      Irrigation, which has traditionally been exclusively geared to paddy,
has occupied a relatively smaller role than in India at large.
India   Kerala
Net area irrigated/net area sown           25%       9%
Gross area irrigated/gross area sown       26%      14%
1.16      The main impact of irrigation in Kerala has been to extend the
double-cropped area of paddy by advancing the planting period for kharif cul-
tivation and by supplying water for the rabi crop.  In this respect irrigation
in Kerala is not typical of other parts of India where most irrigation water
is used to supplement the monsoon in the kharif season.
1.17      Irrigation projects in Kerala generally supplement traditional
farmer-built, small-scale irrigation systems for paddy cultivation which make
use of the runoff from the adjacent hillsides to irrigate the valley-bottoms.
While surface irrigation has been predominantly geared to paddy cultivation,
groundwater irrigation has been mainly used for diversified treecrop-based
cultivation.
1.18      Over the last twenty years, the net area in rice cultivation has
increased only slightly, about 4%, from about 500,000 hectares to about
520,000 hectares. In contrast to the small increase in rice area, over the
same 20 years period the area under tree crops and plantation crops increased
by about 70% and that under spices by 33%. Tree crops and spices now occupy
almost two-thirds (62%) of the net cultivated area.
1.19      While the land and climate are conducive to producing high value
crops, yields of most major crops have remained stagnant. Paddy yields had
risen from around 1.4 tons per hectare in the late 1960s to about 1.5 tons
in the early 1970s. Since then, however, yields have remained unchanged.
Coconut yields have declined since the late 1960s partly as a consequence
of the spread of rootwilt disease in large areas of the State. Of the major
crops, only tapioca has registered a significant yield increase, rising



-5-
from about 7 tons per hectare in the late 1960's to over 15 tons per hectare
in the early 1970's. Since then, however, there has been little further
improvement irI yields.
Agricultural Support Services in Kerala
1.20      Credit.  The apex institution for cooperative short- and medium-term
agricultural credit is the Kerala State Cooperative Bank which works through
eleven District Central Cooperative Banks and about 1,550 primary agricultural
cooperative societies. The number of members, share capital, deposits and
loans per society are all substantially higher than the all-India averages,
and are increasing. Long term credit is provided by the Kerala Central Cooper-
ative Land Mortgage Bank through 33 Primary Land Mortgage Banks. Commercial
Banks provide a growing volume of credit to agriculture. Kerala has one of
the better functioning agricultural credit systems in India. Loan recovery
has been satisfactorily higher than average (75-80% in 1980 for the various
credit institutions). Recently, GOK has embarked on a policy of subsidizing
interest payments. A scheme was initiated in early 1980 to provide a 3% in-
terest subsidy for the benefit of small and marginal farmers. This has later
been increased to 5% and extended to all farmers borrowing from cooperative
banks. Further, GOK has recently issued an order for the remission of 75% of
interest on short-, medium- or long-term agricultural loans outstanding as of
April 1, 1981, applicable to loans taken before April 1, 1978 from Government
or State Cooperative Institutions by farmers with less than five acres who
repay the principal before July 1, 1981. However, such interest remissions
are likely to be counterproductive. Apart from distorting resource alloca-
tion, such remissions and similar interest subsidies encourage farmers to
default on loan repayment in hope of similar remissions in the future. The
problem of harmful State intervention in operations of the credit system is
being addressed in the Fourth ARDC Credit Project, and may in the future
result in a loss of the State s eligibility for drawing ARDC refinance.
1.21      Input Supplies.  The input supply system is well developed.  There
are over 6,000 selling points for fertilizer, just about evenly divided
between public sector cooperatives and private dealers. Few farmers have to
travel more than 3 km for supplies. Plant protection chemicals are sold from
about 3,400 outlets. The DOA is directly involved in the production of seeds
and the production and distribution of seedlings. High-yielding variety (HYV)
paddy foundation seed is multiplied on Department of Agriculture (DOA) farms;
nucleus seed being supplied by the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU).
Registered growers, concentrated in 4 districts, multiply foundation seed to
produce certified seed. DOA staff carry out field inspections and quality
control tests. The Kerala Agro-Industries Corporation is responsible for
seed procurement and distribution. Planting material of coconut, cashew, and
cocoa, and pepper are produced and distributed by the DOA. Private dealers
are also engaged in the production and distribution of such material.
1.22      Marketing.  Most crops are marketed through traditional channels
such as village merchants, brokers and agents, wholesalers, processors and
exporters. There are more than 2,000 market fairs, thousands of established
private traders and about 100 cooperative primary marketing societies.
1.23      Research.  Responsibility for applied agricultural research in
Kerala rests primarily with Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) and is



-6-
conducted on its 23 research stations located throughout the state. The main
research is on paddy, coconut, pepper, cardamom, cashew, pineapple and sugar-
cane. Research takes place on the stations, although limited work is also
done on farmers' fields in the vicinity of research stations and university
campuses. The Central Plantations and Crops Research Institute (CPCRI) at
Kasaragod is responsible for varietal research and breeding of coconuts and
other plantation crops (with the exception of rubber, tea, coffee, crops
which have a GOI Board with overall development responsibility including
research). Research on coconut diseases at the Kayangulam station of the
CPCRI is assisted under the Kerala Agricultural Development Project (KADP).
1.24      Extension in Kerala is being strengthened and reorganized through
the Kerala Agricultural Extension Project (Credit No. 1028-IN, August 1980).
II. PROJECT FORMULATION
2.01      The Kallada Irrigation and Treecrop Development Project would be
the first Bank Group involvement with surface irrigation in Kerala. The
project was identified as a lending possibility by the Bank Group and GOK in
late 1978. It was prepared by a GOK project preparation cell set up for the
purpose, and in close liaison with the New Delhi Resident Office of the Bank.
GOI submitted the proposal for Bank Group assistance in July 1980 and the
project was appraised in September and October 1980.
2.02      The Kallada project was planned in the late 50's when the Government
regarded irrigation as the best way to step up rice production for food self-
sufficiency. This was to be done by converting gardenlands under tree crops
(which occupied more than two-thirds of the projected command area) to paddy
cultivation. At prices prevailing then (i.e. the relative price between rice
and coconut, the principal tree crop), this made economic sense.
2.03      Price changes in the late 1960s favored tree crop cultivation and
as a result farmers stopped converting tree crop land to paddy. In fact, the
opposite conversion has been taking place on a significant scale, i.e. paddy
land to treecrops. Where irrigation water is available, the benefits from
irrigating tree crops during the dry summer months greatly exceed benefits
from irrigating seasonal crops on the lowlands.
2.04      The modernization of tree crop cultivation appears to be the only
way to improve the income of smallholders in Kerala. A key to modernization
would be the adoption of hybrid coconut varieties and the intensive undercrop-
ping of coconut trees by a second-tier of tree crops. Such activities are
already promoted under the ongoing Kerala Agricultural Development Project
(KADP), and the institutional framework of that project would be adapted to
the irrigated agriculture of the Kallada area (Annex 1). Experience gained
from the KADP corroborates that irrigation can be expected to act as the
catalyst for farmers to adopt new technologies for crop intensification.
Contrary to previous expectations, the bulk of the credit demand under the
KADP Project has been for well construction to irrigate tree crops. This
indicates that without the guarantee of a reliable water supply, farmers are
reluctant to use the necessary quantities of fertilizers or invest in bett:er
planting material and the high cost modern cultivation practices.



- 7 -
2.05      Consequent to the GOI/Bank Group identification of the project in
December 1978, the change of focus of the project to tree crops has had major
implications for the proposed irrigation design. Under the original project
concept, farmers were expected to terrace the slopes to make them suitable
for paddy irrigation. Terracing is unnecessary for irrigating tree crops, in
fact terracing would disturb the topsoil and the existing trees. Given the
topography of the garden lands, irrigation of tree crops requires an innovative
system for distributing water. The rugged and erodable slopes on which the
tree crops grow, together with the fragmentation of holdings and the very high
cost of land acquisition, rule out the traditional system of water conveyance
by way of open channels from the main canal to the individual farms.
2.06      The most practical alternative, identified during project preparation
and tried out on a pilot scale, is minor conveyance systems below the chak
inlet through a low pressure buried pipe system that does not require permanent
rights-of-way, an important consideration given the high land values in
Kerala. This solution also avoids the expensive drop structures required in
a canal system on steeply sloping terrain. An underground pipe system also
offers more operational flexibility and ease of operation for the fragmented
landholding patterns.
2.07      The ready availability of poly-vinyl chloride (PVC) pipe on the
market and the increased competence and familiarity of several firms with its
use enhances its suitability for the project. (Until recently, only concrete
or steel pipes have been considered for water conveyance. Both are more
expensive and cumbersome to install). The Kallada project would be the first
major gravity irrigation project in India with an on-farm delivery system
based on low-pressure underground plastic pipes for the irrigation of garden
lands. The feasibility and advantages of piped minor distribution systems
have been proven in ongoing IDA assisted irrigation projects in India (U.P.
Tubewells, and in Punjab and Gujarat).
Project Scope
2.08      The project as originally submitted by GOK to the Bank Group, was
designed for a CA of 61,600 ha, to be completed by 1986/87. The Bank Group
assisted project would be limited to the upper reaches of the originally
proposed CA, or 37,600 ha, with implementation phased over five years (1981/82-
1985/86).
2.09     The principal considerations in reducing the original project scope
were limitations on implementation capacity (para 2.11 below) and the smaller
and less certain benefits (per hectare) on the lower reaches of the originaly
planned CA of 61,600 ha. The reasons were:
(a) a higher proportion of paddyland in the coastal lowlands,
where expected benefits are a fraction of the benefits in
gardenlands. About 4,000 ha of the coastal lowlands are
suffering from poor drainage and/or seawater intrusion,
problems which irrigation per se will not solve without
complementary and technically complex investments.
Anticipated benefits in these 4,000 ha would be parti-
cularly modest;



- 8 -
(b)   the coastal plain is more suitable for groundwater exploit-
ation. Considerable development has already taken place,
reducing the incremental benefits to be reaped from surface
irrigation; and
(c) the suburban setting of the coastal plain, where settle-
ment is very dense and small gardens are often separated
by solid laterite walls, poses special technical and
social problems for surface irrigation.
The present project excludes these areas. However, for the longer term
development of the area, GOK would undertake a detailed feasibility study
for extending the scope of the project, in a second phase, to an additional
24,000 ha originally included in the Kallada project command area (para 5.08).
2.10      The main reasons for recommending a slower pace of implementation
are:
(a) the planning, design, and construction of the piped-minor
conveyance system under the topographic conditions of the
project area is a new activity requiring specially trained
staff and initial lags in the experimental construction of
prototypes suggest a slower pace of implementation than
foreseen during the planning stage; and
(b) the build-up of agricultural support services to promote
on-farm investments also needs considerable lead-time.
Experience from the on-going IDA supported Kerala Agricul-
tural Development Project (KADP) indicates that organiza-
tional and staff constraints are a major factor in delayed
project implementation.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      Kerala can be divided into three parallel topographical zones running
north-south:
(a)  the less densel3  populated highlands on the eastern border
(170 persons/km ) with tea, coffee, cardamon and rubber
as the main crops;
(b) the midlands, between the coast and the highlands, with an
undulating terrain of small valleys and hills (difficult
topography for irrigation), fairly high population density
(780 persons/km ), and a wide variety of crops, including
rice, tapioca, banana, ginger, pepper, arecanut, cashew,
coconut and rubber; and
(c) the low-lying coastal belt ~long the West Coast, very densely
populated (1,400 persons/km ) where rice and coconut are the
main crops, with a wide variety of other minor crops.



- 9 -
The project area which is predominantly in zone b is located in the southern
part of Kerala and covers parts of Quilon and Alleppey districts.
3.02      Climate.  The diversity of the physical features of the State is
reflected in the changing climatic conditions from the east to the west. The
low-lying plains are tropical while the highland regions are sub-tropical.
The relative humidity all over the State is high. The highly varying climatic
conditions in the different regions and diverse topography provide opportun-
ities for raising a variety of crops.
3.03      The mean minimum temperature ranges from 19-260C and the maximum
from 27-370C. Kerala receives a very high rainfall from two monsoons: the
southwest monsoon from June to August and the northeast monsoon from October
to December.
3.04      Annual rainfall in the project area averages 2,600 mm and is suffi-
cient for paddy cultivation. Yet critical dry spells which may extend for
more than seven days are quite common even during the monsoon season. Usually,
there are three such dry spells. The first begins during the last week of June
or first week of July and has a duration of 12 to 14 days. The second begins
between the 6th and 18th of August with a duration of about a fortnight. The
third dry spell begins between the 12th and 20th of September with an average
duration of 17 days. During these critical dry spells most paddy areas require
irrigation water which is stored in the drainage channels between the paddy
fields. Thus in many of the rainfed areas, the drainage channels passing
through the paddy fields have a dual purpose: for drainage during wet spells
and for irrigation during dry spells. More reliable provision of water through
irrigation would encourage farmers to switch to high yielding varieties of
paddy which are more sensitive to waterstress.
3.05      Soils.  Based on the suitability for irrigation, the soils have been
classified into four groups.
I.   Valley-bottoms and Lowlands (10,000 ha)
(a) Colluvial soils have a loam to clay/loam surface texture
and clay subsoils with high water tables. They occur
mainly in valleys and depressions. These soils are
imperfectly drained and have low to medium infiltration
rates. They are slightly acidic and have a medium range
in organic matter content (1.5 to 2%). The high water
table in these soils limits their suitability to paddy,
vegetables, pulses, etc. Yields respond well to fer-
tilizers and soil ameliorants.
II.   Gardenlands (27,600 ha)
(a) Laterite soils on gently sloping midlands consist of
very deep, fine textured, gravelly soils. These soils
have a gravelly-clay loam surface layer and gravelly-
clay sub-surface layers. Infiltration rate is medium.



- 10 -
The pH ranges between 5.5 and 6.5. Soils are medium in
organic matter (1.5% to 2.25%). Water holding capacity
Is 45% to 50%. These favorable physical characteris-
tics ensure good response to farm management practices.
These soils are suited to the cultivation of coconut,
cocoa, pepper, banana, rubber.
(b)  Laterite soils on steeper slopes include deep to very
deep gravelly-clay loam surface soils with gravelly
clay subsoils. They occur mainly on 5-10% slopes.
Soils have medium infiltration rates. pH ranges
between 5 to 6.  Water holding capacity is 45% to 60%.
These soils respond well to fertilizer application
and irrigation.
3.06      Physical Setting.  The garden land slopes are frequently terraced
into benches of irregular width. Drops between terraces may be as much as one
meter at higher levels and generally decrease in height downslope. The garden
lands are cultivated with a complex mix of tree crops and field crops. The
tree crops cover the surface with various degrees of density and are dominated
by coconut which is commonly interplanted with tapioca. Tapioca is the most
important of the seasonal crops of the gardenlands and substantial areas have
tapioca as a sole crop. In the valley bottoms, paddy predominates grown both
in the kharif and the rabi seasons, hot weather crops (mainly oilseeds and
pulses) being insignificant at present.
3.07      Present land use in the project area is summarized as follows:
CA of the
Proposed Project
(ha)
Gardenlands:
Coconuts @ 140 trees/ha                             19,000
Mixed Treecrops                                      4,300
Annual Crops (Tapioca)                               4,300
Subtotal                                   27,600
Paddyland                                              10,000
TOTAL                                               37,600
Undercropped Coconut Area
with tapioca                                        6,400
with mixed treecrops                                3,200
9,600
3.08      Irrigation has been restricted traditionally to the valley bottom
lands where water is provided by tanks, intercepted run-off from the slopes,
and reuse of drainage water. In the broader valley bottoms, terraces fall
down the long section of the valley and laterally from both sides towards



- 11 -
a drainage channel. The channel is usually contained within raised embank-
ments, and can function also as an irrigation channel and is typically
equipped with some form of head regulation. Irrigation channels are often
constructed along the long lateral edges of a broad valley to serve terraces
which cannot be commanded from a central drainage/irrigation channel. Such
channels also intercept run-off from the side slopes.
3.09      Based on a recent survey in the project area, the size distribution
of holdings is approximated as follows:
% of             % of
Holdings           Area
Below 0.04 ha (landless)                    10                1
0.04 to 0.4 ha                             60                24
0.4 to 1.0 ha                              20                28
1.0 to 2.0 ha                               6                19
2.0 to 4.0 ha                               3                18
above 4 ha                                   1               10
100              100
Average holding size is about 0.5 ha. Approximately 75,000 families (455,000
people) live in the project area and would benefit from the project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   General
4.01      The Kallada River flows westward for about 130 km in Quilon District
before it empties into th2 Arabian Sea (see Map 2). The entire catchment
of the river (some 550 km ) is in Kerala. The watershed upstream of the dam
site is covered mainly by forests and plantations. The reservoir, with its
live storage of some 488 M m3, provides adequate water to irrigate an ori-
ginally planned CA of 61,600 ha (see paras 2.08 to 2.10). About 80% of the dam
and some 44 km of the Right Main Canal (RMC) has been completed by early 1982.
Releases from the storage reservoir will flow for about 5 km in the riverbed
before diversion into right and left bank main canals. The diversion weir is
completed. The project would assist irrigation and agricultural development
for a CA of 37,600 ha over the period 1981/82 to 1985/86.
4.02      The project aims to provide a reliable water supply for gardenlands
as well as paddy lands. The objective is to increase productivity and farm
incomes and to provide the range of agricultural support services needed by
farmers to complement irrigation.
The Bank Group supported project components would be:
(a) completion of civil engineering infrastructure for a CA of
37,600 ha.



- 12 -
(b)  construction of the minor conveyance systems (para 2.06) to
garden land for 27,600 ha, to be served through underground
pipe delivery systems (and/or lined watercourses where the
topography permits and equipped with night storage tanks
where required).
(c)  construction of canal service roads and staff quarters.
(d)  provision of vehicles and equipment, including radio communi-
cations for reservoir and canal operations.
(e)  establishment of a Kallada Wing of the Special Agricultural
Development Unit to guarantee the supply of planting materials
and other inputs for treecrop modernization and to promote
long-term credit for on-farm investments.
(f)  establishment of a Project Planning, Monitoring and
Coordinating Cell.
Items (e) and (f) are described in Section V, "Organization and Management",
paras 5.03 and 5.08, respectively.
B.   Detailed Features
4.03      The Dam.  The Kallada dam is a gravity masonry dam which will create
a reservoir with a live storage capacity of 488 M m . It is aligned perpendi-
cular to the center line of the Kallada river. The dam is 335 m long with a
maximum height of 85 m above the .deepest foundation. Completion of the dam
is scheduled for early 1984.
4.04      Provisions have been made for the construction of a power station
with a 16 MW installed capacity; the penstock and intake gates are included
in the project. All other costs (mainly electrical equipment) for electricity
generation will be borne by the Kerala Electricity Corporation.  (These costs
are not included in project cost, but are included in the ERR calculations.)
4.05      Canals.  The right and left main canals will take off dirictly f-rom
the di ersion weir. Their design capacity at the offtake is 39.1 m /sec and
22.1 m /sec, respectively, designed for the originally planned CA of 61,600
ha. The main canals as well as the branches are aligned as contour canals.
By early 1982, 44 km of the RMC and 15 km of a branch canal have been com--
pleted.
4.06      Lining.  GOK has prepared cost estimates for lined versus unlined
canals. Lined canals are cheaper for the main canals and branches because
of the high cost of land acquisition. For the lower distributaries, unlined
canals are about 25% cheaper. While this would normally be outweighted by
the benefits of lining, under the present circumstances the lining of distri-
butaries does not appear economically justified. The reasons are as follows:
First, any leakage losses from minor canals designed on the top of the slope
will flow downslope towards the valley-bottom lands. The slopes are covered
with tree crops and therefore part of the losses will be picked up for



- 13 -
transpiration from the capillary fringe around the shallow water table. Any
water which is not used by the trees will contribute to maintaining a shallow
watertable in the valley bottom land. Secondly, water availability would be
ample relative to water requirements, both in the command as a whole and also
at the chak level in terms of design capacities (water balance for the origi-
nally planned CA indicates only minor shortages in 3 of 36 years). Thirdly,
most canals are cut in laterite and are stable with relatively low seepage
values. Lining on the minor distributaries will therefore be done only
selectively for stability requirements.
4.07      All distributaries have been designed with a peak flow capacity of
0.9 liter per second per hectare (0.9 1/sec/ha) at the chak inlet. Since the
main conveyance system will be lined, and because of the low permeability of
much of the rock section where the minor distributaries are in-cut, a high
overall conveyance efficiency of 80-90% is achievable.
4.08      Structures.  The distributaries will be provided with an adequate
number of head and cross regulator structures and water measurement structures
for efficient water control. Because of the irregular topography, a large
number of structures such as aquaducts, super passages, drops, road bridges,
escapes are required.  The head regulators of the RMC and LMC will have
provisions for manual as well as electrical operation. Manually operated
gates will be provided at the head of each branch canal, distributary and
minor. These regulators will make it possible to divert the full flow into
the distributaries when the main canals and branches flow at half their
capacities. Provisions will also be made for the construction of escapes or
tail end regulators in the distributaries as a safeguard in case of sudden
closure of chak inlets.
4.09      Status of Design.  Hydraulic computations for canals and structures
conform to accepted engineering practices. Designs for works costing more
than Rs 1.5 M will be prepared by the design division in the (Kallada) Chief
Engineer's office. Designs for other project works will be carried out by the
divisions under the Superintending Engineers. As of October 1981, all designs,
and tender documents for the dam, main canals and branches had been completed.
Detailed designs of the distribution system up to 10 ha outlets for project
blocks totalling about 10,000 ha had also been completed.  A number of
detailed designs for the piped conveyance systems in typical locations below
the outlets from the distributaries have been prepared and the systems
constructed and tested (para 4.13 below).
4.10      Minor Conveyance.  The minor canal conveyance system would typically
command long strips of land containing both side slopes and valley bottoms.
The side slope lands will be supplied with a low-pressure PVC pipe system com-
bined with open lateral channels where topography permits. Bottom paddy lands
(10,000 ha) will have unlined field channels constructed by the cultivators.
4.11      The outlets from the main system would, on average, command an area
of about 10 ha with a discharge of about 0.9 1/sec. The outlet commands will
contain varying proportions of side slope and valley bottom lands. The con-
veyance on the side slope lands will outfall to the bottom lands. The capa-
cities of the c:hak inlets and of the main structure of the piped distribution



- 14 -
would be equivalent to continuous supply provided at the rate of 0.9 l/sec/ha,
with a minimum flow, however, of 0.5 1/sec. The irrigation interval will be
seven days in the peak season.
4.12      Due to head limitations, it may not always be possible to irrigate
the upper strip of land below the minor canal through a pipe. This upper
strip parallel to the minor canal will have to be supplied through lined
channels. The balance of the side slope land area will be supplied through
a low pressure PVC pipe system. Pipe reticulation would typically include
a main delivery line running down the slope, from which a number of short
laterals (which may be portable) would branch off. Each outlet would command
not more than one hectare. Delivery from each outlet would be through open
channels or through flexible hoses. The main line would in most cases
terminate at a night storage reservoir with command of the bottom lands
(i.e., an existing tank or a newly constructed tank).
4.13      Because of the varied nature of the terrain on the side slopes,
the different mix of side slope and bottom land, and of the pattern of land
holdings within them, it is impossible to use a standard design for all piped
conveyance systems. Each outlet command area will require an individually
designed minor distribution system. A variety of alternative designs could
be used to achieve this. Practical experimentation with alternative layouts
of the pipe system is ongoing and will continue during the first year of
project implementation. Different layouts and water rotations will present
different management requirements for the farmers; this aspect would be a
component of the experimentation under the project.
4.14      The proposed cropping intensities in all seasons and the limits
set by the total system capacity imply that, in the absence of tank storage
below the canal outlets, some level of night irrigation would be required
in periods of high demand.
4.15      Apart from permitting a shift from night to day irrigation on the
bottom lands during the hot weather summer season, the presence of night
storage regulation would mean that the flows delivered from the regulator
would not have to relate directly to the discharge at the outlet. While a
discharge in an average 10 ha chak of 0.9 1/sec is adequate in piped or lined
channels, it is inadequate to pass efficiently through a relatively long
unlined channel serving the bottom lands. The flow in unlined channels below
the tank reservoir would have to be about 30 1/sec to permit fast and effi-
cient irrigation. Reduction of transmission losses of "dry" summer irriga-
tion is contingent on the provision of night storage.
4.16      The configuration of the land surface in the valleys is such that
it is almost always possible to locate a storage reservoir, part excavation
and part fill, at the foot of the side slopes with command of the bottom
land. Three hundred thirty-four existing tanks have been identified from
aerial survey maps within the originally planned Command Area, and of these
52 have been improved during the past years by panchayats with engineering



- 15 -
assistance from the Minor Irrigation Circle in the Public Works Department
(PWD). The areas served from tanks range from 1 to 30 ha, and on average,
regulate water supply for about 10 ha of valley bottoms during the peak
demand period. The project provides for the construction of about 1000
tanks.
4.17      Radio Communication System.  In addition to a telephone network
along the canals, the project will provide a VHF wireless radio communication
system to ensure more efficient and dependable communication. The equipment
for the VHF radio telephone communication system will be installed and main-
tained by the P&T Department of GOI on a "rent and guarantee" basis. The
system would feature fifteen watt VHF transreceiver sets. The operation of
the system will be on "simplex - talk-listen-talk".
4.18       Canal Service Roads.  On the banks of main and branch canals a 4 m
wide jeep track will be constructed on one side and a 1. 5 m wide foot path on
the other. The jeep track will normally be gravel-surfaced but it will be
black-topped if opened to public use. On the banks of minor distributaries,
the width of foot paths will vary between 1.0 and 1.5 m. Design standards and
construction methods will follow India Standard Specification (ISS) and the
Indian Standard 'Code of practice (see Annex 4, Appendix 2 for salient speci-
fications of canal bank roads).
4.19       GOK has proposed that the main canal roads should be opened to the
public. From an examination of the data it appears that current proposals need
further investigation. The question of access links between canal roads and
the public road network also requires closer scrutiny. The PWD will conduct by
March 31, 1983 a feasibility study for linking canal service roads to the
road network in the project area, taking into account the cost of surfacing,
strengthening or improving roads to meet all-weather standards for public
access.
C.   Water Supply and Demand
4.20       The mean annual precipitation in the catchment upstream of the dam
site is about 3,300 mmJ with an average runoff of 1,440 mm (44%) and an annual
yield of about 790 M m at 75% dependability. The proposed project would
provide the full water requirement of the crops.
4.21       The reservoir provides 488 M m  of live storage which is equivalent
to about 790 mm over the originally planned CA of 61,600 ha.  Simulation of
the reservoir operation indicates that the reservoir would spill in 29 out of
36 years, and that only minor shortages would occur in three of the 36 years
(8%). There will be absolutely no water shortage for the 37,600 ha CA of the
proposed projects.
4.22      With 80-90% conveyance efficiency from diversion to outlet (para 4.07),
the system can provide a continuous peak supply of 7.3 mm/day at the 10 ha
outlet. The peak consumptive use of irrigation water for the proposed crop mix
in the garden lands is in the range of 4.5-5.5 mm/day and occurs towards the
end of March and in early April. Thus, if the irrigation system below the 10
ha outlet were to be operated with an overall efficiency of only 65%, plant



- 16 -
water requirement at peak demand could still be fully met in the garden landis.
In practice given the piped or lined channel conveyance in the garden lands
(which would cover about three-fourths of the CA), and the predominance of
deep-rooted crops on these lands, much higher efficiencies could be achieved.
4.23      During kharif and rabi seasons, the bottom lands grow paddy and deep
percolation and sub-surface runoff is small. The valley bottoms would receive
spillage and sub-surface flow from the side slopes in addition to irrigation
water. Therefore, the overall irrigation efficiency on these lands during
kharif and rabi will be very high.
4.24      The typical crop mix on bottom lands will require some 4-5 mm/day
during the hot summer season (except in localized situations where a high
proportion of summer paddy can be supplied with more water). Provision of
adequate flows in the unlined channels on the bottom lands will, however,
require use of night storage regulators to permit larger flows especially
for irrigation in the hot season.
4.25      Water samples taken at various points in the Kallada River show
that the water is of exceptionally good quality for irrigation. The measured
electric conductivity values range from 40-60 milliohm.
D.   Resettlement
4.26      The Kallada dam will submerge about 2,300 ha of predominantly
government-owned forest land. About 52 ha of the submerged area is privately
owned. GOK has a policy for adequate compensation for land submerged by
reservoirs; the privately owned 52 ha have been acquired and compensation
of Rs 60,000 per ha has been paid. Arrangements have also been made to
compensate 277 landless families who had lived on about 70 ha of Government
forest in the reservoir area for many years but have no legal title. GOK has
decided to allot alternate lands on 128 ha of Government forest about 20 km
away from the dam site. Land clearing has started. Rs 500-2,000 will be
given for dismantling and rebuilding dwellings.
E.   Dam Safety
4.27      The solid gravity masonry dam is designed according to Indian
standards and approved by the GOIs Central Water Commission. A quality
control unit has been functioning under an executive engineer. This unit
has recently been replaced by a quality control division directly under the
Chief Engineer, Kallada who will be responsible for the quality of the con-
struction of works. Agreement has been reached with GOK that it will: (i)
constitute a panel of experts with qualifications, experience, and terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank Group and Kerala, to review the plans and
design of the Kallada dam and its associated structures and its adequacy; aLnd
that (ii) said panel will conduct periodic reviews during construction to
examine whether any new grounds for making changes in the design of the dani
have become apparent; (iii) under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank Group
cause the Kallada dam and the related structures constructed under the Project



- 17 -
in accordance with sound engineering practice in order to determine whether
there are any deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or in the
quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of the same,
which may endanger their safety. To this end, Kerala shall propose to the
Bank Group appropriate arrangements for the Bank Group's review no later
than one year before the expected completion of such structures.
F.   Construction Methods
4.28      Labor-intensive construction methods will be used in line with GOI's
policy to enhance employment generation in public works. However, as it is
essential that canal embankments are properly compacted before lining, rollers
will be used. The use of machinery is also required for the compaction of
road foundations, for hauling of construction materials, and for the compaction
of the earthen saddle dam.
G.   Schedule of Implementation
4.29      The Kallada Dam is scheduled for completion in early 1984.  Imple-
mentation of the major irrigation distribution network on the right bank is
phased over a five-year period. The scheduled completion of the minor con-
veyance system is shown in the following table:
'000 Hectares
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   Total
Schedule of Completion of Water    3.4    6.3    8.4    9.6    9.9    37.6
Conveyance to chak outlets
Schedule of Completion of Minor       .7    3.0    6.0    8.5    9.4    27.6
Conveyance in Gardenlands
Construction of the RMC is well advanced and work on the distribution system
below the main canals has also started. Details of the implementation
schedule for canal construction and land acquisition are in Annex 4.
H.   Cost Estimates
4.30      Detailed cost estimates for the dam and distributaries were prepared
in 1978 and have been updated to reflect actual contract rates at the time of
follow-up appraisal (May 1981). Cost estimates for the minor conveyance
system were prepared during appraisal. Administrative overheads (which
include design and supervision) on dam and canal construction are estimated
at 15% of construction costs.  Incremental staff costs for the SADU Kallada
Wing was estimated on the basis of projected staff requirements. Duties and
taxes on investment expenditures are insignificant and, therefore, have not
been netted out of project costs. A physical contingency factor of 15% was
applied to all civil construction work. Price contingencies were estimated
on the basis of projections prepared by the Bank Group which were 11% for
1981/82, 8.5% for 1982/83, 7.5% for 1983/84-1985/86, and 6% thereafter.
Project cost estimates are:



- 18 -
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total
---------Rs M---------  --------US$M---------
Civil Works Infrastructure          504.2   216.1    720.3    59.3    25.4    84.7
Vehicles and Equipment                5.2     7.8      13.0       .6      .9     1.5
Land Acquisition                    114.8     -       114.8    13.5      -      13.5
Administration and Overheads        118.8     -       118.8    14.0      -      14.0
Base Cost                     743.0   223.9    966.9    87.4    26.3   113.7
Physical Contingencies         83.1    25.0    108.1       9.8      2.9    12.7
Price Contingencies           221.6    66.7    288.3    26.1       7.8    3.9
Total Project Cost          1,047.7   315.6  1,363.3   123.3    37.0   160.3
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan            -       2.6       2.6     -         .3      .3
Total Financing Required   1,047.7   318.2  1,365.9   123.3    37.3   160.6
Detailed and phased project cost estimates are in Annex 2, Table 1.
I.   Financing
4.31      The proposed IDA Credit of US$60 M and Bank Loan of US$20.3 M would
finance a foreign exchange component of US$37.3 million and the balance in
local costs. All project costs would be financed from GOK's development budget
(which includes GOI contributions). An agreement would be reached with GOI
that it would make the proceeds of the credit available to GOK on on GOI's
standard terms and arrangements for development assistance to the States. An
agreement has been reached with GOK that it would provide sufficient funds and
materials to execute the project, in accordance with the five-year project
implementation program. Non-irrigation on-farm investments are not included
in project costs (though included in the rate of return calculations) and would
be met by farmers from their own resources or by credit schemes refinanced by
ARDC.
J.   Procurement
4.32      Civil works under the project are estimated to cost approximately
US$84.7 M, excluding physical contingencies, price contingencies and engineer-
ing and administrative costs. Approximately US$10 M is suitable for inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) as contracts for the dam and much of the
main canals, which normally constitute the ICB contracts in irrigation prcj-
ects, have already been let prior to appraisal. Indian contractors would be
entitled to a 7.5% preference in works procured under ICB. Most of the remain-
ing works are not suitable to be packaged in bids large enough to be of interest
to foreign contractors. However, the LCB tenders that would be issued would be
designed to solicit maximum competition. The works will be packaged to attract
competition from larger contractors, yet allow awards to be made on individual
schedules in order to interest smaller contractors. Over 50% of the works, by
value, will be packaged in bids exceeding US$500,000 and all of these will be
subject to pre-action review by the Bank Group. The Central Water Commission
(CWC/GOI) has recently developed model ICB and LCB tender documents and proce-
dures for works contracting that have been approved by the Bank Group. The GOK
will use these models for the works let through LCB/ICB contracts.



- 19 -
4.33      Small works, not exceeding 10% of civil work costs, would be procured
under piece work or rate contracts. GOK's piece work and rate contract proce-
dures have been reviewed by the Bank Group and found acceptable for smaller
works. GOK departmental forces would be used only when required by safety and
quality considerations or when quantities cannot be sufficiently estimated in
advance. The aggregate cost of civil works carried out by departmental forces
will not exceed 10% of the total cost of civil works.
4.34      Ongoing Contracts.  Construction works on the dam and part of the
main canals have been awarded under multi-year contracts and are not included
in the project c:ost estimate. The works outstanding after Loan and Credit
signing for which contracts were let after apptaisal and given a pre-action
review by the Bank Group, will be eligible for financing under the proposed
credit.
4.35      Minor Conveyance.  It is anticipated that a significant part of the
design and construction of the minor conveyance systems (US$12.5 million)
would be undertaken by qualified engineering companies. Agreements have been
obtained from GOK that the ID would establish terms and conditions for the
engagement of qualified engineering companies, and take all the necessary
steps to facilitate contracting to such contractors for the design and
construction of minor conveyance systems.
4.36      Equipment and Vehicles financed under the project would cost about
US$5.0 M, excluding price contingencies (Annex 2, Table 2). Indian suppliers
would be entitled to a 15% preference on equipment procured under ICB and the
bid documents will specify that eligibility and the manner of its application.
Because of existing servicing and spare parts facilities, there are consider-
able advantages to be derived from procuring locally manufactured equipment and
vehicles. Light equipment and vehicles are readily available domestically at
competitive prices. The GOK will use the model bidding documents and procedures
(para 4.33) in procuring their equipment and vehicles unless the items are
available on GOI's Director General of Stores and Disposals (DGSD) schedule.
The DGSD procurement procedures have been reviewed by the Bank Group and found
acceptable. All items will be conveniently grouped to promote efficiency and
attract larger suppliers; however, awards will also be made on individual items
to generate competition from the smaller suppliers. The Bank Group would
pre-review all equipment and vehicle procurements in excess of US$100,000 and
post-review the remainder.
K.   Disbursement
4.37      Proceeds of the IDA credit and IBRD loan would be disbursed against:
I.   Civil Works:
(a) completed minor conveyance systems; 90% and
(b) other civil works; 70% of expenditures incurred up to
June 30, 1984, 50% of expenditures incurred thereafter.
II.   Equipment and vehicles:
(a) directly imported; 100% of foreign expenditures;



- 20 
(b) locally manufactured; 100% of local expenditures,
ex-factory; and
(c) locally procured (off-the-shelf); 70%.
III.   Monitoring, planning and studies (PMC Cell); 90%.
IV.   Front-end fee for the IBRD loan; 100%.
4.38      Withdrawal applications for civil works carried out under contracts
exceeding Rs 300,000 and for equipment and vehicles will be fully documentecL.
Full documentation for minor distribution systems would, in addition to the
contractors bills and evidence of payment, include a copy of certification
of commissioning signed by the Executive Engineer in charge of implementation.
Civil works performed under force account (estimated to be about 10% of total
civil works), civil works contracts for Rs 300,000 or less, and expendi-
tures for monitoring and planning (the PMC Cell) will be reimbursed against
statements of expenditures (SOE) certified by the Chief Engineer Kallada.
The supporting documentation for disbursements made against SOEs would be
retained by the GOK at one central location and made available for inspection
by the Bank Group staff on request. The expenditures reimbursed against SOE
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
Group. It is expected that disbursements will be completed by March 31, 1987.
The Credit would be disbursed first. A schedule of anticipated disbursements
is shown in Annex 2, Table 4. Up to US$7.5 million will be allowed for
retroactive financing for eligible-civil works and equipment on account of
payments made after April 1, 1981.
4.39      It is clear that benefits from irrigation will begin to accrue only
when the complete system, including the minor conveyances have been constructed
and the system is operational. An agreement has been reached with GOK that
it will ensure that the construction of the minor water conveyance systems
described shall be carried out simultaneously with, or, as soon as feasible
after, the construction of the distribution system up to the chak inlets.
L.   Accounts and Audit
4.40      The project would be subject to normal Government control and au-
diting procedures which are satisfactory. A resident Audit Officer, repre-
senting the State Accountant General would audit the project accounts. Al-
though continuous and annual audits are carried out in a timely manner, the
finalization is a lengthy process of the Statutory Audit Report presented to
the Legislature. It would be essential therefore to have interim certified
statements of account. Such statements certified by the AG or his designee
supported by an itemized account and a summary of the expenditures would
be submitted to the Bank Group as soon as possible after the end of each
fiscal year. Agreements would be reached with GOK that it would: (i) maintain
separate accounts on project expenditures; (ii) ensure that these accounts
would be audited annually by the AG and the resulting interim statements of
account would be submitted to the Bank Group as soon as possible but not



- 21 -
later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year; and (iii) make
complete accounts and financial statements available for inspection during
Bank Group review missions.
M.   Environmental Effects of the Project
4.41      An agreement has been reached with GOK that it would take all
measures considered necessary to minimize the hazards of malaria and other
water-related diseases in the project area. In this high-rainfall high-humid-
ity area, stagnant water generated by the project, if any, will not generate
an appreciable additional health hazard. Environmental hazard due to chemical
pesticides will be minimal since research and extension emphasize mechanical
and biological pest and disease control.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
The Irrigation Department
5.01      The Irrigation Department (ID) will be responsible for project
implementation. The Department has established a separate Minor Conveyance
Division for the implementation of the minor conveyance systems and a separate
Operations and Maintenance Division for the Kallada project to be responsible
for the operation and maintenance of the irrigation network. GOK has issued
orders for the establishment of these two divisions, and assurance has been
obtained from GOK that the buildup of staffing would commence no later than
September 30, 1982.
5.02      It is anticipated that a significant part of the design and construc-
tion of minor conveyance system would be undertaken by qualified engineering
companies. GOK has issued an Order which provides for the selection of private
engineering contractors in the design and installation of minor conveyance
systems.
The Department of Agriculture (DOA)
5.03      Agricultural supporting activities would be financed and imple-
mented under two on-going IDA assisted projects:
(a)  The Special Agricultural Development Unit (SADU), which is
implementing the on-farm investment program of the Kerala
Agricultural Development Project (KADP) has established a
separate wing for promoting and organizing on-farm investment
in the Kallada area. Agreement has been obtained from GOK to
maintain and adequately staff this unit and GOK has issued
an Order to this effect. Under KADP, SADU has evolved into a
competent institution for credit and investment promotion.
These activities would be integral components of the proposed
project, to generate maximum farmer response to the new oppor-
tunities opened by surface irrigation. Under the project, SADU



- 22 -
would establish a field organization with a similar pattern as
under KADP. A Junior Agricultural Officer (JAO) assisted by two
Agricultural Demonstrators (ADs) is the basic unit for SADU's
field operations. The unit covers an area of 500 hectares. The
number of field units would peak at 52 in the fifth year of imple-
mentation and the units would be withdrawn over the subsequent
three years (see Annex 5, Table 1). The main function of SADU
in Kallada would be the promotion and distribution of hybrid
coconuts (to replace traditional varieties of lower genetic
potential) and the promotion of underplanting coconuts with
second-tier treecrops. Details of SADU's on-going activities
for coconut rehabilitation and recommendations for a modified
role in the Kallada CA are described in Annex 1. SADU-s promo-
tion activities will be synchronized with the progress of com-
pletion of minor conveyance. SADU would supply only hybrid
planting material in the command area, and launch a campaign for
planting coconuts and undercrops at the time irrigation becomes
available in a chak. SADU units would canvas farmers, assist in
developing intensification plans, register orders for planting
material, and deliver the planting material at a time and place
notified in advance. SADU units would prepare individual farm
plans for credit applicants and assist in processing them
through the local participating banks. Long term credit for
on-farm investment will be provided by ARDC. ARDC would
prepare a credit plan for the Kallada project area. In
addition to credit financing, GOK is considering a statewide
subsidy scheme for the removal and replacement of uneconomic
coconut trees (see Annex 1). Coconut root-wilt disease is a
major factor in the accelerating yield decline of coconut
trees in the project area and the scheme should result in a
substantial decline in the number of diseased trees (through
their physical removal), thus reducing the severity of infection
with the disease. However, as discussed in Annex 1, while
sound in objective the scheme appears overly complex. In order
to minimize administrative costs and to ensure that the removal
of diseased uneconomic trees is coordinated with the advent of
irrigation and SADU-s other activities, GOK plans to implement
the subsidy scheme in the project area by SADU-s Kallada Unit,
and to limit the subsidy to a lumpsum incentive payment for the
removal of an uneconomic tree.
(b)  Agricultural extension in the project area would be provided
by the DOA which is reorganizing its external service on the
Training and Visit (T&V) pattern under the IDA-assisted Kerala
Extension Project. T&V extension is an open-ended activity
that is expected to carry on indefinitely. SADULs investment
promotion in contrast would be limited to three to five years
duration after the arrival of irrigation. In the preparation of
individual farm-plans and the promotion of investment packages,
SADU-s area of responsibility would overlap with the long-run



- 23 -
functions of the extension service. To minimize this overlap
and consequent duplication, T&V extension during the pro-
ject-s life would concentrate on field-crops, since field-crops
fall outside the scope of SADU's investment promotion. Impor-
tant extension tasks in the paddy lands will be to promote hot
season irrigation and to advise farmers in the construction of
field channels to individual farm boundaries.
5.04      Responsibility for research, plant breeding, and on-farm demonstra-
tions to back ul) SADU-s investment promotion would be shared between the Cen-
tral Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI, headquartered at Kasaragod),
the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU), and the Department of Agriculture
of GOK (DOA). CPCRI is responsible for varietal research for coconuts and
for plant breeding. Applied research and demonstration would be the responsi-
bility of KAU. CPCRI and KAU are preparing research programs in support of
the project, and will submit these to the Bank Group for comments. Under the
KADP, the DOA would continue to be responsible for seed multiplication for
coconut, cocoa, pepper and other treecrops.
5.05      Private sector distribution of inputs is competitive, and the avail-
ability of inputs is not a constraint in Kerala's agriculture. Government
input-and-supply depots have been operated in the past by the Department of
Agriculture extension service and are now being withdrawn on account of the
advent of T&V.
Operation of Minor Conveyance System
5.06      The irrigation infrastructure below the 10-ha outlet will be operated
by the farmers. The relatively complex technology, juxtaposted in some areas
with the large number (10-30) 1/ of smallholdings below a 10-ha outlet, will
require the collaboration of farmers to operate the system effectively.  The
degree of collaboration will in part depend on technical features. Thus a
system which supplies the full flow from one outlet (spout) at a time requires
a more elaborate schedule of rotation for sharing water than a system with
simultaneous flow from several spouts (approximating an "on-demand" situation).
5.07      The system will require a formal scheduling of the water use among
the farmers in each chak. Working out this schedule and supervising its
operation by the farmers is an integral part of the project. At the time the
delivery system is planned and the cadastral survey is prepared by the Minor
Conveyance Wing of the ID, an officer (at the level of the Agricultural
Extension Officer or Assistant Engineer) would visit the chak and explain the
operation of the system to the farmers. Prior to the commissioning of the
conveyance, a schedule of water use at the period of peak demand would be
prepared in consultation with the farmers. A committee for supervising the
operation of the system and for resolving conflicts that may arise between
1/   In cases where the number of farmers is significantly higher, considera-
tion will be given to reducing the size of the chak.



- 24 -
farmers would be appointed at the time of commissioning. Maintenance which
the farmers cannot do themselves include the repairs and replacement of
alfalfa valves, screwgates and broken pipes and would be the responsibility
of the Kallada Operations and Maintenance Division, and a network of repairmLen
would cover the area (Annex 4, Chart 3). The repairmen would also periodi-
cally report on the technical condition of the minor conveyance system and
monitor its upkeep and operation by the farmers.
Coordination and Monitoring, Evaluation and Technical Assistance
5.08      A Planning, Monitoring and Coordination Cell (PMCC) would be
established in the Irrigation Department of GOK. The PMCC would submit periodic
reports to a Secretarial Committee consisting of the Agricultural Production
Commissioner, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Irrigation and
the Special Secretary in charge of SADU. The Secretary of Irrigation would
appoint the staff of the PMCC in consultation with the Special Secretary of
SADU. The PMCC would be headed by a Joint Secretary (for staffing, see Annex
5, Chart 2). Important functions would be to synchronize the activities of
the ID and the DOA in project implementation and to monitor the quality and
progress of infrastructure construction. The PMCC would participate in the
planning and testing of alternative minor conveyance systems, conduct the
feasibility study for a possible Phase 2 project (see para 2.10) and carry
out a baseline survey of project farmers. Monitoring would provide early
warning on delays in the implementation of the agricultural program, such as:
(i) the quantities of HYV planting materials distributed by the Kallada Wing
of SADU, (ii) the use of fertilizers and chemicals by farmers; and (iii) the
spread and acceptance of HYV paddy and (iv) the progress of irrigation of
seasonal crops in the lowlands. The PMCC would also conduct special socio-
economic studies, such as: (i) farmer-s management of the piped minor
conveyance systems; (ii) farmer collaboration on field channel construction
for summer irrigation in lowlands, and methods of water distribution from
night storage tanks; and (iii) factors influencing farmer acceptance of
hybrid varieties of coconuts. Agreement has been obtained from GOK during
negotiations that it would (i) establish and adequately staff for the monitor-
ing and coordination of project implementation a Planning, Monitoring and
Coordinating Cell (PMCC) in the Irrigation Department by September 30, 1982;
and (ii) cause the PMCC to carry out a feasibility study for a second phase
of irrigation and treecrop development for the additional area adjacent to
the project area and furnish the study by December 31, 1984.
5.09      The PMCC would coordinate it's activities with the Evaluation Unit,
established under the KADP.
5.10      Technical Assistance.  In the first year of project implementation
about four staff-months of technical assistance would be provided. The cost
of these services will be covered under existing technical assistance and
consultancy services arrangements and are not part of project cost. A senior
consultant engineer would train GOK staff in the design of alternative water



- 25 -
conveyance systems below the 10-ha outlet (both underground piped and open-
lined channels), and assist in the preparation of a manual on the design of
PVC piped distribution systems for the project (the manual would also be made
available to private sector concerns interested in developing a design
implementation capability in PVC pipe irrigation).
Cost Recovery
5.11      The investment cost of the project would be about Rs 30,000 per ha
of CA. Annual 0&M costs are estimated at Rs 100 per ha. Recovery will be
through water charges, taxes and direct recovery of the minor conveyance as
described below.
5.12      The cost of minor conveyance system (Rs 3,600/ha) would be partially
recovered in accordance with standard GOI/GOK policy for command area develop-
ment. Farmers with holdings in excess of 4 ha would repay half of the cost
of these works. Farmers with holdings between two and four ha, small farmers
(with holdings between 1 and 2 ha), and marginal farmers (with holdings less
than 1 ha) would receive a further subsidy of 20%, 25% and 33%, respectively,
on the remaining one-half of the cost of development. Since benefits would
mature about five years after construction, the implicit loan would be
recovered after a five year grace period on capital and interest and there-
after be amortized in ten equal annual installments with interest compounded
at 9-1/2% as shown below:
Size of Holding (ha)                  Annual Installment - Rs/ha
Less than 1                                   300
1 - 2                                   340
2 - 4                                   370
4 +                                     450
5.13      Water charges in Kerala applied to paddy irrigation are graduated
according to potentially single, double, and triple-cropped fields at Rs 33,
66 and 99/ha, respectively. Close to 100% collection is achieved in
the Palghat District irrigation schemes in the major rice growing area of
Kerala, accounting for about 40% of the water charges collected in Kerala.
The water charge on garden lands is Rs 66 per ha.
5.14      Other Agricultural Taxes.  In Kerala's relatively commercialized
economy, sales taxes are the major source of State revenue (60%); of this,
about 6% is derived from coconut and coconut products. Principal sale taxes
on agricultural produce of the project area are on:
Copra                3%
Tender Coconut       5%
Cocoa                4%
Pepper               6%
Paddy                1%



- 26 -
5.15      Level of Cost Recovery.  Under the present level of water charges
and taxation and GOK policy for recovery of command area development works the
rent and cost recovery indexes would amount to 6% and 13% respectively (see
Annex 3, Table 15). The average annual recovery is estimated at Rs 420 per ha.
5.16      The Potential for Increased Recovery.  As an indicator of farmer's
ability for increased recovery, "project rent" on a typical coconut holding
has been estimated at Rs 16,800. Thus, at the present level of sales taxes
and water charge per ha, the index of rent recovery is 6%. Considering the
increase of farm incomes by more than 300%, the scope for increased recovery
is significant.
5.17      The technical standards introduced under the project would ensure
a reliable water supply for each farmer in the project area. A much higher
water charge on the garden lands would be justified in the future, in view
of the high development costs and the high returns to water. Field expe-
rience from the KADP, and elsewhere, corroborates that farmers are willing
to invest at their own expense in wells even on smallholdings of a hectare
and less. This gives an indication of farers ability and willingness to pay
for water against which a minimum target of cost recovery for surface
irrigation could be set. Agreement has been reached with GOK that it would,
with the objectives of ensuring an optimal level of recovery of annual opera-
tion and maintenance costs and cost of infrastructure investment, having
regard inter alia, to incentives for, and payment capacity of, farmers, Kerala
undertakes: (i) by September 30, 1982 to furnish to the Bank Group a plan
for review of the water- and water-related charges in Kerala: (ii) by
December 31, 1983 carry out such a review; and (iii) as soon as feasible
thereafter, to implement an appropriate system of water and water-related
charges in the Project Area based on recommendations arising from said review
after paying due regard to the Bank Group's comments, if any, on such recom-
mendations.
5.18      Operation and Maintenance.  The method of operation, staff require-
ment and cost of operating and maintaining watercourses and the piped minor
conveyance in the rugged terrain of the project area will need to be carefully
assessed. Agreement has been obtained from GOK that it would:
(i)  by September 30, 1982, furnish to the Bank Group the terms
of reference for a management study to establish rules,
procedures and requirements for effective operation and
preventive maintenance of the irrigation systems under
the project;
(ii)  carry out such a study by June 30, 1983; and
(iii)  as soon as feasible thereafter implement the operations
and maintenance procedures and requirements based on the
recommendations of the study.



- 27 -
VI. AGRICULTURAL PROSPECTS
6.01      Coconut Yields and Productivity.  Coconuts now dominate agriculture
in the project area and are expected to be the main treecrop in the foreseeable
future. A coconut tree yields an average of about 30 nuts per palm, which is
about one-third of the yield potential of the traditional local varieties.
The low yields reflect water stress, negligible fertilizer use and the fact
that about half of the stand is debilitated by rootwilt disease. Severe
water stress occurs during the summer months, February through May. Although
overall water requirements of the coconut palm are more than met by overall
annual rainfall, full yield potential is not achievable if less than 50 mm
of rain occurs in each of three consecutive months. This is the situation
in the project area.
6.02      Prolonged droughts occur several times in the life of a tree; and
recovery from water stress is slow. High yielding hybrid varieties depend
more on fertilizers and irrigation to reach their yield potential. Water and
fertilizer thus are complementary and returns to fertilizer are small and
uncertain without assured water. Evidence from KADP corroborates that avail-
ability of irrigation will make a crucial and positive difference in the
farmers' acceptance of hybrid planting material.
6.03      Research findings indicate impressive yield responses of local
varieties to irrigation. Experimental data available show the greatest
(proportional) yield increase for the lowest yielding trees:
------------Yield Class /a-----------
Poor    Low    Medium    High    Mean
(20 or (21-40)  (41-60)  (61-80)
less)
Pre-irrigation nuts (ave)   13.4   30.2    54.3        70.9      42.2
Post-irrigation nuts (ave)  42.2   69.5    85.2        94.8      73.5
Nut Increase per palm         28.8   39.3    30.9       23.9     31.3
Percentage increase          214.0  130.0    47.0      34.0      74.0 /b
/a   In brackets present yield range for the class expressed in nuts
per palm per year.
/b   Trees in all categories were receiving the recommended fertilizer
dosage. The appraisal yield projection for local varieties is
60 nuts/tree after 4 years of irrigation.
Source: CPCRI, Kasaragod.
6.04      An important constraint to coconut productivity is the existence of
Coconut Root-Wilt Disease in the project area. Wilt disease has been recog-
nized in Kerala for over 100 years and is endemic in the project area, although
the level of infection in the garden lands of the project is less than in the



- 28 -
coastal areas. The disease is of unknown origin. Research results indicate
that it is caused by some form of virus like organism. A cure is not known
yet. The disease is debilitating and while it can eventually cause the death
of the palm this is usually a very drawnout process. It occurs in palms of
all ages. No planting material tested in India is resistant although the
infection rate and decline in yield due to the disease appears signficantly
lower in locally available hybrids than in the local West Coast Tall (WCT)
variety. Diseased palms respond economically to fertilizers and the decline
in yields can be reversed by irrigation and fertilization. It is assumed that
on farms receiving irrigation and more intensive cultural practices under the
project yields of WCT palms would increase from 30 to 60 nuts per palm by the
end of four years of irrigation. Yields from newly planted and irrigated
hybrids are expected to reach 10 nuts per palm in year 4 rising to 125 nuts
per palm at maturity. These expectations are based on the assumptions
concerning the incidence and impact of wilt disease shown below:
Mature Trees --                           Incidence of
Variety               Disease Free Trees       Diseased Trees       Disease
(Nuts/Tree)
WCT (Tall Palm Variety)          90                       30               50%
Hybrid                          150                       50               25%
6.05      The project would establish conditions in which the recommended
package of practices (largely fertilizer, organic manuring, some pest control
spraying) could be profitably used and in which potential increases in farm
income would encourage the farmers to replace uneconomic palms whether diseased
or not. Without irrigation, the use of modern cultivation practices and the
replacement of diseased trees would be extremely slow as evidenced by expe-
rience under KADP (Annex 1). As it is, even with substantial disease problems,
farmers remain enthusiastic coconut cultivators and irrigation should encourage
them further and facilitate the adoption of measures to improve production and
incomes.
6.06      Changes in Production and Cropping Pattern.  Estimates of increased
production resulting from the project are based on the assumption that only
80% of the commanded area of garden and paddy lands will be benefitted by
irrigation. The following crop pattern changes are expected to take place
in this area:
(a) production of coconuts on some 15,000 ha would be intensified
through irrigation; the number of trees is projected to
increase from the present average of 140 palms per ha to
175 palms by removing on average 20 uneconomic palms and
planting 55 high yielding hybrid palms. It is expected
that the hybrids would be planted within three years of the
start of irrigation (Annex 3, Tables 3, 4, 5 and 10);



- 29 -
(b) the same 15,000 ha would also be undercropped, half with
annual crops and half with treecrops and spices. For assess-
ing these benefits, cassava cropping has been used as the
surrogate for annual crops and cocoa for the treecrops-cum-
spices (Annex 3, Tables 7 and 8);
(c) of existing sole-stand cassava, 1,700 ha would be planted
to hybrid coconuts and 1,700 ha would remain under cassava
with production increased through irrigation (Annex 3,
Table 7);
(d) the incremental benefit from irrigation of 3,400 ha of mixed
tree crops has been assessed to be the same as from irrigating
cassava;
(e)  production from 8,000 ha of paddy lands would increase
through the adoption of high-yielding varieties and through
an additional crop of summer paddy which is constrained at
present by lack of water (Annex 3, Table 9).
6.07      The following table shows the relative contribution of the above
changes to the total incremental economic benefits at full development:
Share of Incremental Benefits
Crops                            at Full Development (%)
Coconuts
-  Irrigation of existing trees                     17
-  Newly planted under the project                  49
Undercropping coconut with treecrops and spices    12
Irrigating tapioca                                     6
Irrigating mixed treecrops                             3
Paddy                                                 13
100
As can be seen the coconut program would account for most of the incremental
benefits.
6.08      The foregoing projections are based on the realization of only 80%
of the agricultural potential created by irrigation and assume no major
change in the cropping pattern. Thus paddy land is projected to remain in
paddy despite economically and financially more rewarding alternatives,
especially bananas, sugar and coconuts on the fringes of the valley-bottoms.
For areas under mixed tree crops, incremental benefits of irrigation were
assumed to be equivalent to those from irrigating cassava (Rs 3,300/ha)
although these could in the long run reach the level achieved on coconut
holdings (Annex 3, Table 10). Further, two thirds of the expected incremental
benefits are assumed to stem from the intensification of coconut production.
This is in line with experience in Kerala which shows that as soon as a
farmer obtains irrigation he plants additional coconut palms.



- 30 -
Markets and Prices
6.09      Most tree-crop produce in Kerala is marketed without restrictions
or price controls, and in competitive markets. The price of coconuts has
risen sharply over the last two years reflecting the domestic shortage of
edible oils. The favorable price is an added incentive for more intensive
coconut cultivation. Rice in Kerala is freely traded in local markets. Be--
cause of marked consumer preference for local varieties (over the varieties
imported from North India which make up about half of Keralan consumption)
the market for rice grown in the project area is assured at a premium over
the national support price fixed from year-to-year by the Agricultural
Production Commission (GOI). Cocoa production has been affected by erratic
price fluctuations, in part reflecting world price fluctuations and in part
the narrow domestic market, which has been a monopsonistic market in the
past. For the future, Kerala plans to enter the marketing and processing
of cocoa products for export. There are no restrictions on the export of
cocoa, and at projected world market prices farmers should have a sufficient
incentive to underplant coconuts with cocoa, particularly in view of the
symbiotic agro-economic relationship between these two crops. Pepper market-
ing is aided by the Kerala State Cooperative Marketing Federation, which is
handling about 60% of total exports from India. The Federation aims to
ensure quality control and better prices to farmers, and also to promote
price stability on the domestic market.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Project Impact
7.01      Farm Incomes and Production.  Income from coconut holdings on about
15,000 hectares would increase from about Rs 4,000 per ha at present to about
Rs 21,000 per ha at full development. Total income in a typical holding in ;
the garden lands would increase from about Rs 6,000 per ha to Rs 27,000 per ha
(see Annex 3, Table 10). Net incomes on paddy lands would increase from about
Rs 2,000 per ha to about Rs 6,000 per ha, or more if vegetables or other
high-value crops are grown (constant 1981 farmgate prices).
7.02      Copra and rice are the main agricultural products in the project
area and their production is expected to increase by 37,000 tons and 10,000
tons respectively.
7.03      Employment.  Civil works construction under the project would
require approximately 33 M mandays, or about 22,000 jobs per annum for five
years. Incremental employment generated by intensified coconut cultivation,
including undercropping, would amount to about 90 mandays per year per hectare,
and total employment generated in the gardenlands would reach about 2 M
mandays/year at full development. Summer cropping in the paddy land would
add approximately another 1 M mandays per year.



- 31 -
7.04      Impact on Rural Proverty.  The project would sigaficantly reduce
the incidence of poverty in the project area. Assuming that the size distri-
bution of income in the CA remains unchanged, the percentage of households
in the project below the poverty line can be expected to fall from about 70%
to about 40%.
7.05      Financial Analysis.  In order to take full advantage of irrigation
farmers will have to modify their farming techniques and make sizable long-term
investments. To examine farmers- motivation to do so, financial models were
prepared for the main plantation crops. On a typical coconut holding, revenues
from the sale of uprooted uneconomic trees and incremental income from irrigat-
ing the existing coconut palms would cover investment expenditures in estab-
lishing the 55 new palms per ha (20 of these replacing uneconomic trees).
The financial rate of return (FRR) would be over 50% for irrigated cocoa (see
Annex 3, Table 8). The FRR for irrigated pepper or clove is expected to be
even higher. Financial incentives would therefore be exceptionally favorable
for the intensification of treecrop-based cultivation.
Economic Rate of Return
7.06      At the time of the project appraisal, GOK proposed the completion
of the originally planned CA of 61,600 ha by 1986/87. In view of the lesser
and more uncertain benefits of surface irrigation on the coastal plains, the
economic analysis of the present project proposal (for a CA of 37,600 ha)
does not assume that the originally planned CA will be completed (para 2.10).
Consequently, no part of the cost of the main canals or the dam has been
allocated to a possible second phase project.
7.07      The "without project" situation assumes maintenance of present
levels of production and productivity. The rationale for this assumption is
described in Annex 1. The alternative development strategy exemplified by
SADU's intensive credit and investment promotion can, on the basis of expe-
rience under similar circumstances, be expected to achieve a 20% area coverage
within a time span of about 7 years (see Annex 1). Such development, the
great bulk of which would be without irrigation due to very limited ground-
water resources in the project area, could at best offset the decline resulting
from the spread of the rootwilt disease in the rest of the project area.
7.08      The project was planned as a joint power and irrigation project,
(capital costs i-or power generation are estimated at about 15% of total
capital costs) and the benefits of power generation (65 GWh after 1987) have
been taken into account. Based on these assumptions, and based on the pro-
jections and price assumptions contained in Annex 3, the economic rate of
return (ERR) for the project has been calculated both without and with sunk
costs.
7.09      Without sunk costs the ERR is 20%, indicating the justification for
completing the proposed project. With sunk costs, the ERR is 14%, indicating
viability of the project as a whole including the costs already incurred. If
the dam would be used for power generation alone, its ERR would be 7% with



- 32 -
sunk costs, and 13% without sunk costs, indicating that it would be economi-
cally viable to complete the dam on the basis of power benefits alone. In
this calculation, the power house, and the transformers adjacent to the dam
were not considered sunk costs, and operations and maintenance costs were
included.
7.10      Unquantified Benefits.  The project would provide the first expe-
rience in underground pipe conveyance to smallholders, an innovative tech-
nology relevant to large tracts of hilly garden lands on-the western slopes
of the ghats, and also elsewhere in India on mountainous terrain. Additiorn-
ally, it may benefit livestock and fisheries production. Kerala's dairy
industry is being assisted by a component of the National Dairy Project.
One of the principal constraints could be overcome by irrigating fodder
crops in the valley bottoms during the summer months. The small tanks which
will be integrated with the canal system will, as semipermanent water
reservoirs, become suitable for small-scale fisheries development supportecd
elsewhere in India by IDA. During appraisal, the Fish Farmers Development
Agency of GOK indicated that tanks in the command area will have priority
in its program of financial and technical assistance to fish-farmers.
Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risk
7.11      Sensitivity analysis was conducted to determine the effect of
deviations from the main assumptions on the economic viability of the project.
The results are summarized below.
(a)   Lower Costs or Benefits.  The benefits from intensified
coconut cultivation are the most significant determinant
of the ERR. Incremental coconut production constitutes
the bulk of benefits, and with these benefits alone, the
ERR would be 14%. A 25% and 50% increase in project costs
would lower the ERR to 17% and 15% respectively.  If coconut
yields were reduced by 25%, the ERR would be 17%. If power
benefits are excluded, the ERR would be 19%.
(b)   Delays.  A uniform seven year lag in benefits would lower
the ERR to 12%, the estimated opportunity-cost of capital
in India. A delay in construction of the minor conveyance
system by five years, would reduce the ERR to 14%.
(c)   Higher Incidence of Rootwilt Disease.  The base assumption
on the incidence of disease is 50% for WCT and 25% for
hybrids (para 6.04). If a uniform incidence of 50% for
hybrid and WCT's is assumed, combined with a 25% decrease in
the yield of diseased trees the ERR would be reduced by 1%.
(d)   Rate of Farmer's Participation.  To achieve projected benefits
from intensifying coconut cultivation farmers would have to
invest in planting of about 1.1 M coconut palms within seven
years, and to invest in undercropping with treecrops on about



- 33 -
7,500 ha. Given the incentive provided by provision of
irrigation in the Kallada project, such a target is reason-
able. 1/ Sensitivity analysis indicates that a shortfall
of 25% in the number of new palms planted combined with
a three year lag, would decrease the ERR by 3 percentage
points. A 50% decrease in the number of newly planted
coconuts would decrease in ERR by 2%.
7.12      The results of economic analysis indicate that only large deviations
from the basic assumptions would make the project economically inviable.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      An agreement would be reached with GOI that it would make the
proceeds of the Loan and Credit available to GOK, on standard terms of
development assistance to the States (para 4.31).
8.02      Agreements would be reached with-GOK that it would:
(a)  (i)  constitute a panel of experts with qualifications,
experience, and terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank Group and Kerala, to review the plans
and design of the Kallada dam and its associated
structures and its adequacy;
(ii)  said panel to conduct periodic reviews during
construction to examine whether any new grounds
for making changes in the design of the dam have
become apparent; and
(iii) shall under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
Group cause the Kallada dam and the related
structures constructed under the Project to be
periodically inspected in accordance with sound
engineering practice in order to determine whether
there are any deficiencies in the condition of such
structures, or in the quality and adequacy of mainte-
nance or methods of operations of the same, which may
endanger their safety. To this end, Kerala shall
propose to the Bank Group appropriate arrangements
for the Bank Group's review no later than one year
before the expected completion of such structures
(para 4.27).
(b) provide sufficient funds and materials to executive the project
within the implementation schedule for the five-year program
assisted by Loan and Credit (para 4.31);
1/   Under the KADP, 700,000 seedlings sufficient to plant about 4,000 ha of
coconut have been distributed in three years.



- 34 -
(c)  ensure that the construction of the minor water conveyance
systems shall be carried out simultaneously with, or, as soon
as feasible after, the construction of the distribution system
up to the chak inlets (para. 4.39);
(d)  (i)  maintain separate accounts on project expenditures;
(ii)  ensure that these accounts would be audited annually
by the AG and the resulting interim statements of
account would be submitted to the Bank Group as soon
as possible but not later than nine months after the
end of each fiscal year; and
(iii)  make complete accounts and financial statements available
for inspection during Bank Group review missions (para
4.40);
(e)  take all measures considered necessary to minimize the risk of
malaria and other water-related diseases in the project area
(para. 4.41);
(f)  maintain and adequately staff a Kallada Wing in SADU to promote
and organize on-farm investments in the project area (para. 5.03
and Annex 5, Table 1);
(g)  (i)  maintain and adequately staff for the monitoring and
coordination of project implementation a Planning,
Monitoring and Coordinating Cell (PMCC) in the Irri-
gation Department by September 30, 1982;
(ii)  cause the PMCC to carry out a feasibility study for a
second phase of irrigation and treecrop development for
the additional area adjacent to the project area and
furnish the study by December 31, 1984 (para. 5.08);
(h)  with the objectives of ensuring an optimal level of recovery of
annual operation and maintenance costs and cost of infrastructure
investment, having regard inter alia, to incentives for, and pay-
ment capacity of, farmers, Kerala undertakes: (i) by September 30,
1982 to furnish to the Bank Group a plan for review of the water-
and water-related charges in Kerala: (ii) by December 31, 1983
carry out such a review; and (iii) as soon as feasible thereafter,
to implement an appropriate system of water and water-related
charges in the Project Area based on recommendations arising from
said review after paying due regard to the Bank Group's comments,
if any, on such recommendations (para 5.17);
(i)  (i)  by September 30, 1982, furnish to the Bank Group the terms
of reference for a management study to establish rules,
procedures and requirements for effective operation
and preventive maintenance of the irrigation systems
under the project;



- 35 -
(ii) carry out such a study by June 30, 1983; and
(iii)  as soon as feasible thereafter implement the operations
and maintenance procedures and requirements based on
the recommendations of the study (para. 5.18);
(j) cause the Irrigation Department to:
(i) maintain and adequately staff a Kallada Operations and
Maintenance Division for the management of the irriga-
tion system, and a Kallada Minor Conveyance Division
for the implementation of the minor conveyance systems,
and to ensure that the build up of staffing for these
two divisions will commence no later than September 30,
1982 (para. 5.01).
8.03      With the above assurances and conditions of credit and loan dis-
bursement the proposed credit and loan are suitable for Bank Group finance
of US$80.3 M comprising a Bank Loan of US$20.3 M and IDA Credit of US$60 M.



- 36-
ANNEX 1
Paga 1
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Development Prospects and Institutional Support
Agricultural Trends and Prospects in the Absence of Irrigation
1.        The table below summarizes present land use in the proposed project
area:
CA of the
Proposed Project
Gardenlands:
Coconuts (a140 trees/ha                           19,000
Mixed Treecrops                                    4,300
Annual Crops (Tapioca)                             4,300
27,600
Paddyland                                            10,000
TOTAL                                           37,600
Undercropped Coconut Area
with tapioca                                       6,400
with mixed treecrops                               3,200
9,600
2.        Agriculture in the project area, as in most of Kerala, is based
on coconut cultivation, and coconut is the dominant crop on most holdings
in the gardenlands.
3.        Over the last 20 years, average yield of coconut plantations in
Kerala and in Quilon district is estimated to have declined from about 7000
nuts/hectare to about 4000-5000 nuts/hectare, reflecting in part the spread
of rootwilt disease.
4.        Data for Quilon district, where about 80% of the project area is
located, indicate sharply declining coconut area over the last five years,
as well as declines in the yield and total production of coconuts, though
the reported decline is so large as to cast doubt on the accuracy of the
estimates:



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Area under        Production          Production per
Coconut          (M units)         hectare (000 units)
75/76             98000              490                   5000
76/77             93000              390                   4200
77/78             88000              360                   4100
78/79             81000              320                  4000
Source:  Kerala Annual Timely Reporting Survey.
Yield in Quilon is estimated at about 30 nuts/bearing tree.
Year                   Nuts/Tree
76/77                     31.0
77/78                      29.8
78/79                      29.0
Source:  Kerala Timely Reporting Survey.
A recent survey of coconut holdings in disease affected areas reported the
following yields:
Nuts/Tree            % of Bearing Trees
Diseased Palms                    15                         54
Disease-free Palms                29                         46
Weighted Average                  22
(The samples were concentrated on the coastal belt where the incidence of
disease is higher than in the project area).
5.        The decline in the productivity of coconut cultivation is not offset
by shifts in the cropping pattern to more profitable crops or by increases in
the productivity of other crops. The production of rice, the second most impor-
tant crop after coconuts, is also on the decline. Yields are low (averaging
about 1.5 tons of -paddy/ha in the district) and have been stagnant. Area under
production is on the decline. Most smallholders in the project area grow paddy
for home consumption, but even the smallest parcel would typically make use of
hired labor. With the increasing cost of labor and fertilizer and the rela-
tively stable prices of rice over recent years, paddy land is being converted
to coconuts on the fringes of the valley bottoms, or is frequently left fallow.
6.        Of the important crops in the gardenlands, only tapioca has regis-
tered significant increases in yields in the long run; from 7 tons/ha in the
fifties to about 15 tons/ha in the last decade. However yield seems to have
reached a plateau at about 15 tons in recent years. Tapioca is principally
a subsistence crop in Kerala, and has a limited growth potential. Rubber
production and yields are increasing, but rubber is mostly cultivated on the
higher slopes and only an insignificant part of the CA (about 500 ha) is under
ru ber.



-38-
ANNEX 1
Page 3
7.        Thus agricultural production is generally on the decline in the
project area, though buoyed by the rising price trend of most treecrop pro-
ducts (particularly of coconuts, reflecting the chronic shortage of edible
oils in India).
8.        Irrigation offers an opportunity to reverse the trend.  However,
as this report demonstrates, treecrop irrigation in the difficult terrain of
Kerala results in a high cost of water and a relatively low rate of return.
The rationale for surface irrigation needs to be assessed in relation to
alternate investment strategies confined to rainfed agriculture, particularly
since most treecrops growing in the project area have traditionally been con-
sidered as rainfed crops. The productivity of coconuts has been increased
in many parts of the world without irrigation, principally through fertilizer
use and the adaptation of hybrid varieties.
9.        The alternate development strategy followed by GOK for treecrop
modernization can be considered in the light of experience from the Kerala
Agricultural Development Project (KADP), also assisted by IDA. A principal
component of that project is a credit program for coconut rehabilitation, sup-
ported by an intensive investment promotion service by a Special Agricultural
Development Unit (SADU), established in the DOA to assist the implementation
of the KADP on-farm investment program. The project is now in its fourth
year of field operations.
The SADU Program for Coconut Rehabilitation
10.       There are two basic credit packages for coconut rehabilitation
under KADP: with and without irrigation. Without irrigation, rehabilitation
consists mainly of bringing up the coconut stand to the recommended density of
175 trees/hectare, and the replacement of uneconomic trees with selected coconut
seedlings procured from DOA nurseries. The principal loan components are for
fertilizer, labor, and planting materials. Where coconut holdings will be
irrigated, a well with a pumpset is the principal loan component. The cresdit
package with irrigation stipulates intercropping the coconuts with cocoa, or
establishing a dairy enterprise with pasture development and the purchase of a
dairy cow, (Credit under KADP is also available for new coconut and for pepper
planting on previously uncultivated land in the northern districts of Kerala
State; activities for which there is relatively little scope in the densely
populated and cultivated project area.)
11.       A Junior Agricultural Officer (JAO) assisted by two Agricultural
Demonstrators (ADs) is the basic unit for SADU's field operations. The unit
covers an area of 500 hectares in discrete locations selected on the basis
of surveys. The 500 hectares is made up of holdings of .2 hectare or more,
since smaller holdings are not eligible for institutional finance.
12.       Once established, the unit starts its work by inventorying the
holdings of eligible farmers. Subsequently, the JAO prepares individual farm
plans for the farmers who evinced initial interest in credit, and eventually
processes the loan applications with the local banks. A unit is to stay
three to five years in its area of operation.



-39-
ANNEX 1
Page 4
13.       The appraisal target for coconut rehabilitation was 30,000 hectares,
to be implemented over six years. This target was based on an 80% projected
farmer participation in a gross area of 37,500. Of the net 30,000 ha, 25% or
7,500 ha, were projected to be irrigated and intensified either with cocoa
interplanting or with a dairy enterprise.
14.       The table below summaries the progress of SADU's field activities
for coconut rehabilitation:
Progress of Coconut Rehabilitation under KADP
Farm Inventories      Farm Plans Prepared            Loans Approved
# of Farmers   Area    # of Farmers    Area            Area (OOOha)
000          OOOha      000           OOOha   Irrigated  Rainfed  Total
78/79      25.6         16.4        8.7            6.4         .4        .2        .6
79/80      28.7         17.5       12.7            9.1        1.0        .6       1.6
80/81        7.9         5.9        6.4            5.1        2.1       1.2       3.3
TOTAL      62.2         39.8       27.8           20.6        3.5       2.0       5.5
15.       The rate of credit participation has been only a fraction of what had
been anticipated.  Farm plans were prepared for 52% of the area inventoried,
corresponding to 45% of the farmers who evinced initial interest in credit par-
ticipation. However, to date only 27% of the area for which farm-plans have
been prepared (and 14% of the area inventoried) has come under the credit pro-
gram. Also the greater part of credit demand turned out to be for irrigation
facilities, about two thirds of the area for which loans have been approved,
instead of one fourth as foreseen during appraisal (see Table above).
16.       SADU has recently conducted a large survey (about 27,000 farmers
were interviewed) to identify reasons for the meagre farmer response. 32% of
the respondants reacted favorably to the program, indicating that they intended
to apply for the loans, 13% were not convinced either way, and 55% indicated
that they will not apply for credit.
17.       The reasons for unfavorable response can be classified into:
(1)  reasons consistent with positive response to on-farm investments
(but not to credit participation), i.e.
- defective title to land              9%
- reluctance to mortgage land          9%
- having own resources                 8%
- previous encumberance on land        6%
- cumbersome lending procedures        1%
33%



-40-
ANNEX 1
Page  5
(2) reasons indicating negative response to on-farm investments
- unable to look after land           5%
- absentee landlords                  4%
- program not attractive              1%
- not interested in the program       7%
17%
(3) Other                                        5%
TOTAL           55%
Assuming that these findings are transferrable to the Kallada project area,
farmer participation in farm-investment can be projected at about 80%, about
20% of the farmers having a negative attitude to on-farm investments.
18.       Based on experience to date, SADU has drastically reduced the target
for coconut rehabilitation, from 30,000 ha to 11,500 ha, of which about 2/3
would be for irrigated development. The appraisal and revised targets for
coconut rehabilitation under SADU's credit program are summarized below:
APPRAISAL                                REVISED, 1981
Year    Irrigated   Unirrigated   Total    Irrigated  Unirrigated  Total  Year
1                      1,125       1,125       372         210         532   78/79
2          375         5,250       5,625     1,025         576       1,601   79/80
3        1,750         8,625      10,375      2,132      1,200       3,332   80/81
4        2,875         6,000       8,875     1,216         684       1,900   81/82
5        2,000         1, 500     3 , 500    1,334         751       2,085   82/83
6           500                      500        640        360       1,000   83/84
7                                              640         360       1,050
TOTAL     7,500        22,500      30,000     7,359       4,141      11,500
Gross
Area (ha):                         37 , 500                          7 5,000
% of Gross  20%          60%         80%        10%        5%           15%
Area Covered
19.       Care must be taken in attempting to extrapolate from this data a
forecast of what might take place in Kallada without irrigation. On the one
hand, the revised targets are drawn from a much larger area than the original
37,500 ha. SADU now estimates that the eventual area of operations will be
roughly twice the original estimate, or about 75,000 ha. Thus the revised
target of 11,500 ha will amount to about 15% of the area in which SADU's
intensive promotion and services are available, of which about one third would
be developed under rainfed conditions and two thirds under irrigation with
groundwater.



-41-
ANNEX I
Page 6
20.       On the other hand, on farm investment promoted by KADP is not limited
to credit participants. Alerted by SADU's intensive promotion campaign, includ-
ing help in preparing a farm plan and in obtaining superior planting materials,
some non-participants in the credit program may be investing their own resources.
One indication is the distribution of planting material to farmers who did not
take credit, which amounted to about half of the seedlings in the first one
and a half years of field operations. Supplying non-credit participants has
been since discontinued as a "negative incentive" to promote credit applica-
tions. Thus the proportion of farmers who undertake investment in rainfed
coconut cultivation without credit could at most equal the number who invest
with credit; and therefore at most 10% of the area covered by SADU services
is likely to be rehabilitated under rainfed conditions. Added to this can be
10% to be developed through groundwater exploitation. Few wells would be dug
without credit and it is safe to assume that in SADU areas most wells would be
financed under KADP. To sum up, on the basis of available data and experience,
it seems reasonable to conclude that an intensive credit and investment
promotion service could generate a 20% coverage of the project area, half of
it through investment in groundwater exploitation, and half of it through
intensifying cultivation under rainfed conditions.
21.       Such a projection, hypothetical as it is, needs further qualifica-
tion. First, the Kallada CA is in the rootwilt affected belt of Kerala, while
SADU's operations are confined to the disease free areas. Other things being
equal, the high risk of rootwilt disease ought to dampen the incentive to invest
in the improvement of rainfed coconuts. Second, under the Kallada irrigation
project, the objective would be to spread benefits to even the smallest farmers;
farms less than .2 hectares are excluded from the KADP credit program. SADU's
experience affords no insight into the investment behavior of farmers with
holdings smaller than .2 ha. However, in view of the high cost, groundwater
development would not be a real option to most of these small farmers. Third,
there are some crops which could become a long term alternative to coconuts.
Rubber is an important treecrop in Kerala and rubber planting to replace the
ageing coconut sitand would be a plausible long range alternative to coconut
modernization. Net returns from rubber are comparable to returns from coconuts
yielding about 40 nuts per palm, a moderate yield under rainfed conditions
even in the disease infested area. Returns from rubber would be much less
than returns from irrigated coconuts. Benefits from irrigating rubber are
modest, possibly a 10% increase in yield. Additionally, rubber cultivation
requires more management and knowhow than coconut-growing and requires a
minimum area of about 1/2 acre to be marginally viable, which would exclude
about half of the households in the project area. Also, replacement at best
could take place very gradually: if all old coconuts were replaced by rubber
after felling, it would take about forty to fifty years to replace the stand.
All in all therefore coconut appears the only viable medium-term alternative
for the raising smallholder incomes on a large scale, given that the production
of annual crops on a sustained basis would be very risky on the lateritic soils
predominant in the project area.
Lack of Irrigation as a Constraint to Treecrop Modernization
22.       Irrigation offers an opportunity to reverse the declining trend of
agricultural productivity in the project area because:



-42-
ANNEX 1
Page 7
(1)  Prolonged water stress accounts in large measure for the
low yields of coconuts. Kerala's average of about 30
nuts/tree is about one fourth to one third of the genetic
potential of the local unselected West Coast Tall(WCT)
variety. Prolonged droughts occur several times in the
life of a tree, and recovery from water stress may take
several years, particularly for young trees.
(2)  Water stress not only reduces yields per se but is also
the main reason why farmers don't undertake other means
of stimulating production, namely the use of fertilizer
and the adoption of hybrid varieties of coconuts. Field
experience corroborates that irrigation boosts yields and
that when irrigation is possible farmers also improve
their cultivation practices, including the application of
inorganic fertilizer.
(3) The yield potential of hybrid varieties of coconuts is
proven to far exceed that of the traditional WCT variety.
In addition to higher yields, research indicates that some
high-yielding varieties are less susceptible to rootwilt
disease than the WCT, and that yields of rootwilt affected
hybrids can be maintained at relatively high levels with
recommended cultivation practices. Hence hybrids appear
to require irrigation to perform consistently well.
23.       Farmer acceptance of hybrid material is higher on irrigated farms.
In Trivendrum district (of the SADU districts the most comparable to the
project area) over 80% of the hybrid planting materials went to irrigated
farms:
% of the Hybrid Planting
Used on Irrigated Farms
78/79                       84
79/80                       81
80/81                       80
24.       Irrigation not only appears to be a precondition to fertilizer
application and to the spread of hybrid varieties. It also would be essen-
tial for intensifying coconut holdings through undercropping. The KADP
appraisal identified cocoa and dairy enterprise as the most promising
opportunities for irrigated coconut rehabilitation. KADP only dealt with
investments requiring long-term finance, but irrigation would also increase
the returns to short duration crops. Tapioca, the principal intercrop,
could be grown for twelve months instead of nine months, pepper and cloves
would be other important irrigated intercrops. In addition, most of the
diverse crops that are now grown on a typical smallholding would substan-
tially benefit from irrigation.



-43-
ANNEX 1
Page 8
Proposed SADU Activities in the Projected Area
25.       Under KADP, SADU has evolved into a competent institution for
credit and investment promotion. These activities would be integral com-
ponents of the proposed project, to generate maximum farmer response to the
new opportunities opened by surface irrigation. Under the project, SADU
would establish a Kallada wing, with a similar organizational pattern as
under KADP. Field operations would be phased in with block-by-block con-
struction of minor conveyance in the CA.
26.       Under KADP, SADU is implementing a credit program to overcome
the constraints of rainfed agriculture (though the bulk of the loans are
in fact for irrigation wells). In Kallada, SADU would promote on-farm
investments to take maximum advantage of the investment incurred in surface
irrigation. Unlike under KADP, the emphasis of SADU investment promotion
would be on the propagation of hybrid materials, which is the key to the
long run increase in productivity of coconut based agriculture. Credit
promotion would be secondary, but nevertheless an important task. While
credit is restricted to farmers with .2 hectares or more, in the Kallada
project area SA1DU would promote investment also for smaller farms as well,
since the objective is to reach all farmers who wish to take advantage of
irrigation potential. Because of these circumstances and because of the
incidence of coconut disease in Kallada SADU's present functioning would
require modification for the Kallada project.
Provision of Hybrid Seedlings
27.       Planting a WCT palm locks land into an inferior use for decades,
and would depress the economic return of the project. Once irrigation
becomes available and farmers can be expected to convert with greater ease
to hybrid planting materials, SADU would actively campaign in each planting
season against the planting of WCT, and supply only hybrid planting mate-
rials in the project area. Starting at the time when a "block" comes under
irrigation, SADIU would organize campaigns for new planting and the replace-
ment of uneconomic trees. SADU units would canvas farmers, register their
orders for hybrid materials, and deliver the planting material at a time and
place notified in advance. Unlike in KADP, where SADU supplies planting
material to credit applicants, the provision of planting materials would be
a service available to all farmers.
Credit
28.       As under KADP, SADU would promote long term credit for coconut
rehabilitation. The unit JAO would prepare individual farm plans and process
the loan application with the local banking institution. Under KADP, finance
for crops other than coconut was limited to cocoa and dairy enterprise on
irrigated farms. In the project area, the loan package could include pepper,



-44-
ANNEX 1
Page 9
cloves, and other long maturing crops recommmended for cultivation by the
extension service. ARDC would prepare a banking plan for the project area,
and IDA would disburse against ARDC's reimbursements to participating banks
within the KADP line of credit.
29.       It would be difficult at this time to extrapolate credit demand
in the project area from the progress of the KADP credit program. On the
one hand, once water is provided the returns to complementary investment in
fertilizer use would be higher. On the other hand, the bulk of credit demand
under KADP is for irrigation facilities, and once water is provided by surface
irrigation, that part of demand will be satisfied. Also, short run increase
in earnings due to irrigation will enhance the farmer's ability to finance the
typically piecemeal investments involved in the intensification of treecrop
cultivation. The "negative cashflow" in the investment period for treecrop
modernization would be smaller than in KADP or non-existent, depending on tlhe
pace of on-farm investment.
30.       As a working projection, a 20% coverage, the same as KADP's revised
target, of farms above .2 ha would appear a reasonable basis for the prepara-
tion of a credit plan by ARDC.
Rootwilt Disease and Proposals for Subsidized Coconut Rehabilitation
31.       Coconut rehabilitation under KADP is confined to areas free of
rootwilt disease in Kannanore, Kozikhode, Malapuram, and Trivendrum districts.
The rationale for not including rootwilt affected areas was the risk involved
in encouraging farmers to invest in infected areas. At the time of the KADP
appraisal, it was hoped that either a scientific breakthrough would establish
the cause of rootwilt disease, or effective measures would be found to contain
the disease and diminish its effects. Unfortunately, no breakthrough is in
sight.
32.       Rootwilt disease is a debilitating rather than a lethal disease,
and there is evidence that better cultivation practices can arrest and
even reverse a decline in the yield of the palm. In view of the uncertain
prospects for a research breakthrough and the large number of people whose
incomes are in the meanwhile adversely affected, GOK has launched a pilot
subsidy scheme to assist farmers in the removal of uneconomic trees and to
adopt better cultivation practices. The components of the scheme are:
(1) compensation of RS 75/palm for cutting and removing uneconomic
palms.
(2) a fertilizer subsidy calculated at 50% of recommended dosage on
10% of the trees in the holding (i.e. equivalent to 5% of the
recommended fertilizer application).
(3) 50% subsidy for lime, magnesium sulphate and dolomite.
(4) 50% subsidy for green manure seeds.
(5) Rs 0.75/palm subsidy for the application of silt.



-45-
ANNEX 1
Page 10
(6) a subsidy for the construction of irrigation wells in the
amount of 1500/ha or 25% of the cost of the well, whichever
is less.
33.       This scheme is under implementation since 1980/81 in 22 panchayats,
to which another 40 panchayats were to be added. GOK hoped to obtain GOI
financial assistance for expanding the scheme. Instructed by GOK, SADU also
prepared a similar scheme to be implemented with IDA assistance under the
KADP.
34.       In addition to those reservations, another reservation concerns the
advisability of encouraging coconut growers to replace diseased trees where
the intensity is already more than the recommended stand of 175 palms per ha.
Farmers should, on the contrary, be encouraged to thin out their holdings by
removing the uneconomic palms and bring down the palm stand to the recommmended
optimal density. In this sense the reservations don't apply to the lump-sum
subsidy for removing uneconomic trees.
35.       The question of extending the scheme to Kallada has been raised by
GOK in the context of the proposed project. The subsidy scheme already is
under implementation in 12 out of 92 panchayats in the Kallada command area.
It might therefore become necessary for GOK to bring in the remaining 80
villages also under a similar subsidy scheme in order to avoid discriminatory
treatment of farmers within the project area. Furthermore, incentives in the
form of subsidies might substantially contribute to the pace of replacing
uneconomic trees with hybrid coconut varieties or with high-value intercrops.
36.       JOAs assigned to the individual panchayats implement GOK's pilot
scheme. If the scheme is to encompass the project area, it should be imple-
mented by the SADU field organization and proceed in step with investment
promotion for the planting of hybrid coconut trees. This would avoid dupli-
cation and ensure that the removal of uneconomic trees is coordinated with
on-farm investments at the time when irrigation water becomes available.
However, the administration of a complex set of subsidies would place a near
unmanageable administrative burden on SADU. Because of this, and because of
the above reservations on the scheme's specific features, the mission recom-
mends that if GOK extends the scheme to the project area, the subsidy should
be limited to the once for all grant for the removal of an uneconomic tree.



A46NEX 2
-46-                                Table 1
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs
(Rs Million)
1982       1983       1984       1985      1986    Total
Dam                                  3.2       16.8        4.4                            24.4
Right Bank
Main Canal                       35.9       14.9        12.0        8.0        4.2      75.0
Branches                         14.2       15.9        12.0        5.7        2.0      49.8
Distributaries to 60 ha           7.4        8.2        11.2       24.8       10.1      61.7
Minors 60-10 ha                   0.5         2.4        2.7        2.9        2.8      11.3
Left Bank
Main Canal                       46.9       59.3        78.5       60.4       18.0    263.1
Branches                            0         5.4        9.6       14.2       15.0      44.2
Distributaries to 60 ha           0.7         3.2       10.4       15.3       21.9      51.5
Minors 60-10 ha                   0.5        0.5         1.0        2.2        4.2       8.4
Minor Conveyance
(below 10 ha)
Distribution System               2.5         9.8       22.6       30.8       33.8      99.5
Tanks                               0        0.4         1.1        2.7        2.7       6.9
Canal Roads                                                           5.6        4.7      10.3
Buildings                           2.8         7.6        1.4        1.4        1.0      14.2
Subtotal Civil Works            114.6      144.4      166.9       174.0      120.4    720.3
Equipment and Materials             3.1         5.1        2.7        1.4        0.7      13.0
Land Acquisition                   34.0        30.7       31.0       14.8        4.3    114.8
Administrative and Overheads
SADU - Kallada Wing               0.1        1.1          1.9       2.3        2.4       7.8
Planning and Monitoring           0.1        0.7          0.7       0.7        0.7       2.,9
Engineering Supervision          17.1       21.7         25.1      26.1       18.1    108.,1
Subtotal                         17.3       23.5         27.7      29.1       21.2     118.8
Total Base Cost                 169.0      203.7        228.3    219.3       146.6    966.9
Physical Contingencies            5.2       21.7         25.0      26.6       29.6     108.1
Price Contingencies              10.5       38.5         68.2      89.9       81.2    288.3
Total Project Cost              184.7      263.9       321.5    355.8        257.4  1,363.3
Tront End Fee to lBRI)            5.1        -          -           -          -         2.6
Total Financing Required        189.8      263.9        321.5    355.8       257.4  1,365.9



ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDIA
EALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Equipment snd Materials
Unit       Total
Numbers      Cost       Cost
R- Million)
I. EQUIPMENT FOR CIVIL WORKS CONSTRUCTION
Tunneling Works
Rocker Shovel (0.38 cu. m)                                 2        .800       1.600
Battery Locomotive J8 ton)                                 2        .400       0.800
Blower Fans (1000 M  min.)                               10         .150       1.500
Rock Drills                                              24         .004       0.095
Drilling Jumbo Platform                                    2        .025       0.050
Concrete Placer (Pne4matic 1/2 cu. yd.)                    3        .025       0.075
Concrete Pumps (15 M /hour)                               2        .350        0.700
D.G. Set (15/20 KW)                                       2         .050       0.100
Transit Cars (3 cu. m)                                     4        .200       0.800
Shot Creting Machine (6-8 cu. a)                           1        .200       0.200
Sub-Total   5.920
Canal Embankment, Excavation,
Lining and Roads
Stone Rollers                                            60         .002       0.120
Truck, 5000 lItrs. Water Tanks                            8         .300       2.400
Truck, 5T (Lorry)                                          5        .200       1.000
Concrete Mixer, (10/7)                                   12         .025       0.300
Concrete Vibrator                                        28         .005       0.140
Excavators, Hydraulic Wheeled (0.9 cu. m)                 4        1.200       4.800
Excavators, Hydraulic Crawler (0.9 cu. m)                  3       1.100       3.300
Loader, F.E. Wheeled (1.35 cu. m)                         2        1.000       2.000
Tipper, (4.5 cu. m)                                        3        .250       0.750
Lime Mixer                                                2         .040       0.080
Rock Drills                                              28         .005       0.140
Asphalt Mixer                                             4         .125       0.500
Air Compressor                                             4        .140       0.560
Road Rollers                                              8         .200       1.600
Nub-Total  17.690
Workshop Equipment
Crane, Mobile, (15 T)                                      1        .600       0.600
Mobile Workship, Lathes, Welding Sets,
Drilling Machines, etc.                                 1        LS          2.500
Sub-Total   3.100
Transport Vehicles
Staff Car                                                 4         .080       0.320
Jeeps 4 x 4                                              20         .065       1.300
School Bus                                                 2        .225       0.450
Sub-Total   2.070
Miscellaneous
Theodolites & Survey Instruments                                    LS         0.500
Office Furniture and Equipment                                      LS         1.500
TOTAL       30.780
II. EQUIPMENT FOR MAINTENANCE DIVISION
Staff Car                                                 4         .080       0.320
Jeeps                                                    20         .065       1.300
School Bus                                                2         .230       0.460
Water Sprinklers                                           5        .250       1.250
Trucks                                                     5        .200       1.000
Concrete Mixers                                          12         .120       1.440
Asphalt Mixers                                             4        .100        .400
Road Rollers                                              8         .150       1.200
Mobile Workshop                                           -           -        2.500
Mobile Crane                                              -           -         .600
Furniture, Office Equipment                               -           -        1.500
Materials                                                 -           -         .630
Theodolites/Instruments                                   -           -         .400
TOTAL       13.000
GRAND TOTAL        43.780
Note:  Equipment for the Maintenance Division (Item IT) is shown
separately in Project Cost (Annex 2, Table 1), whilat the
cost estimates for civil works construction includes the
cost of machines under Item I.



-48.-                                 ANNEX 2
Table 3
INDIA
INDIA
KERALA - KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Kallada Wing of SADU
I. UNIT COSTS
Monthly   Annual
Salary    Salary                Total Cost
(Rs)    (Rs 000)   Number       (Rs 000)
HEADQUARTERS
Joint Director Agriculture         1750        21.0        1           21.0
Deputy Director Agriculture        1400        16.8        2           33.6
Technical Assistants                900        10.8        2           21.6
Clerks                              500         6.0        4          24.0
Drivers                             500         6.0        2          12.0
Total Basic Salaries                                               112.2
Leave Allowance (10%)                                               11.2
Pension Contribution (15%)                                          16.8
Total Gross Salaries                                               140.2
10% Office Overhead                                                 14.0
Total                                                      154.2
OFFICE OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
OF AGRICULTURE
Assistant Director Agriculture   1400          16.8        1          16.8
Technical Assistant                 900        10.8        1          10.8
Clerks                              500         6.0        2          12.0
Driver                              500         6.0        1           6.0
Total Basic Salaries                                                45.6
Leave Allowance (10%)                                                4.6
Pension Contribution (15%)                                           6.8
Total Gross Salaries                                                57.0
10% Office Overhead                                                  6.0
Total                                                       63.0
FIELD UNIT
Junior Agricultural Officers        900       10.8        1           10.8
Two Agricultural Demonstrators    600           7.2       2           14.4
Clerk                               500        6.0        1            6.0
Total Basic Salaries                                                30.2
Leave Allowance (10%)                                                3.2
Pension Contribution (15%)                                           4.6
Gross Salaries                                              38.0
II. PHASING OF STAFF
Year     1982      1983      1984     1985      1986
Joint Director             -                   1        1         1         1
Deputy Directors                     2         2         2        2         2
Assistance Directors                 1         2        4         5         5
Field Units (see Annex 5, Table 1) 3          15       38        48       52
III. PHASED COST ESTIMATE
(Rs 000)
1982     1983      1984     1985      1986      Total
Heatquarters Expenditure           154       154      154       154       154      770
Assistant Directors Agriculture   63         126      252       315       315     1071
Field Teams                        114      570      1444      1824     1976      5928
Total                   331       850     1850      2293      2445      7769



-49-                                 ANNEX 2
Table 4
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
S9&edule of Disbursements of the Loan and the Credit
Semester     Cumulative
Bank Group FY and Semester                                     US$M
Fiscal  82/83           First Half                      3.2             3.2
Second Half                     7.6            10.8
Fiscal  83/84           First Half                      8.0            18.8
Second Half                     8.3            27.1
Fiscal  84/85           First Half                      9.9            37.0
Second Half                    10.1            47.1
Fiscal  85/86           First Half                      9.7            56.8
Second Half                     6.7            63.5
Fiscal  86187           First Half                     16.5            80.0



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Table 5
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan
Amount of
the Credit    Amount of
Allocated      the Loan           % of
(Expressed    Allocated       Expenditures
in SDR       (Expressed        to be
Equivalent)   in Dollars)        Financed
(1) Civil Works
(a) Minor water           9,600,000      4,000,000      90%
conveyance
systems
(b) others               39,750,000      8,315,000      70% of expenditures
incurred up to June 30,
1984; 50% of expen-
ditures thereafter
(2)  Equipment, vehicles       2,850,000        500,000      100% of foreign expen-
and materials                                           ditures; 100% of local
expenditures ex-factory;
70% of other local
expenditures
(3)  Monitoring                  100,000        185,000      90%
evaluation
and studies
(4)  Fee                          -             300,000      Amount due
(5)  Unallocated                              7,000,000
TOTAL            52,300,000    20,300,000



ANNEX 3
-51-                            Page  1
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Assumptions for Economic Analysis
Prices
1.        General.  For coconuts and rice, the major commodities in the
incremental benefit stream, economic prices were derived from year by year by
IBRD commodity forecasts, expressed in 1981 currency value with appropriate
adjustments for freight, handling and processing. For other crops, the IBRD
1990 projected prices have been applied as the basis for the economic price
calculation. Non-traded goods and services were brought to a common basis
with the traded ones through the use of conversion factors. A standard
exchange rate of US$1 to Rs 8.00 was used to convert prices expressed in US
dollars to local currency values. The assumptions behind the estimates are
described below:
2.        Standard Conversion Factor (SCF).  The costs and benefits of the
project are evaluated at world market prices, in order to measure correctly
what India's net economic benefits from the project are. However, many of
the costs are for items that are not traded on the world market. Tariffs and
trade restrictions introduce a distortion in the price relationship between
traded goods--valued at world markets--and non-traded gross-valued at local
prices. In order to make them comparable, an SCF is applied to the price
of non-traded goods. In the absence of trade restrictions, the SCF can be
approximately calculated using the formula:
X + M
SCF           [u]
X + Sx + M + Tm
Where X      =  export value (f.o.b.);
M      =  import value (c.i.f.);
SX     =  subsidies on exports;
Tra    =  taxes and duties on imports.
For the period since 1970, this calculation gives a SCF of 0.86. However,
since this estimate does not take into consideration quantitative restric-
tions on trade, it provides only an upper limit for the SCF. The Indian
Planning Commission recommends for the evaluation of industrial projects, the
use of conversion factors for foreign exchange and for untraded goods that
implicitly give a SCF of about 0.75. Because of the approximate nature of
this estimate, a SCF of 0.8 has been used in the economic analysis.
3.        Agricultural Wages.  Kerala has the highest wage for unskilled
labor in India. A Rs 10/man-day minimum wage is enforced in Government



-52-
ANNEN 3
Page 2
contract work. Unlike in most States where the minimum wage is seldom paid,
Kerala has strong trade union movements, and even farm laborers receive the
minimum wage. Kerala also has a high unemployment rate. The shadow wage of
labor was taken to be Rs 5/man-days, or half of the minimum wage, which
leaves the valuation of labor substantially above that in other projects in
India.
4.        Inorganic Fertilizers have been valued at projected world market
prices, which are an average 25% higher than the domestic retail prices. The
border price for nutrients was estimated at Rs 6.0/kg for N, Rs 5.2/kg for
P205 and Rs 2.2/kg for K20.
5.        The economic price of coconuts was derived from IBRD commodity
price forecasts of the world market prices for copra, the raw material for
coconut oil.  India has, over the past years, developed a severe shortage of
edible oils and imports a variety of oils, including palm oil, a close sub-
stitute of coconut oil. Although copra is not imported by India, the
projected world market price for copra has been used as the best surrogate
for deriving the border price of coconuts. Reflecting the domestic shortage
of edible oils, the domestic market price for copra (now about Rs 8/kg at the
farm-gate) far exceeds the present and projected world market price (see
Table 11). Evaluating the benefits of incremental coconut production in
terms of importable copra is conservative. About 60% of coconut production
in India is directly consumed in the local markets. The fresh coconut is
food-product as distinct from copra, an industrial raw material. The domes-
tic market price of fresh coconuts (now about Rs 2.00/nut) is an undistorted
measure of value in consumption. The price projection employed could jus-
tifiably be a weighted average of the domestic price of fresh coconuts and
the imported price of copra. If coconut oil were imported or exported from
India, the economic price of coconut would simply be proportional to the IBRD
price projection for coconut oil. But coconut is the raw material for dis-
tinct end products, and coconut products have different import-substitutes in
the respective end-use markets. Fresh coconuts, which constitute the bulk of
consumption are a non-traded commodity. Thus, coconut is a joint product and
its "border" price would properly be a composite price. A weighted average
price forecast of oils imported by India could have been used as the border
price for coconut oil.  This average would in turn have had to be weighted
with an economic valuation of fresh coconuts, at a considerable margin above
the import substitution price. This composite price for coconut would have
had to be based on a projection of demand and supply in each of the market
segments for coconut products, and on an analysis of cross-elasticities in
demand between these market segments. Such an analysis has not been
attempted, since given the limited knowledge of the market prospects of
coconuts and coconut products, the price assumptions would have been too
arbitrary for a fully meaningful forecast. Copra is physically the closest
substitute for coconut in all its uses except in direct consumption. The
projected world price for copra, a proxy for the economic price, serves as a



-53-
ANNEX 3
Page 3
conservative basi's for projecting economic benefits and may in fact result in
a downward bias of the ERR. A note on the end-uses of coconut is available
in the mission's working files.
6.        Paddy is the principal crop in the valley-bottoms.  Rice is, on
the margin, a traded good for India, and Bank projections indicate that in
the 1990's India is likely to be a net exporter of foodgrains. Consequently,
the economic price of paddy is based on the assumption that production would
be exported out of India. Cocoa, pepper and clove are tradeables and present
market prices are broadly in line with expected world prices.
Benefits and Costs
7.        Incremental benefits have been projected over a "without project"
situation which assumes maintenance of present levels of production and
productivity. The rationale for this assumption is described in Annex 1.
The spread of wiltroot disease and the unfavorable economics of rice produc-
tion are salient factors in the decline. The alternative development
strategy exemplified by SADU's intensive credit and investment promotion can
on the basis of experience under similar circumstances, be expected to
achieve a 20% area coverage within a time span of about 7 years. Such
development could at best offset the declining trend in the rest of the
project area. The salient assumptions for projecting the costs and benefits
of the project are stated in the main text. The assessment of yields
(rainfed and irrigated) is presented in crop budgets Tables 3 through 8. The
crop budget for coconut is presented in terms of one-tree models (Tables 3 to
5). The envisaged change in the cropping pattern (para 6.06 of the main
text) is summarized in Table 2. The projections envisaged relatively minor
changes in the cropping pattern, in effect allowing for the very slow change
in a treecrop-based economy. By the same token, the projection does not take
into account important long range benefits such as the replacement of the
present WCT coconut stand by hybrid varieties and a more complete transforma-
tion of the cropping pattern which would eventually result in much higher
levels of farm income and productivity than projected in this appraisal.
8.        Civil works construction accounts for about 75% of the project
costs. The construction conversion factor (CCF) was estimated at 0.7 as
follows:



-54-
ANNEX :3
Page 4
Content
in Civil Works      Conversion
%               Factor         Weight
Unskilled Labor                  45               0.5             0.23
Machinery & Equipment            15               0.9             0.14
Other Local Costs /a            40                0.8             0.32
0.69
say/    0.70
9.        Land acquired for the distribution systems and for the reservoir
is assumed to be lost to rainfed cultivation from the year of construction.
The schedule of land to be acquired for project works is detailed in Annex 4,
Table 2.
Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value
10.       The project was planned as a joint power and irrigation project,
and the benefits of power generation (65 gWh after 1987) have been taken into
account. The economic cost of civil works, equipment, land acquisition,
administration and engineering, operations and maintenance (including the
replacement of Lne minor conveyance system after 15 years) have been all
included in the derivation of the ERR. Based on the projections and price
assumptions above, the economic rate of return for the project has been
calculated both excluding and including sunk costs. Without sunk costs the
ERR is 20%, indicating the justification for completing the proposed projlect.
With sunk costs, the ERR is 14%, indicating viability of the project as a
whole with the costs already incurred. If the dam were used for power gener-
ation alone its ERR would be 7% with sunk costs, and 13% without sunk costs,
indicating that it would be economically viable to complete the dam on the
basis of power benefits alone. The expected net present value of project
net benefits discounted at 12%, the estimated cost opportunity of capital for
India, is as follows:
NPV at 12%
Rs M
Including Sunk Costs               240
Excluding Sunk Costs               580
Sensitivity Analysis
11.       Several tests were performed to evaluate the sensitivity of the
ERR of the asssumptions used.



-55-
ANNEX 3
Page 5
12.       Coconuts.  The core benefits of the project are the benefits from
incremental coconut production. With coconut benefits alone, the ERR would
be 14%. A 25% decrease in coconut yields, both of hybrid and WCTs, would
reduce the ERR to 17%.
13.       There is insufficient data underlying the yield projections of
hybrid diseased trees, the projected incidence of the disease in hybrid
trees, and the yield response of diseased trees to fertilizer and irrigation.
Projecting a 50% incidence of disease in hybrid trees (i.e. the same rate as
for the WCT), combined with a 25% disease in the yield of diseased trees
(hybrid and WCT) the ERR would be reduced to 19%.
14.       Using as the economic price projection in the weighted average
price of imported copra as the price of fresh coconuts in direct consumption
(8 Rs/kg), (see para 5 above) the ERR would be 23%.
15.       Planting Program.  To achieve benefits from intensifying coconut
cultivation farmers would have to invest in new plant by an area of 6,250 ha
(of coconut) within seven years, and to invest in undercropped treecrops on
about 7,000 ha (40%' of the coconut holdings). Given the incentive provided
by irrigation in the Kallada project, such a target is reasonable. 1/ Sen-
sitivity analysis indicates that a 25% decrease in the area planted, combined
with a three year lag, would decrease the ERR by 3%.
16.       Costs.  A 25% and 50% increase in project costs would lower the
ERR to 17% and 15% respectively.
17.       Delays.  A uniform seven year lag in benefits would lower the ERR
to 12%, the cost of capital for India.  The delay in construction of the
minor conveyance system by five years would reduce the ERR to 14%.
18.       Power Benefits.  For calculating the economic benefits of power
generation, the industrial tariff of paise 18.0/kWh and its economic equiv-
alent of paise 14.4/kWh has been used as a proxy for the lower limit con-
sumers are willing to pay for incremental power supply. The upper limit can
1/   Under the KADP, 700,000 seedlings sufficient to plant about 4,000 ha of
coconut have been distributed in three years.



-56-
ANNEX 3
Page 6
be approximated if the economic cost and operation of diesel standby gener-
ating sets of paise 54/kWh. 1/ 2/ The resulting average cost for industrial
consumers is paise 34.2/kWh in economic terms.
19.       The ERR on the Kallada Dam and the equipment and machinery for
power generation as an investment for power generation is 13% excluding sunk
costs in the dam, and 7% with sunk costs.
1/   See IBRD Staff Appraisal Report:  Second Singrauli Thermal Power
Project, April 25, 1980, Report No. 2745b-IN.
2/   The paise of diesel fuel of 2.67 Rs/l was based on IBRD Economic Situa-
tion and Prospects of India, April 15, 1981, Report No. 3401-IN.



-57-
ANNEX 3
Table 1
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT
Change in Cropping Pattern
(Hectares)
PRESENT    BENEFITTING    NO CHANGE   TOTAL
19,000         16,920         3,800     20,720
1. Coconuts
Undercrops                     (6,400)        (7,500)                   (7,500)
Treecrops and Spices         (3,200)        (7,500)                   (7,500)
2.  Annual Crops (Cassava)          4,300          1,720           860       2,580
3.  Mixed Tree Crops                4,300          3,400           860       4,300
Sub-Total (Gardenlands)    27,600           22,080         5,520     27,600
4.  Paddy                          10,000         30,080         7,520      37,600
1/ 15,200 = 80% of 17,700
1,720 = 50% of 80% of 4,000 ha in cassava at present
16,920



IN'DIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND *'REECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Generation of Incremental Benefits at Full Development
Hectares          Benefit         Total Benefit
000             Rs 000               Rs M             _
BENEFITS
(1) From Coconut Cultivation
On Existing Coconut Holdings            15.2               12.5             190.0
Newly Planted                            1.7               27.5              46.8
Subtotal                                                            236.8                 66                    >
(2) From Undercropping in Coconut
Holdings
With Annual Crops                       (7.5)               2.2              16.5
With Treecrops and Spices               (7.5)               5.6              42.0
Subtotal                                                             58.5                 16
(3) In Area Under Mixed Trees and
Tapioca                       5.2                 3.3              17.2                  5
(4)  In Paddy-Fields                          8.0                6.3              50.4                  13
TOTAL                                                               362.9                100
Fa t4
b >C
fl w



ANNEX 3
Table 3
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Irrigating Existing WCTs: One Tree Model
Years                             0      1       2       3      4-50
Yields: Nut/Tree             30      30      40     50        60
Copra/Nut (grams)           150    170    180    190         200
Copra/Tree                  4.5    5.1    7.2    9.5         12.0
REVENUE
Revenue from Copra/Rs      36.0   40.8   57.6   76.0        96.0
Other Revenue
10 Leaves/Tree @ Rs .30       3    3.0    3.0    3.0         3.0
Husks @ Rs 0.10/Nut           3    3.0    4.0    5.0         6.0
Shells @ Rs 0.05/Nut         1.5   1.5    2.0    2.5         3.0
Subtotal             7.5   7.5    9.0   10.5       12.0
Total Revenue      43.5  48.3   66.6   86.5    108.0
COST
1. Materials
NPK Fertilizer                    .8    1.6    2.4        3.2
Other Inorganic Fertilizer        .2     .4      .6        .8
Pesticides/Sprays                 .6     .6      .6        .6
Organic Manure             .5    .5    1.0    1.5        2.0
Subtotal                   2.1    3.6    5.1        6.6
2. Labor                     3.0   5.7    5.7    5.7         5.7
Total Cost           3     7.8    9.3   10.8       12.3
NET REVENUE                     40.0  40.5   57.3   75.7       95.7
Say                40    40      57      76        96
Incremental
Revenue                          17      36        56



-60-                            ANNEX 3
Table 4
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
"Uneconomic Trees" - One Tree Model
Nuts/Palm                     7
Copra/Nut (grams)             120
Copra/Tree (hg)               0.84
At Market Prices
Revenue/Tree (Rs) Copra       6.7
Leaves                        3.0
Husks and Shells               .3
Rs    9.0
Harvesting Cost               1.0
Net Revenue                 8.0



I-NDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AMID TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Hybrid Coconut Tree: One Tree Model
REVENUE
Year                                      2                  4        -        6        7         1i       9      10-50
Yield: Nuts/Tree                                                     10       25       50       80       100      115      125
Copra/Tree @ 200 &LNut (kg)                                           2        5       10       16        20       23       25
Copra Revenue ? 8 Rs/kg                                              16       40       80      128       160      184      200
Other Revenue
10 Leaves/Tree @ Rs 0.30                                              3        3        3        3          3        3        3
Husk: Rs 0.10/Nut                                                     1        3        5        8        10       12       13
Shells: Rs 0.05/Nut                                                   1        1        3        4         5        6        6
Subtotal                                              5        7       11       15        18       21       27
Total Revenue                                        21       47       91      143       178      205      222
COST
(1) Materials
NPR Fertilizer                        .65    1.30       4.40      6.30
Other Inorganic Fertilizer             .15     .60      1.10      1.50
Pesticides/Sprays                     .60      .60       .60       .60                            do
Organic Manure Rs 0.10/hg              .50    1.00      1.50      2.00
Planting Material                    6.50
Subtotal                 8.4      3.50      7.6      10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4         10.4    10.4    10.4        v
(2) Labor @ Rs 10/Day
Hulrag Planting                      2.00
Fertilizer/Manure Application          .10     .10       .20       .20
Irrigation                            .50      .50       .50       .50
Weeding, Tillage, Bond               3.00    3.00       3.00      3.00
Harvesting                                                        1.0       1.0      1.0      2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0
Subtotal                 5.6      3.6       3.7       4.7       4.7      4.7      5.7      5.7      5.7      5.7
TOTAL COST                                 14        7        11        15        15       15       16       16       16       16
NET REVENUE                               (14)      (7)      (11)        6        32       76      127      162      189      206
Vr
(D >C



INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WCT Coconut Tree: One Tree Model
1      2       3      4       5      6       7       8      9       10      11       12
Yields Nuts/Tree                                                         5      20      35     50       60      70       75
Copra/Tree @ 200g/Nut- (kg)                                              1       4       7     10       12      14       15
REVENUE
Revenue From Copra @ 8 Rs                                                8      32      56     80       96    112       120
Other Revenue
10 Leaves/Tree @ Rs .30                                                  3       3       3      3        3       3        3
Husks: Rs 0.10/Nut                                                       1       2       3       5       6       7        8
Shells: Rs 0.05/Nut                                                      _       1       1      3        3       3        4
Subtotal                                                   4       6       7     11       12      13       15
Total Revenue                                             12      38     63      91      108    125      135
COST
(1) Materials                                                                                                                      I
NPK Fertilizer                .3      .7    2.2    3.2
Other Inorganic Fertilizer  .1        .3     .6      .8
Pesticides & Spray            .6      .6     .6      .6
Organic Manure                .5    1.0    1.5    2.0
Planting Material            3.0
Subtotal           4.5    2.6    4.9    6.6       6.6      6.6    6.6    6.6    6.6        6.6    6.6       6.6
(2) Labor                        5.6    3.6    3.7    4.7       4.7      4.7    4.7    5.7    5.7        5.7    5.7       5.7
TOTAL COST                         10.1    6.2    8.6   11.3    11         11     11      12      12       12     12       12
NET REVENUE                       (10)    (6)    (9)   (11)    (11)         1     27      51      79       96    113      123
(D ;
asw



-63-                                  ANNEX 3
Table 7
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Budget For Tapioca (Cassava)
(Rs/Ha)
Without              With
Irrigation           Irrigation
YIELDS
Tubers (tons)                             15                    25
Stems (#)                               8000                 8000
__ _ __ __(Rs/Ha)  __  __
REVENUE (Rs)
Tubers @ Rs 300/ton                     4500                  7500
Stems  @ Rs 3/100                        240                  240
Total (Rs)                                 4740                  7740
COSTS (Rs)
Labor
Land Preparation Planting                 600                   600
Application of Manure                     100                   100
Hoeing/Weeding                            750                   750
Harvesting                                300                   400
Subtotal                                   1750                  1850
Materials
Farmyard Manure/Compost                   400                   400
Fertilizers                               170                  530
Planting Materials                        120                   120
Subtotal                                    690                  1050
Total Cost                                 2440                  2900
Net Revenue/Crop 1/                        2990                  4840
Net Revenue/Year -                         2990                  6450
Incremental Revenue/Year                                         3460
Note: Tapioca is planted in two seasons: April to May (taking advantage of
the pre-monsoon rains) and October to November (north-east monsoon).
Tapioca is usually 9 months in the ground.
l/  The "With Irrigation" budget refers to one crop, but in fact the increase
in production per annum will be greater, since farmers will be able to grow
tapioca the year around; i.e., the yield per annum will increase by one
third (12 mo-nths t 9 months).



INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cocoa Interplanting
(Rs/Hectare)
YEAR                             1        2        3       4        5       6        7        8       9
Yield- (kg dry bean)                                       70      140     210      280      350     420
Revenue @ Rs 15/kg of dry bean                           1050    2100    3150    4200    5250    6300
Incremental Cost (Rs)
I.  Labor
Lining/Wholing/Planting   180
Fertilizer Application      20        20      20       20      20       20       20      20       20
Planning                              30      50       50      50       50       50      50       50
Pest and Disease Control   50         50      50       50      50       50       50      50       50
Bunding/Basins              50        50              _200
300      105      120     120      120     120      120     120      120
II. Materials
Seedlings                  180        30
Fertilizers                150       300     450      450     450      450      450     450      450
Pest and Disease Control   80        120     150      150     150      150     150      150      150
410      440      600     600 6600          00      600      600     600
Total Cost                 710       590     720      720     720      720     720      720      720
Net Benefits              (710)    (590)   (720)    330    1380    2430    3480    4530    5580
Financial Rate of Return: over 50%
00t
tD i



INDIA
KtLLADA TRRIGATIOO AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJEC'
Crop Budgets for Rice Production
Rharif                                                    Rabi                                          Sumer
Without Proiect               With Project             Without Project              With Project      Without Project   With Prot
Broadcast   TranaPlanted   Weighted                           Local     KW        Weighted
Average  1/                                          AYgra*e 2/
REVENUE   PRODUCT:
Yield - Rice (tons/ha)                  1.3          1.6           1.54              1.8            1.2       1.6         1.36           2.0                 1.0               2.0
Straw (tons/ha)                  1/    2.0           2.4           2.32             2.7             1.8      2.4         2.00            3.0                 1.5               3.0
Revenue @ Rs 2,100/ton of rice
and Rs 250/ton of straw
2_7S0        3.960         3.814            4,455          2.970    3.960         3.356          4,950               2,_              4.950
COSTS:
LABOR      3/
Ploughing                               500          500           500               500            500       500         500            500                 500               500
Tri,esing bunds/digging corners          40           40            40               *40             40       40           40             40                  40                40
Sowing:
(a)  Broadcasting                  116
(b)  Nursery/Transplanting                      376                             376            376       376         376            376                 376               376
(c)  Weighted Average                           324
Manure/Fertilizer Applications           36           36            36                36             36        36          36             42                  36                42
Weeding/lntercultivation                260          228           234               228            228      228          228            228                 130               130
Peat/Disease Control                     24           24            24                24             24       24           24             24                  24                24
Irrigation and Drainage                  24           32            30                32             24       32           30             32                  64                40
Harvesting (wages in kind 1/7th
of paddy harvested)        390          480           462              540            360       480         408             600                 300              600
Drying and Stacking Straw               102          122           118               122             73        97          83            110                  58               110
Sub-Total      1,492        1,838         1,768            1,898          1,661    1,813        1,725           1,952               1,528            1,862
MATERIALS:
Seed                                    160          120           128               120            120      120          120            120                 120               120
FYIp/.qost                              200          200           200               200            160      160          160            160                 160               160
Fertilizers  4/                         264          334           372               465            264      334          292            465                 228               517
Chemicals for Peet Control               80          150           136               150             80      100          88             150                  50                70
Sub-Total        704          804           036              935            624       714         660             895                 558              867
Total Cost      2,196        2,642         2,604            2,833           2,285    2,527       2,385           2,847               2,086            2,729
NET REVENUE                             584        1,318         1,210            1,622             685    1,433         971          2,103                  389            2,221
say                                     600        1,300         1;200            1,600            700    1,400        1,000          2,100                  400            2,200
Incremental Revenue                                                                 400                                                1,100                                1,800
/  80% transplanted (HYV), 20% broadcast. Rice is cquivalent to 1.5 tinee its  veight in paddy.
2/  60  aocal. 407. HyV
3/  by pairs of bullocks @ Rs 20/day
4/                K~~~~harif                                                Rabi                                                   Sumer
Without Project           With Project                   without ZrojeOt                          With PrM2c  et                           With ftSjoct
Cost                    Coat                            Cost                     Cost                             Cost                    Cost
Kg/ha    (Rs.)           Kg/ha    (Rs.)                  Kg/ha   (Rs.)          Kg/ha      (la.)                   Kg/ha   (U.)           Kg/ha    ERr.)
N        -28-   122               65   -   282           N       _35  -  152                65   -   282          N        -23   -  100               70   -   304
P2 05   -22         93            30-    127             P2 05   -27  -  115                30   -   127          P2 05   -21-    89                  35   -   148
K2 0   ~   26  -   49             30         56          g2o      - 36  -   67              30   -    66           -200       21   -   39             35   -    65
K2O  -26-   264                 46~~~~~5 -3'                              .7652                                                                     517



-66-
ANNEX 3
Table 10
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model for A Typical Coconut Holding At Full Development
(0.5 ha)
Without Project         With Project         Incremental
Net                    Net            Net
Units   Benefits Rs   Units   Benefits Rs   Benefits RBs
WCT Trees -/                50       2,000         50        4,800          2,800
Uneconomic Trees 2/        10           80          -          -              (80)
Young Trees                 10           -         10          -
Hybrid Trees 31              -            -        28        5,670          5,670
Total                  70        2?030         88       10,470          8,390
Other Income From
Intercropping                        1,000                   1,000
Incremental Income,
Seasonal Crops                                                 520            520
Incremental Income,
Tree-Undercrops 5/                       _                   1,400          1,400
Total                            3,080                  13,390         10,310
or Say                              3,100                  13,400         10,300
1/ See Table 3
2/ See Table 4
3/ See Table 5
4/  See Table 7, 60% of one quarter hectare
5/ See Table 8, one quarter hectare



-67-                               ANNEX 3
Table 11
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Price of Copra
Import    2/
Substitution -
Projected 1990 World Market                                           Price
Price 1/                                         US$/ton              707
Ocean Freight Adjustment                         US$                 -20
Adjustment for Spoilage and Losses-/             US$                   21
@Rs 8.0 = US$1.0                                 Rs                5,664
Unloading/Port Cost                              Rs                    60
Value at Store in Main Port                      Rs                5,604
Transport and Distribution-/                     Rs                 -100
Adjustment for Losses-/                          Rs                 -270
Cost of Drying to 5% Moisture6/                 Rs                  -150
Farm-Gate Price- /(1990) Rounded                 Rs                5,080
Farm-Gate Economic Price
1981                                            Rs                 3,640
1982                                             Rs                4,360
1985                                             Rs                5,490
1990                                             Rs                5,080
1/  Copra (Phillipines/Indonesia, Bulk, CIF N.W. Europe) from IBRD
Commodity Price Forecast, Ncvember 1980
2/  Assumming that India will be a net importer and Kerala net exporter
of copra
3/  3% spoilage and losses in international transport
4/  Estimated financial costs of Rs 75 for transDort and Rs 50 for distribution
5/  Estimated at 5% actual material loss due to insects and spoilage
6/  Copra sold ex-farm on the basis of 15% moisture content, compared
with 5% for internationally traded copra
7/  Price of copra with 15% moisture content



-68-                                     ANNEX 3
Table 12
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Price of Paddy
Import   2/
Subs titution-
Projected 1990 World Market                                          Price
1/
Price-                                          US$/ton              631
F.O.B. Bombay                                   US$                  631
@ Rs 8.0 = US$1.0                               Rs                5,048
Packing Bags (20 @ Rs 5) Rs 100 x 0.8           Rs                  - 80
Milling Rs 170 x 0.8                            Rs                 -136
Sub-total                      Rs                4,832
Paddy at Mill (66%)                             Rs                3,189
Transport from Market to Mill
Handling and Transport from
Farm Rs 120 x 0.8                               Rs                 - 96
Farm-Cate Value of Export Quality               Rs                3,093
Quality Adjustment Factor3/                     Rs                   .81
Economic Price of Paddy
At Farm-Gate (Rounded)                          Rs                2,510
Farm-Gate Economic Price
1981                                            Rs                2,140
1982                                            Rs                2,280
1985                                            Rs                2,430
1990                                            Rs                2,510
1/  Rice (Thai, milled 5% broken F.O.B. Bangkok) from IBRD Commodity
Price Forecast, November 1980
2/  Assuming that India would be a net exporter and Kerala a net importzer
of rice
3/  Quality Adjustment Factor was calculated under the following assumptions:
(i)  the content of broken grains in unsorted rice is 25%;
(ii) the content of broken grains is reduced by sorting to 5% to obtain
export quality rice; and
(iii)  broken grains are sold domestically at above Rs 300 per ton
(economic price)



-69-                                   ANNEX 3
Table 13
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Farm Budget and Project Rent
at Full Development for a Typical Coconut Farm
(One half hectare)
Rs
Farm Budget                          W                      W
Gross Value of Production          3,100                  13,400
Total Labor Cost                     460                      870
Other Inputs                         180                      950
Land Tax and Water Charge             -                        66
Net Value of Production            2,460                  11,514
Reward to Family Labor               230                      370
Net Farm Familv Income             2,690                  11,884
Off Farm Income 1/                 4,000                  415
Net vamilv Income2/                1,115                    2,647
Per CaDita Income-                 1,115                    2,647
Project Rent
Net Return to Farm                 2,460                  11,514
+ (Tax + W4ater Charge)               -                        34
Net Return Befqye T.IX             2,460                  11,480
- Risk Factor -  4                   950                   1,950
- Management Fee -                   250                    1,150
Implicit Land Rent                 1,260                   8,380
Project Rent (Rs/Ha)                  -                   14,240
W - without project, W - with project.
1/- The labor force of Kerala is about 8 M people, of whom 20% (1.6 M) are
cultivators' 30% (2.4 M) agricultural workers; and 50% (4 M) are employed
outside agriculture. Comparing these figures with data on the size distri-
bution of holding size, the followiTng matrix appears a best estimate of the
composition of the labor force.
Cultivator            Agricultural          Landless
Households        Laborer Households    Households
Holding Size               More than .2 ha            0 - .2 ha              0          Total
Households (M)                   1.65                   1.25                 .30          3.2
Manyear/Household (Assumed)    (x 2)                    (x 3)              (x 3)       (x2.5)
Labor Force (M)                  3.30                   3.80                .90           8.0
- of which in
agriculture                      1.60                   2.40                 -           4.0
- outside agriculture            1.70                   1.40                .90           4.0
Off farm income of a typical household is assumed as two-manyears,
at Rs 2000/manyear.
2/- Average family size of 6
3/- Some studies of farmers' behavior, show that a simple approach can be
adopted to take into account the farmers' risk aversion by estimating
a certainity equivalent value (CE) of the expected value (EV). The
formula used is:
CE = EV - n x s
where s = the standard deviation
n = a factor that expresses the farmers' risk aversion
The studies indicate that the farmers' choice of cropping pattern and
production techniques can be predicted for values of '"a  in the interval
1 to 2 and that "n" decreases when farm size increases. For this analysis,
it is assumed that n = 1.5 for 1.0 ha farm. The variation of the gross
returns are assumed to be within 10% of the average values under "future
without project" conditions and 10% under the project.
4/- The reward for management and entrepreneurship is primarily a premium for
the special skills that farm management requires. Consequently, it has
been assumed that the "management fee" is equal to 10% of the net returns.



INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREV.CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis
Elettric
Capital Cost   Capital  Cost I/               Economic                                       Power                                                                               Net
of Tower            of Agri.                 Cost of                        (Rs N)       Generation    Coconut 2/   Cocount  3!    Other 4/   Total                         Incremental
Periods        Component            Component          Land Acquisition    O&N             Total Cost   Beaufita           Benefits  I  Benefits I e    TI   Benefits   Benefits            Benefits
t                40.00                86.69                   5.26            12.11         144.06          0.00              0.16           -0.03             1.98          2.11            -141.9
2                25.60               120.89                   ?.27            16.54          170.29         0.O0              1.32            -0.16           10.30         1146            -1sa.84
3                26.40               136.73                   9.19            19.60         191.91          0.00              4.91           -0.50            26,45         30.87            -161.05
4                38.40               155.76                   9.92            20.93         225.01           0.00            13.47           -1.04            48.14         60.57           -164.44
5                 0.00               105.63                  10,24            15.82         131.68          21.38            28.44           -1.59            71.80        120.02            -11.b
6                 0Q00                 0.00                  10.24             9.57          19.80          21.38            43.04            -1.39           82.93        145.97            126.16
7                 0.00                 0.00                  10.24             9.78          20.01          21.38            56.69             0.10           87.88        166.05            146.04
8                 o0oo                 0.00                  10.24             9.98          20.21         21.38             64.47            3,75            95.70        185.30            165.09
9                 0.00                 0.00                  10.24            10.04          20.27         21.38             69.27            9.46           103.56        203.67            13.40
10                0.00                 0.00                  10.24            10.12          20.35         21.38             79.90           16.78           111.39        229.44            209.09
1t                0.00                 0.00                  10.24            10.20          20.43         21.38             95.40           24.26           118.20        259.24            238.81
12                0.00                 0.00                  10.24            10.20          20.43         21.38            113.09           30.59           123.30        288.36            267.93
13                0.00                 0.00                  10.24            10.20          20.43         21.38            129.71           35.13           125.I 5      312.07             29164
14                0.00                 0.00                  10.24            10.20          20.43         21.38            143.40           37.84           125.S5       328.47             30B.04
15                0.00                 0.00                  10.24            10.20          20.43         21.38            153.36           39.06           125.85       339.66             319.22
16                0.00                 2.25                  10.24            10.20          22.68         21.38            159.25           39,46           125.85       345.s5             323.27
17                0.00                 9.72                  10.24            10.20          30.15         21.38            161.76           39-46           125.85       348.45             318.30
18                0.00                19.44                  10.24            10.20          39.87         21.38            162.30           39.46           125.85       348.99             309.12
19-20             0.00                25.92                  10.24            10.20          46.35         21.38            162.30           39.46           125.85       148.V              302,64
21-50             0.00                 0.00                  10.24            10.20          20.43         21.38            162.30           39.46          125.05       348,99             328.56
I/ Including of replacement of minor conveyance system.
2/ Intensified production on 15,20n ha.
3/ 1,700 ha presently in cassava would be convertee to coconut.
4/  Benefits  from undercropping  bv cocoa and cassava treecrops and sTcies,  4,300 ha of treecrops  and R,000 ha of paddy.
a.>



-71-                                 ANNEX 3
Table 15
INDIA
KALLIDA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Recovery -
(Rs/Ha)
PROJECT RENT
Gross Value of Production                                  82,460
Production Cost 2                                           9,460
Net Cash Ilncome                                           73,000
Less - Management Fee                                  7,300
- Risk Factor                                     8,010
Project Rent                                              57,690
Project Rent as a % of Net Cash Income                         79%
COST RECOVERY
Direct: Water Charge                                     180
Minor Conveyance                              1,010
Indirect:  Agricultural Sales Tax 3/                     2,490
Total Cost Recovery                                              3,480
Rent Recovery as a % of Project Rent                                 6%
Canital Cost:  Infrastructure   4/                           22,220
Minor Conveyance -                            1,970
Operation and Maintenance Cost:                               4,090
Total Public Sector Outlays                                     28,280
Cost Recovery as a % of Project Cost                                13%
1/ Expressed in incremental values discounted over 50 years at 12% in
constant 1931 prices.
2/ Includes cost of labor and capital depreciation.
3/ It is assumed that 75% of the incremental agricultural production will be
marketed.
4/ Includes replacement cost after 15 years of operation.



INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Completed
Quantity   Unit   by end 81        1982       1983       1984    1985        1986       Total
1. Kallada dam and appurtenant works
(a)  Earth work excavation and                        3
rock blasting                      0.551   Mm3         0.531       0.02         -          -                              0.02-
(b)  Masonry and concrete               429,300     m3       331,400    36,000    35,900    26,000          -          -       97,900
(c)  Saddle dam (earth work)             63,000     m            -       63,000        -          -         -                  63,000
2. Main canals and branches
Right Bank
(a)  Main canal                              68    km           44          4          10         6         3          1           24
(b)  Branches                                41    km           15          6          12         4         2          2           26
(c)  Structures in main canal               346    No          240         20          48        18        15          5          106
(d)  Structures in branches                 225    No           66         22          28        32        39         38          159
Left Bank
(a)  Main Canal                              49    km            -          8          20        10        11          -           49
(b)  Branches                                73    km                                   -         7        28         38           73
(c)  Structures in main canal               218    No           20         32          60        60        40          6          198
(d)  Structures in branches                 200    No            5          -           -        35        80         80          195
3. Distribution system down to 60 ha
(a)  60 ha - Right Bank                     380    km          107         45          97        87        34         10          273
(b)  60 ha - Left Bank                      236    km            -         26          37        48        70         55          236
4. Distribution system (60-10 ha)
(a)  60-10 ha - Right Bank                  380    km            6         92          76        82        74         48          372
(b)  60-10 ha - Left Bank                   280    km            -          -          37        40        85        118          280
5. Minor System to Chak Outlets               '000    ha            -        3.4         6.3       8.4       9.6        9.9         37.6
6. Minor Conveyance in Gardenlands            '000    ha            -        0.7         3.0       6.0       8.5        9.4          27.6
7. Canal Inspection Roads                       113    km           -                                         56         57           113



INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Land Acquisition
Completed          1982            1983           1984            1985            1986            Total
Km Ha)         Km      Km (Ha)                 Km (Ha)         Km (Ha)        Km  (Ha)         Km (Ha)
I. RIGHT BANK
Main Canal             57  289          8   28          3   11                                                         68   328
Branches:
Sasthamcottah        23   65                         2      5                                                       25    70
Pandalam              2    8         14    40                                                                       16    48
Tf   1718
Distributaries:
Dl - D15            107  152                        29    47        40    61                                       176   260
dl - dl5a            44   65                        87   130        63    92        10    15                       204   302
380   562    Y
Minors                 13    5        103    38        90    33      100    37        74    27                       380   140
II. LEFT BANK
Main Canal             12   49         17    70        10    41         9    37                                       48   197
Branches:
Oyu:-                                12    37        3      8        9    37                                        15    45
Kulakkada                                                                           58   232                        58   232
Distributaries:
D16 - D26                            40    58       28    42        28    42        54    78        16    24       166   244
d22 - d33                                           10    15        25    37        25    37        10    15        70   104
2~02   299
Minors                                                 38    14       39    14        39    14        39    14       155    56    M >
TOTAL             258  633        194   271      300   346       304   320       260   403        65    53    1381  2030
_ ~~~~                             ~= =                              -            



-74-
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Design of WaterCneyance Below the Minor Canal
Background
1.        Following on the visit of the appraisal mission in September/October
1980 the design of the distribution system below the outlet was discussed in
further detail with Irrigation Department staff during a technical support
mission in December. Two installations were constructed in accordance with
layouts agreed upon at that time. One of these was in operation during
February 1981 (with temporary water supply as the main canal was not yet in
operation).
Design
2.        The principal factors determining the form of the distribution system
are the very irregular micro-topography, the high degree of existing devel-
opment of the area, and the very high value of land. The area is densely
planted with coconuts and other perennials, generally in small bunded plots
laid out in a most irregular fashion. Conveyance of water from a supply
point to a bunded plot by open channel would vary from possible to virtually
impractical, depending upon circumstances local to the particular site. The
difficulty is compounded by resistance of landowners to right-of-way for
open channels in this densely built-up area. Also, water delivery to the
plot by some form of flexible conduit is more easily manageable.
3.        From the design viewpoint it is convenient to consider the dis-
tribution system from the canal outlet in two portions:
(a)  A main stem, extending from the canal outlet down through
the center of the 10 ha (or other) outlet command. 1/ This
has supply points at intervals down. its length; and
(b) Conveyance from the supply point to the individual farm
and plot.
4.        Where the main stem is a buried pipeline with valve-controlled
outlet hydrants a number of options are open for item (b), including:
-    Open channel from hydrant to plot;
1/   This is the general case.  There are exceptions, particularly where
the outlet command is of small length and large breadth.



-75-
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 2
-    Flexible hose from hydrant to plot;
-    Buried lateral supplying flexible hose or open channel; and
-    Portable lateral supplying flexible hose or open channel.
5.        Where the main stem is a lined open channel the only option gene-
rally available for conveyance from supply point to farm or plot is an open
channel.
6.        In view of the number of options which it presents for conveyance
to the plot, either initially or in later improvement, a buried-pipe main
stem is favored where valley-slopes are sufficient to make this economical.
7.        Of the alternatives available for conveyance from the outlet hydrant
to the plot, buried laterals supplying short down-slope flexible hoses (or
short open channels) is operationally the most convenient, but is the most
costly. As a buried lateral may be added at any time by the cultivator or
cultivators who desire it, it is not considered necessary to make such pro-
vision in initial construction. The alternative of flexible hose from hydrant
to plot is undesirable except for small narrow outlet commands, in view of
the length required and size of hose needed for that length of crossslope run
(there being little natural gradient in the lateral direction).
8.        The alternative recommended for initial construction is the provi-
sion of a single portable lateral, extending either side of the main stem,
with valve-controlled spigots supplying flexible hose. Buried laterals
may later be substituted to extend or complement the system.
9.        The lateral may be designed to delivery the full flow of the main
stem (successively to left and right side of the main stem), the spigots on
the lateral being sized to deliver either the whole flow at one point or
half at each of two points. Alternatively the lateral may be designed to
deliver half the flow of the main stem to left and right sides simultaneously,
the spigot again being sized either to deliver the whole flow in the lateral
at one point or to deliver it at two points.
10.       As the size of the lateral may be changed at any time (requiring
only a reducer at the hydrant), the option regarding lateral size and capa-
city remains open. The spigots on the lateral are formed in short lengths
of pipe which are inserted at any joint between 6 m sections of the lateral,
according to the location of the area being irrigated. Furthermore, spigot
inserts can be provided of either full lateral flow or half lateral flow,
interchangeably.
11.       The portable lateral would generally be moved from one hydrant
to another once or not more than twice daily. The 6 m sections are light
(about 8 kg each) and a lateral (one side of main stem) can be moved from
one hydrant to the next in about ten minutes.



-76-
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 3
12.       Conveyance from the spout to the plot may be either by flexible
conduit or by unlined farm channel, according to the topography. Flexible
conduit (lay-flat pipe) is likely to be the most frequent usage. Where a
holding is laid out so as to facilitate distribution within the holding by
furrow irrigation a cultivator may prefer delivery of the whole flow in the
lateral at one point, by relatively large (90 mm) lay-flat pipe. The pipe
would not require to be moved during irrigation, other than to shift from
one spigot location to another, during which process flow could be shut off.
(Such large pipe would be positioned to run directly downslope from a spigot
to the point desired). Frequently, however, in the Kallada area, delivery
is required by tube or hose which can be freely moved while flowing. A culti-
vator may prefer to take delivery of his irrigation water in two such hoses
which may be readily moved from plot to plot. As the time to irrigated one
palm with a stream of 2 to 3 liters/sec is about 15 minutes, the water being
delivered into a small basin around the palm, an operator can handle more
than one such hose. It is not necessary to hold the hoses continuously, merely
to position them on the ground withini the basins, moving them from basin to
basin from time to time.
13.       The capacity of lateral (full flow of main stem one side at a time,
or half flow both sides simultaneously), and of spigots, to be provided ini-
tially, should be discussed with cultivators in each outlet command at the
time of construction. As discussed above, however, the arrangement can be
changed at any time.
14.       For consideration of distribution below the canal outlet the valley
slopes of the project have been divided into areas with side-slopes in excess
of 3% (some 20,000 ha), and the rest with side-slopes less than 3%. The
above discussion refers primarily to the area of steeper slopes. However,
the comments on the difficulty of distribution to the plot by open channel
apply also to a proportion of the area of flatter slopes.
15.       Although it has been assumed in initial presentation of the project
that the main stem in the areas of less than 3% slope will be in lined open
channel throughout, it will probably be found that the desirability of piped
or hose conveyance from the main stem to the plot in part of that area will
necessitate use of buried pipe for the main stem, where slopes permit. With
regard to the latter criterion, a pipe size of 110 mm is probably the maximium
which can be contemplated on economic grounds. This could supplE a 10 ha area
with slope of 1.5% or above. /  As the cost of 1l1  mm 2.5 kg/cm  PVC pipe
is of the same order as the cost of a lined open channel including value oi.
right-of-way (the latter Rs 10 to 20 per meter) the use of pipe main stem w.ith
portable lateral may be assuned for half of the area with slopes less than 3%,
and for the remainder of the area an open channel main stem.
1/   At a rate of 9 liters/sec.  Discussed subsequently.



-77-
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 4
16.       The provision of night storage and its location is an important
consideration in the design of the distribution system below the canal outlet.
A typical 10 ha outlet command is likely to have about 2 ha in valley-bottom
land. For irrigating short duration crops other than paddy during the dry
season, the supply of irrigation will be via unlined channels. These will
require a rate of flow in excess of that which can be supplied by the main
stem, but for short periods, if channel seepage losses are to be minimized.
A pondage at the foot of the valley slopes is therefore desirable. With 20%
of the command being in the valley-bottom lands in the case taken, some 20%
of the 24-hourly supply to the outlet command will be used in that area.
This can conveniently be filled at night. It is not, however, a complete
answer to the question of night irrigation and night storage.
17.       Flow in the minors or distributaries in the Kallada system will be
continuous (24 hourly) during those periods when the canals are in operation.
Flow must be diverted 24-hourly at the outlets to the commands, or spilled
from the canal terminal structure. If diverted it must either be used 24-
hourly or stored for part of the 24 hours. The pondage at valley-bottom level,
in the case taken, could usefully accommodate 20% of the 24-hourly supply, or
5 hours. For the remaining 19 hours, including some six or seven hours of
darkness, irrigation must continue, or additional night-pondage be provided
at some point on the valley slopes. The pondage would be of capacity to
accommodate six or seven hours of flow, and would be located at a point com-
manding a sufficient proportion of the 8 ha of valley slope to usefully use
the ponded water in daylight hours.
18.       To simplify the discussion, in the limiting case of no valley-bottom
lands and 10 ha of valley slopes, irrigation would either continue 24-hourly
or a pondage of 12 hourly capacity would be provided at the mid-point of
the main stem. The upper half of the command would then be irrigated during
daylight hours from the main stem, the lower half also being irrigated in
daylight hours but provided via the pondage which was filled in the prior
12-hours of darkness.
19.       The pondage would be connected by valved lateral into the main stem,
and is an addition which could be made to the system at any time.
20.       Whether or not such pondage is provided, the canal outlet and main
stem must operate 24-hourly if spill from minors is to be avoided. The capa-
city at the main stem should therefore be equivalent to the rate of continuous
supply at outlets provided in the main canal, i.e., 0.9 litres/sec/ha. Any
lesser capacity would represent a constriction in the total system. Any
greater capacity could only be justified by a diversity factor between out-
lets. As it is desirable to keep capacity at an effective minimum with pipe
systems (less so with open channel) the figure of 0.9 litres/sec/ha has been
adopted. It is noted that for this capacity to be adequate the night pondage
on the valley slope lands must be appropriately located, e.g., halfway up the
main stem in the case quoted, not at the top of the main stem. In the latter
location, conveyance via the main stem would occur in daylight hours only, and
the capacity of the main stem would have to twice that otherwise required.



-78-
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 5
21.       Pondages on the valley slopes are not proposed in initial construc-
tion except on a pilot scale, night irrigation being assumed on the valley
lands until agricultural development in the project areas reaches a sufficient
level to warrant conversion to irrigate in daylight only. Exceptions are
those commands where valley bottom lands are a relatively large proportion
of the command (sufficient to accommodate the diversion during night hours).
Materials of Construction
22.       The buried  ain stem will be of high density PVC, with working pres-
sure rating 2.5 kg/cm (equivalent to a head of 25 meters). Moveable laterals
could be either PVC or aluminum. Both have been used in India for portable
pipe systems. The latter is the most frequently used in sprinkler installa--
tions. However, because of lower cost and lesser likelihood of theft, PVC
will be used initially, and is provided for in cost estimates.
The hose employed (some 65 mm or 2 1/2" diameter) may be of rubber
or a variety of plastic formulations. That proposed for initial use, and
provided for in cost estimates, is low-density pigmented polyethylene of 1 mm
wall thickness ("Krishi tube", or "lay-flat" pipe). Cost is approximately
Rs 5 per meter for a pipe of 65 mm diameter. Its life is expected to be at
least 3 years.
Cost Estimates
A.   10 ha outlet command, 3% slope, 250 m wide x 400 m long, with buried pipe
main stem and portable PVC lateral (Design capacity of main stem 9 l/sec.
Description
(a)  Main stem:  100 m of 110 mm 2.5 kg/cm  PVC (friction gradient
0.0083), followed by 150 m of 90 mm 2.5 kg. The total length
of hill slope is 320 m, followed by 80 m of valley-bottom
land. The main stem terminates 70 m from the lower end of
the valley slope. Total length of main stem 250 m. There
are 5 outlet hydrants, at approximately 60 m intervals.
The lower-most hydrant is equipped to discharge either into
laterals or into a small stilling basin from which flow can
continue in unlined open channel down to the valley-bottom
pondage. The canal outlet has a trash screen with 110 mm
pipe leading to a valve chamber controlling flow to the
main stem. (The pilot systems already constructed also have
a cistern between intake and valve chamber, intended as a
sand trap. As discussed later, this may be deleted in future
installations. For the present, however, nominal provision
has been made in estimates for such a structure.)
(b) Hydrants: Five, each of 90 mm diameter with 90 mm tee, and
90 by 75 mm reducers and valves serving the left and right
branches of the portable lateral.



-79-
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 6
(c)  Laterals.  The alternative assumed for estimating purposes divides
the 9 Ll/sec flow in the main stem between left and right laterals,
each taking 4.5 1/sec. The spigots are 2.25 1/sec capacity,
with two operating at a time on each side. One set of left
and right laterals is provided. 75 mm OD 4 kg PVC pipe length
each side approximately 84 m (14 lengths of 6 m) 1/. Connection
of 6 m lengths by simple spigot and socket, held by screw clamp
if found necessary. Each side provided with two valved outlet
pieces, comprising 75 mm tee and 75-63 mm reducer, with 63 mm
valve and short 63 mm spigot for connection hose. The valved
outlet pieces may be located wherever required in the lateral,
by disconnecting neighboring lengths of the lateral and recon-
necting with the outlet piece inserted. The end of the outer-
most length of the lateral is closed with a threaded coupler
and removable metal cap.
(d) Hose. The 65 mm hose has a short length (20 cm) of 63 mm PVC
pipe permanently attached at one end, by which the hose may
be coupled to a 63 mm valved outlet by spigot and socket joint,
and screwed clamp if needed. The hose should be about 100 m
in length, divided into sections of 25 m by three spigots and
socket joints on short sections of 63 mm PVC pipe permanently
attached to the hose. Repairs to the hose may be effected
by cutting and inserting short sections of PVC pipe similarly.
A set of two hoses for each side of the lateral would be pro-
vided iLnitially, with cultivators purchasing replacements or
additional hoses.
1/   4 kg/cm2 pipe is proposed for laterals, rather than 2.5 kg, to provide
greater strength in handling.



-80-
ANNEX 4
Appendix I
Page 7
Estimate um5mar
Rs
Open drained + lining on upper strip 1/                                      1,600
Trash screen, intake pipe, sand trap and valve chamber                       3,000
Hydrant chambers, 5 @ 1,000                                                  5,000
110 mm 2.5 kg PVC pipe. 115 m including at intake
Supply 115 m @  28.4                                                   3,266
Delivery and installation (S 5                                            575
Couplings 20 (S 15                                                       300
90 mm 2.5 kg PVC pipe 150 m plus 10 m for hydrant risers
Supply 160 m @ 19.25                                                   3,080
Delivery and installation @ 5                                             800
Couplings 26 @ 12                                                        3.24
90 mm tees upper and lower end of hydrants 10 ( 40                             400
90 x 75 reducers on hydrants 10 ( 20                                           200
Elbows 90 mm line 4 ( 50                                                       200
110 mm GM valve at intake valve chamber                                        700
75 mm CI or PVC valves at outlets from hydrants 10 @ 250                     2,500
Supply of 75 mm 4 kg pipe for portable laterals 168 m @ 20.55                3,452
Delivery (d 2                                                                  336
Couplings for laterals 28 @ 10                                                 280
Screw clamps for couplings 28 0 15                                             420
End caps for laterals 2 (S 50                                                  100
Delivery hose, 65 mm polyethylene 1 mm wall, 400 m
Supply @ 5                                                                2,000
Transport and end fittings                                                   200
Total direct cost for an 8 hectare of sideslope                       28,733
per hectare                      3,591
say                     3,600
Two items call for further design study. These are the sand trap
and the hydrant chambers. The sand trap could probably be eliminated, as
sand deposition is not likely to be a problem with the velocities prevailing
in the pipe system (up to I m/sec in the main stem). The hydrant chambers
appear disproportionately costly (equivalent to 45% of main stem pipe cost).
An alternative design of hydrant using a 3 1/2" galvanized iron riser pipe
with flanged coupling at the lower end, and GI tee with CI valves at the
1/   On the upper end of the outlet command.  This may be required in the
upper end of the command where head is insufficient for piped delivery
at full flow. An alternative to open channel in this circumstance is
to supply via a pipe-lateral at reduced flow for longer period.



-81-.
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 8
upper, and masonry slab at ground level, is likely to prove sufficiently
robust without recourse to a surrounding chamber. Present estimates, however,
have included sand trap and hydrant chambers.
B.   5 ha outlet command, 3% slope, 200 m x 250 m long with buried pipe
main stem and portable PVC lateral (Design capacity of main stem 4.5 1/sec)
The area of an outlet command is partly determined by topographic
factors and may be as low as 5 ha. As the cost of distribution system per
ha is likely to be higher with smaller outlet command, estimates are also
presented for a 5 ha area.
Description
(a) Main stem: 150 m of 90 mm 2.5 kg PVC (friction gradient
0.0069). The total length of valley slope is 200 m. The
main stem terminates 60 m from the bottom of the valley
slope. Total length of main stem is 140 m. There are
three outlet hydrants at approximately 60 m intervals (a
hydrant at top, bottom and middle of the main stem). The
canal outlet works are described for the 10 ha command.
(b) Hydrants: Three each as described for 10 ha.
(c) Lateral: As for 10 ha, but one side only (used alter-
natively for left and right side of main stem).
Length: 60 m.
(d) Hose: As for 10 ha, but one set of two hoses only, is
required.
Estimate Summary
Rs
Trash screen, intake pipe, vent chamber cum sand trap
and valve chamber                                                          3,000
Hydrant chambers, 3 @ 1,000                                                  3,000
90 mm 2.5 kg PVC pipe 165 m including intake
Supply 165 m @ 19.25                                                    3,176
Delivery and installation @ 4.50                                          743
Couplings 28 @ 12                                                         336
90 mm tees upper and lower end of hydrants 6 @ 40                              240
90 x 75 reducers on hydrants 6 @ 20                                             120
Elbows, 90 mm line 2 @ 50                                                       100
90 mm GM valve at intake valve chamber                                         500



-82-
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 9
Estimate Summary (cont'd.)
Rs
75 mm CI or PVC valves at outlets from hydrants 6 @ 250                      1,500
Supply of 75 mm 4 kg pipe for portable laterals
60 m @ 20.55                                                               1,500
Delivery @ 2                                                                   120
Couplings for laterals 10 @ 10                                                 100
Screw clamps for couplings 10 @ 15                                             150
End caps for laterals 1 @ 50                                                    50
Delivery hose 65 mm Polyethylene
1 mm wall 200 m
Supply @ 5                                                                 1,000
Transport and end fittings                                                   100
15 ,468
Physical contingencies, particularly due to less
favorable shape of outlet commAnd                                          1,500
Total direct cost (rounded)                                                 17,000
Comments on Estimate
See comments on estimate for 10 ha command.
C. Slope 1.5%
The alternatives are buried PVC main stem, or lined open channel.
Lined Open Channel Systems Comparison
Intake works and control valve are virtually the same as for the
pipe system. Comparison can be confined to relative cost of buried pipe and
hydrants, versus open channel and turnouts. The portable lateral and hose in
the case of buried pipe may be excluded from the comparison, being regarded as
an optional addition to the pipe system in this case, the hydrants otherwise
delivering water into lined field channels in the same manner as the turnouts
from the unlined open channel.
Cost of 110 mm pipe in place is approximately Rs 36/m including
procurement and transportation, excavation and fill and couplings. No right-
of-way is involved. Cost of 90 mm pipe in place is correspondingly Rs 27/m.
For present purposes an average cost of Rs 32/m is assumed.



-83-
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 10
The cost of the equivalent lined open channel per meter is estimated
approximately as follows:
Rs/m
Manufacture and delivery of channel lining section                    13
Excavation, placing, jointing and backfill with
granular material                                                    7
Value of right-of-way 1.5 m wide strip at Rs 7
per sq m (market value is Rs 10 per sq. m)                          10
30
The costs per meter of pipe and of lined channel are consequently very similar.
With regard to structures, the cost of hydrant chambers and hydrants
for a 10 ha pipe installation, in accordance with interim designs, totals
Rs 8,100 including outlet valves. As noted in discussion of the estimates,
substitution of a steel pipe for the hydrant riser, and of a concrete slab at
ground level in place of the hydrant chamber, is likely to reduce this cost,
to the vicinity of Rs 5,000. The corresponding structures for the lined open
channel system would include 5 gated turnouts, probably 5 drop structures
(other than simplea chutes formed by the lined channel) and at least one siphon
crossing for access. The total cost of these structures is likely to be of the
order of Rs 3,000 to 5,000, depending on the topography of the particular site.
It is concluded that within the accuracy of present generalized
estimates, the costs of pipe and of lined open channel systems for slopes down
to 1.5% are very similar. In actual project implementation, choice between
pipe and lined channel, for slopes less than 3%, will be made on the basis of
site conditions for each individual outlet command.



-84--
ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
Page 1
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Specifications of Main-Canal-Bank Roads
Details of Canal Bank Roads
Formation:     width 4.Om
Pavement:       width 3.5m
depth to be determined by CBR values of subsoils, in
accordance with IRC specifications. Assumed average
construction: 150mm basecourse; 75mm WBM; 20mm
premix bitumen carpet.
Berms:          Continuous 1.Om wide x 0.6m high on canal side of road.
Small raised berm on outside of road on bank sections,
with gaps at drain outlets.
Crossfalls:    Slight crossfalls would be provided on all sections of
road instead of cambers. On all straights and curves
which are convex on the canal side, the crossfall would
be outwards. On all curves which are concave on the
canal side, the crossfall would be inwards so as to
provide super-elevation on the outside of the curve and
small culverts would be provided at the lowest point of
each such curve. Smooth transitions between inward and
outward crossfalls would be provided in all cases.
Drainage:       Small culverts would be provided as described under the
previous item. On bank sections the formation on the
outside would be laid with longitudinal falls so as to
ensure that the low spots coincide with drain outlets
and the high spots occur midway between outlets. In
cuttings side gutters would be provided on the outside.



-85-
ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
Page 2
Passing         Paved passing places would be provided at locations to be
Places:         decided by site inspection so that each is within sight of its
immediate neighbors and would be identified by clearly
distinguishable marker posts. On level sections, low banks
or in shallow cuttings, the spacing would be about 300m
while on high banks passing places would be restricted
to one at each end of the bank. The width of passing
places would be 3.5 m (i.e. to provide a total road
width of 7.Om at these points) and the length not less
than 1Sm.
Connecting     These would be provided at appropriate places to link the
Links:          canal roads to the public road network.



INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SADU Field Units
(# ~)
1982       1983        1984        1985        1986        1987         1988        1989
3          3           2           2           2
12         12           6           6           6
24         24          12          12            12
16         16           16           16
16          16           16          16
Field Units                 3         15          38          48          52          50           44          16                  co
Assistant Directors         1           2          4           5           5           5             5           2
Regional Deputy Director  2            2           2           2           2           2            2
Joint Director              1          1           1           1           1           1            1            1
NOTE:  For the gardenlands coming under irrigation in the first three years, field services start with a
intensity of one field unit for 250 hectares in the first two years, reduced to a field unit per 500 hectares
in the third year. Thereafter service would commence with a field unit per 500 hectares.
(D >I
Y- Ul



-87-
ANNEX 5
CHART I
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization; The Implementing Agencies
r   Agriculturalv
Production
Commissioner
Agriculture Secretary        Specical Secretary,                                               Irrigation Secretary
SADU
Director Agriculture         Additional Director                                              Chief Engineer Kallada
Kallada Wing
Joint Director                  SADU                                 Kallada                 Kallada Operation                Major Civil
'I1^t A    .  .                    Minor Convenyanca             and Maintenance                   Works
of Extension               Field Organization                        Division                     Divisions
Functions:                     Functions:                        Functions:                    Functions:
- Provision of Hybrid          - Planning and Construction of    - Dam and Canal Operations - Design and
T and V                Coconut Seedlings              Minor Conveyance                - Maintenance                   Construction
Field Organization         and other Planting          - Water Manegement at              - Repair Service for Minor;
Mawerials                      Chak Level                         Conveyance
- Credit Promotion
Fuunctions:                 -Subsidy Schemes for
- Extension                    Desoeased Trees
1J Detailed in Chart 1I                                                                                                         World Bank-23066



-88-
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Planning, Monitoring and Coordination Cell
[     SrIr                       Sac[r tarial Committee
Irrigathn Department ,     .  APC, Irrigation Secretary,
Secretary Agriculture
nSpecial Secretary, SADU
Joint Director
(Planning, Monitoring
and Coordination)
Senior Economist            Senior Economist                  Superintendent
Monitoring                  (Planning,                      Engineering
Statistics              nd Evaluation,              - Quality Control
Special Studies)         - Monitoring Construction
1 Economist                 1 Economist                     2  Asstant
I Statisticians             1 Statistician                     Engineers
5 Enumerators                  5 Clerks                  l         Clerks
World Bank-22511



-89-.                                                       ANNFX 5
flHART III
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Kallada Operations and Maintenance Division
Executive Engineer
(Operations and
Maintenance)
Assistant                   Assistant                    Assistant
Executive Engineer 1        Executive Engineer 2         Executive Engineer 3
Operation
Same as Assistant
Executive Engineer 1        .       .
3 Assistant                 1 Assistant                  3 Assistant                   1 Assistant
Engineers                   Engineer                     Engineers                     Engineer
(Maintenance)            (Minor Conveyance            Land and Main  anal        (Radio Communications)
9 Oversers Grde Iii1 Overseer Grade I               9 Foreman1 
9 OveseersGra   1       2 Overseer Grade III          3 Overer G rade I            3adoMechanics
45 Watchers              1 2 Skilled Assistants         60verseer GradeIl        | 12SkilledAssistants
Total Operating Staff at Full Strength
Executive Engineer               1
Assistant Executive Engineer     3
Assistant Engineers             12
Overseers Grade 1                5
Overseers Grade I I l           28
Foremen                          9
Mechanics                        3
Skilled Assistants             60
Watchers                       90                                                          VVorld Bank-22512






BRD 1,597
GCTor' I. 5
ti                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KALLADA IRRIGATION
> >                                                       ~~~~~~AND
9r,n                                       ~~~~~TREECROP DEVELO)PMENT PROJECT
--  \      e                             ~~~~~~~~MAJOR IRRIGATION PROJECTS IN KERALA
\,ANORE\t,   a7                                  u     ~~~~~~~~~'omP eted Proiets
r  <,-  _-.}                                     .  ~~~~~~~~~Pro[ects Urder mplerreraiotio
Bt \   ( ( '=-~~~~~~~~ t ~P-ects Under Invsi bct  or
i  t   \        />                                    -   rlre Ksilcss ~~~~~~       ~       ~       ~~~~~~~Pro[ect;
A           y         C         /                  /        2        ,si_ t, _ D;rlt 3cundor es
E   X         ,  GS 2    4    \            k                   _.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~S~tao-e3udo, es  
.    POIECTS  COMPLETED                   Wf KXHIKODE                  2gf             ,:   : D
L .CH4EERArKuZrH t                        z--             :     _ _hL,T
2 MALAAtPUZHA                             .\,r         
3.WALAYR f,                                                         ,l   >
A. Wt4.GALAMt,\                                             30 
5  A IHLNDY                                          ,            t 
GAYAltHRt IB,
7 VAZWANI                                   W     <
7. ,tHALAKLlDY                                            32 J<  
tso . NEfYAR\                                                           ,        j       22
?EqjECTi     LL5RILErTT  NAPPJRAM                                  -t          <
11  TrUAEL~ADAXg
1 t2 Mr VATTUtPJZHA                                                 =^
tL, KtAtKADAVl5'.\ . DAL5A  LG H
tb. tUTTItADY;                                                                    . ,i              
2R tLARAPUZHA                                                \                         S  
22 ATTAPPIADY                        -                            . 23 -Q3   ............... 
23 CHls;ftNl-Mt FLI 
rPROJECTS U ,NDER INVES-T _GATIO N                                   /R-3                    =                   , 
24. AkRAtAM a
25. THIRUNE,LL \ f  
2, 2.TH50stDAR                                            :      \u          4<                 _\   
27 .3ANAS'URASAGAR                               >                       2\  i,5  Qh           \        /    g     5
12E. YtANJAT
ZP. NOOMPU2iHA                                                        \       5        -X 
345. IRINGIPUZHA f                    2                               )\      J -{                    lKK
3i- rI AtPUZHA r,t\T   \5
32. AREACODE                                                        vtl|,                    s    <   
33 PALAKKAZH PUZHiA                                             I|^g<   
.3A,  KERAtA.3ftAVANt                              5_sI\                         e          
35 MALLIS,SERIYAVU                                                   \         tX          \ j    
36   ELANAD                                                             lT        Y     M \7J              \ 5 
37: iKARAPPARA ll\>W\ 
jl, CIRIARKUlTTY                                     :                                  j       
30. VAhlANAPU  sAM   A4 
. 1 N   D A
t   - afS                      AY~~~3






1BRD 16023R
r  / ._  _                           \\                                                                       | IN D   IA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND
-. -K'  i , . 9                  ,   >|                       2             'i ,,                                    - rTREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-   <  g   \   >               \                                                                     P R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D JLE('T AR EA 5
--                 /g  i   )                 >   X   {                     ?                    a                                               P R O   E A N T   A A [ A D R I;   I C N   I  Y   P G N I P L E
' r,__   * Ar.     tF              <        -.                                   _  DAIl
XL',\d  A  <    x,,                            '-'1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K S A-'
r                                                                                        4                    IC i2
:ruhlo                                            2                             / oI
:AfAZA .      2_/)                                                                                                                                                                       ,
Ino        I                 10                                                                                                                                                            ,-_.                        . '
r.gAlAA~~~~~pIA p4 \O,
'ITh W,,a lJ   he B        e A   b ,  k\                                                                                                                                                                               _
5 K                    -A  Kll.lE.f A<fKrlS '>  f             ,'                                                                                                                                       ,_
AR , A   ' hr"n"   lhe /6AK,IAlaso



