Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3347-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN
TO INDIA
FOR THE
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 7, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recitoents only in the perfrmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise he disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 25, 1982)
US$1.00          =     Rs 9.299236
Rs 1.00          =     US$0.1075
Rs 1 million    =      US$107,536
'Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00 to Rs 8.50, which represents the projected
average exchange rate over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ARDC    -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CWC     -   Central Water Commission
DOA     -   Department of Agriculture
ERR     -   Economic Rate of Return
GOI     -   Government of India
GOK     -   Government of Kerala
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
ID      -   Irrigation Department
KAU     -   Kerala Agricultural University
LCB     -   Local Competitive Bidding
PMCC    -   Planning, Monitoring and Coordinating Cell
SADU    -   Special Agriculture Development Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit, Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                India, acting by its President (GOI)
Beneficiary:             The State of Kerala (GOK)
Amount:                  IDA Credit:  SDR 52.3 million
(US$60 million equivalent)
Bank Loan:   US$20.3 million, including capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:                   IDA Credit:  Standard
Bank Loan:   Repayment over 20 years, including
5 years' grace at 11.6% interest
per annum; front-end fee of 1.5%
of base loan amount.
Relending Terms:         GOI to GOK:  As part of Central Assistance to States
for development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time.
Project Description:    The purpose of the project is to improve the incomes
of small landholders in Kerala by increasing
productivity through the modernization of
foodgrain and treecrop cultivation. This project
will provide a reliable water supply for hillside
garden and paddy lands covering some 37,600 ha
together with a range of agricultural support
services that will complement the availability of
a reliable water supply.
The project components would comprise the
completion of the Kallada dam and the left and
right main canals; construction of the branches,
distributaries, and associated service roads and
buildings; construction of the piped minor
conveyance systems from the 10-ha outlets to the
farmers' fields; the provision of vehicles and
equipment; and the establishment of
infrastructural support services and provision of
planting material to assist farmers within the
command area. The project's economic return :Ls
heavily dependent on farmers' appropriately
responding to a reliable year-round water supply
by adopting high-yielding treecrop varieties and
associated planting methodologies in the hillside
regions. Conservative assumptions on farmer
adoption rates have been used in determining the
project return, and the risk is considered
acceptable.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performarnce o
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



-ii-
(US$ million)
Estimated Costs 1/                                   Local      Foreign      Total
Kallada Dam                                            2.0           .8       2.8
Right Bank Main Canal & Branches, Distributaries  16.3             7.0       23.3
Left Bank Main Canal & Branches, Distributaries   30.2             13.0      43.2
Minor Conveyance System                                8.8         3.7       12.5
Canal Roads and Buildings                              2.0         0.9        2.9
Equipment, Materials and Vehicles                     0.6          0.9        1.5
Land Acquisition                                      13.5           -       13.5
Engineering Supervision and Overheads                 14.0          -        14.0
Sub-Total                                    87.4         26.3     113.7
Physical Contingencies                                9.8          2.9       12.7
Price Contingencies                                  26.1           7.8      33.9
Total Project Cost                          123.3         37.0      160.3
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan                            -            0.3        0.3
Total Financing Required                            123.3         37.3 2/  160.6 2/
(US$ million)
Financing Plan:                                      Local      Foreign      Total
Bank/IDA                                          43.0        37.3        80.3
GOK                                               80.3         -          80.3
TOTAL                                        123.3        37.3       160.6
(US$ million)
Estimated Disbursement:                             FY83    FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87
Annual:                    11.1 2/ 16.3  20.0  16.4  16.5
Cumulative:                11.1    27.4  47.4  63.8  80.3
Rate of Return: 20%
Appraisal Report: No. 3657-IN dated May 24, 1982.
1/ Including taxes and duties which are negligible, and excluding sunk
costs where project has been started.
2/ Including payment of front-end fee of US$0.3 million.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN TO INDIA FOR THE
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for SDR 52.3 million (US$60 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms and a proposed loan for the amount equivalent of
US$20.3 milLion (including a capitalized front-end fee of US$0.3 million)
to India to help finance the completion of a dam across the Kallada River,
the completion of two major canals and associated branches and
distributaries, and the construction of minor irrigation systems, together
with associated support facilities and feasibility studies. The Bank loan
would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years' grace, with interest
at 11.6% per annum. The Government of India (GOI) would channel the
proceeds of the credit and loan to the Government of Kerala (GOK) in
accordance with GOI's standard terms and arrangements for financing State
development projects. Exchange risks would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3872-IN, dated April 7, 1982), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 19, 1982. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about
701 million (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$240.
Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.6% per annum
over the past 30 years. The economy is dominated by agriculture which
employs more than two-thirds of the labor force. However, the land base
is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to everyone engaged in
agricultural activities, especially those with little or no land.
Consequently the latter have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.3% per annum over
the past 30 years -- has been slower than growth of industrial value-added
(5.0% per annum). As a result, there has been a gradual decline in the
share of agriculture in GDP (at factor cost measured in 1970/71 prices)
from 60% to about 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to around
24%.  But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation,
with significantly higher productivity and income levels.
1/ Parts ][ and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Third Rural Electrification
Project: (No. P-3316-IN), dated May 12, 1982.



-2-
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress on several fronts.
In the face of a large and rapidly growing population, India has been able
to increase agricultural output faster than total population while
eliminating persistent dependence on foodgrain imports. Savings and
investment have increased markedly since 1950/51: gross domestic savings
more than doubled from 10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to 24.8%, while gross
domestic investment rose from 12.5% of GDP to 26.2%. Foreign savings
(balance of payments deficit on current account) have never financed a
major portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached
during the early 1960s; for a few years in the late 1970s, surpluses
arose, and at the present time, foreign savings are about 10% of
investment. External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP
and in per capita terms. Net external assistance has never risen above 3%
of GDP, and was less than 1% at the end of the 1970s.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1979/80 averaged only 3.5% per annum, only marginally
higher than the volume growth of imports over the same period. In the
early to mid-1970s, however, India's terms of trade, which had remained
roughly constant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the
Government introduced various policy measures designed to stimulate
exports. As a result, the volume of India's exports grew on average about
7.6% per annum for the 1970s as a whole, a performance which demonstrates
that sustained rapid growth is possible. While expanding world markets,
particularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed to this growth,
liberalized access to imported inputs and more effective export incentives
played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was
buoyed by relatively rapid export growth and an expanding level of
foodgrain output, which culminated in a record 132 million tons of
foodgrain production in 1978/79. As a result, growth in real GDP,
agricultural and industrial value-added, substantially exceeded the
historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3). In 1979/80, however, this
momentum was broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with
a doubling of international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led
to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening
up of a large trade deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged
after several years of virtual price stability. The impact of these
setbacks is still being felt in the Indian economy, particularly in the
balance of payments, and adjustments will be needed for some years to
come. However, the short-term recovery process is almost completed and
the economy has regained its growth momentum.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81, the economy substantially recovered with real GDP
growing by 7.5%. While industrial output expanded by 4%, recovery was
particularly robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to
rise by more than 15%. Increased foodgrain production, along with
judicious use of Government buffer stocks built up in earlier years, also
helped moderate price rises. Inflation remained a serious problem with



-3-
coal and rail transport, already improved in 1980/81, was even better in
1981/82, recording growth rates of about 10%, 9.4% and 15% respectively.
As constraints on the supply of infrastructure and basic commodities
continued to ease, industrial output responded with an 8% increase. The
downward trend in inflation continued. Wholesale prices rose by about 9%
on an average annual basis, while the increase on a March 1981 to
March 1982 basis was less than 2%, showing a continued deceleration.
Easier supply conditions, combined with a more restrictive monetary
policy, contributed to the sharp decline in the rate of inflation.
9.      The performance of the agriculture sector in 1981/82 ensured that
supply conditions in the country remained quite favorable. It also
provided continuing evidence of the positive effects of large investments
and appropriate policies in past years. Foodgrain production reached
between 132 and 134 million tons, thus matching or perhaps surpassing the
previous record. Irrigated area 3xpanded by 2.5 million hectares, while
fertilizer consumption improved over its 1980/81 level by more than 7%,
despite substantial price increases. Recent performance and probable
future trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will exceed
demand. However, the balance remains delicate with some imports likely to
be required from time to time. Indeed, the effects of the severe 1979/80
drought were still being felt in 1981/82 when 2.25 million tons of wheat
were imported to rebuild depleted stocks. Nevertheless, the relatively
low import requirement, the ability of the Government to delay imports for
as long as two years after the production shortfall, and the decline in
foodgrain prices in real terms demonstrate the flexibility and resilience
provided by the public foodgrain system.
10.     Shortages of basic commodities and infrastructural services were
major contributors to industrial stagnation and the onset of high
inflation in 1979/80. This was the culmination of several years of
declining capacity utilization in important, interrelated sectors such
as power, coal, and rail transport. A major cause of the improved
economic climate over the last two years has been a much improved level of
output in these sectors, due mainly to greater efficiency and utilization
of installed capacity. Expansion of coal output by about 10 million tons
for the second successive year and of rail freight traffic to a record
level were particularly noteworthy features of the 1981/82 economic
performance. The shortfalls in domestic energy production which
contributed so heavily to the poor 1979/80 performance have also been
reduced. However, even though there remains large scope for improving
efficiency, further improvements in capacity utilization will become
increasingly difficult, and increases in capacity are needed to meet
increasing demand.
11.     Despite a brief phase in the late 1970s, when savings rates
exceeded investment rates and foreign exchange reserves actually
increased, recent experience shows that the needs of the Indian economy
continue to outstrip the availability of resources, both internal and
external. Investment exceeds domestic savings. The latter, at nearly 25%
of GDP, are already high and further increases, particularly from the
household sector, will be increasingly difficult to obtain. However, over
the last two years, the Government has taken a number of measures to
generate higher savings in the public sector. Principal among these were



-4-
price and tax increases, and subsidy reductions, on a range of commodities
produced mainly in the public sector.
12.     The shortage of resources is even more apparent in the foreign
sector. Problems became serious after 1979/80 when the cost of India's
POL imports rose sharply and the terms of trade deteriorated. Coupled
with domestic supply shortages and a slowing down in export growth, these
factors caused India's current account deficit to rise from only 0.6% of
GDP in 1979/80 to 2% of GDP in 1980/81. In 1981/82, the current account
deficit rose to US$4.3 billion, representing 2.7% of GDP. Unfavorable
movements in export prices and the terms of trade threatened a worse
outcome. However, the much improved performance of basic
import-substituting industries and a resumption of healthy export volume
growth (8.3%) prevented this. To finance this gap in the face of
inadequate concessional aid flows, the Government drew down a record
US$2.36 billion in foreign exchange reserves, withdrew almost
US$700 million under the recently negotiated IMF Extended Fund Facility,
and turned increasingly to other non-concessional sources of finance. In
1980/81 and 1981/82 for example, new government guaranteed commitments for
commercial borrowing totalling over US$1.3 billion were contracted for
major projects.
13.     The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring
India's external accounts into reasonable balance at an acceptable level
of growth. In particular, there is a need to increase the growth of
exports, to increase production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement
and steel which India can produce efficiently, in order to reduce imports
of these items, to moderate the rise in oil imports through greater
domestic production and slower demand growth, and to further reduce the
constraints in transportation and other infrastructural facilities which
are retarding growth in a wide range of activities, including exports. It
is encouraging that, in response to the present balance of payments
difficulties, the Government has not reacted by placing more stringent
controls on imports, but rather has maintained and extended the more
liberal policies evolved in the past several years. Recent improvements
in the availability of power, a major constraint facing exporters, and the
adoption of several new export and industrial policy measures have
improved the prospects for accelerating export growth.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have
the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the
industrial sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it
nevertheless is large in absolute terms and has a highly diversified
structure, capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation, railways, telecommunications,
power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared to many countries,
although there is considerable need for additional capacity as well as
improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure
for development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in
terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but



-5-
also gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to
foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these considerable
resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development
objectives is the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now
about halfway completed.  The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy
development, the growth of exports and domestic import substitultes where
appropriate, and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall
performance has so far been encouraging, although the likelihood of
continued bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transporl: is
growing. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will requires an
acceLeration of domestic savings rates.  The efforts of the Centlral
Government to raise resources have so far been impressive and are likely
to be broadly sufficient to meet the financing requirements of lthe Central
Government's share in plan investment, if inflation can be kept in check.
However, a significant shortfall in savings is likely to occur Ln some
states unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also
for continuous efforts to maintain and raise further the already high
leveL of private savings. Recent increases in interest rates anad tax
concessions on time deposits should stimulate such savings. Thie further
dampening of inflationary expectations, the prospects for which look
bright, will be an important part of this effort.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few yearis augur
well for future income growth. Thus far, however, output growtlh has not
matched the size of India's investment programs. Much of this phenomenon
relates to India's stage of development, in which a large and growing
proportion of investment has been needed to build up basic infrastructure.
These services, such as power, transport and irrigation, have inherently
high capital output ratios. However, at least some of the rise in the
sectoral capital output ratios has been due to a deterioration in
efficiency and is avoidable through better management. Bottlenecks in
these basic sectors clearly can prejudice growth in other sectors where
large investments have been made. As demonstrated in the last two years,
performance in the basic service sectors can be improved through better
planning and management, thus leading to higher productivity and capacity
utilization, throughout the economy. At the same time, programs to expand
domestic capacity are vital. In the case of tradeable commodities like
coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the grounds of comparative
advantage. For sectors such as power and transportation, expansion of
planned capacity in accordance with the requirements of the rest of the
economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term prospects.  At
present rates of development, however, an adequate balance between supply
and demand in these sectors will be difficult to sustain. Performance in
the power sector to date suggests that India's power deficit will continue
into the early 1990s, although more rapid project implementation and
efficiency could narrow the size of the gap. For railways, real
investment levels may be inadequate to meet demand projections and will
need to be monitored closely and adjusted upward as necessary if serious
bottlenecks are to be avoided in the next few years.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious energy production
program backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between



-6-
domestic consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the
prospects for progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports
are quite bright. In 1981, resources for exploration were raised by
successive price increases for petroleum products. On the prod.uction
side, scheduled expansion is expected to raise domestic production of
crude from the current 46% to about 64% of demand by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploratory activity, combined with the possibilities
for accelerated offtake from known fields offer much encouragement for
India's longer term energy prospects.
18.     The continuation of India's balance of payments difficulties has
been marked by the progressive use of foreign exchange reserves and
non-concessional borrowing to finance the deficit. Use of reserves
reached a record level in 1981/82, leaving less than 4 months of import
coverage by the end of the year. At the same time, India also made use of
the IMF Extended Fund Facility. Entering this period with a favorable
debt service profile, India has so far also been able to tap commercial
capital markets at favorable spreads (over, of course, relatively high
underlying rates) and in the last two years commercial borrowing has been
stepped up. These sources will be important in the future since India's
current account deficits, though not large relative to the size of the
economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will necessitate
external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge
on the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and
external balance, while at the same time maintaining reasonably high
growth. In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy
for achieving these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings
for further investment, and by fostering the development of export and
import-substituting industry to realign the balance of payments. In the
short-term, significant external borrowing, including an increased
emphasis on commercial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the
balance of payments consequences of such a growth strategy. However, an
important element in providing India with the capacity to adjust flexibly
will be adequate flows of concessional assistance. Although India is
currently in a position to increase borrowing on commercial terms from the
very low levels of the past, there are limits to India's creditworthiness
in world markets. Maintaining an adequate rate of growth while adjusting
the structure of the Indian economy to a more open and efficient
environment as intended by the Government requires foreign resources in
addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India. Indeed,
along with increasing exports, higher levels of investment to support an
adequate rate of growth is a key element in maintaining India's recently
improved creditworthiness. India is still a very poor country with a
large rural sector and enormous investment requirements for human
development and basic infrastructure. The fact that India has been able
to maintain over the past seven years a rate of growth above the long term
trend, despite the severe setbacks of 1979/80, lends substance to the hope
that a more open trade policy and concerted efforts to remove constraints
on the growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization
of savings both foreign and domestic, can sustain a rate of growth closer
to 5.0% per annum than the long run trend of 3.6% per annum. Combined



-7-
with a reduction in the rate of population increase to below
2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate
of growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in
these efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of
easing poverty in India.
20.      A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the
need for India's development efforts to be protected and accelerated if
possible. The 1981 Census placed India's population at 683.4 million, or
about 12 million higher than official projections.  The fact thatt there
was rno decline in inter-census rates of population growth, equivalent to
about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. While further analysis may
suggest this rate of growth to be slightly overestimated, the expectation
of a measurable decline in the population growth rate has not
materialized. Until full details of the Census are released, firm
judgements about the reasons for this outcome are not possible. However,
the results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the
family planning program in a broad range of activities and services.
These efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan which aims at a
rise in the proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group
from its estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.      Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more
than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless
laborers and small farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 38% of
the urban population subsist below  the poverty line.  Improvements in the
living standards of the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall
growth of the economy, particularly on increases in agricultural
production and employment, in non-farm rural employment, and also in
employment opportunities in urban areas. These developments wi:Ll have to
stem in large part from market forces which, however, must be encouraged
and reinforced by appropriate Government policies and the strengthening of
basic services and infrastructure. The declining trend in real foodgrain
prices between 1970 and 1981 resulting from India's sustained ejEfort to
raise agricultural production, reflects such developments. There is also
a role for direct Government action in faster implementation of land
reform (though the scope for significant reduction in poverty through land
redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing the supply of
credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally in
broacdening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards.  Many of the latter are elements
of the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian
planning for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the
expansion of primary education, the extension of rural health facilities
and the provision of secure village water supplies. Operations such as
the community health volunteer program and the national adult literacy
campaign provide encouraging evidence that well-targetted, relaltively
low-cost programs can lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 65 loans and 148 development
credits to India totalling US$3,571 million and US$10,633 million (both
net of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,232 million
has been repaid, and US$5,254 million was still undisbursed as of
March 31, 1982. Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal
year through March 31, 1982 totalled US$858 million, representing an
increase of about 28 percent over the same period last year. Annex II
contains a summary statement of disbursements as of March 31, 1982, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 25 commitments in India totalling
US$176.5 million, of which US$24.5 million has been repaid, US$42.6
million sold and US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$101.9
million, US$94.0 million represents loans and US$7.9 million equity. A
summary statement of IFC operations as of March 31, 1982, is also included
in Annex II (page 5).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent
with the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture,
energy and infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments
in irrigation, extension and on-farm development designed to increase
agricultural productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of
basic agricultural inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer,
marketing, storage, and seed projects. Major elements of the lending
program have also been directed at helping to meet the energy needs of the
economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and to ease the
infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered economic growth in India,
particularly through power generation and distribution, and railways and
telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has also provided financing
for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises,
primarily in the private sector, through its support of development
finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank
Group has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads
project, as well as water supply and sewerage and other urban
infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and
consonant with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The
continued active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and
infrastructure development will appropriately contribute to India's
adjustment and growth prospects.  Irrigation will need continuing support,
with emphasis on improved efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure
reliable delivery to farmers' fields. In addition, major investments to
develop the large Narmada River basin will be vital to India's efforts to
increase agricultural production. Important complements to these efforts,
such as fertilizer production and distribution, agricultural credit and
extension, will continue to receive support. A continued program of
investments aimed at rapidly increasing the domestic supply of energy will
clearly be necessary if India is to curb the cost of oil imports and
alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain output in both the
agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil and gas



-9--
resources is a central element of this program, which should be
suppLemented by investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in
the expansion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial
projects to increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which
have been in short supply and which India has a comparative advantage in
producing, should also receive high priority. Finally, raising the
efficiency and levels of transportation infrastructure would mitigate a
key constraint to achieving higher levels of economic growth so that
further support of the railways and for ports development will be
particularly appropriate.
26.        The need for a substantial net transfer of external riesources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme
of Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India
Consortium. Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India
successfully adjusted to the changed world price situation of the
mid-1970s. However, there is now a need for increased foreign assistance
to adjust to an even greater deterioration in balance of payments
anticipated during the 1980s by augmenting domestic resources and
stimulating investment. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should aim to include the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry.
Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most
projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors
as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.        India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible,
external capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms.
Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and
should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA
funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation
to India's needs for external support. Therefore, India should be
eligible and regarded as creditworthy f or supplemental Bank lending. The
ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was about 11% in
1981/82 and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of
March 31, 1982, outstanding loans to India held by the Bank totalled
US$2,433 million, of which US$1,062 million remain to be disbursed,
leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,371 million.
28.        Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion
contributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the
Bank Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross
disbursements, and 12% of net disbursements as compared with 54%, 42% and
52%, respectively, in 1981/82. On December 31, 1981, India's outstanding
and disbursed external public debt was about US$17.4 billion, of which the
Bank. Group's share was US$6.6 billion or 38% (IDA's US$5.6 billion and
IBRD's US$1.0 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0% of India's total debt
service payments were to the Bank Group.



-10-
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN KERALA
29.     Kerala, located in southwest India, is a narrow coastal strip
bounded on the east and south by Tamil Nadu, on the northeast by
Karnataka and on the west by the Arabian Sea. The population of Kerala,
which is divided into eleven administrative districts, is estimated at
23.7 million. The total geographic area is about 39,000 km and is the
most densely populated o5 any Indian State with an average population
density of nearly 550/km  - a figure that is almost three times the
all-India average population density. This very high density has a
significant bearing on the pattern of land distribution and ownership.
While the average farm size is .57 ha, 70% of all the farms are below
0.4 ha in size and occupy, in total, only 25% of available farmland.
30.     Kerala can be divided into three distinct topographical zones
running north to south. The first is the relatively sparsely populated
highlands on the eastern border (170 persons/km ). The main crops in this
area are tea, coffee, cardamon and rubber. The second area, the midlands,
lies between the coast and the highlands, and is mainly an undulating
terrain of small valleys and hills - a topography that is difficult to2
irrigate.  This area has a higher population density of 780 persons/km
and a wide variety of crops, including rice, tapioca, banana, ginger,
pepper, cashew and rubber are grown. The third zone is the low-lying
coastal belt along the west Eoast. This area is the most densely
populated at 1400 persons/km and the main crops are rice and coconut,
with a wide variety of other minor crops. The Kallada project area is
predominantly in the second or midlands zone and is located in the
southern part of Kerala covering parts of the Quilon and Alleppey
districts. It involves a command area of some 37,600 ha.
31.     Kerala's climate is semi-tropical, with the mean minimum
temperature ranging from 19-260C and the maximum from 27-370C. The
project area receives a high average annual rainfall of 2,600 mm. Two
monsoons, the southwest monsoon (June to August) and the northeast
monsoon (October to December) account for 90% of the annual precipitation.
During the year dry periods do occur, particularly in the months of
September and October, and the period between December and April is also
relatively dry. This uneven pattern of rainfall distribution gives rise
to the need for irrigation. Kerala's semi-tropical climate is
particularly suitable for high-value perennial treecrops which have
historically been one of the major commodities for the State.
32.     Kerala's agriculture has a long tradition of commercial plantation
and agro-industries. The mainstay of India's agriculture, foodgrain
production, accounts for a relatively small proportion (36%) of the area
under cultivation in Kerala and of agricultural output as a whole. Over
67% of the cultivated area is occupied by three crops: rice (31%),
coconut (25%), and tapioca (11%). Other crops include: rubber (8%),
cashewnut (5%), pepper and other spices (9%), other oil seeds (3%), and
other crops (8%). Kerala is India's major producer of a number of export
crops: pepper (94% of India's production), rubber (94%), cashewnut (80%),
coconut (66%), cardamon (62%), and ginger (53%).



-1 1-
33.     Although the land and climate are conducive to producing
high-value cash crops (usually involving double-cropping), yields of most
major crops have remained stagnant or fallen over the past decade. In
spite of a fairly rapid increase in fertilizer consumption in recent
years, paddy yields have remained low at 1.4 - 1.5 tons/ha. Coconut
yields have decreased steadily since the late 1960s partly because of the
spread of Rootwilt disease. Of the major crops, only tapioca has
registered an increase in yield, rising from about 14 tons per hectare in
the late 1960s to over 18 tons per hectare in the early 1970s. Since
then, tapioca yields have also remained stagnant.
34.     Irrigation in Kerala has traditionally been geared to paddy and
consequently, it has occupied a smaller role than in Indian agriculture at
large. The main source of irrigation water to paddy fields is the
substantial runoff from the adjacent hillsides, the water being channelled
to the terraced paddy fields in the valleys. The impact of irrigation in
Kerala has been to extend the double-cropped area by advancing the
planting period for kharif (summer) cultivation and by watering the rabi
(winter) crop.
35.     Kerala also maintains an efficient and effective range of
agricultural support services for farmers. Kerala has one of thLe better
functioning agricultural credit systems in India, with high loan recovery
rates (in excess of 80% in 1980/81). The organization of institutional
credit to farmers follows the usual pattern in India. Short- and
medium-term credit is provided by primary cooperative societies.
Long-term loans are available to farmers through the Land Development Bank
system and credit is also available through commercial banks and the
regional rural banks. The input supply system is advanced by Indian
standards, with over 6,000 selling points for fertilizer, about evenly
divided between cooperatives and private dealers. Plant protection
chemicals are sold from some 3,400 outlets and the Department of
Agriculture (DOA) is directly involved in the production of seeds and
distribution of seedlings. The marketing channels comprise more than
2,000 market fairs, thousands of private traders, and about 100
cooperative primary marketing societies. Responsibility for applied
agricultural research in Kerala rests primarily with the Kerala
Agricultural University and is conducted on its 23 research stations
located throughout the State.
36.     Kerala's agriculture is assisted by a number of on-going IDA
projects. The Kerala Agricultural Development Project
(1977, Cr. No. 680-IN) focuses on providing credit for treecrop--based
small holdings. The project is approximately two years behind schedule
due to delays in establishing the institutional framework for the project.
It is now progressing satisfactorily.  The Kerala Agricultural Extension
Project (1980, Cr. No. 1028-IN) is designed to reorganize and strengthen
the statewide extension service of the DOA. The project has been slow in
start:ing. Given the major conceptual changes involved in this project, it
is not surprising that political and bureaucratic obstacles have occurred
in the past, with the result that field work has commenced in only 3
districts out of the 11 districts originally agreed. The quality of field
work is being upgraded significantly following the latest supervision
mission in October 1981. Kerala's agriculture sector also benefits from a



-12-
number of multi-state projects in agricultural credit, dairy and
cashewnuts.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Formulation and Objectives
37.     The Kallada Irrigation and Treecrop Development Project would be
the first IDA involvement with surface irrigation in Kerala. Since the
late 1960s, the relative prices of agricultural commodities have favored
treecrop cultivation in Kerala, and conversion from paddy land to
treecrops has been taking place on a significant scale. It has also
become evident that substantial benefits can be obtained from irrigating
treecrops during the dry summer months. The increased production brought
about by the introduction of year-round irrigation and modernization of
treecrop cultivation is the most cost-effective way to improve the income
of small land-holders in Kerala. A key to the success of the
modernization process would be the rate at which farmers adopt hybrid
coconut varieties and the intensive under-cropping of coconut trees by a
second tier of treecrops.
38.     Given the topography of the garden lands, the irrigation of
treecrops requires an innovative system for distributing water. The
rugged and erodable slopes on which the treecrops grow, together with the
fragmentation of holdings and the very high cost of land, rules out the
traditional system of water conveyance by way of open channels from the
main canal to the individual farms. The most suitable alternative
identified during project preparation, and successfully tried on a pilot
scale, is through a low-pressure buried pipe system that does not require
permanent rights-of-way -- an important consideration given high land
values in Kerala. This solution also avoids the expensive drop structures
required in an open canal system on steeply sloping terrain. An
underground pipe system also offers more operational flexibility and ease
of operation for the very fragmented land-holding patterns that exist in
Kerala. The Kallada Project would be the first major gravity irrigation
project in India with an on-farm delivery system based on low-pressure
underground plastic pipes for the irrigation of garden lands.
39.     The project was prepared by the Government of Kerala (GOK) with
substantial assistance by Bank staff. It was appraised initially in late
1980 and a number of changes to the project scope and financing have taken
place during the past eighteen months. A report entitled "India - Staff
Appraisal Report - Kallada Irrigation and Treecrop Development Project"
(Report No. 3657-IN dated May 24, 1982) is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in
February/March 1982, the Borrower and GOK were represented by a delegation
coordinated by Mr. S. C. Jain of the Department of Economic Affairs, GOI.
The Project
40.     The project would involve the completion of an already partially
constructed dam with the associated diversion weir that feeds two major
canals, the Left and Right Main Canals, together with a system of branch



-13-
canals and distributaries that provides water to the 10-ha ouSlet points.
The Kallada dam, which will create a reservoir of some 488 Mm capacity,
will provide more than adequate water storage to irrigate the command area
of 37,600 ha all year round. About 80% of the dam structure and some
44 km of the Right Main Canal have been completed. In addition, some
15 km of a branch canal and 107 km of distributaries on the right bank
have also been completed. Completion of the dam, which is 335 mL long with
a maximum height of 85 m above the deepest foundation, is scheduled for
early 1984. Provisions have been made by GOK for the construction of a
16-megawatt power station, the costs of which will be met by the Kerala
Electricity Corporation.
41.     The project would also provide for the construction of the minor
water conveyance systems (below the 10-ha outlets) for some 29,000 ha of
garden land to be served through underground pipe delivery systems or by
lined surface watercourses where the topography permits. Because of the
varied nature of the terrain on the garden lands and of the pattern of
land holdings, it is impossible to use a typical design for all piped
conveyance systems. Each 10-ha outlet area would require an individually
designed minor distribution system to be operated by the farmers. The
system would require a formal scheduling of water use among the farmers in
each chak 1/ and the establishment of this schedule and superviising its
operation and maintenance by the farmers is an integral part of the
project. A study to establish rules, procedures and requirements for
securing effective operation and preventive maintenance of thesie systems,
to be concluded by June 30, 1983, is included in the Project (see Project
Agreement Section 3.04).
42.     The project would provide for the improvement of existing storage
tanks and the construction of new tanks to provide suitable night storage
to cover daytime requirements in periods of high demand. This would occur
through much of the summer season and could occur in dry periods during
the rabi season. Canal service roads would be provided on the banks of
main and branch canals to provide jeep access, and the Public Works
Department intends carrying out, by March 31, 1983 a feasibility study for
linking these service roads to the public road network. Footpaths will be
provided on the banks of minor distributaries. Design and construction of
project works will be to the standards of the Indian Standard
Specifications and Code of Practice, which are acceptable to the Bank
Group. A panel of experts has been appointed to review the safety aspects
of the Kallada Dam in accordance with the Bank Group's normal procedures
for projects involving substantial dam structures. (See Project
Agreement, Section 3.06.) The panel has met and reviewed the design and
construction of the works completed to date. Its initial report has been
submitted to the Bank Group. The report states that, with some minor
changes already agreed, the Dam is being constructed according to accepted
design and construction guidelines. The panel would continue to monitor
construction in accordance with the Terms of Reference agreed with the
Bank Group.
1/ Chak: the area commanded by an outlet.



-14-
Project Implementation
43.     The Irrigation Department (ID) of GOK would be responsible for
implementing the project. The Department has established a separate Minor
Conveyance division for the implementation of the minor conveyance systems
and a separate Operations and Maintenance division to be responsible for
the management of the irrigation system developed under the project. (See
Project Agreement, Section 3.03.)
44.     In order to ensure adequate farmer support services, a separate
Wing has been established in the Special Agricultural Development
Unit (SADU), which is a part of the Kerala Department of Agriculture and
which is implementing the on-farm investment component of the
IDA-supported Kerala Agricultural Development Project. (See Project
Agreement, Section 3.01.) This newly established wing, funded under the
existing KADP project, would require incremental staffing. The levels
have been agreed with GOK and would be involved in the distribution of
hybrid planting materials, in the promotion of under-cropping of coconuts
with second-tier treecrops, and in credit promotion. The costs of the
incremental staffing will be met by GOK.
45.     As a part of a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation program for
the project, a Planning, Monitoring and Coordination Cell (PMCC) would be
set up within the Irrigation Department of GOK by September 30, 1982 to
coordinate the activities of the Irrigation Department and the Department
of Agriculture in project implementation and to monitor the adequacy of
the support services being provided under the project.  This monitoring
would provide an early wa nin system should there be delays in
implementation of the agricultural program. The PMCC would participate in
the planning and testing of alternative minor conveyance systems, and
monitor farmer acceptance and management of the installed systems. It
would also conduct a feasibility study by December 31, 1984, for review by
th Bank Group, of a possible phase II project in the area adjacent to the
project area. (See Project Agreement, Section 3.02.) Staffing for this
unit would be incremental to existing GOK staffing levels, and would be
funded by proceeds of this credit and loan.
46.     Long-term credit for on-farm investment would be made available by
the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC), which
intends to prepare a credit plan for the Kallada project area to generate
maximum farmer response to the new opportunities opened to them by surface
irrigation.
Project Costs and Financing
47.     The estimated total cost of the project, excluding sunk costs for
the dam and completed portions of the main canals, branch canals and
distributaries, but including taxes and duties which are negligible, is
US$160.3 million. A capitalized front-end fee on the proposed IBRD loan
portion of the assistance package adds a further US$0.3 million to the
financing required. The foreign exchange component of the project cost is
estimated at US$37.0 million (23%). The principal cost components, net of
physical and price contingencies are: civil works infrastructure (US$84.7
million), vehicles, materials and equipment (US$1.5 million), land



-15-
acquisition (US$13.5 million), and administration and overheads (US$14.0
million); the balance is made up of physical contingencies (US$12.7
million) and price contingencies (US$33.9 million). The proposed credit
and loan of US$80.3 million (including the capitalized front-end fee of
US$0.3 million) would cover 50% of total project costs, including all
foreign exchange costs and 35% of local costs. GOK would finance the
remaining project costs.
Procurement and Disbursement
48.     Civil works remaining to be financed under the project would cost
approximately US$84.7 million, excluding physical contingencies, price
contingencies, and engineering and administrative costs.  Only
approximately US$10 million (12% ot the civil works), are suitable for
international competitive bidding (ICB), as the major components of the
dam and much of the main canals, which normally constitute the larger
contracts in irrigation projects, have already been awarded to contractors
and do not form a part of this project. Eligible domestic bidders would
be entitled to a 7.5% preference on works procured under ICB. Most of the
remaining works would not be suitable for packaging in bids large enough
to be of interest to foreign contractors and would be procured through
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB). The tenders issued would be designed to
solicit maximum comApetition and would be packaged to attract competition
from larger contractors but would allow awards to be made on indiviLdual
schedules in order to interest smaller contractors. Over 50% of the works
by value would be packaged in bids exceeding US$500,000 and these would be
subject to prior review by the Bank Group. GOK will use the already
agreed ICB and LCB models for the works Let to contract under the project.
Small works, not exceeding 10% of civil works costs, would be procured
under piece-work or rate contracts. GOK piece-work and rate contract
procedures have been reviewed by the Bank Group and found acceptable for
smaller works. GOK departmental forces would be used only when required
for safety and quality considerations. The aggregate cost of civil works
carried out under force account will not exceed 10% of the cost of civil
works.
49.     For the minor conveyance works (US$12.5 million), it is
anticipated that a significant part of the design and construction work
would be undertaken by qualified engineering companies. The ID has
established terms and conditions for the engagement of qualified
engineering companies tor the design and construction of minor conveyance
systems and intends contracting a significant part of those systems to
such firms.
50.     For equipment, vehicles and materials (US$5.0 million), Indian
suppliers would be entitled to a 15% preference on equipment procured
under ICB and the bid documents will specify that eligibility and the
manner of its application. Because ot the small volume and prices ot most
ot the components, and because of existing servicing and spare parts
facilities, there are considerable advantages to be derived from procuring
locally manutactured equipment and vehicles. Light equipment and vehicles
are readily available domestically at competitive prices. GOK wiLl use
the model bidding documents for both ICB and LCB prepared by GOI, and
approved by the Bank Group unless the items are available on GOI's



-16-
Director General of Stores and Disposals (DGSD) Schedule, whose
procurement procedures have also been found acceptable by the Bank Group.
The Bank Group staff would pre-review all equipment and vehicle
procurements in excess of US$100,000 and post-review the remainder.
51.     Disbursements under the credit and loan would be made against 100%
of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment, materials and
vehicles and the ex-factory cost of such items if manufactured locally
and 70% of the costs of locally procured items; 90% of the costs of civil
works on the minor water conveyance systems; 70% for other civil works
expenditures incurred up to June 30, 1984 and 50% thereafter. This
arrangement would help GOK during a period of budgetary shortfalls and
encourage on-time project implementation. For costs of monitoring,
evaluation and studies, and the establishment costs of the Minor
Conveyance and Operations and Maintenance Divisions of the Irrigation
Department, reimbursement would be 90%. US$7.0 million will be left
unallocated. Withdrawal applications for civil works carried out under
contracts exceeding Rs 300,000, and for equipment, materials and vehicles
will be fully documented. Withdrawal applications in respect of civil
works carried out under force account and under contracts for less than
Rs 300,000, and for expenditures in respect of monitoring, evaluation and
studies will be reimbursed against statements of expenditures certified
by the Chief Engineer, Kallada. (Such reimbursement claims for civil
works would be submitted only on completion of the works under the
contract). This supporting documentation will be retained by the ID in
one central location and made available to Bank Group staff on request.
The expenditures reimbursed against statements of expenditures would be
audited annually by independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank Group.
Full documentation for the minor water conveyance systems would, in
addition to the contractor's bills and evidences of payments, include a
copy of the certification of commissioning signed by the Executive
Engineer in charge of implementation. It is expected that disbursements
will be completed by March 31, 1987. To assure that the minor conveyance
system is given adequate priority, GOK would ensure that the construction
of the minor water conveyance systems shall be carried out simultaneously
with, or as soon as feasible after, the construction of the major works.
(See Project Agreement, Section 3.08.) Up to US$7.5 million would be
allowed for retroactive financing for eligible civil works and equipment
on account of payments made after April 1, 1981 in order to cover costs
incurred since this project was commenced.
Benefits and Economic Justification
52.     The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is 20% excluding
the sunk costs for the partially completed dam, canals, distributaries and
branches. With these sunk costs, the ERR is 14%, indicating the viability
of the project as a whole, including the costs already incurred. The
proposed project would assist in expanding the area under irrigation in
Kerala by 37,600 ha. Total farm income in a typical holding in the garden
lands is projected to increase from about Rs 6,000 per ha to Rs 27,000
per ha as a result of the intensified coconut cultivation, and net incomes
on paddy lands are projected to increase from about Rs 2,000 to about
Rs 6,000 per ha, or more if vegetables or other high-value crops are
grcwn. Based on these assumptions, the percentage of households in the



-17-
project command area below the poverty line can be expected to fall from
about 70% to about 40%.
53.     Civil works construction under the project would generate a total
of approximately 33 million man-days of employment, or about 22,000 jobs
for five years. Incremental employment generated by intensified coconut
cultivation including under-cropping would amount to about 90 man-days per
year per hectare and total employment generated in the garden lands would
reach about 2 million man-days a year at full development. Summer
cropping in the paddy land would add approximately one million man-days
per year.
Cost Recovery
54.     The investment cost of the project would average Rs 29,900 per ha
of command area. Annual Operations and Maintenance (O & M) costs are
estimated at Rs 100 per ha. Recovery of these costs would be through
water charges, taxes, and direct recovery of the minor conveyance system
costs. Water charges are currently Rs 66 per ha for garden lands; for
paddy lands the rate varies from Rs 33 per ha for single-cropped fields to
Rs 99 per ha for potentially triple-cropped fields. Kerala's collection
experience is better than average - close to 100% of charges is being
collected in the major rice-growing areas where water supply is
guaranteed. Sales taxes are a major source of State revenue (60%) and
incremental coconut product sales will contribute to State revenue.
Direct recovery of the minor conveyance system costs (of about Rs 3,600
per ha) will be according to the standard GOI/GOK policy for command area
development works, whereby farmers repay costs in proportion to land
holdings according to a formula agreed between GOI and GOK. Under the
present level of water charges, taxes and GOI/GOK recovery policies for
investment in irrigation systems, the rent and cost recovery indices would
be 6% and 13%, respectively. Given that average farm incomes in later
years' in the project would increase by up to 300%, a much higher water
charge on the garden lands would be justified in the future in view of the
high development costs. Studies are included in the project that examine
water and water-related charges and the implementation of an agreed set of
revised charges is required as soon as feasible following completion of
the study. GOK would submit its plan for the review study to the Bank
Group for its comments by September 30, 1982 and carry out the study by
December 31, 1983. (See Project Agreement Section 3.05.)
Project Risks
55.     The principal potential risk concerns the pace at which farmers
can be expected to incur on-farm investments and adopt improved treecrop
cultivation methodologies once irrigation is available. To achieve
projected benefits from intensifying coconut cultivation, farmers would
have to invest in planting about 1.1 million coconut palms withiin seven
years and to invest in undercropping with treecrops on about 7,0)00 ha.
Such a target is reasonable, although sensitivity analyses indicate that a
short-fall of 25% in the number of new palms planted, combined with a
three-year lag would decrease the ERR to 17%.



-18-
56.     If coconut yields, which are also a significant determinant of the
project ERR, were reduced by 25%, the ERR would fall to 17%. A 25% and
50% increase in project costs would lower the ERR to 17% and 15%,
respectively. A uniform seven-year lag in benefits would lower the ERR to
12%.
Environmental Effects
57.     Agreement would be reached with GOK that it will take all measures
considered necessary to minimize the hazards of malaria and other
water-related diseases in the project area. (See Project Agreement,
Section 3.07.) Environmental hazards due to chemical pesticides will be
minimal since the research and extension activities emphasize mechanical
and biological pest and disease control.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.     The draft Development Credit Agreement and Loan Agreement between
India and the Association and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and the State of Kerala, and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
60.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit and loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit and loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
June 7, 1982



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      RIEREICE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVCRACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND sq. XH.)                                                     HOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL           32B7 .6                               HDST RECENT       LOM INCQtE            MIDDLE INCMIE
AGRICULTURAL    1809.5              1960  /b   1970 lb ESTIKATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  60.0       100.0    190.0              232.3                 1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     111.1       152.5    241.8              499.4                 1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUS.)  434850.0   547569.0  659217.0                  ..                     ..
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9        19.7      22.0              17.3                   40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     974.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      1621.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2115
4                           POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. EM.                      132.3       166.6    200.5              153.6                  373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    246.7       308.0    355.8              360.3                 2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.1        42.4      41.1              37.4                   39.8
15-64 YRS.                        56.8         54.7      56.0              59.2                   56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.1         2.9       2.9               3.5                    3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8         2.3       2.1               2.1                    2.3
URBAN                              2.5         3.3       3.3               3.4                    3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    44.2         40.3      34.0              27.7                   29.7
CNUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    22.7         17.4      13.5              10.2                    7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1         2.8       2.3               2.5                    1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0       3782.0   5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..        12.0      22.6              20.4                   44.1
FOOD' AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0       102.0      93.0             107.1                  123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   93.0        92.0      91.0              98.6                  112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          52.0        51.0      50.0              56.9                   62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0        15.0      13.0              14.2                   19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MDRTALITY RATE     27.1        20.4      14.8              14.6                    4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   42.2         47.5      51.9              57.7                   64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       134.0    125.0               89.1                   50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        17.0      33.0              30.1                   45.9
URBAN                               ..        60.0      83.0              65.8                   68.0
RURAL                               *-         6.0      20.0              20.1                   34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        18.0      20.0              17.6                   53.4
URBAN                               ..        85.0      87.0              71.0                   71.0
RURAL                               ..         1.0       2.0               4.8                   42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          4850.4/c    4889.0   3617.4             3857.7                 4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     963O.07T    8296.5   6429.4             6411.8                 2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2149.0/d    1612.9   1311.1             1132.8                  588.5
URBAN                               ..          ..    363.5              322.3                  579.6
RURAL                               ..          ..  10429.1             5600.5                 1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2         5.6       5.2
URBAN                              5.2         5.6       4.8
RURAL                              5.2         5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6         2.8
URbAN                              2.6         2.8
RURAL                              2.6         2.8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
Of DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
:.NDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE9AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC               ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSD ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  61.0         73.0       79.0               85.9                     99.8
MALE                   80.0         90.0       94.0               94.4                   100.6
FEMALE                 40.0         56.0       63.0               64.5                    98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   20.0         26.0       28.0               38.0/aa                 53.5
MALE                   30.0         36.0       37.0               34.6/nai                58.4
FEMALE                 10.0         15.0       18.0               18.0/as                 48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   8.0             1.0        1.0                 3.8                    21.1
PUPIL-TEAChER RATIO
PRIMARY                              29.0         41.0       41.0               32.8                     34.2                                      b
SECONDARY                            16.0         21.0         ..               19.9                     31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          28.0         33.4       36.0                52.8                    86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.7          1.1        1.3                 1.7                    12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            4.9         21.5       32.5               35.3                    174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.0          0.0        1.0                 3.7                    50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    11.0         16.0       16.9                14.6                   106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0             6.3        3.8                 3.4                     4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4    220670.5  256699.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     31.2         32.4       31.9               29.3                    37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                74.0         74.0       71.0               69.8                     50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0         11.0       11.0               14.1                     21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  43.6         40.3       38.9                39.7                    40.2
MALE                                   58.0         52.6       51.3                51.5                    49.8
FEMALE                                 28.2         27.1       25.7                23.3                    31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.0          1.1        1.1                 1.1                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGhEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7            26.3/e    22.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7            48.9/e    49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1             6.77e      7.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6            17.27e    16.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMLATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LtVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      132.0              134.1                   248.6
RURAL                                  ..           ..      114.0              111.6                    193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                  ..                  249.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                  ..                   234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       40.3               41.7                     21.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..       50.7               51.7                     32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithbetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included 1n total only.
/b   Unless atherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for host Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d 1958;  /e 1964-65.
May, 1981



ANNEX I
Page 31 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCiAL. UIfCATtS
Notes:  Alohoogh i:b. data  ire Orafo tsr  acuc                 I ta li   loge  the  ost author marts. Iat eibl,i  should ales ha   -ds that  hy say  ot ha LItes-
tahoollyopaal  bcue  fte  akotsade--s eoin    adctopte asad by diff.-as  na-stJis   sniltIa  'h. tat..  Tb. data see, tIss-
thit.   sful nol descibe o-deru  f magrirude, indiate lterda, isd chsnac-jnitceraim  stirs diff-rsens  hbt.-   nuss,,is..
The  sferencu gri ps  are  i) the sam  noru pl scop of the s-bject coutr-  aid (2)  -c-eey getu    ihssats   ih                         . g  iom   hsi.  ree    ea
.rc tocultual uffsicisC .  Frthe rfararc-groo  Oat   b   nrgsse   onlnr   slh                  ettsi   bs        b hig ah-  i-diats  cad-  ahas  taip shotly
najorosy of the cunstias to a troo   has dccc for the   otdhcsr-Dsstsonrg    tnotisant  sha f`eddlnators dese-  ot- Ihuaeleh t -i dai
IdIsncnfr,acr                 t   bsneciedtcialoaurae   ffotrisstoto-'.Tssshsgsr                                                     onlyosst.u  iso   h-aritt1stoh.
rs dIcasraoi.iecrnhctttpssrssthc    groons.                               lI       ~      e  1  .     1ijM ,    .  .l..                --      t..1101l
LuDI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d1 410 (c-usttheq.r.                                                0plbti .. .... fsp.tl  s  -to.iy    i nbr  andsisa. - Ponritto. ntl
onl i- Torl  tort  I ton .nIa  the Ic-t sn   odaruuoiin oue.rsu.atus)dtidhrhs    spstsaahrsibpnsisd
1970, tod i979  liru                                                                      ned iiad  esiansen. sues,..i..its.  ate..which sffs..i-pa.i-it itss.
UNPtPER CAtlfPTIIOFlPh  C l   - isuloouato   o   eiehu   necgy, bcoa                                     clprpat  ra hospitalsbist                        ph-ipa/, taa          _fptab,
iid   ugrie, pcrolus.  acurihI gas ond hpr-k sooJea  an1g97      itrsl cs                     adyrosiEosptabe irs  anraal  osptai  adi astisi  nt  atatit
dti.. d a p-nsids f-Idtbthtahnibea
Tonsi   tid-itat Itlcoctoods) - hi ot Jolt 1, 1960, 1900.PERandP1979           tiii5IliP   Il
-datag.i,,A'..esir fIIe,ale    .   .aIi   tIesfit                                                                                 -dbi lesesor  Ifr hoi-sholt) - tna. ahs   nd
dtiit    dfIiln   f  ra   na   a  afo    occbl  yo   asa._bE   ar   sa-Absdcs Il                                                            lstgd  r  ayW' Pl-y41 sat hal intFluta   i
dis.  cuinis,16,  90 oi           d 1919 doca .Il                                                   nba hus oushl  foratcitielpup1a
POpuistiOt Proloonuois                                                 Asaraga sushee ofssaaeeeisbnl   ra.asjoa       rng
tooasoit  tr200-Cono   pylolcprjooosie   ar  c   90                       e   fpamaarcoine   ihn  set rdta  i h.it    intoa
coa   oploo   6   g  adsran    hltnra iyad  et100   ue.                 eaiig.h       spoisl. Daligtrit   s-prish.totas   i
Pnifsooeudef paiaus...  Incf    otl..  pros.b.r s  of .brer .s.rlisnos-utacoydahparts
org6lorstpeotn Iyd    torc  locral-orc    onr  uprcpt   noeAra   otscnnltSaos  fdilne       aa.aht   t   us
ardfrrolocyrrrdtnrprononio   poopJo ....                                                Adjastsoler    at
StnoninpooiccrIsuaunayoloolo   hroI   o  rul.sne                                                lay    nrs        utla9aadfaaed                 rs  socti las e-I        tel
sO    it   aei_tolc   h  0no   ur   ndas   h   g  ircoen-orcfet   toi   t.a   h  piaylrlasprabgso
ir   ouun-Thsouhnn   nl   ti   esolIt...dollsn                                               rerysbc-g    cuioos.crelyicue    bttr   gdbi
rbcniasss   luroluntssspodcsoror,hreahtierruo .rebd.do.e..dlfsen-ethhofrP.'wdccur;P
or  oar  oolariotiif  raoly    Os uatioat ppoatlr Iresuootltlt    cn-e   dccicerlnr    a  eoe    I   sc
so  ooe   n  h   onso  rrpcjca   oaateltlo   fth    oulle                                anntosppiiir   ro oihnei_ofiil  coi  t 
Pocoloclco lnmait1                                                       eroloded.~~~~~~~~~~  it
trcal icra; 19t1. 19)0 acd 1975       - fOana."lilg- Otolode  -echical  o duario  or. oih. prcog.ritssihoest   serd
kypOd io.iroolorr_h d   I- Coacon          -ediooo    fcgocIs f __oo                           DU ToIpo   sdprtsn    fscnir   ntsro
nohy   1960,, lDtO nod. J,97tgla,nAdiP-doE- Iiaohnraol-ptisur.idsnndr-oaisostsatldI
fooaisAg  curceIaos I-Oidst(-4ydr)   okcnde i-prnr   n  ocnanIrncdode    ystb-to   echr  nh
Iscr  16,197,r  1979 dot.                                                                    dui bter  ktat  c___ce_st           f - LtnsadleCbn  os                 f aoi
peon potlsntfr15-I,ffb-l, d190-9
poulnnn   1960  190,anlldldaa,ni ifr
pooolc Z16,17.an   99dt                                                                   hrotd lesn Icchgenpnil 706110. peIhosn              n    I ppulalosdm  uds o--
Ccosoroodnttotac-Aoragnumhyofioiterarounollbaol                                         ltosast-esiors   ccossrn'Jdbo   rarrherrff                   trnlo   ofidl
hrorulero   cor    s-hdfhsreisosytrscaeip-tofs                                                      enisinyyc    aafoer__ersmannhosttoltdc
cul Ico tcit; nrolln  fior-ean  ansogri ecoit  it 196 t 190chd199roocooriiohishdlitiog
YeeulhPlanc             1`a. .Acrc  ~. os--hooiThdo)-  Aholusrcocsnrtfroror  ltrooacoolcolf.._                                                        CerelosdifoibroadoatIdc~y
puhldoto    Orosdpinrlpc II           crdig  tosrlts, Iniocdrd
isl cc coloda  idy-o oo. Cooltoe    rrr   cd   s~   cgctitdootuc
na5irs         19omai   psdosc-onrbo;1616.17,so   99da                                           mora Laoc  crc  Ct_usodt   -  otncal    cit  sst-                       tld
Pscooctsd socIl of coiciss (tePost  of reubi- n ID    ~- Csu     fo                        rr  tot-ott snd  seeployr  hoc t0 dth-  bselnra hitdet,   t.
prIY;16,10   d do978oilb     d topcI   loylrdsii    rdcon,Ipctlt                                  ctoprbt;l,17    d17   aa
t....ccchsuro-lofoo               ylortcfadluru   dout-huoYo Oquss                      Arrudc-orl C-1ceod-                       d.dcfccc    fbyt-g,fti-srybt_toga
ssou  0c  srioon   h  Co  uod o  pysol god ddd   o   orlat-fsiga  crnng   tli    ao   oo  1960.1 i9-ad- 1979                                                          e dac
64   tcdnlnotiycngnotoootlresotr,cdrcgc,snedutl ct_nlLac   trrlucogontdocc,aofcdcn
1-o-u    960hol   0 lo dt 191-c,  f97- 000  977101._179Pad 179  hso
Pet-oatinotuppyofpyotrir iaront..tnr OssO  - root-rio  it-rof  I troiit ,siioptIo  br                 Pocst)--l col,tl1 dsi            e.le ,  n   nasPtlou-pc  _i,ot
burinefrolfct-n   taiai   yCo  ptcn9idr too euniton Mpnso enrasiotnoc.mie  ardl  p-ni                                                jlc pouaico  lge        s t '- -d irtiec
O Goold y196hu0ny 19701-6_,197                                                                                                                    P...177.Jtgetncheccl cC (h---
hcdgrel-l  (P-'      sysroncosnd-ccalsO   pnthcnn--Coonucfdcoolcruhorn                                                                    ouh dtokond)-  kccioOll -.r
trPlss -- 1o soe    rslt  coOler, A196,1 970l~       I 000     -d I97  doco  ,e                  oef. hiR--ofdt                                                   e
il.d.cti~~~~~~~~~~~   :1  f d-pnrrnfotiT htty
of ogs per thocucod Icco htcrhn. ~ ~    ~            ~            ~           ~          ~           e''h""dIfP'p....
ocotuchts coo y (ptco   fosltcf-oa .o  a,odoua      o-otltodnol ly  ldeoas Iet- 1o  sor   laf. not-food rf -drm
hsrfprpl  (hotol  urba, nodrroljelh  rrionsidocorftcs-f
Ifbith-soppu   (incude   nnoc         i-cAatc          ....s on  ...so b- If ho -p-cctmlIIn         ofodol.  i,'             .                'l          ,b       P beic
ooadrd  ...belogottYtocr             ~    h  le,nal   coto   bcho -- dnu l. lt-oiota rnlhh   dPIntnft-hgo   con                                  d l   I   ronrs
foeflyt cfon  ct-c.: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~df
yntototafrt -cf thon  cesprot-cor pooircucns .  ec dot  donposl  .pi, oncloIdc...                                        le           i.. ..k
the ocllioto.:t and dlscotal, uioh cc_ u-mbe.d.c.out  sp-Per.o.s..ofd ooooh
on,doo,ioo-uo              l-r b-d-i--hcdcns-pensis  no  -hoct,cftcItldolnlseondrish-I.Pcondcn.ioa...rlald-a  IoII_
Our cottaI _cn    .eCoofracinr.toc-fon.frno
(oculat inn nrc 7kotcocro  -    C)no dfsulc cn Ir ho lninl  nId pooccfpyi
clans qulfIs) ht-o             edibole scola_d    nettlnl
Pouloln  rclnorohstcn      oplaoo   doIs  btnor   gr prfco Icin
naradtnlotoutscroo.pocrcl "oht  so   sIc ..t-unnnRrFORC



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DVPlQP1ENT DAU
GNP PER CAPITA IN 19 80 US$ 240
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980/81 -                                                               ANNU2AL RATE OF GROM1II M2  constant Priced)
US$ Bln.       7                 1955/56-1959/60  1960/61-1964/65   ,1965166-1969/70   197071-197417    1975/76-1979/8
GNP at Market Prices                   159.37      100.0                      3.7                 3.6                 3.6                 2.9                4.1
Gross Domestic Investment               38.46        24.1
Gross National Saving                   35.30        22.1
Current Account Balance                 -3.16       -2.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN  197$
Value Added (at factor cost)             Labor Force   i/             V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln.              7.              Hil.        2                  US$          7. of National Averag
Agriculture                             39.8             39.6              180.6      70.7                 220               56
Industry                                25.2             25.1               32.2      12.6                 783              199
Servi-es                                35.5             35.3               42.6      16.7                 833              211
Total/Average                          1 0.o5              l        O O.o            TV                    3
GOVER?MENT FINANCE
General Government         e/                                        Central Govermaenl
Rs. Bln.         X of GDP                                             Rs.  Bn.           7f rD
fIOB    1980181  1976/77-1908                                           908 1980/81           1976177-1980/81
Current Receipts                     238.19      19.0         19.1                                         125.41        10.0           10.6
Current Expenditures                 238.93      19.0         18.0                                         133.29        10. A          10.6
Correct Surplus/Deficit               -0.74      -0.1           1.1                                        - 7.88       - U.6           N.S.
Capital Expenditures  f/             107.35       8.5          7.6                                          79.99         6.4            5.4
External Assistance (net) d/          12.86       1.0           1.0
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES             1970/71    1974/75       1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    19SO/81    February 1981   February 1982
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                 109.8       194.6        223.2       273.2        329.1       398.6       467.9        553.1         536.13            615.53
Bank Credit to Government (net)    54.6            95.3         97.9       118.5       137.3        162.4       201.0        258.1         238.22            292.18
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector   64.6           126.5        153.7       185.1       212.2        253.5       306.3        363.2         349.03            422.15
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                                                        April-Feb 1980/81  April-Feb  1981/82
Money and Quasi Money as h. of GDP  27.3           28.0         30.1        33.9         40.8        40.9        44.1         44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                    100.0        174.9       173.0        176.6       185.8       185.8        217.6       257.0          255.9                     280.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                   7.7        25.2         -1.1         2.1          5.2         ,          17.1         18.1           18.4                      9.6
Bank Credit to Government (net)    15.0             9.2          2.7        21.0         15.9        18.3        23.8         28.4           28.6 S'                  Z227 b/
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector   19.4            18.2         21.5        20.4         14.6        19.5        20.8         18.6           16.6 I/                  20.9 _/
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversiom technique used in the World Bank Atl.s. 1981.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
./  Quick Estimates, Central Statistical Organication.
e/  Computed from  trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year end one observatio.
after last year of listed period.
d/ World Bank estimates; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
e/  Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/  All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
g/  Percentage change from  end-February, 1980 to end-February 1981.
h/ Percentage change from end-February, 1981 to end-February 1982.
i/ Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from Sixth Five Year Plan, Table 2.6 and Annexure Table 13.8.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1978/79    1979/80    1980/81 i  1981/82             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977/78 - 1980/81)
(US $ Mln.)                                                                                                        US$ Mlm.        7.
Exports of Goods                   6,978       7,998       8,504       8,700           Engineering Goods              908         12
Imports of Goods                  -8,519    -11,302    -15,838    -16,000              Tea                            506          7
Trade Balance                     -1,541      -3,304    - 7,334    - 7,300             Gems                           403          5
NFS (net)                            717       1,100         722         915           Clothing                       501          7
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                   - 824      -2,204    - 6,612    - 6.385                Products                    457          6
Jute Manufactures              303          4
Interest Income (net) k/              14         196         370          212          Iron Ore                       321          4
Net Transfers   1/                 1,185       1,577       3,079       1,840           Cotton Textiles                316          4
Sugar                         102           1
Balance on Current Account           375       - 431      -3.163      -4.333           Others                      3,541          48
Official Aid                                                                           Total                       7.448         100
Disbursements                   1,695       1,738      2,337       2,724  ./       EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1981
Amortization                    - 702       - 608      - 707        - 659                                                 US$ billion
Transactions with IMF              - 158         -         1,035         690           Outstanding and Disbursed                   17.2
All Other Items                      265       - 475         147       - 797           Undisbursed                                  7. 5
Outstanding, including                     24.7
Increase in Reserves (-)          -1,475       - 224         351       2,375               Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end yesr) P        7,357       7,579       7,228       4,853
Net Reserves   (end year) I/    7,357          7,579      6,901        3,876           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980/81  I_/ n/  11.2 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                             IBRD/IDA LENDING. DECEMBER 31. 1981
Imports  (Petroleum)               2,043       4,045       6,657       6,075                                                US$ million
IBRD         IDA
Exports                               24          26          33        n a
Outstanding and Disbursed         984          5646
Undisbureed                       880          4634
Outstanding, including
Undisbursed                  1864         10280
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971             US$1.00 - Re 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.13333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972         US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                        Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1980               US$1.00 - Rs 7.930
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
Spot Rate end-December 1981               US$1.00 - Rs 9.099
Re 1.00 - US$0.110
j/ Estimated.
k/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans and
charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
/  Figures given incLude workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within oEficial aid disbursements.
m/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
nt Amortization and Lnterest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
 / Includes $ 234 million of commercial borrowings.
P/ Including gold.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1982)
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.       Approval        Purpose                           Bank            IDA 1/       Undisbursed 2/
45 Loans/                                                1,516.0              --
73 Credits fully disbursed                                    -           4,315.4             -
342-IN    1973      Education                                               12.0            1.70
456-IN    1974       HP Apple Proc. & Marketing              -              13.0            1.15
1011-IN    1974       Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD               52.0              -              8.38
482-IN    1974       Karnataka Dairy                         -              30.0           15.19
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                     -               83.0           27.24
521-IN    1975       Rajasthan Dairy                         -              27.7           10.71
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                    -               16.4            2.41
585-IN    1976       Uttar Pradesh Water Supply              -              40.0           12.40
598-IN    1976       Fertilizer Industry                     -             105.0           12.71
604-IN    1976       Power Transmission IV                   -             150.0           34.00
609-IN    1976      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.            -                4.0            1.30
610-IN    1976       Integrated Cotton Development           -              18.0            9.24
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation             145.0              -             68.27
1260-IN    1976       IDBI II                                40.0             -              8.17
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                       25.0              -             20.90
1313-IN    1977       Telecommunications VI                  80.0             -             11.52
1335-IN    1977       Bombay Urban Transport                25.0              -              6.94
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development                -              30.0           20.86
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development               -               20.0            5.82
685-IN    1977       Singrauli Thermal Power                 -             150.0           19.37
687-IN    1977      Madras Urban Development                -               24.0            0.10
690-IN    1977       WB Agric. Extension & Research          -               12.0          12.00
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                       14.0             -              6.57
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development                  -              10.0            4.40
720-IN    1977       Periyar Vaigai Irrigation               -              23.0           12.88



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank           IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development         -                8.0           5.18
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                  -              70.0          23.76
737-IN    1978      Rajasthan Agric. Extension             -               13.0           3.43
740-IN    1978      Orissa Irrigation                       -              58.0          21.29
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                      78.5              -             4.24
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage               -              107.0          75.63
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II                          87.0          16.59
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                            -               8.0           6.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector              25.0              -            10.04
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power          105.0              -            38.55
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                   -              117.6          70.93
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                    -              200.0          90.86
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture             -               14.0          12.37
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                      -              85.0          56.51
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries               -               17.5          12.48
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                       -              16.0          13.74
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII               120.0              -            43.46
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                         -              150.0         112.81
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                 -              196.0         181.19
843-IN    1979      Haryana Irrigation                      -             111.0          27.64
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                        -             190.0         130.32
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage         -               38.0          15.56
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research          -              27.0          24.01
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -                  25.0          14.95
871-IN    1979      NCDC                                    -              30.0          15.14
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              50.0              -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power               -              200.0         135.20
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                      -              129.0          88.33
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply                -              48.0          35.25
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II         -              175.0          59.52
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry           -              23.0          14.63
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                       -               20.0          19.22
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II               -             210.0         155.28



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2!
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry             -              37.0          26.50
981-IN    1980      Population II                          -              46.0          44.72
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -               32.0          29.33
1004-IN    1980      U.P. Tubewells                         -              18.0          14.05
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                 -              175.0         160.24
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                   -             300.0         249.36
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                             -               22.0          20.95
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension          -              10.0           9.64
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport               -              56.0          51.85
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                  -              54.0          51.69
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                        -              80.0          73.53
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                    100.0             -            33.50
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 25.0             -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  -             225.0         199.63
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                   30.0              -            28.09
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore
Development                      400.0             -           148.49
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                      -              35.0          34.20
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                      -              83.0          80.70
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II            -              42.0          42.00
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                 -             140.0         140.00
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                -             314.0         267.50
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation              -              54.0          54.00
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project             -             400.0          387.90
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.          -              23.0          23.00
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.           -              28.0          28.00
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II              -              37.0          37.00
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -             125.0         124.30



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank           IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project - II    -                400.0          400.00
1177-IN*   1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation        -              220.0         220.00
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                 100.0              -           100.00
1178-IN*   1982      West Bengal Social Forestry            -               29.0          29.00
1185-IN*   1982      Kanpur Urban Development               -              25.0           25.00
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                             150.0             -           150.00
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II          300.0              -           300.00
2095-IN*   1982      ARDC IV                               190.0             -           190.00
1209-IN*   1982      ARDC IV                                -              160.0         160.00
1219-IN*+  1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural
Extension                            -               6.0           6.00
Total                                     3,570.5        10,632.6
of which has been repaid                1,137.4            94.7
Total now outstanding                     2,433.1        10,537.9
Amount Sold                      133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8           -                -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/         2,433.1        10,537.9
Total undisbursed (excluding *)           1,062.1         4,192.2
1/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in
terms of their US dollar equivalents, as established at the time
of Credit negotiations and as subsequently presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived
from cumulative disbursements converted to their US dollar
equivalents on the basis of the SDR/US dollar exchange rate
(1 SDR = US$1.11309) in effect on March 31,1982.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.
+   Not yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                        Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9         -        0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.             0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                   8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                          6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        0.9       8.4
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited          15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0             -       38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited              15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.              2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited                2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                 1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                   28.0         -       28.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS          164.7       11.8    176.5
Less:   Sold                           40.0        2.6      42.6
Repaid                        24.5          -      24.5
Cancelled                      6.2         1.3      7.5
Now Held                       94.0        7.9    101.9
Undisbursed                    84.9        1.4     86.3



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1982)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$962 million in FY81, compared to
US$729 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through March 31, 1982 total US$858 million, representing an increase
of about 28% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline as of
March 31, 1982, is US$5,254 million.
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date; March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ln. No. 2051 Fourteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$150 million loan of October 8, 1981;
Effective Date: December 3, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These loans are supporting industrial development in lndia through
a well-established development finance company and are designetd to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export--oriented.
Disbursements under all loans are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 1260   Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1511   IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. It is fully committed, but close
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20
supervision is required to ensure timely implementation of sub-projects and
full disbursement of the loan by the closing date. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
Land acquisition has been completed.  Basic engineering work is
expected to be finished by June, and construction to commence in July 1982.
Tendering for major equipment is underway. Project progress is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 1125 Hazira Fertilizer Project; US$400 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity.  The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government, and in
order to bring the project to a close in a timely manner, no new sub-project
proposals will be approved. Credit 1125 is proceeding satisfactorily with
initial implementation and procurement actions on schedule.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing well. Engineering and construction
activities are proceeding on schedule. As of January 1982, four of the
fifteen well platforms included in the project were already producing, con-
tributing over 30,000 bls/day to Bombay High's total oil production. The
project is expected to be fully disbursed on schedule.
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50 million loan and
and       US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 874   May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Ln, No. 2076  Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$300 million loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
Cr. No. 1172  Second Korba Thermal Power Project; US$400 milliLon credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1989
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 together with Credit 1172,
which became effective March 16, 1982, support the construction of the
2100 MW development, consisting of three 200 MW and three 500 MW generating
units, at the second such station, at Korba, together with related facilities
and associated transmission. Loan 1648/Credit 874, together with Loan 2076,
which also became effective March 16, 1982, support similar investments at
Ramagundam. Loan 1887/Credit 1053, assist in financing the first three
200 MW generating units at the Farakka station. The National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these
power stations. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW exten-
sion of the Tata Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help
meet the forecast load growth in the Bombay area.  All these large-scale
thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and
Korba, construction works are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage
has occurred in the implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project. The
first unit at the Singrauli station was commissioned on schedule in
February 1982. In the Third Trombay project, design modifications for plant
equipment, price increases for materials, and increases in customs duties
have resulted in an increase in the total cost of the project. The Govern-
ment of India is raising additional funds from internal sources to meet the
additional cost.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily; disbursements are ahead
of appraisal projections.
Ln. No. 1313 Telecommunications VI Project; US$80 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592 Telecommunications VII Project; US$120 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112  Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily and there are no
major problems. Imports of electronic switching equipment for the projects
were behind schedule, but procurement contracts have now been finalized and
the loan amounts fully committed. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts and
Telegraphs Department remains sound.  Credit 1112, which became effective
in June 1981, provides for the continued expansion, over a three-year period,
of the Indian telecommunications network, particularly in rural areas. It
also provides for the modernization and upgrading of three existing telecom-
munications equipment factories, and the establishment of three additional
ones. Progress with bidding procedures is excellent and it is expected that
the project will proceed according to schedule.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manufac-
turing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to improve
their performance and availability. Physical execution of the project is
proceeding satisfactorily, with procurement for the two major components over
75% completed.
Cr. No. 1072  Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads
and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar. It is
proceeding on schedule, with the first year's program of rural road construc-
tion well underway and agreement reached on much of the second year's
program.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20
Ln. No. 1335  Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033  Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the Bombay project is satisfactory, with over 70%
of the loan disbursed. All project-financed buses are in service, increasing
the fleet to nearly 2,000, in accordance with appraisal estimates. However,
delays in construction of new workshop facilities have been sulbstantial;
construction began in January 1982, but to allow for completion the loan
closing date may have to be extended one year. Traffic management civil
works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now proceeding satisfac-
torily.
Implementation of works under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfactorily,
a good start having been made on the important early procurement steps.
However, financial and managerial performance is lagging behind expectations
and must now receive project authorities' full attention if physical and
financial performance targets are to be achieved.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1082  Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Cr. No. 1185  Kanpur Urban Development Project; US$25 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: April 22, 1982j
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Progress on Credit 687 is generally satisfactory; costs are within
appraisal targets on most components and the credit is nearly fully dis-
bursed. Construction is complete and cost recovery is excellent in the first
sites and services area. For the other two areas, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction required a one-year extension of the
closing date. Slum improvements benefitting about 30,000 families are com-
plete. Legal constraints and initially poor maintenance of improvements
hindered cost recovery for slum improvement at the outset. However, project
authorities have taken action to resolve these problems and cost recovery has
improved markedly.
Early project implementation of the second Madras project is
proceeding satisfactorily, with evidence that the lessons learned under the
first project are being heeded.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20
The Calcutta project is proceeding quite well in most sectors. Ini-
tial delays caused by materials shortages have eased and the pace of
implementation has picked up. Procurement and financial management issues
are being handled satisfactorily. Staff shortages in some of the implement-
ing agencies continue, and institutional development remains a priority.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule, but revised cost estimates for the
project, together with the initial implementation delays, may necessitate
a revision of the implementation timetable and adjustments to project scope.
Credit 1185 is aimed at providing shelter and urban services in
Kanpur, the largest city in Uttar Pradesh. Initial tendering is underway.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation of
technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the engage-
ment of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been made
to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046  Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Implementation under Credit 848 is satisfactory and the institution
building aspects of the project are nearing completion. However, initial
procurement problems and the Government's slow release of construction funds
may delay the project by about 12 months and result in cost overruns. Con-
struction work under Credit 842 is now gaining momentum and a large number of
contracts are due to be awarded shortly. However, the Government has had to
prepare a revised financing plan since the delay in the appointment of con-
struction consultants, together with last-minute design changes, caused a
two-year delay in the start of construction and consequent substantial cost
overruns. Initial delays in implementation of institutional arrangements and
tariff measures proposed for Credit 899 have been overcome and the project is
progressing satisfactorily. Implementation of Credit 1046 is proceeding
satisfactorily. Construction of rural schemes has commenced, and work on



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20
urban schemes is expected to begin shortly. All major materials contracts
for the first two years' requirements of the project have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1011  Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Ln. No. 1251 Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite Project; US$145 million loan (Third WirLdow) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126 million cre,dit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project; US$85 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:.
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$129 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Claosing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20
Cr. No. 1108  Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1177  Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation Project; US$220 million credit
of February 24, 1982; Effective Date:  Expected May 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. The Periyar Vaigai project in
Tamil Nadu experienced a 50% cost overrun due mainly to an underestimation of
rehabilitation work required and higher-than-anticipated unit costs. An IDA
mission undertook a comprehensive review and reformulation of the project in
1981. Project completion is now scheduled for March 1984. In the
Maharashtra I project, civil works in some project components are well behind
schedule and of poor quality. Remedial measures are under discussion. The
overall management and planning for implementation of the Gujarat II project
has been disappointing. The State Government and GOI are discussing ways to
resolve staffing difficulties and expedite progress. Progress of the remain-
ing projects is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction of about 160 tank
irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka. As of February 1982,
six of these schemes had been sanctioned for implementation, and another 28
were in various stages of preparation. Initial progress with project
preparation has been slow due to staff constraints and unfamiliarity of local
engineers with the design criteria agreed under the project.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Physical progress is proceeding satisfactorily, with approximately
40% of planned tubewells completed. The operation and maintenance, and
monitoring and evaluation components of the project need considerable
strengthening. The Government of UP has agreed to undertake specific actions
designed to address these deficiencies. Project completion may be delayed
by six months due to initial procurement delays.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective D)ate:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028  Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137  Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135  Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138  Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million
credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1219  Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$6 million credit approved March 30, 1982; Effective Date:
Expected August 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These twelve credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in twelve States in India. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh I and Orissa, in particular, significant
gains have been made under the projects. In West Bengal, a change in govern-
ment brought a temporary hiatus in project implementation, but the new State



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20
Government has reaffirmed its commitment, and project activities are resum-
ing. There has been considerable progress in staffing and civil works, but
the initial delays are likely to cause a two-year extension of the project.
In Bihar, project progress had been disappointing mainly due to serious
staffing vacancies. However, the pace of project implementation is expected
to accelerate following the decision by the Government of Bihar in January
1982 to provide necessary funds for the project and fill key posts. A
revised implementation schedule is under preparation. In Gujarat, Haryana
and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite Agricultural Extension
Project, the basic extension system has been established and attention now
needs to focus on the quality of extension recommendations and the filling of
remaining staff vacancies. In Kerala, project implementation has begun in
three of eleven districts; but further progress on the project will require
an early decision by the State Government to extend the T & V system to the
remaining eight districts. In Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, initial project
implementation is encouraging. Most extension workers have been posted and
are undergoing training. There is good evidence that extension recommenda-
tions are having a positive impact on farmers' activities. In the Madhya
Pradesh II project, implementation has begun in five of the twelve districts.
Extension workers are undergoing training and all staff are expected to be on
board by early May 1982.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Following the resolution of initial implementation delays caused by
staffing and funding problems, the project progress continues satisfactorily.
However, farmers' demand for coconut rehabilitation has been disappointing
and is not likely to meet the target. This shortfall will be offset by
increased implementation of new coconut planting and pepper rehabilitation.
Ln. No. 2095 Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation IV Project;
and       US$190 million loan and US$160 million credit of February 24,
Cr. No. 1209  1982; Effective Date:  Expected May 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project, which is a continuation of ARDC III, consists of a
two-year time slice of ARDC's lending program to farmers, mainly for minor
irrigation, and including amounts for diversified lending and for the support
of training programs for the staff of participating banks. Implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30., 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, there has been significant recent
progress, especially in Haryana and Andhra Pradesh. Commitment of funds to
research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily, although corresponding
disbursements lag behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20
the Project Unit have been made to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The primary aim of this project is to assist in the development of
the agricultural universities in Bihar and Assam, improve the quality of
practical training provided to students and enhance their employment oppor-
tunities. Implementation of the civil works component of this project was
initially delayed at both locations on account of frequent top management
changes, shortages in raw materials and political unrest (in Assam). Project
implementation has picked up since and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the extended closing date. The technical assistance component
of this project has been satisfactorily completed and the computer for the
Institute of Agricultural Research Statistics is fully operational.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date
June 30, 1982
There has been progress in the construction of bag storage
warehouses. However, difficulties in land acquisition and in providing rail
sidings, exacerbated by management problems, have caused GOI to propose
modifications to the project to provide additional bag storage capacity in
lieu of bulk storage facilities. Land acquisition for the additional bag
storage warehouses is proceeding, but a significant extension of the closing
date would be necessary to complete the project. GOI's proposals are cur-
rently under review by the Association.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146 Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These credits provide funds to rural cooperatives in various States
for the construction and operation of godowns (warehouses) and cold storage
and marketing facilities. Major emphasis is placed on institution building
in order to make NCDC grow into a more effective development institution to
serve India's rural cooperative sector. Credit 871 is proceeding well.
Subproject appraisal and loan sanctioning are in accord with appraisal tar-
gets, and disbursements are ahead of schedule. However, as aL result of
initial shortages in the supply of steel and cement, construction costs have
risen 30-40%, necessitating a revision of quantitative targets.  Implementa-
tion of Credit 1146, which became effective in November 1981, was slower than
anticipated in the initial stages due mainly to poor preparation in most
States in the pre-project year. However, during the first 5 months of the
planned project period, development has been satisfactory, although disburse-
ments are currently considerably less than projected at appraisal. NCDC is



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20
taking steps to ensure that the progress in preparatory work attained during
the last few months is maintained.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. Nearly 3,000 dairy cooperative
societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects, with
membership of almost 300,000. Farmer response has been excellent and project
authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the estab-
lishment of DCSs. Profitability in almost all DCSs is good and construction
of dairy and feed plants is proceeding at a satisfactory pace. The coal
fired boilers being installed in the dairy plants throughout the State
projects appear to have a design flaw. The NDDB has assured IDA that this
flaw will be corrected or the boilers replaced. The project in Madhya
Pradesh has had significant success in the conversion of wasteland to pas-
tureland. Under the National Dairy Project, six sub-projects are under
implementation, and further sub-projects are in various stages of preparation
and appraisal by the Indian Dairy Corporation. Progress has been slow due to
the longer-than-anticipated time required to secure the appropriate agree-
ments on institutional structure and guarantees on loans to the sub-projects.
The IDC is considering the establishment of a special review committee to
deal more expeditiously with this issue.
Ln. No. 1273  National Seed Project; US$25 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). Project implementation has been slow because of initial
problems in coordination and monitoring particularly at the national level.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20
Although the projects are generally about three years behind appraisal tar-
gets, their implementation has gained greater momentum since 1980 and the
stage is now set for all infrastructure and investments planned under the
projects to be completed by June 1984.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Cashew planting and improvement programs are proceeding well and
the targets are expected to be fully met.  Economic effects of cashew planta-
tion, particularly in Orissa State, are expected to be very significantly
favorable. Cashew research and cashew study components are behind schedule
but are expected to pick up soon.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to improve. The area to be
covered by the project (183,000 ha) has been attained, and yields are
increasing. Major processing facilities in Maharashtra and Haryana are under
contract and bid evaluation. The link between university research and
project activity is excellent. However, because of poor performance in the
early stages, the project closing date has been extended by two years to
December 31, 1983, to allow for completion of the project works and full
utilization of the credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 1034  Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, L980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is satisfactory and, based on revised planning
by the project authorities in late 1981, it is expected that the time lost
in the initial stages of the project can be recouped during 1982. The
research staff has commenced operations and the overseas training component
of the project has been initiated with the collaboration of Japanese experts.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
arnd Processing Corporation, is making good progress, but project facilities
will have to be reduced due to cost escalations. The project's research
activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to difficulties in
obtaining technical assistance.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A study financed under this Credit and completed in November 1979
established the technical feasibility of setting up two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district. The GOI is now reviewing a study on the
socio-economic impact of such investments, and the State Government is
assessing the industrial development proposal.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1178  West Bengal Social Forestry Project; US$29 million credit of
February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and
to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well. The
projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands, primarily
along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on degraded forest
reserves. There has been excellent performance in establishing healthy
plantations in UP and Gujarat, exceeding appraisal targets, but the staffing
of the forestry extension service is behind schedule and requires the atten-
tion of the project authorities. Initial implementation of the West Bengal
project is proceeding very well.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
There has been considerable progress in project implementation since
the last review in June 1981. In the upper catchment, cattle grazing has
decreased and afforestation increased, with a consequent improvement in the
vegetative cover to reduce erosion and floods--a main project objective.
Construction of the Dholbaha dam has started, a feasibility studies of other
watershed schemes to be financed by the project are well in hand.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million cresdit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Cloising Date:
September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, the construction of harbor and shore facilities has been
delayed by a contractual dispute. This is expected to be resolved by June
1982, in which case harbor works should be finished by mid-1984. Village
roads and water supply components of the project are proceeding satisfac-
torily. In Andhra Pradesh, the project harbor at Visakhapatnam was offi-
cially opened in February 1982; harbor works at Kakinada and Nizampatnam are
progressing satisfactorily following the resolution of design problems.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, aLnd the
establishment of training centers. After a slow start in the first
18 months, project implementation is now satisfactory.  Detailed diesigns for
the first two fish seed hatcheries in each of the five project States has
been completed and construction work is expected to start in June 1982.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: Diecember 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation is
proceeding generally satisfactorily and there has been a large build-up of
activity since the last review in April 1981. The major delay is in the
construction area where, despite good progress in site selection fEor popula-
tion centers, the shortage of architects and construction materials and slow
progress in staffing of construction units are causing problems.
Cr. No. 1003  Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block has proceeded according
to schedule.  Based on this experience, the nutrition program is being
expanded to the other 32 blocks.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
INDIA
KALLADA IRRIGATION AND TREECROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Two years
(b)  The agencies which have prepared the project
Government of Kerala, Central Water Commission, and
Kerala Electric Corporation
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and
date of the first mission to consider the project
September 1980
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
March 5, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 30, 1982
Section II:    Special Bank and IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
GOK would:
(a)  establish a dam review panel with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank Group to inspect and report on the Kallada Dam
regularly (para 42);
(b) establish separate divisions within the Irrigation
Department for the implementation and management of
the minor conveyance systems; and establish a Plan-
ning, Monitoring and Coordination Cell within the
Irrigation Department (paras 43 and 45); and,
(c) review current water and water-related charges, by
December 31, 1983 and implement revised charges as
soon as possible thereafter (para 54).



l                      -                                                               '~~~F
z rr     L                             =-
<0.. ~ ~ ........
Z  CC LIU z 11}                                                   . )', ._
...............0                                            tSZ,
...............0!                                                        ff.
/!De-O 
wi k            ; 
w                                                                    t.
I-C,



