CREDIT NUMBER   /. 67IN
LOAN NUMBER 4        IN
Project Agreement
(Kallada Irrigation and Treecrop
Development Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF KERALA
Dated                    (        , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER /- 9 IN
LOAN NUMBER 4 7    IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                , 1982, among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT     SOCTION (hereinafter called the
Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP-
MENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and STATE OF KERALA, acting by
its Governor (hereinafter called Kerala).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty-two million three hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 52,300,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that Kerala agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
million three hundred thousand dollars ($20,300,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that Kerala agrees to undertake such obligations toward
the Bank as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Kerala, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement and the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement, with the Borrower, has agreed to under-
take the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
applicable thereto and in the Loan Agreement and the General Con-
ditions applicable thereto have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Kerala shall: (i) carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural prac-
tices; and (ii) provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services or other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Kerala undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan made
available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by Kerala to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Kerala shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan made available to it
by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Kerala shall furnish to the Association
and the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement  schedules   for  the  Project,   and  any  material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association or the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Kerala shall: (i) maintain, or cause to be maintained,
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the pro-
gress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's and the Bank's


﻿-3-
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association and
the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the
Association or the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by Kerala of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Cred-
it and of the Loan, the Association or the Bank may publish a
description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to
whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose among the Associa-
tion, the Bank and Kerala, Kerala shall prepare and furnish to
the Association and the Bank a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association and the Bank shall reasonably request,
on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost
and  the benefits derived and     to be derived    from  it, the
performance by Kerala, the Association and the Bank of their
respective  obligations under   the  Project Agreement and   the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and of the Loan.
Section 2.05. (a) Kerala shall, at the request of the
Association or the Bank, exchange views with the Association and
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and of the Loan.
(b)   Kerala shall promptly inform the Association and the
Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit and of the Loan, or the performance by
Kerala of its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. Kerala shall maintain an adequately staffed
Kallada Wing in SADU to promote and organize on-farm investment
in the Project Area.
Section 3.02. Kerala shall: (i) establish by September 30,
1982, and thereafter maintain, an adequately staffed Planning,
Monitoring and Coordinating Cell in its Irrigation Department for
the monitoring and coordination of the project implementation;
and (ii) cause such Cell to: (A) undertake a feasibility study
for a second phase of irrigation and treecrop development for the
additional area adjacent to the Project Area; and (B) furnish the
study by December 31, 1984, to the Association and the Bank for
their review.
Section 3.03. Kerala shall maintain in its Irrigation
Department an adequately staffed: (i) Kallada Operations and
Maintenance Division for the management of the irrigation system
under the Project; and (ii) Kallada Minor Conveyance Division for
the implementation of the minor water conveyance systems under
Part B of the Project.
Section 3.04. Kerala shall: (i) by September 30, 1982, fur-
nish to the Association and the Bank the terms of reference for a
management study to establish rules, procedures and requirements
for securing effective operation and preventive maintenance of
the irrigation systems under the Project; (ii) by June 30, 1983,
carry out said study; and (iii) as soon as feasible thereafter,
implement the operation and maintenance estimates and procedures
based on the recommendations of the study.
Section 3.05. With the objectives of ensuring an optimal
level of recovery of annual operation and maintenance costs and
cost of infrastructure investment, having regard inter alia, to
incentives for, and payment capacity of, farmers, Kerala under-
takes: (i) by September 30, 1982 to furnish to the Association
and the Bank a plan for review of the water and water-related
charges in Kerala; (ii) by December 31, 1983 carry out such a
review; and (iii) as soon as feasible thereafter, to implement an
appropriate system of water and water-related charges in the
Project Area based on recommendations arising from said review


﻿-5-
after paying due regard to the Association's and the Bank's
comments, if any, on such recommendations.
Section 3.06. (a) Kerala shall: (i) constitute a panel of
experts with qualifications, experience, and terms of reference
acceptable to the Association, the Bank and Kerala, to review the
plans and design of the Kallada dam and its associated structures
and its adequacy; and (ii) cause said panel to conduct periodic
reviews during design and construction to examine whether any new
grounds for making changes in the design of the dam have become
apparent.
(b) Without limiting the generality of Section 2.01 above,
Kerala shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the Association,
the Bank and Kerala, cause the Kallada dam and the related struc-
tures constructed under the Project to be periodically inspected
in accordance with sound engineering practice in order to deter-
mine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of such
structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or
methods of operations of the same, which may endanger their
safety. To this end, Kerala shall propose to the Association
and the Bank appropriate arrangements for the Association's and
the Bank's review no later than one year before the expected
completion of such structures.
Section 3.07. Kerala undertakes to take all measures as may
be considered necessary to minimize the risk of malaria and other
water-related diseases within the Project Area.
Section 3.08. Kerala shall ensure that the construction of
the minor water conveyance systems described in Part B of the
Project shall be carried out simultaneously with, or, as soon as
feasible after, the construction of the works described under
Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Kerala shall cause its departments and other
agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof to: (i) maintain separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
principles and procedures consistently applied, its resources,


﻿-6-
expenditures and operations related to the Project; and (ii) fur-
nish to the Association and the Bank copies of their accounts and
financial statements related to the Project for each fiscal year,
certified as to their accuracy and authenticity by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Association and the Bank, as soon as
available but in any case not later than nine months after the
end of such year.
Section 4.02. Kerala shall cause its departments and other
agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and financial
statements related to the Project for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association
and the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Association and the Bank
immediately following its finalization, the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such      scope and in such detail as the
Association or the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Association and
the Bank such other information concerning said accounts and
records, financial statements and     the  audit thereof as    the
Association or the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and the Bank and of Kerala thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
or the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accord-
ance with its terms, provided that the other of
said Agreements shall have terminated theretofore
or shall terminate on the same date; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.


﻿-7-
(b) If both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan
Agreement terminate in accordance with their terms before the
date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association and the Bank shall promptly notify Kerala of this
event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shal be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D. C.
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For Kerala:
Chief Secretary to the Government of Kerala
Trivandrum
India
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
Trivandrum
India
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Kerala may be taken or executed by a
Secretary to the Government of Kerala or such other person or
persons as Kerala shall designate in writing, and Kerala shall
furnish to the Association and the Bank sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. As long as any part of the Credit shall remain
unwithdrawn or outstanding and unless Kerala has been notified
otherwise by the Bank, all action taken, including approvals
given by the Association pursuant to the provisions of this
Agreement, shall be deemed to be taken or given in the name and
on behalf of both the Association and the Bank; and all informa-
tion furnished by the Borrower to the Association pursuant to the
provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to be furnished to
both the Association and the Bank.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in thei  respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
r,-T u ')j Regional Vice President
South Asia
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /~
F/rt}4J Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF KERALA
By '
Autho  zed Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, Kerala shall prepare and forward
to the Association and the Bank as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Association or the Bank shall reasonably request; the
Association and the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. Kerala shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,pursuant
to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in the
evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 11 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and 3ubject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required Lo establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of Kerala and the Association and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in India equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿-12-
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, Kerala may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to
domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying foe such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part o' the data for qualification, such inform-
ation, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
Kerala and accepted by the Association and the Bank, a particular
firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The
bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of
bids to give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by Kerala,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works   estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of
$5,000,000 or less per coatract may be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertia-d locally, in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, it being


﻿- 13 -
understood that: (i) where such competitive bidding is not poss-
ible civil works may be carried out through piecework contracts
or rate contracts; and (ii) force account may be used only when
required by safety and quality considerations or when quantities
cannot be estimated in advance with sufficient precision, pro-
vided, however, that civil works carried out through piecework
contracts or rate contracts shall not exceed 10% of the total
cost of civil works and that the aggregate cost of civil works
carried out through force account shall not exceed 10% of the
total cost of civil works.
2.   Contracts for light equipment, vehicles, furniture and
survey instruments may be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association and the Bank.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all civil works contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of $500,000 or more, and all contracts for equip-
ment and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Kerala shall furnish to the
Association and the Bank, for their comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding docu-
ments, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications
in the said documents or procedures as the Association and the
Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Association's and the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Kerala
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association and the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion and the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and
such other information as the Association or the Bank shall rea-
sonably request. The Association or the Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the


﻿-14-
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Kerala and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's and the Bank's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked or prequalification
was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association and the Bank promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association or the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
or the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Kerala shall furnish to the Association and the Bank,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association or the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account or the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association or the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Association or the Bank shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Kerala and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, Kerala shall inform the
Association and the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver,
extension  or   change  order  and  the  reasons  therefor. The
Association or the Bank, if it determines that the proposal would
be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall
promptly  inform   Kerala   and  state   the  reasons   for  its
determination.


