Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16684
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
(LOAN 3344-IN)
JUNE 12, 1997
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department lI
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CurTency Unit        Rupee (Rs.)
Fiscal Year        Rupees/US$
FY90/91    =    19.00 (SAR)
FY91/92    =    36.20
FY92/93    =    31.20
FY93/94    =    31.46
FY94/95    =    32.30
FY95/96    =
FY96/97    =
Average rate during implementation     30.44
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April I - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Ton (t)             = I metric tone = 1,000 Kg  2,204 lbs.
1 Kilovolt            = 1,000 volts (V)
1 Kilovolt ampere (kVA) = 1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
I Kilowatt-hour (kWh)   = 1,000 watt-hours
I Megawatt-hour (MWh) = 1,000 kilowatt-hours
I Gigawatt-hour (GWh)  = 1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BMRD        =   Bombay Metropolitan Regional Development Authority
BSES            BSES Ltd. (previously Bombay Suburban Electric Supply Ltd.)
CEA         =   Central Electricity Authority
FGD         =   Flue Gas Deselphurization
GDR         =   Global Depository Receipts
GOI         =   Government of India
GOM         =   Govermment of Maharashtra
IBRD            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         =   International Competitive Bidding
IERR            Internal Economic Rate of Return
IFC             International Finance Corporation
IFI         =   Indian Financial Institution
IPP             Independent Power Producer
MPCB        =   Maharashtra Pollution Control Board
PFC             Power Finance Corporation
NERC        =   North American Energy Reliability Council
NGO             Non-Governmental Organizations
PLF             Plant Load Factor
TEC             Tata Electric Companies
WREB            Western Region Electricity Board
WRIS        =   Western Region Interconnected System
Vice President                :      Mieko Nishimizu
Director                      :      Robert S. Drysdale
Division Chief                :      Jean-Francois Bauer
Task Manager                  :      Argun Ceyhan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
(LOAN 3344-IN)
PREFACE                                       TABLE OF CONTENTS
EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................................                                             i
PART I: PROJECT  IPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .............................................I
A. Project Objectives ......1.......................................
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .......3.....................................3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project .............................................6
D. Project Sustainability ............................................ .                           12
E. Bank Performance ............................................                                  14
F. Borrower Performance ............................................ 14
G. Cofinancier Performance ............................................ .                          16
H. Assessment of Outcome ............................................ .                            16
1. Future Operations ............................................                                  17
J. Key Lessons Learned ............................................                                17
PART Il: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1          Summary of Assessments
Table 2         Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3         Project Timetable
Table 4         Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated Actual
Table 5         Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6         Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7          Studies Included in Project
Table 8a        Project Costs
Table 8b        Project Financing
Table 9         Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10         Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11        Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12        Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13        Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDIX A: Mission Aide Memoire
APPENDIX B: Borrower Contribution to ICR
APPENDIX C: Environmental Issues
APPENDIXD: Financial Overview
APPENDIX E: Abstract of Community Development Work Carried out by BSES at Dahanu Area.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
(LOAN 3344-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Private Power Utilities (BSES)
Project (the Project) for the Bombay Suburban Electric Supply Ltd. (BSES)* in India, for which
Loan 3344-IN in the amount of US$200 million equivalent was approved on June 13, 1991, and
made effective July 29, 1991. The physical components of the project were implemented, as
planned, albeit with implementation delays caused mainly by late delivery of the main plant
equipment. The loan closed as originally scheduled, on December 31, 1996. Final disbursement
took place on May 15, 1997. In total, US$ 194,986,703.27 million were disbursed and
US$ 5,013,296.73 remaining undisbursed in the Loan account were canceled as of May 15, 1997.
The IFC cofinanced the project with investments of US$50 million equivalent. The balance of the
financing requirements was met by BSES through syndicated loans and equity issues, as well as its
own internal resources.
This ICR was prepared by Mihir Mitra (Consultant) and Argun Ceyhan (Task Manager) of
SA2EI of the South Asia Region, and reviewed by Jean-Francois Bauer, Division Chief, SA2EI and
Kazuko Uchimura, Project Adviser, SA2DR.
Preparation of this ICR started during the Bank's mission in November 1996. It is based on
material in the project files and site-specific information garnered during the Implementation
Completion Mission. The implementing agency, BSES, contributed to the preparation of this ICR
for their part of the project, and provided timely input for the statistical data. BSES's comments
are given in Annex B of the ICR.
In September 1992, the Bombay Suburban Electric Supply Ltd. changed its corporate name to BSES Ltd. In this
report, the acronym BSES is used for both corporate names.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
(LOAN 3344-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1 .    In end- 1980s and early-I 990s the Government of India (GOI) recognized that to satisfy the
very high level of investment required to meet the ever growing demand for electricity, it had to
harness more resources and managerial skills from the private sector. GOI's first actions in this
direction were its guarantee of the IBRD loans requested by two existing private utilities--the Tata
Electric Companies (TEC) and BSES .
2.     BSES was one of five private power utilities in operation at appraisal in February 19912.
It provided public electric supply, strictly as a distribution company serving the northern suburbs of
Mumbai, and making all its power purchases from the Tata Electric Companies (TEC). Established
in 1926, BSES was a well-established distribution company with a good record of performance and
technical and commercial efficiency. Its financial position was then and has been strong compared
to other utilities operating in India. Almost sixty percent of its capital was held by three major
Indian Financial Institutions (IFIs)3 and nationalized banks; the balance was owned by about 9,000
shareholders and other corporations. BSES's license was extended by the Government of
Maharashtra (GOM) up to 1993 on the condition that BSES install a 500 MW generation project in
Maharashtra to fill the anticipated supply gaps.
Project Objectives
3.     The principal objectives of the Project were to:
(a)    provide additional generation, transmission and distribution capacity to meet the
increasing demand for electricity in the Mumbai area; and
I   The IBRD Loan for TEC was made under the Private Power Utilities (TEC) Project (Ln. 3239-IN), approved in
Junie 1990. The IBRD Loan for BSES was made under the Project.
2   The five private power utilities were: Ahmedabad Electricity Co. (AEC), the Surat Electric Company (SEC), the
CESC Ltd. (formerly Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation), and BSES and TEC. In addition, there was only one
local utility (Bombay Electricity Supply and Transport Corporation - BEST) which distributed electricity in
Mumbai city. Furthermore, private captive generation, estimated to be about 15 percent of the public supplies but
which did not enter into the main statistics, was extensive particularly in industry.
3   These Indian Financial Institutions were: Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), General Insurance Corporation (GIC)
and its subsidiaries, and Unit Trust of India (UTI) -- (Part I, para. 3).
R     .1 .



- 11 -
(b)    maintain the high quality of service to BSES consumers.
The institutional and sectoral objectives were:
(a)   to support GOI's endeavors to increase private sector participation in the supply of
power; and
(b)   to assist in transforming BSES from a distribution company into an integrated
power utility with responsibilities for generation, transmission and distribution.
4.    The Project, as part of the least-cost development program for the Western Region
Interconnected System (WRIS), included the following physical components:
(a)    a thermal power plant comprising 2 x 250 MW coal-fired units4 located at Dahanu,
about 100 km north of Mumbai;
(b)   two double-circuit, 220 kV transmission lines, about 105 km long, to transmit
power from Dahanu to BSES's license area in the suburbs of Mumbai, and three,
220/33 kV receiving substations; and
(c)   to strengthen and extend of BSES's 33 kV and 11 kV subtransmission and
distribution system.
5.    On June 13, 1991, an IBRD loan for US$200 million equivalent and an IFC investment of
US$ 50 million equivalent lent from IFC's own resources (A Loan) were approved. The Guarantee
and Loan Agreements for the IBRD Loan were signed on July 12, 1991, and the Loan became
effective on July 29, 1991.
6.    The development objectives of the Project have been achieved.
(a) With regard to the physical objectives, almost all the components have been put into
commercial operation and have been operated satisfactorily.
(b) With regard to the institutional and sectoral objectives:
(b. 1) the Project showed the Bank Group's support for GOI's intentions for lowering entry
barriers and providing incentives for private investment in the power sector;
(b.2) BSES has been transformed from a distribution company into a full-fledged utility
with generation, transmission and distribution functions;
4   To cover for the possibility of availability of gas supplies in the Mumbai area in the future, the boilers of the
Dahanu TPP were designed to burn coal and gas. However, in view of the unavailability (at appraisal and
currently) of long-term supplies of gas, gas burners were not installed. The Dahanu TPP has been built and is
being operated as a conventional, base-load, coal-fired plant.



- 111 -
(b.3) BSES has also been transformed into a majority privately-owned company5; and
(b.4) BSES's tariffs are adequate to ensure an acceptable return on investments.
Implementation Experience and Results
7.    Major factors affecting the Project were:
(a) opposition of some Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) (Part 1, para. 16-18);
(b) prompt actions by GOM and BSES in project start up (Part I, para. 20);
(c) employment by BSES of competent consultants (Part I, para. 21);
(d) efficient and timely procurement by BSES (Part I, para. 22);
(e) advance procurement actions by BSES for the main plant equipment package (Part I,
para. 22);
(f) changes in the financing and consequently procurement plans (Part I, paras. 24 and 25);
and
(g) delays due to late deliveries by the supplier of the main plant equipment package (Part I,
paras. 13 and 14).
8.    During the preparation/ appraisal of the Project, based on IBRDIIFC recommendations,
BSES prepared an Environmental Due Diligence Plan which it revised regularly during
implementation. The Project which has been built complies with the environmental standards of
GOI and GOM and with the applicable environmental policies and guidelines of the World Bank
Group (Part I, paras. 11 and 26).
9.    Project Costs. At appraisal, the project was estimated to cost US$ 653.3 million equivalent,
inclusive of contingencies and Interest During Construction (IDC). The project was completed at a
cost of US$ 613.6 million equivalent. The corresponding project cost in rupee terms was estimated
at Rs. 14.0 billion whereas the actual cost at completion translated to about Rs. 18.7 billion.
10.   Rate of Return. The internal economic rate of return (IERR) of the WRIS investment
program, of which the Project is part, has been computed at 15.7 percent, compared with the
appraisal estimate of 13.3 percent, both cases excluding the consumer surplus (Part I, para. 12).
11.   Sustainability. The achievements of the Project are highly likely to be sustainable under the
condition that fuel6 of proper quality and in required quantities is provided (Part I, paras. 29-32).
5   Following a shift in BSES's shareholders base, IFIs and nationalized banks currently hold about 34.7 percent of
BSES's share capital, while the balance 65.3 percent is being held by 194,524 individuals, 1,164 Indian
companies, 12 foreign companies and 90 foreign institutional investors (as of April 30, 1997).
6 Currently coal. The condition would also cover gas, if in future gas is made available (Footnote 4).



- iv -
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, Key Lessons Learned
12.  IBRD Performance. IBRD and IFC waited for the decision of the Mumbai High Court
before formally appraising the project. The time was used to advantage to implement the
preparation of the Project. The performance of IBRD in respect of project identification,
preparation, appraisal and subsequent project implementation was satisfactory (Part I, paras. 33 and
34).
13.   Borrower Performance. The Borrower's perfonnance was satisfactory throughout the
Project from preparation to implementation and operation. BSES has to be particularly
commended for its risk taking in initiating the procurement for the main plant equipment package,
and for its performance in completing the evaluation of the bids for the said package in 3.5 months
(Part I, paras. 35-39)
14.   Cofinancier Performance. IFC cofinanced the Project to the tune of US$50 million
equivalent. The project was appraised by ajoint IBRD-IFC mission. However, project supervision
was carried out separately. IBRD sent all its supervision reports to IFC (Part I, para. 40)
15.   Assessment of Outcome. The results of the Project are satisfactory. Most of the physical
components of the Project have been installed and are in commercial operation; the institutional and
development objectives have also been fully realized. IBRD encouraged and succeeded in
transforming BSES from a small distribution company into an integrated utility and majority
privately-owned company (Part I, para. 41).
16.   Future Operations. Since going into commercial operation, the Dahanu thermal power
plant (TPP) has been operating at its rated capacity and successfully meeting the load demand in the
WRIS. Future operations of the power plant will be monitored against the North American Energy
Reliability Council's (NERC) standard for coal-fired power stations (Part I, para.42).
Key Lessons Learned
17.   Major findings of the project implementation experience and important lessons for future
projects are summarized as follows:
(a)   A private company is better suited to making strategic decisions which might be
considered risky by public concerns. Because it had the authority, BSES's Board
took the bold decision to initiate the procurement of the main plant equipment
package, before the decision of the Mumbai High Court had ruled on the court
action by the NGOs, and IBRD and IFC had appraised the Project;
(b)   An utility should begin public consultations and dissemination of detailed
information in respect of social and environmental impacts of any project at a very
early stage of preparation. It is only through such transparent public consultations
that undue apprehension in the public mind can be allayed and their support for the
project enlisted. Due to BSES's proactive position in addressing the environmental



issues, the implementation of the Project was not affected by any court injunction,
although the NGOs continued their court action during the early years of
implementation. However, project preparation would have been on a much stronger
footing and would have taken shorter time, had BSES begun formal public
consultations during the very early stages of preparation. Had the support of the
local population been ensured at the very beginning through such public
consultations, there is a probability that the NGOs would not have taken GOI, GOM
and BSES to court and appraisal of the Project would not have been postponed. It
should be noted that in 1989-1990, formal public consultations were not fully
established;
(c)   Priority and attention given by the Management of an utility to timely and
satisfactory evaluation of bids, would shorten the evaluation period, without
negatively affecting the quality of the evaluation, as was seen in the evaluations of
the procurement packages under the Project, in particular in the evaluation of the
bids for the main plant equipment package, which was completed in only 3.5
months;
(d)   Employment of competent consultants would help an utility to complete its project
(from design to assistance to the utility in the evaluation of the bids, to supervision
of implementation) satisfactorily and on time, and also help the utility keep the
number of its staff to a minimum, a was demonstrated under the Project;
(e)   A single turn-key contract for main plant equipment (boilers, steam turbines and
generators, as well as the associated auxiliaries and instrumentation and control
systems) should be encouraged within the context of the financing strategy for any
power project, wherever feasible, as this has proved under the Project to be much
easier to coordinate and implement;
(f)   Evaluation of bids should also take into account an assessment of the existing
backlog of potential suppliers to detennine if they have the capacity to deliver
within the time frame indicated, to avoid the delays which occurred under the
Project as the supplier of the main plant equipment contract was not able to deliver
critical components of some major equipment because their order books were filled
beyond capacity;
(g)   Coal supply and transportation by railways should be linked under commercially
enforceable contracts to ensure timely supply of coal of adequate quality and in
adequate quantities, for the optimum utilization of a power generation facility,
because sustainable operation of a TPP cannot be achieved without the assurance of
unconstrained supply of design fuel in as much as full economic benefits of the
investment cannot be realized unless the plant is enabled to operate at its optimnum
potential. A commitment by India "to ensure adequate supplies of suitable fuel for
the economic operation of the facilities constructed under the Project' proved to be
insufficient;



- vi -
(h)   Use of higher quality of coal (washed or imported) should be encouraged, as the
economic, technical and environmental advantages from using such improved
quality of coal, were successfully demonstrated at the Dahanu TPP; and
(i)    When a number of institutions are involved in the successful completion of a
project, it is important to set up a high-powered coordination committee to ensure
that each institution plays its part as demanded by the schedule, to avoid the kind of
delay experienced under the Project, when the transmission line for startup power
was installed on time but its connection to the substation owned and operated by
another utility was delayed due to procedural wrangling.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
(LOAN 3344-IN)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    Responsibility for the electric supply in India is shared constitutionally between the
central government and the states. During the five-year period from FY89/90 to FY94/95,
electricity generation in India increased by about 7.5 percent per annum, from 245,000 Gwh to
351,000 Gwh. However, the demand was much higher than the supplies. Power shortages are
currently estimated at about 10 percent of total electrical energy and 20 percent of power
capacity requirements. They are likely to increase in the coming years in several parts of the
country as electricity demand is projected to grow at an annual average of approximately 7 to 9
percent through the year 2000. The supply gaps arose from the scarcity of public resources to
develop new generation, transmission and distribution, and from the frequent breakdown of
existing plants because of unavailability of spare parts, deteriorating quality of fuel and inability
of the public sector utilities to take timely outages for maintenance.
2.    The principal challenge facing the Government of India (GOI) and the state governments
in the power sector for the 1990s is to improve the balance in sector development between
efficiency improvement and supply expansion. This places great pressure on the finances of
GOI and the state governments and poses many managerial and technical challenges for GOI,
state governments and the State Electricity Boards (SEBs). In end-1980s and early-199Os GOI
recognized that to satisfy this level of investment, it had to harness more resources and
managerial skills from the private sector. GOI's first actions in this direction were its guarantee
of the IBRD Loans requested by two existing private utilities--the Tata Electric Companies
(TEC) and BSES . Then in mid-1991 (right after the IBRD Loan and IFC Investment (A Loan)
for the Project were approved), GOI reversed its long-standing policy on private investment in
the sector. Power was removed from the list of activities reserved for the public sector in the
Industrial Policy Resolution. The Electricity (Supply) Act of 1948 was amended to lift many of
the regulatory disincentives to private investment in the power sector. At the time, there were
only five private utilities2 that together provided less than 5 percent of the public supply.
3.    BSES was one of said five private power utilities. At appraisal in February 1991, BSES
provided public electric supply, strictly as a distribution company serving the northern suburbs of
I  Evaluation Summary, Footnote 1.
2  Evaluation Summary, Footnote 2.



-2 -
Mumbai, and making all its power purchases from the Tata Electric Companies (TEC)3.
Established in 1926, BSES was a well-established distribution company with a good record of
performance and technical and commercial efficiency. Its financial position was then and has
been strong compared to other utilities operating in India. Fifty-nine point nine (59.9) percent of
its capital was held by three major Indian Financial Institutions (IFIs) and nationalized banks4;
the balance was owned by about 9,000 shareholders and other corporations. When its original
license of 50 years from 1926 to 1976 expired, the Government of Maharashtra (GOM) had
extended the license for 10 years on the condition that BSES install a 500 MW generation project
in Maharashtra to fill the anticipated supply gaps. As BSES had initiated actions in this behalf,
GOM had further extended the license initially up to 19935.
4.     At the time the IBRD Loan and IFC Investment for the Project were approved, IBRD was
following a three-pronged strategy in its lending operations in the power sector in India. As a
means to effect sector-wide improvements, it supported agencies owned by GOI6 It also
supported a selected number of SEBs whose management and state governments were committed
to reforms. In addition, and in close cooperation with IFC, it provided support to existing private
power utilities to improve their financial and economic efficiency, and to encourage GOI to
lower entry barriers for new investors. IBRD involvement in the private sector in India
comprised five loans to TEC for the staged development of the Trombay Thermal Power Station
and the construction of a pumped storage facility at Bhira7. IFC loans of US$20 million
equivalent to the Ahmedabad Electricity Co., and US$35 million equivalent to TEC had helped
them strengthen their respective transmission systems.
5.     The country assistance strategy discussed by the IBRD Board on June 20, 1995, shifted
the emphasis of IBRD's strategy towards implementing state-level reforms and improving state
finances. The IBRD accordingly supports India's attempts to reform the state power sector,
especially since the pace of state power sector reform affects the sustainability of the country's
overall economic stabilization program. Power sector lending therefore focuses on promoting
domestic and foreign private investment; supporting the reform efforts of PFC, NTPC and
3 TEC generate most of their supplies from their own thennal and hydropower plants. The balance is bought
from the Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB). Thus, BSES also is dependent to on supplies from
MSEB (Part I, para. 28).
4   The shareholdings of the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), General Insurance Corporation (GIC) and its
subsidiaries, and Unit Trust of India (UTI) were 21.4%, 19.9% and 18.1%, respectively, and amounted to
59.4% of BSES's share capital. In addition to this, nationalized banks held 0.5%. Thus shareholding by the
public institutions was 59.9% of BSES's share capital. These financial institutions were represented in BSES's
Board but did not intervene in BSES's day-to-day operations.
5   As a condition of the IBRD Loan, BSES's license was extended up to August 15, 201 1 (the maturity date of
the said IBRD Loan).
6   The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC); the Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd. (POWERGRID);
and the Power Finance Corporation (PFC).
7 The most recent (fifth) IBRD operation was the Private Power Utilities (TEC) Project (Ln. 3239-IN), approved
in June 1990, and cofinanced with the Government of Switzerland, IFC, and the Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation of India Ltd. (ICICI). Other IBRD operations are given in Part II, Table 2.



- 3 -
POWERGRID; and assisting states to implement credible plans to improve the performance and
finances of their power sector. Support to a private utility like BSES is still an element of
IBRD's strategy in the power sector. The IBRD and IFC participation in supporting BSES under
the Project not only helped mobilize financing for the Project, but also improve the efficiency of
the sector through greater private sector participation.
6.    The Project's physical objectives were to:
(a)   provide additional generation, transmission and distribution capacity to meet the
increasing demand for electricity in the Mumbai area; and
(b)   maintain the high quality of service to BSES consumers.
Additionally, the institutional and sectoral objectives were:
(c)   to support GOI's endeavors to increase private sector participation in the supply
of power; and
-  (d)   to assist in transforming BSES from a distribution company into an integrated
power utility with responsibilities for generation, transmission and distribution.
7.    The Project, as part of the least-cost development program for WRIS, included the
following physical components:
+ a thermal power plant comprising 2 x 250 MW coal-fired units8 located at Dahanu;
* two double-circuit, 220 kV transmission lines, about 105 km long, to transmit power
from Dahanu to BSES's license area in the suburbs of Mumbai, and three, 220/33 kV
receiving substations; and
* strengthening and extension of BSES's 33 kV and 11 kV subtransmission and
distribution system.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
8.    Overall Results. The development objectives of the Project have been achieved. With
regard to the physical objectives, except for the full commissioning of the second transmission
line (para. 10) all the other components have been put into commercial operation and have been
operated satisfactorily. With regard to the institutional and sectoral objectives, the Project
showed the Bank Group's support for GOI's intentions for lowering entry barriers and providing
incentives for private investment in the power sector. BSES has been transformed from a
distribution company into a full-fledged utility with generation, transmission and distribution
functions. At appraisal, 59.9 percent of BSES's share capital was held by three major IFIs and
s  Evaluation Summary, Footnote 4.



nationalized banks. Following a shift in its shareholders' base, IFIs and nationalized banks
currently hold about 34.7 percent of BSES's share capital, while the balance 65.3 percent is
being held by 194,524 individuals, 1,164 Indian companies, 12 foreign companies, and 90
foreign institutional investors. The share of the largest private investor was reduced from 7
percent at appraisal to 5.759 percent of project completion. The Project itself reflects least-cost
power development in the Mumbai area, and the environmental measures undertaken and
monitoring of impact data on a continuous basis are adequate for the purpose of protecting the
environment. BSES's tariffs are adequate to ensure an acceptable return on investments.
9.     Physical Objectives. With the installation of the two 250 MW generating units at
Dahanu, and one of the two 220 kV transmission lines and three substations to transmit power to
BSES's license area in the suburbs of Mumbai, the principal physical objectives of the Project
have been fully met. The reliability, as well as quality, of the service to BSES consumers has
vastly improved following the commissioning of the power plant. Also, BSES is no longer
totally dependent on purchased power. BSES continues to experience land access problems for
the second 220 kV transmission line from Dahanu to its distribution areas in Mumbai. As the
second line is to provide back up for the loss of the first line, delay in its completion does not
affect the operational performance of the Dahanu TPP9.
10.   Institutional and Sectoral Objectives. The Project has helped support GOI's endeavors
to increase private sector participation in the supply of power. State power sector reform, which
forms the principal element of IBRD's most recent strategy in the power sector (para. 5),
generally includes the unbundling of the SEBs into generation, transmission and distribution
companies. It is concluded that this kind of restructuring would provide answers to the
prevailing problems in the power sector in India. Support for BSES's transformation from a
purely distribution company into an integrated power utility with responsibilities for generation,
transmission and distribution is justified by the fact that BSES was not and still is not affected by
the said problems, as compared below.
Prevailing Problems in the Power Sector in India           Comments about BSES
1. Insufficient generation.                     Support for the Project partly answered the insufficient
generation problem.
2. Poorly maintained equipment (generation,     BSES's maintenance performance is satisfactory.
transmission and distribution).
3. Inadequate tariffs and revenue shortfalls.   BSES's tariffs have been adequate and BSES has not
experienced revenue shortfalls.
4. Deep cross-subsidies.                        Although there are cross-subsidies between BSES's
customer categories, the said subsidies are not "deep".
5. Widespread government interference.          GOI and GOM do not interfere in the operations of
BSES. When IFIs had a majority shareholding in
BSES's equity, they did not interfere with the day-to-
day operations of BSES.
9   When the existing line trips out, BSES is able to buy the required power for distribution in Mumbai from the
TEC system and to sell the generation from Dahanu to the MSEB, Gujarat Electricity Board (GEB), and
Madhya Pradesh State Electricity Board (MPSEB) through the load dispatch of the Western Region Electricity
Board (WREB).



BSES has also become a true private company following the reduction of the total share of the
IFIs and nationalized banks from 59.9 percent to 34.7 percent. Bank Group support for the
Project helped BSES in mobilizing resources under more favorable conditions to complete the
Project (para. 25). Therefore, expansion of BSES in generation and transmission with its
consequent full privatization of BSES was and still is justified in institutional, economic and
financial terms. The Bank Group support of this expansion was appropriate and timely.
11.   Environmental Monitoring. In dealing with both private and public utilities in India,
IBRD has also promoted more comprehensive and vigorous analyses of environmental inputs in
project design and improved implementation of project components that support the
environment. The system installed under the Project is satisfactory.
12.   Rate of Return. The IERR for the WRIS investment program was estimated at appraisal
to be 13.3 percent'0 and 22 percent excluding and including the consumer surplus". The capital
costs of the investment program, covering the generation and transmission components together
with incremental operating and fuel costs, as shown in Part II, Table 8, have been quantified.
The benefits of the investment program relate mainly to the incremental consumption that they
make possible. A minimum measure of benefits, ignoring consumer surplus, was derived from
the incremental sales revenue based on the average tariffs of BSES prevailing in early-1996 (Rs.
3.63/kWh), representing the minimum willingness to pay for electricity. On this basis, the
minimum IERR achieved for the WRIS investment program of which the Project is part, is
computed as 15.7 percent (Part II, Table 8). As the post-project IERR is higher than the one
computed at appraisal, the computation of the IERR taking into account consumer surplus was
not deemed necessary.
13.   Implementation Experience. Except for the delay of six months in commissioning,
mostly due to factors outside the control of BSES, the two units were successfully placed in
commercial operation. A comparison of actual vis-a-vis appraisal dates is as follows:
JO  Computed based on the then prevailing average tariffs of Rs. 1.50/kWh, and thus excluding consumer surplus
from the benefit streamn.
Estimated at Rs. 0.64/kWh in 1991 constant prices (SAR of May 15, 1991 -- Chapter V and Annexes 5.4 -
5.7).



-6 -
SAR Projection           Aetual
Unit 1
Synchronization                         July 1994           January 1995
Commercial Operation                   January 1995           July 1995
Unit 2
Synchronization                        January 1995          March 1995
Commercial Operation                    July 1995           January 1996
Transmission Lines
Line 1: Commercial Operation (*)       January 1995         August 1995
Line 2: Commercial Operation (**)      January 1995     Expected: Second-half
I___   of 1997
*   From Dahanu TPP to BSES's license area via MSEB's Boisar Substation. The Dahanu-Boisar section was
completed in June 1993 and permitted BSES to obtain startup power from MSEB.
**  From Dahanu TPP to BSES's license area, but does not connect at Boisar.
14.   The said delay of six months was principally due to the failure of the supplier of the main
plant equipment of the Dahanu TPP. The reasons given by the supplier were found reasonable
by BSES so that BSES did not apply the clause of the contract for liquidated damages. However,
when compared with the implementation periods of similar power projects realized by a GOI-
owned entity, a delay of six months compares favorably for BSES . Due to delays in obtaining
forest clearances for the transmission lines and land access problems to the tower sites,
construction of the said lines took much longer than planned. The first line was completed in
August 1995. However, the Dahanu-Boisar portion was completed in June 1993 in time to allow
BSES to obtain start up power from the MSEB system'3. During the period from July 1994,
when Unit I was synchronized, to August 1995, when the line was put into operation, BSES was
able to sell the generation from the Dahanu TPP to MSEB, GEB and MPSEB via the WREB
load dispatch. The second line has not been put into service (para. 9). Development of the
distribution network in the license area was implemented without substantial delays.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
15.   Opposition of Some NGOs to the Project. Since its inception, the construction of a
thermal power station at Dahanu was challenged by some NGOs, constantly. In October 1989,
two NGOs -- the Bombay Environmental Action Group and the Dahanu Taluka Environmental
Protection Group -- took GOI, GOM and BSES to court, seeking an injunction to stop the
project. The NGOs claimed that the project would cause severe destruction to the ecology of the
area, including the coastal wetland, chikoo fruit plants, local farming and the fishing industry.
The Mumbai High Court granted an injuction while it reviewed the case. At the time, BSES was
only preparing the Project and had not yet committed any substantial funds. Thus
12  Unit 1 (210 MW) of the Dadri TPP implemented by NTPC was put into commercial operation with a delay of
10 months. The delays for the subsequent three units at Dadri TPP were 18,25 and 27 months, respectively.
The Dadri TPP was funded under IBRD Ln. 2844-IN for the National Capital Power Project (ICR, dated
September 13, 1996, for the said project -- Report No. 16003).
Even though the transmission line for startup power was installed on time, the connection to MSEB substation
was unnecessarily delayed due to procedural wrangling.



implementation was not affected by this injunction. At one stage of the court proceedings, the
two NGOs tried to petition IBRD as a respondent, but the Mumbai High Court rejected this
petition. Following a thorough review, the Mumbai High Court rejected the petition in
December 1990, and in March 1991 the Supreme Court of India upheld this decision. The
Supreme Court ruled that the thermal power plant should be built in accordance with GOI's
environmental clearance. If there were any changes in the clearance, during the process the
NGOs should be given "the opportunity to be heard".
16.   Specifically, the two NGOs objected:
(a)   the use of make up water for the plant from a reservoir that would deprive
agriculture;
(b)   plant gas emissions that would affect public health as well as chikoo plants;
liquid discharge from the plant that would destroy aquatic life; and
(c)   a large work force implantation that would disrupt local life (mainly agricultural).
17.   The following measures were taken to mitigate any actions on the above issues:
(a)   the allocation to BSES from the waters of the Surya Prakalp Reservoir was from
the amount of water of the reservoir allocated for industrial uses;
(b)   a 275 meter stack was built and electrostatic precipitators of 99.8 percent
efficiency were installed. Studies of possible effects on chikoo plant showed that
this plant was resistant to the effect of sulphur dioxide (SO2, para. 26);
(c)   the power plant was constructed outside the 500 meter perimeter. From the high
tide line (HTL), a liquid effluents treatment plant was installed, a cooling water
discharge channel of about 3 km long was built, and 34 million mangroves were
planted along the creeks surrounding the power plant site (para. 26); and
(d)   BSES was vigilant to prevent contractors in bringing in large numbers of workers
and to prevent the construction of permanent settlements around the plant -- there
is no evidence that the local life was substantially disrupted.
18.   Regardless of the legal questions involved, during the preparation of the Project BSES
adopted a proactive position in addressing the issues raised by the NGOs. The Dahanu site was
selected after careful assessment of the proposed project's development impacts. There was no
resettlement requirement at the Dahanu site. A more detailed discussion of the environmental
aspects of the project is given in para. 26 and Annex D.
19.   Postponement of the Appraisal Process. IBRD and IFC postponed the appraisal of the
Project until the Mumbai High Court's decision. The Supreme Court's decision came during the
processing of the project documents, thus negotiations and approvals of the IBRD Loan and IFC



- 8 -
Investment were not delayed. Due to IBRD and IFC's cautious approaches during the
preparation of the Project and BSES's proactive position in addressing the environmental issues,
the implementation of the Project was only affected by the late deliveries by the suppliers, in
particular of the supplier for the main plant equipment package (para. 14).
20.   Project Startup. Loan effectiveness was contingent upon GOM extending the operating
license of BSES up to at least to the maturity date of the IBRD Loan. GOM complied with this
condition and extended BSES's license up to August 15, 2011. The loan was declared effective
within 45 days from loan approval and 17 days from loan signing.
21.   Employment of Consultants. Contrary to the practice of most public utilities in India,
BSES was not reluctant at all in employing competent consultants when necessary. This helped
the Company in its successful implementation of the Project. It also helped BSES keep the
number of its staff at a minimum.
22.   Procurement. In total, there were 51 contracts that were funded under the IBRD Loan.
Ten contracts were subject to prior review for which the threshold value was US$2 million.
IBRD and BSES agreed that domestic preference of 15 percent or the corresponding import duty,
whichever is less, would be applied in the comparison of bids for equipment contracts. There
was no case to apply this provision. Most IBRD-financed contracts were procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IBRD Guidelines. Local contractors
won the contracts for most categories of equipment. Domestic suppliers benefited from the
"deemed exports' benefits." Although these benefits were reduced over time in parallel with
GOI's liberalization policies, BSES took timely and decisive actions, so that implementation was
not affected by this reason. BSES's procurement cycle, between bid issue and contract award
was within 6-7 months, which is the internationally accepted typical period. The said period for
the main plant equipment package was only 3.5 months' . BSES's excellent performance in this
point compares very well with the performance of the GOI-owned NTPC for similar units under
IBRD projects'5. The said main plant equipment package and other major mechanical and
electrical equipment packages were procured on a supply-and-erect basis. Some contracts also
included civil works, which was done to ensure better contract coordination during
implementation.
23.   Advance ProcurementAction by BSES. BSES initiated the procurement of the main
plant equipment contract even before the Mumbai High Court decision on the environmental
questions was available or IBRD and IFC had appraised the Project. IBRD gave conditional
clearance to BSES on this package. IBRD alerted the Indian authorities and BSES that BSES
14  Bids were received on August 6, 1990. The evaluation report was received by IBRD in mid-November 1990.
Following correspondence to clarify IBRD's comments, IBRD's conditional no-objection telex was sent on
November 28, 1990. BSES could have signed the contract in early-December 1990, if it were not for the court
action pending with the Mumbai High Court. Following the Mumbai High Court's decision in its favor, BSES
signed the contract on January 29, 1991 (Para. 23, for Bank's "conditions" in the no-objection telex).
15  The bid opening-contract award periods for the turbines and generators, and boilers packages for the 210 MW
Dadri TPP, built by NTPC, were 9 and 10 months, respectively.



-9-
was assuming and had to manage all financial risks associated with any advance procurement, in
the event the IBRD Board did not approve the Project. In the end, the advance of US$30 million
equivalent paid by BSES to the winning supplier was reimbursed to BSES under the said IBRD
Loan through retroactive financing. BSES obtained a bridge loan from commercial banks for the
purpose. In addition to its bold decision on advance procurement for the main plant equipment
package which cost about US$250 million equivalent, BSES completed the evaluation of the
four bids received in 3.5 months (para. 22). BSES's excellent performanice in this respect should
be taken as a model by GOI-owned utilities, SEBs and SEBs' successors being established under
state power sector reforms'6.
24.    Changes in the Procurement Plan. The procurement plan defined at appraisal assumed
that the IBRD Loan would be mainly used to finance the above mentioned main plant equipment
contract. However, the Indian Rupee vis-a-vis the US dollar was devaluated in July 1991 and
February 1992, and then made convertible. This resulted that the main plant equipment contract
was not going to cost in US dollar terms as much as estimated at appraisal. At the request of
BSES, IBRD agreed to finance additional procurement of various items, such as electrical cables,
hydrogen plant, system control and data acquisition equipment, fire detection system, etc. for the
Dahanu TPP, as well as upgrading and expansion of the distribution system, which were part of
the original Project and were initially planned to be funded from BSES's own or other resources.
The additional contracts were procured through ICB in accordance with IBRD Guidelines.
IBRD also financed the erection and construction management of the boilers by the supplier of
the main plant equipment.
25.    Changes in the Financing Plan. The financing plan defined at appraisal assumed that,
in addition to the US$200 million IBRD loan and US$50 million IFC investment (A Loan), up to
US$18 million would be obtained through a syndication comprising participation in an IFC Loan
B and/or through parallel financing from other sources arranged by IFC. Pre-marketing inquiries
in 1991 indicated that there was a difficult market environment for syndicating funds with
commercial sources, stemming from the market's perception of the economic and political
17
difficulties experienced by India . While IFC waited for better market conditions, GOI took
16  BSES's actions in advance procurement warrant a comparison with the procedures NTPC has to follow for
similar initiatives. Once the techno-economic clearance by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) of GOI,
and environmental clearances by GOM and GOI were obtained, BSES Board had the authority to decide
whether to initiate such an advance procurement action, to sign a contract based on its expectations from the
Courts (once the Mumbai High Court had decided in favor of BSES, the Company judged that the Supreme
Court would upheld the High Court's decision and signed the contract) and to obtain a bridge loan to pay for
the advance under the contract. However, NTPC Board is not authorized for similar actions. After it obtains
the above mentioned techno-economic and environmental clearances, NTPC has to submit its proposals to
GOI's Public Investment Board (PIB). To initiate a procurement action, NTPC has to obtain PIB's clearance
under a process called "pre-PIB meeting". To make a commitment, thus sign a contract under a project, NTPC
has to show to PIB and GOI's Cabinet Committee for Economic Affairs (CCEA) that it has finalized the
financing plan for the project and obtain CCEA's final authorization. Only after that authorization that NTPC
can sign a contract. In summary, shareholders of a private company authorize their board to make decisions in
committing the company, while GOI as the owner of a public enterprise keeps that authority within a
committee of its Cabinet.
17  Staff Appraisal Report, dated May 15, 1991 (para. 3.05).



- 10-
decisive actions towards economic reforms, including opening up the power sector for further
private sector participation. By end- 1993, the market situation had changed so much that BSES
decided to advance by 3-4 months the issuing of the second set of convertible debentures'8. The
issue was very successful19 and after that, BSES did not need the IFC syndication. Following the
appointment of a new Management Team, BSES had its Corporate Plan prepared by Consultants
and decided to expand its activities beyond its license area in Mumbai. The Global Depository
Receipts (GDRs) issued by end-1995 to finance BSES's further distribution investments in the
license area in Mumbai and new equity investments and operations in other parts of the country
were oversubscribed almost nine times in international and Indian financial markets. This
showed the credibility of BSES in the said markets. Funds obtained through the above
convertible debentures and GDRs issues were of terms more favorable to BSES than the terms of
commercial syndication would have been.
26.   Environmental and Social Issues. BSES received environmental clearance from the
Ministry of Environment and Forests of GOI on March 29, 1989. During the preparation/
appraisal of the Project, based on IBRD/IFC recommendations, BSES prepared an
Environmental Due Diligence Plan that it revised regularly during implementation. The Project
that has been built complies with the environmental standards of GOI and GOM and with the
applicable environmental policies and guidelines of the World Bank Group. Issues that were
followed during implementation are summarized as follows:
(a) Land Acquisition in Dahanu. In Dahanu, BSES acquired 834.56 ha of land, 821.58
ha from GOM, and 12.98 ha from private owners. GOM and private land are adjacent
to each other. The land on which the Dahanu TPP has been built was not particularly
valuable from an environmental perspective either in local or regional contexts.
GOM had previously leased part of this area to salt pan owners. Through GOM, the
salt pan owners terminated their long-term leases against suitable compensation by
BSES. Private land was purchased through negotiations and the price was mutually
agreed between BSES and the land owners. Therefore, the Land Acquisition Act was
not applied.
(b) Resettlement and Rehabilitation. No person was living on the land purchased by
BSES from private owners and acquired from GOM. Hence there was no
displacement of people.
(c) Construction of Structures within 500 Meters of the High Tide Line (HTL). The
environmental clearance of GOI required that the power plant installations be built at
least 500 meters from HTL. This was complied with.
In the Loan Agreement with IBRD, BSES committed to complete the issue by June 30, 1994. It completed the
issue in February 1994.
19 The rights issue to existing shareholders was oversubscribed by 1.3 times. The issue to the public was
oversubscribed by 1.8 times.



(d) Flue Gas Desulphurization Issue. In regard to stack emissions, the environmental
clearance initially stipulated that a Flue Gas Desulphurization (FGD) unit would be
installed from the beginning and would be in operation when the power plant was
commissioned. However, this requirement was revised by GOI in 1993 in light of
favorable stack plume dispersion modeling results and high cost of FGD units (US$
40-50 million). GOI decided that, after the power plant went into full load operation,
sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions would be monitored for a period of one year. If
ground level concentrations were found to be in excess of permissible limits, then an
FGD plant would be installed. Accordingly, space was provided between the
electrostatic precipitators and the stack for the future installation of a FGD unit, if
necessary. The required one-year data collection period, from January 12, 1996 (the
date at which Unit 2 was declared in commercial operation) to January 11, 1997, has
been completed and the results have been forwarded to the Maharashtra Pollution
Control Board (MPCB) for evaluation. A final decision as to the need for an FGD
plant will be made based on the monitoring data and MPCB's evaluation. A total of
16 monitoring stations, including a meteorological station, 5 ambient air quality
measuring stations and 10 water quality measuring stations were installed for
monitoring purposes and BSES continues to provide the data to MPCB for
evaluation. During the period GOI processed the changes in the environmental
clearances about the requirement for the FGD unit, NGOs were given by GOI the "the
opportunity to be heard", in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Court (para.
15). Although the NGOs were not satisfied with the process, their further complaints
were not accepted by the Courts.
(e) Study of Possible Effects on the Chikoo Plants. BSES had its consultants study the
effects of S02 on the chikoo plant. The studies were carried out under a controlled
environment and using internationally approved techniques. It was concluded that the
chikoo plant was resistant to the effects of SO2. It tolerated, without any sign of
degradation, an exposure to SO2 of an order of magnitude of three over what was
predicted by computer modeling to be the highest SO2 ground level concentration
under full load operation, with the plant using the worst quality of specified coal.
(f) Other Actions in the Dahanu Area. BSES has, since the inception of the Project,
planted more than 4.1 million mangroves and 2.5 million trees of various species
along the entire creeks surrounding the Dahanu TPP. Beautification of the BSES
colony near the plant as well as the sea beach in Dahanu Town for public convenience
has been carried out. On the social front, school buildings have been renovated and
several scholarships to deserving students have been awarded. BSES has also open a
college in the area. An abstract of the community development activities by BSES is
given in Appendix E.



- 12-
27.   Compliance with the Legal Covenants. Compliance with legal covenants under the
Guarantee Agreement between India and IBRD, and the Loan Agreement between IBRD and
BSES was generally satisfactory except for the following, which were not under BSES's control:
(a)   Under the Guarantee Agreement, India had committed that:
(i)   it would take or cause to be taken all such action as would be necessary to
ensure the availability of adequate supplies of suitable fuel20 for the
economic operation of the facilities constructed under the Project. As
mentioned in paragraphs 29 through 31, supply of coal of adequate
quantities and adequate quality was a problem during the first years of
operation of the Dahanu TPP. With no control over the GOI's coal
linkage policy, nor over Coal India to assure deliveries, nor over the Indian
Railways for the allotment of wagons for transportation, BSES tried to
reach a commercial agreement with Coal India for the timely supplies of
coal. In the end, in January 1997, BSES was finally able to sign a coal
contract with the South Eastern Coalfields Ltd., a subsidiary of Coal India.
Thus, the covenant was complied with delay. It is also noted that a
commitment in the Guarantee Agreement (which is not commercially
enforceable) proved to be insufficient; and
(ii)  it would take or cause to be taken all such action as would be necessary to
ensure that the State of Maharashtra would prepare and furnish to IBRD
for its review by March 31, 1992, a tribal development program in respect
to incremental support for development activities in the neighboring tribal
communities near the site of the Project and carry out the Tribal
Development Program in a manner satisfactory to IBRD. GOM's initial
proposal in October 1991, and IBRD's consultants' report were not
satisfactory. Although the commitment was originally a commitment by
GOM, BSES undertook the responsibility for the preparation of the said
plan and its implementation. BSES had its consultants prepare a
Community Development Plan, covering tribal and non-tribal people in
the Dahanu area. BSES is seeking international grant assistance of about
US$3 million to implement the said plan. The covenant was partially
complied with.
(b)   under the Loan Agreement, BSES had committed to enter, prior to the
synchronization of the first unit, into a commercial agreements with MSEB and
TEC for the interconnected operation of the Dahanu TPP and BSES's
transmission system with TEC and MSEB's systems. The said contacts are yet to
be concluded. The covenant has not been complied yet, but lack of these
contracts has not negatively affected the operation of the Dahanu TPP and the
20  The commitment would cover supply of gas, in case gas is made available to the Dahanu TPP in future
(Evaluation Summary, Footnote 5).



- 13 -
transmission system. When necessary BSES buys power TEC and/or MSEB, and
sells its generation from the Dahanu TPP to MSEB, GEB and MPSEB through the
load dispatch of WREB.
28.   Compliance with the above covenants was outside the control of BSES. Use by IBRD of
the remedies agreed under the Loan Agreement would have penalized BSES which was
complying with the covenants under its control, was doing its best to comply with the above
three covenants, was implementing the Project satisfactorily and with due diligence, and was
being supported by the international and Indian financial markets. IBRD opted to follow closely
the actions taken by BSES and ensure that non-compliance with the above three covenants did
not jeopardize the implementation and operations of the Project.
D. SUSTAINABILITY OF PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
29.   The achievements of the Project are highly likely to be sustainable under the condition
that fuel21 of proper quality and in required quantities is provided. Since going into commercial
operation, the plant has been running at a very high load factor, with a high level of performance.
BSES has been transformed into a much stronger utility. Operational plans to ensure the
continued sustainability of results achieved under the Project have been discussed and agreed
with BSES management (Part II, Table 6). The Project reduced BSES's dependence on power
bought from TEC, which in turn buys part of its power from MSEB. In view of the fact that the
price of the power bought from MSEB is substantially higher that the cost of generation from the
TEC plants and that of the generation from the Dahanu TPP, the Project would protect BSES
from the operational and financial uncertainties which could stem from MSEB's difficult
institutional and financial situation. The Project has its place as a base-load plant in the merit
order operation in WRIS.
30.   Coal Supply and Coal Quality Issues. Timely supply of coal of adequate quantity and
quality is a very important issue which could affect the sustainability of operation and success of
the Project. But this problem is not specific to the Dahanu TPP. It is a continuing problem
affecting the performance of almost all of the thermal power stations in India. During the initial
phases of operation, BSES had to keep one unit out of operation for a total of 72 days for want of
coal22. In order to meet the coal requirements, BSES resorted to transport coal from Orissa by
ship all around the subcontinent23 and importing coal24. Of late, however, indigenous supplies
21  Evaluation Summary, Footnote 6.
Unit 2 was shutdown from March 20, 1996 to April 28, 1996 (40 days) and Unit 1 was shutdown from June
13, 1996 to July 14, 1996 (32 days) due to coal shortage. Unit I stoppage was also due to power evacuation
problems. BSES used these periods to prepare then units for performance guarantee tests.
23  At appraisal GOI had allocated to the Dahanu TPP, coal from the Tb Valley coal fields in Orissa. Later, GOI
changed the allocation to coal from the Korba coal fileds in Madhya Pradesh. IBRD did not object to this
change as the transportation distance was being reduced from about 1,400 km to about 850 km, and that
studies had shown that all the emission standards and requirements would also be fulfilled in burining coal
from the Korba fields. Due to substantial experienced during the first years of operation, with supplies from
Korba fields, BSES bought coal from the Talcher coal fields in Orissa, and to avoid problems in railway
transportation, shipped the supplies around the country.



- 14 -
allocated by GOI through its coal linkage committee have been adequate. BSES has been
blending it with the imported coal at a ratio of 25 percent imported and 75 percent domestic, to
improve overall coal quality. This has greatly improved the performance of the plant as well as
the ambient air quality due to reduced emissions.
31.   In order to maintain the quality of coal at the desired level, reduce the amount of coal to
be transported by railways, and substitute importation, BSES has made arrangements with
international companies competent in this field, for setting up a coal washing facility at the
supply end (the Korba Coal Fields in Madhya Pradesh). The construction of this facility, one of
the first of its kind in India, is scheduled to be completed over a period of eighteen months from
its start date. It is expected that the quality of the washed coal would improve significantly with
an ash content of about 30 percent without having to be blended with a better quality imported
coal. Given that indigenous coal, earmarked for thermal generation, causes accelerated erosion
of the power plant equipment, which is primarily responsible for the poor performance of most
power plants in India, the decision of BSES to pioneer the use of washed coal in pulverized coal
fired boilers is highly commendable. It will serve to demonstrate the economic benefits to be
derived from coal washing.
32.   In view of the above mentioned timely and correct actions by BSES with regard to supply
of coal, it is concluded that BSES would be able to operate the Project in a sustainable manner.
Thus the sustainability of the Project is not in jeopardy.
E. IBRD PERFORMANCE
33.   IBRD and IFC waited for the decision of the Mumbai High Court before formally
appraising the project. The time was used to advantage to better prepare the Project. When the
Project was approved, GOI had not yet embarked on a full scale liberalization of the economy,
including privatization and amendments to the Industrial Policy Resolution, and the Electricity
(Supply) Act of 1948. The Project represented strong support by IBRD for GOI's policy to
promote private investment in the power sector. Specifically, IBRD encouraged and succeeded
in transforming BSES from a small distribution company into an integrated utility and majority
privately-owned company. The performance of IBRD in respect of project identification,
preparation, appraisal and subsequent project implementation was satisfactory. A total of 13
supervision missions were fielded during which problems in project implementation were
identified and satisfactorily resolved.
34.   However, project preparation would have been on a much stronger footing and would
have taken shorter time, if IBRD had insisted that BSES conduct formal public consultations
during the preparation of the Project. These consultations at the project site, would disseminate
information about the specifics of the Project, its environmental impacts and mitigation, as well
as social benefits the Project would entail. Had the support of the local population been ensured
at the very beginning through such public consultations, there is a probability that the NGOs
24 The first deliveries imported from Australia began in the fall of 1996. The imported coal is of high calorific
value with very low levels of sulphur and ash content.



- 15 -
would not have taken GOI, GOM and BSES to court and appraisal of the Project would not have
been postponed. It is noted that in 1989-1990, formal public consultations were not fully
established. On the other hand, during appraisal and negotiations IBRD should have assessed
more closely the potential negative impact on the successful implementation of the Project of the
covenants for which compliance was not under the full control of BSES (para. 27). In spite of
the above weaknesses, IBRD's performance from preparation to supervision is still rated as
satisfactory.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory throughout the Project from preparation to
implementation and operation (Part II, Table 1). BSES has to be particularly commended for its
risk taking (which proved to be a very reasonable decision) in initiating the procurement for the
main plant equipment package (para. 23), and for its performance in completing the evaluation of
the bids for the said package in 3.5 months (para. 22). BSES's excellent performance in the
latter point compares very well with the performance of the GOI-owned NTPC for similar units
25
under IBRD projects . BSES's performance should be taken as a model by GOI-owned utilities,
SEBs and SEBs' successors being established under state power sector reforms. Given that this
was the first ever generation and transmission project undertaken by BSES, it has managed the
complex undertaking with commendable fortitude and professional acumen. BSES complied
with all the legal covenants under its control (para. 27). However, it is noted that BSES's
approaches to Coal India for the supply of coal, and TEC and MSEB for the commercial
agreements on interconnected operations, were rather those of a publicly owned utility rather
than a private company insisting on having commercially enforceable contracts.
36.   From time to time, BSES had been deploying its surplus funds in short-term investments
for periods generally ranging from 15 days to one or two months through recognized financial
services institutions with the idea of earning a higher interest on these funds. In 1992, such
earning was an additional Rs. 220 million by way of interest on these investments. However, on
some occasions this was done without adequate securities. During a financial services
companies crisis in October 1992, BSES found itself with Rs. 490 million invested without
securities in financial services companies which could not repay them. These funds have not
been recovered, but BSES's financial situation remained strong enough to complete the Project.
37.   BSES has submitted to the GOI an application for setting up at Dahanu a 1,000 MT/day
fly ash utilization plant at an estimated cost of Rs 80 million (about US$2.35 million). In fact,
the original environmental clearance for the plant had envisaged such ash utilization. Ironically,
this worthy project is held up for want of clearance from GOI because the Dahanu area was
declared by GOI as "ecologically fragile" in light of earlier protests by environmental groups
(paras. 15-18; and Annex C). This is a very progressive undertaking in that it aims at using
waste products from the power plant for beneficial purposes while reducing disposal
requirements, and BSES is commended.
25  The bid opening-contract award periods for the turbines and generators, and boilers packages for the 210 MW
Dadri TPP, built by NTPC, were 9 and 10 months, respectively.



- 16-
38.   With the experience it gained during the implementation of the Project, and in view of the
strong support it received from the international and Indian financial markets when, in 1994 and
1996, it issued convertible debentures and GDRs (para. 25), BSES is expanding its operations in
the power sector beyond its license area in Mumbai. It has secured contracts for the management
of a distribution system in Orissa, and for building naphta-based combined cycle power plants in
Kerala, acquired controlling interests in a captive power company in Tamil Nadu, entered into
joint ventures with a public utility in Eastern India to develop a coal-fired power project and
NTPC for the construction of TPPs, and submitted bids to construct combined cycle power plants
for other utilities. BSES is also making small and cautious investments in other sectors, e.g.,
telecommunications. All this reflects continued utilization of the managerial and technical
expertise BSES has acquired through the successful implementation of the Project.
39.   At appraisal, three large IFIs held 59.4 percent of BSES's share capital. Although they
held a majority of the shares, IFIs were represented in BSES's Board but did not intervene with
the Company's day-to-day operations. BSES was left to be managed by its Board and
Management. During the first and second convertible debentures issues in April 1991 and
February 1994, and GDR issue (completed in February 1996), the financial institutions opted to
reduce their holdings. In the meantime, other financial institutions bought smaller amounts of
shares. During the ICR preparation mission, the share of the IFIs and nationalized banks was
34.7 percent of BSES's share capital. Thus, during the implementation of the Project, in addition
to its transformation from a small distribution company to a full-fledged utility, BSES was also
transformed to a majority privately-owned company.
G. COFINANCIER PERFORMANCE
40.  IFC cofinanced the Project to the tune of US$50 million equivalent. The project was
appraised by a joint IBRD-IFC mission. However, project supervision was carried out
separately. IBRD sent all its supervision reports to IFC.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
41.   The results of the Project are satisfactory.
* Most of the physical components of the Project have been installed and are in
commercial operation; the institutional and development objectives have also been
fully realized.
* IBRD encouraged and succeeded in transforming BSES from a small distribution
company into an integrated utility and majority privately-owned company.
* The fact that the distribution of the electric energy generated at the Dahanu TPP is in
BSES's hands has contributed to the success of the Project.
This shows that private investment in generation is more efficient if
distribution also is in private hands.



- 17 -
However, if everything else remained the same in a state (as has been the case
in Maharashtra), a private company responsible for generation and
transmission to supply its distribution can perform satisfactorily as an "island"
utility with satisfactory technical, institutional and most importantly financial
situations.
*  The Project is likely to encourage similar participation by private developers in the
future. This is consistent with the priorities set out in the Country Assistance Strategy
discussed by IBRD Board on June 20, 1995 (para. 5).
*  The success of the Project and the strong support BSES received from the
international and Indian financial markets during the issue of the GDRs, show that
GOI's and IBRD's strategies to move towards private investments in the power sector
are correct.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
42.   Since going into commercial operation, the Dahanu TPP has been operating at its rated
capacity and successfully meeting the load demand of the western region. Future operations of
the power plant will be monitored against the NERC standard for coal-fired power stations,
which calls for a Plant Load Factor (PLF) of 63 percent in the first two years and 75 percent
thereafter for the next 8 years of its operation. In its very first year of operation the power plant
performed above the NERC standard. However, BSES must ensure availability of coal of proper
quality and quantity to continue sustained operation of the plant.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
43.   Major findings of the project implementation experience and important lessons for future
projects are summarized as follows:
(a)   A private company is better suited to making strategic decisions which might be
considered risky by public concerns. Because it had the authority, BSES's Board
took the bold decision to initiate the procurement of the main plant equipment
package, before the decision of the Mumbai High Court had ruled on the court
action by the NGOs, and IBRD and IFC had appraised the Project;
(b)   An utility should begin public consultations and dissemination of detailed
information in respect of social and environmental impacts of any project at a
very early stage of preparation. It is only through such transparent public
consultations that undue apprehension in the public mind can be allayed and their
support for the project enlisted. Due to BSES's proactive position in addressing
the environmental issues, the implementation of the Project was not affected by
any court injunction, although the NGOs continued their court action during the
early years of implementation. However, project preparation would have been on
a much stronger footing and would have taken shorter time, had BSES begun
formal public consultations during the very early stages of preparation. Had the
support of the local population been ensured at the very beginning through such
public consultations, there is a probability that the NGOs would not have taken



- 18-
GOI, GOM and BSES to court and appraisal of the Project would not have been
postponed. It should be noted that in 1989-1990, formal public consultations
were not fully established;
(c)   Priority and attention given by the Management of an utility to timely and
satisfactory evaluation of bids, would shorthen the evaluation period, without
negatively affecting the quality of the evalution, as was seen in the evaluations of
the procurement packages under the Project, in particular in the evaluation of the
bids for the main plant equipment package, which was completed in only 3.5
months;
(d)   Employment of competent consultants would help an utility to complete its
project (from design to assistance to the utility in the evaluation of the bids, to
supervision of implementation) satisfactorily and on time, and also help the utility
keep the number of its staff to a minimum, a was demonstrated under the Project;
(e)   A single turn-key contract for main plant equipment (boilers, steam turbines and
generators, as well as the associated auxiliaries and instrumentation and control
systems) should be encouraged within the context of the financing strategy for any
power project, wherever feasible, as this has proved under the Project to be much
easier to coordinate and implement;
(f)    Evaluation of bids should also take into account an assessment of the existing
backlog of potential suppliers to determine if they have the capacity to deliver
within the time frame indicated, to avoid the delays which occurred under the
Project as the supplier of the main plant equipment contract was not able to
deliver critical components of some major equipment because their order books
were filled beyond capacity;
(g)   Coal supply and transportation by railways should be linked under commercially
enforceable contracts to ensure timely supply of coal of adequate quality and in
adequate quantities, for the optimum utilization of a power generation facility,
because sustainable operation of a TPP cannot be achieved without the assurance
of unconstrained supply of design fuel in as much as full economic benefits of the
investment cannot be realized unless the plant is enabled to operate at its optimum
potential. A commitment by India "to ensure adequate supplies of suitable fuel
for the economic operation of the facilities constructed under the Project' proved
to be insufficient;
(h)   Use of higher quality of coal (washed or imported) should be encouraged, as the
economic, technical and environmental advantages from using such improved
quality of coal, were successfully demonstrated at the Dahanu TPP; and
(i)    When a number of institutions are involved in the successful completion of a
project, it is important to set up a high-powered coordination committee to ensure
that each institution plays its part as demanded by the schedule, to avoid the kind
of delay experienced under the Project, when the transmission line for startup
power was installed on time but its connection to the substation owned and
operated by another utility was delayed due to procedural wrangling.



- 19-
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantal     Partial     Negligible   Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies              0            0            O             U
Sector policies                     *            O            0             0
Financial objectives                *            O            Cl            O
Institutional development           *            0            0             0
Physical objectives                 U            O            O             O
Poverty reduction                   O            O            O
Gender concerns                     O            0            O             U
Other social objectives             O            *            O             O
Environmental objectives            *            O            O             O
Public sector management            O            O            O             U
Private sector development          *            O                          El
Other                               O            O            E l
B. Project Sustainabitity         Likely      Unlikely            Uncertain
*            O                    O
C. Bankperformance              HighlySatisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
Identification                          O                  *               O
Preparation assistance                  O                  *               E
Appraisal                               E                  *               O
Supervision                             E                  *               E
D. Borrower performance          Highly Satifactory   Satisfactory      Defieiet
Preparation                             E                  *               E
Implementation                          E                  *               E
Covenant compliance                     E                  *               E
Operation                               D                  *               E
E. Assessmentafooutcome         Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
E O                                El



-20 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan Tike                                      Purpose                        Year of              Status
. . . . . .____ . ..                                __ -    __. _.            A pproval
Preceding Operations
First Trombay Thermal 106-IN                         Construct 2x62.5MW                   November 1954  Completed
Second Trombay Thermal 164-IN                        Construct lx62.5 MW                  May 1957                Completed
Third Trombay Thermal 1542-IN                        Construct lx500 MW                   April 1978               Completed
Fourth Trombay Thermal 2452-IN                       Construct 1x500 MW                   June 1984                Completed
Private Power Utilities (TEC) 3239-IN    Pumped Storage at Bhira    October 1990                                   Completed
CCGT Plant, 1 80MW, etc
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........................................  ....................................................... ..................... ....................................................... ..................... .................................. ....
Following Operaions
(with private power utilities in India)
None
.................................................................. .......I............................I...............................I....................................................................................
Sectoral Objectives Common to the Above Projects
In addition to the above project-specific objectives, the sectoral objective was to support increased
private sector participation in the supply of power, assist private power utilities become more efficient
in the process.
Tsable 3: Project Timetable
Steps In pr*jeydel                                                Dateplanne                        Dat
Identification                                                                                    January 1989
Preparation                                                       March 1989
Preappraisal                                                    September 1989                  October 29, 1990
Appraisal                                                       November 1989                  February 11, 1991
Negotiations                                                       April 1990                    May 6-10, 1991
Board presentation                                                  July 1990                     June 13, 1991
Signing                                                                                           July 12, 1991
Effectiveness                                                  October 12, 1991                   July 29, 1991
Project completion:                                          December 31, 1995                      April 1997
Loan closing                                                 December31, 1996                 December31, 1996



- 21 -
Table 4: IBRD Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
F9   F                     FY"P   F9   F5 IF96  F
Cumulative Appraisal                                         46.5    84.5   152.7   175.1   197.5   200.0
Actual Cumulative                                    -    32.6    76.7   128.8   165.4   176.6   195.0
Actual as % of Estimate                              -    70.1    90.8    84.3    94.5    89.4    97.5
Date of Final Disbursement: May 15, 1997
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Package                                               Did'Iss                 Ewv,aon                        BankApprnva                            a
____________Coinpiele                                                                            Awaxrd.
Boiler,                        Planned                      2/90                       11/90                                                  1/91 v
Turbine, etc.                  Actual                       2/90                       11/90                 1.9.                               1/ i91
Civil Works                    Planned                      1/91                       3/91                                                    3/91
....   .................. .............   ,  ..........           ... .............. ............................................... ...........................
Foundations                    Actual                        1/91                      3/91................_                                   3/91
Electrical                     Planned                      5/91                       9/91                                                    10/91
............. ,1.................. ,............................................... .................................... ......................................
Transformers                  Actual                        7/91                       12/91                                                   1/92
CW System                      Planned                      3/91                       6/91                                                    8/91
.........................................  ...................... 1.374 i ................ .................. ..... .... ,................................. ..... .............  P~ ..................  ...........................
______________   Actual                       5/91                       12/91               _           1/92                     1/92
Coal                           Planned                      4/91                       9/91                           10/91                   10/91
Handling                   *Actual                        8/91                      4/92                            5/92                    5/92
Ash                            Planned                      5/91                       9/91                           10/91                   10/91
...................... ........... . ....... ........I.,......... i ..............I..... , .......I....................................... ...........................
Handling                    Actual                       12/91                      6/92                            7/92                    7/92
XMN Line                       Planned                      11/90                      3/91                            4/91                    4/91
~~~~~~~~~~..................... ... .......... .. ,..........................................,...... ......................................
and Towers                     Actual                       1/90                                                       5/91                    5/91
B. Construction and Commissioning
nat Component                                          Sync             Aon                  CTme                                  Operaton
Planned                     Actual                     Planned                         Actual
Unit 1                                            7/94                        1/95                        1/95                         7/ 95
Unit 2                                            1/95                       3/95                         7/95                          1/96
220 kV Transmission:
- Dahanu-Boisar (*)                             6/93                       6/93                         1/95                         10/94
- Boisar-Ghodbunder                             7/94                                                    1/95                          8/95
- Ghodbunder-Versova                            7/94                                                    1/95                          8/95
- Dahanu-Versova                                7/94                                                    1/95                      Expected:
I____________________   I____________  I___________  _                             I     second    half-97
(*) Dahanu-Boisar section was completed early for startup supply.



- 22 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Years in                1-2 Years           3-1G Years   11-20 Years     21-25
1                      ~~~~~~~Years
Operation         Planned 1/    Actual2X   Planned          Planned      Planned
Total Generation (GWh)     1,930        1,670         2,600        2,490         2,190
Plant Availability, %        70         80.25           79            79           77
Plant Load Factor, %         63         73.19           75            72           65
1/ Based on expected generation in accordance with North America Energy Regulatory Council's
(NERC) standard for coal-fired power plants.
2/ Calculated from date of commercial operation.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
No study was included in the Project.



- 23 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)            Actual (UJS$M)
Local      Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign    Total
2x250 MW Plant                  224.8    119.2    344.0    328.2         0.8    329.0
FGD Unit                         14.0     14.9      28.9        -          -        -
Transmission Lines and           23.0    23.1      46.1       76.9               76.9
Receiving Station
Distribution                     57.9        -      57.9     111.7         -    111.7
Total Base Cost                 319.7    157.2    476.9    516.8         0.8    517.6
Physical Contingencies           22.4      8.0      30.4
Price Contingencies              12.5     14.3      26.8
Total Project Cost              354.6    179.5    534.1      516.8       0.8    517.6
Working Capital Margin           12.6        -      12.6       6.6         -      6.6
Interest During Construction     43.4     63.2    106.6       89.4         -      89.4
Total Financing Required        410.6    242.7    653.3    612.8         0.8    613.6
Note: In terms of Indian Rupees, financing requirement equates to Rs.14,000 million as estimated at
appraisal. Actual cost is Rs.18,675 million at Rs. 30.44 to a dollar average exchange rate.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate                  Actual
Source                    Rs. million   US$ million    Rs. million    US$ million
Internal Accruals                      1,386           65.6        2,715          89.2
Special Reserves                       1,000           47.5        1,000         32.9
Fully Convertible Debentures:
-First Issue                          1,000           47.5        1,150         37.8
- Second Issue                        1,500           69.6        3,500         115.0
Global Depository Receipts                                -        1,740         57.5
Long Term Loans:
- Indian Financial Institutions       3,270          155.1        1,100         36.2
- IBRD Loan                           4,363          200.0        5,910         195.0
- IFC Investment                      1,089           50.0        1,560         50.0
- IFC Syndication                       392           18.0            -
Total                     14,000         653.3        18,675        613.6



- 24 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Rs. Million)
Year      Capital      O&M       Fuel   Total Cost Increasse           Net
.. .. . . . Expenditure  _______                     Sales            Benefit
1990           40.7                          40.7             -       -40.7
1991          836.3                         836.3             -      -836.3
1992         1121.7                        1121.7             -    -1121.7
1993         2934.7                        2934.7             -    -2934.7
1994         4320.1                        4320.1             -    -4320.1
1995         4400.1                        4400.1             -    -4400.1
1996         3523.4   1115.0    790.2      5428.6        4942.4      -486.2
1997         1497.8   2486.4   3018.5      7002.7        7005.9        3.2
1998                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9        9438.0     3933.1
1999                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9        9438.0     3933.1
2000                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9         9438.0     3933.1
2001                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9         9438.0     3933.1
2002                   2486.4   3018.5     5504.9         9438.0     3933.1
2003                   2486.4   3018.5     5504.9         9438.0     3933.1
2004                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9         9438.0     3933.1
2005                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9         9038.7     3533.8
2006                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9        9038.7      3533.8
2007                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9        9038.7      3533.8
2008                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9         9038.7     3533.8
2009                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9         9038.7     3533.8
2010                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9         9038.7     3533.8
2011                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9         9038.7     3533.8
2012                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9         9038.7     3533.8
2013                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9         9038.7     3533.8
2014                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9         9038.7     3533.8
2015                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9         7949.7     2444.8
2016                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9         7949.7     2444.8
2017                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9         7949.7     2444.8
2018                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9         7949.7     2444.8
2019                  2486.4   3018.5      5504.9        7949.7      2444.8
EIRR= 15.7%
Assumptions: (a) Direct capital costs, inclusive of contingencies, for the thermal plant and associated transmission
and distribution facilities; (b) O&M expenses 2.5% of plant capital cost; (c) Fuel cost Rs. 610/tonne and coal
consumption 0.6 kg/kWh; (d) PLF based on NERC guidelines; (e) Average Tariff Rs. 3.63/kWh.



- 25 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
4greemeniet                         AescFIpi*in                             co,me
Section
GA 3.03 (i)    GOM to take no action to adversely affect BSES's operational None so far.
performance and financial position, including BSES's area of
supply at least upto last maturity date of loan (Aug.15, 2011).
GA 3.03 (ii)   GOl/GOM to allow BSES to accumulate certain special    Yes.
reserves. Includes special reserve for repayment of BSES's
debt.
GA 3.03 (iii)  GOI/GOM to ensure audit of BSES's environmental        Yes and continuing.
monitoring program through MPCB.
GA 3.03 (iv)   GOI/GOM to formulate and furnish to IBRD for review, by    Partially'.
March 31, 1992, a Tribal Development Program and
implement this program in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
GA 3.03 (v)   GOI treat IBRD, IFC, and the Indian Financial Institutions'    Yes.
loans toward the project financing as loans from "approved
institutionse in accordance with the Act.
GA 3.05       GOI to ensure adequate supplies of suitable fuel for the  Yes, but with delay.
economic operation of the facilities constructed under the  Contract signed on
project.                                                Jan.28,1997 2
LA 3.03       BSES to establish and maintain a project management     Yes.
structure satisfactory to IBRD.
LA 4.07       BSES to conclude agreements with MSEB and TEC prior to    No. However, plant
the synchronization of the first unit of the Dahanu Power  performance not
Plant.  .                                               affected 3.
I   The commitment was made by GOIIGOM. GOM's proposals in October 1991, were not acceptable to IBRD.
BSES had its consultants prepare a report, and is seeking international grant assistance to implement the
recommendations. Timely compliance was outside the control of BSES.
2   Although BSES initiated actions in a timely manner, agreement on a contract which could be used as
precedent for other independent power producers took much longer than anticipated. Timely compliance was
outside the control of BSES.
Although BSES initiated actions on this issue in a timely manner, it has not come to an agreement with TEC
and MSEB yet. However, operation of the facilities has not been negatively affected. Compliance was outside
the control of BSES.



- 26 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
Agreementl                         Description                            Comments
Section
LA 5.01 b (ii) Furnish its annual financial statements audited by auditors  Yes.
(1)           acceptable to IBRD, within 120 days after the end of each of
its financial years.
LA 5.01 b (ii) Furnish the status of the Special Account for the IBRD loan    Yes.
(2)           audited by auditors acceptable to IBRD, within 120 days after
the end of its financial years.
LA 5.02 (a)   BSES to create an equitable mortgage in favor of the Bank.    Yes.
LA 5.02 (f)    BSES to execute Power of Attorney in favor of the Bank.  Yes.
LA 5.04 (c)   BSES to furnish financial performance and projections for  Yes.
current and next four financial years by Nov.30 each year.
LA 5.04 (i)    BSES to set tariffs at levels sufficient to achieve prescribed    Yes.
return on capital base.
LA 5.04 (ii)   BSES shall take from the Bank prior consent for any   Yes.
additional indebtedness if the principal amount of debt
outstanding would be 2.5 times its equity.
LA 5.05       BSES to complete by June 30, 1994, the subscription of the    Yes.
second debenture issue, underwritten to the extent offered
offered to the public.
LA 7.01 (a)   BSES to execute security arrangements for the proposed loan.  Yes.
LA 7.01 (c)   GOM to extend BSES's license at least up to Augustl5, 2011.  Yes.
LA 7.01 (d)   GOI/GOM/BSES to ensure fulfillment of all conditions   Yes.
precedent to disbursement of the IFC investment.
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no lack of compliance with applicable Operational Directive or Operational
Procedures.



- 27 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle              Planned                                Actual
Weeks           US$           Weeks           US$ ('000)
('000)
Through Appraisal                      30                            94.2              249.1
Appraisal-Board                         6                            21.1                66.2
Supervision                            24                            57.1               189.1
Completion                            10.0                            3.8                14.7
TOTAL                                 71.0                          176.2              519.1
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project    Month/  No. of       Days in     Specialization   Performance   Types of
Cycle               Year      Persons    field                         Rating     Problems
Through appraisal
Appraisal through
Board approval
Board approval
through effectiveness
Supervision 1         11/91       2          2       E, EC
Supervision 2         2/92        2          3       E, FA
Supervision 3         10/92       2          5       E, FA
Supervision 4         6/93        3          6       E, EN, FA           2        Env, Studies
Supervision 5         10/93       3          4       E, EN, FA           1        Env
Supervision 6         2/94        5          4       E, FA, ENSP         1        Env
Supervision 7         6/94        5          3       E, FA, EN           1
Supervision 8         11/94       3          3       E, EN               1
Supervision 9         7/95        2          2       E, EN               I
Supervision 10        11/95       3          2       E, FA               1
Supervision 11        3/96        2          4       E, EN               1
Supervision 12        10/96       1          2       E                   S
Supervision 13        2/97        1          2       E                  HS
Completion            11/96       1          5       E
Legend: E: Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; EC: Economist; ENSP: Environmental Specialist;
Sp: Specialist
1 = No or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems
I = Implementation delays; IN = Institutional Problems; PR = Procurement Delays
H= Satisfactory; HS= Highly Satisfactory



- 28 -
APPENDIX A
MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is required by the World Bank for each of
it's lending operations, aimed at improving the quality and effectiveness of Bank loans and
reinforcing the borrower's ability to design, implement and operate projects. In light of this
requirement, an ICR (Implementation Completion Report) mission was fielded by the Bank from
December 2 to December 6, 1996 for the Private Power Utilities (BSES) Project (Loan No.
3344-IN) ), the loan closing date for which is December 31, 1996. The mission included a site
visit on December 3, 1996. This aide memoire records the findings of the ICR mission as well as
agreements reached with BSES to facilitate completion of the ICR on time. The mission would
like to take this opportunity to thank BSES for the courtesy and assistance extended to it during
the mission to accomplish its tasks.
2.    The mission noted that the principal physical,objectives of the project to provide
additional generation, transmission and distribution capacity in the Mumbai area to meet the
increasing demand for electricity, had been met albeit with a delay of about 11 months from the
original commissioning dates due primarily to constant litigation by environmental groups and
NGOs challenging the development, delay in receiving start up power from MSEB, and some
equipment problems during commissioning.
3.    The mission advised BSES that for withdrawal applications to be submitted to the Bank
under the loan, goods procured should have been delivered, works completed and services
rendered by the loan closing date and payment for such goods, works or services should have
been made or should have become due under the relevant contracts prior to the loan closing date.
Further disbursements from the loan would continue for another 4 months, up to April 30, 1997,
in respect of eligible expenditures made before the loan closing date. Proceeds of the loan
remaining unwithdrawn after disbursements have been made against withdrawal applications
would be canceled, following which a revised amortization schedule would be furnished by the
Bank.
4.    The mission was impressed by the generating station at Dahanu for its overall cleanliness,
excellent upkeep, effective management and the dedication of a highly motivated staff to make it
a show-piece of a power plant. Both generating units were in operation at full load with a PLF of
more than 90 percent.
5.    The mission recommended that the Performance Guarantee Tests for the turbine
generator be completed before December 31, 1996. It was noted that the boiler and ESP
performance guarantee tests had already been successfully completed.
6.    The mission noted that all legal covenants under the loan had been satisfactorily complied
with except for the one requiring agreements to be reached by BSES with GOI for the
availability and adequacy of timely supplies of suitable fuel for the power plant. However, with
no control whatsoever either over GOI for coal linkage or over Coal India for supplies or the



- 29 -
Indian Railways for transportation of coal, the mission was of the opinion that it was unrealistic
to bind BSES into a legal covenant on the coal supply issue.
7.    During the initial phases of operation in 1995, BSES had to keep one unit out of
operation for as long as 3 months for want of coal. In order to meet the requirement, BSES has
been importing coal and blending it with indigenous supplies that has greatly improved the
quality of coal as well as performance of the plant and ambient air quality due to reduced
emissions. The mission was informed that, of late, coal deliveries from Coal India have been
adequate. The linkage now allows for 2 MT/yr from the South Eastern coalfields at a rate of
160,000 MT/month.
8.    The mission noted that BSES had made all arrangements for setting up a coal washing
facility at the designated supply end. The construction of this facility is to be completed over a
period of 18 months from the start date. BSES expects the quality of the coal, after washing,
would improve significantly with an ash content of about 30 percent. Given that indigenous
coal, earmarked for thermal generation, wreaks havoc with the power plant equipment, which is
primarily responsible for the poor performance of most Indian power plants, the mission
commended BSES for their bold decision to pioneer the coal washing industry for power
generation that would serve to demonstrate the ample economic benefits to be derived from
improved coal quality.
9.    The mission was informed by BSES that their other plan for setting up a 1,000 MT/day
fly ash utilization plant at an estimated cost of Rs. 80 million, which would require collection of
the ash in a dry form, was held up for environmental clearance from the concerned Ministry. It
is unfortunate that procedural delays in the Government in providing expeditious clearance for
such highly commendable projects should constrain progressive undertakings.
10.   Environmental Clearances: BSES received environmental clearance from the Ministry of
Environment and Forests on March 29, 1989. The Clearance stipulated a setback requirement
from the high tide line. The stipulation to install flue gas desulfurization was deferred until
monitoring data on incremental increase of sulfur dioxide would be available (April 2, 1993).
Site clearance was granted by the government of Maharashtra July 7, 1988. The Maharashtra
State Pollution Control Board granted a Consent Order to operate June 12, 1995. A Site work
commenced in 1990; in 1991, a Coastal Zone Regulation (CRZ) was promulgated limiting
development within defined coastal zone areas. Although the project had been cleared, in order
to comply with this new regulation and the MOEF Clearance, the State Hydrographer was
consulted for confirmation of the high tide line, and the location of the power plant buildings
moved to comply. The Dahanu area was declared an ecologically sensitive area, and further
industrial development prohibited in a notification from MOEF June 20, 1991.
11.   Environmental concerns over the BSES development were raised by third parties, and the
matter taken to the High Court and Supreme Court, both of which ruled in favor of BSES. Issues
raised included compliance with the MOEF clearance in which both Court decisions clearly
found in favor of BSES. The Court considered the complete site plans, including cooling water
intake and outlet, and ash disposal area. The Court rulings clearly defined the intent of the
MOEF Clearance to be limited to the power station buildings, and confirmed that the location of



- 30 -
the buildings had been moved to comply with the Clearance. A Bank supervision mission in
April 1993 confirmed with the Executive Secretary of the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board
(MPCB) that the ash pond location had been considered in clearance for the project as well.
12.   Environmental Management and Monitoring: BSES added an environmental generalist
and community development specialist to their staff in 1990. A detailed environmental baseline
monitoring program has been undertaken by BSES as agreed with the Bank. Data collection
began in 1990, including ambient air quality, groundwater and water in the tidal creeks. Results
have been regularly reported to the Bank in Quarterly Due Diligence Reports. These Due
Diligence Reports are audited by the MSPCB, and the audit findings reported in three
newspapers. BSES now conducts monitoring (10 surface water, 4 ambient air continuous
computerized, one ambient air mobile, effluent and stack gas) as per their Consent Order, and
MSPCB conducts their own monitoring of effluent and emissions. A plume dispersion model
was used to locate the ambient air monitoring stations; this model should be validated against
ambient air monitoring data, now that the power station is operating under full load.
13.   Environmental Studies: Thermal plume modeling was conducted by the Central Water
and Power Research Station, (CWPRS) Pune. The standard to be used for chlorine residual was
confirmed with MSPCB, in consultation with the National Institute of Oceanography.
14.   The National Environmental Engineering Institute (NEERI) completed a baseline study of
the aquatic resources surrounding the power station site in July, 1993. BSES will be contracting
with the National Institute of Oceanography for a follow up study, now that operations have
begun, in order to assess impacts.
15.   BSES contracted a consultant from the Department of Environmental Botany, University
of Pune, to develop a site reclamation plan, and to study the effects of SOx on Chiku, a locally
important fruit. The plant and colony site have been reclaimed from sterile salt drying pans over
the years through these efforts. The mix of species chosen for reclamation of the site were
chosen to reflect the large diversity of the local Thane district mixed deciduous forest, along with
salt spray tolerance. Most notably, BSES has established mangroves (several million seedlings)
of two local species along the
16.   Creeks surrounding the power station. Some of the new mangrove communities are now
two meters in height. There are no other mangrove communities in existence in the Dahanu
creek area, and BSES should be commended for this effort which will have a definite positive
impact on the aquatic ecology. The mission encourages BSES to continue the mangrove
establishment effort surrounding the ash disposal area.
17.   Several SOx sensitive species were established on the plant site to act as biomonitors of
ambient air. The impact of SOx on Chiku was studied using internationally developed
fumigation chamber techniques; the impact of ash deposition was also studied. The investigation
revealed that Chiku is among the most resistant of the species studied to the effects of SOx and
ash deposition. Tests were conducted of SOx concentrations over three orders of magnitude
above ambient SOx concentrations.



- 31 -
18.   Community development activities were to have been conducted by the Government of
Maharashtra Tribal Welfare Department; however, the Department did not generate a
Community Development Plan, and the grant availability lapsed. In the interim, since 1991,
BSES has been conducting a number of community development activities of their own accord,
including funding to establish a local Junior Science College, to begin with the next academic
session in July, 1996. As an understanding with the World Bank, BSES has also funded
(September, 1995) a Community Development Plan study undertaken by the Indira Gandi
Institute, and recently completed. BSES should seek international grant assistance for
implementation.
19.   A recent petition by the Dahanu Industrial Association to relax the industrial
development ban in the area has resulted in a renewal of the debate over industrial impacts in
general and the BSES power station. The Supreme Court asked MSPCB for an opinion, and then
NIEERI for an evaluation on industrial development. BSES has drafted very cogent responses to
the largely negative NEERI report, pointing out factual errors, inadequate investigation
techniques, and serious flaws in data comparison, interpretation and analysis. The mission
congratulates BSES on their accumulation of a solid base of independently verified
environmental monitoring data, and the in-house ability to respond to criticism in a technically
proficient manner. BSES plans to enlist the services of the National Institute of Oceanography
(NIO) for a follow up aquatic resources study at the Dahanu site. The mission encourages BSES
to do so and suggests an international consultant be contracted to review methods, quality
control/quality assurance, and data analysis in conjunction with NIO. A more detailed review of
this NEERI report will be given in the Back to Office Report.
20.   The mission encourages BSES to develop a documentary video to review the impacts of
coal fired power stations, and the mitigation and pollution controls undertaken by BSES. The
community development activities should also be included. This documentary should be
developed by a professional organization in this business.
21.   The mission requested BSES to start processing information required for the preparation
of the ICR. To this end, the Bank had already handed over to BSES a copy of the proposed
Statistical Tables (Part III) of the ICR. The schedule for the flow and exchange of information
was set and agreed as follows:
Draft Part III from BSES to Bank     January 15, 1997
Draft Part II (Borrower's Evaluation)
from BSES to Bank                    January 31, 1997
Draft ICR from Bank to BSES          February 15, 1997
Comments and final input from BSES,    March 10, 1997
Final Draft of ICR                   April 30, 1997
The ICR would be updated and finalized as disbursements under the loan are completed.



- 32 -
22.  It was agreed that the Project Cost would be shown under the same categories as
indicated in the SAR. Taxes and duties paid on procurement would be computed. IDC also
would be shown. These figures would be updated for the final version of the ICR.



- 33 -
APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION (*)
Project Implementation Assessment
Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    Electricity demand in India in the 1990s was projected to grow at an annual average of
approximately 9 percent through the year 2000. The huge demand has cause supply gaps arising
from scarcity of public resources on the one hand and frequent breakdown of existing plants on
the other owing to nonavailability of spare parts, deteriorating quality of fuel and inability of the
public sector utilities to take timely outages for maintenance. To meet the demand and improve
the quality of power supply, the government of India (GOI) decided to harness more resources
and managerial skills from the private sector.
2.    Most private electricity generation in India is through captive power plants, which is
equivalent to about 15 percent of total public supply. The Bombay Suburban Electric Supply
Ltd. (BSES Ltd.) is one of five private power utilities in India. The other private utilities are:
Ahmedabad Electricity Co. (AEC), Bombay Electric Supply and Transport, The Calcutta
Electric Supply Co. (CESC) and Tata Electric Companies (TEC).
3.    BSES was a well established distribution utility with a good record of performance and
efficiency. Sixty percent of its capital is held by the Indian Financial Institutions, the balance is
owned by about 6,000 shareholders and other corporations. BSES, well managed as a
corporation, is technically and commercially efficient. Its financial position has been strong
compared to other utilities operating in India. BSES has been in the business of electricity
distribution since 1926. When its license of 50 years expired in 1976, the Government of
Maharashtra (GOM) extended the license for 10 years on condition that BSES would install a
500 MW generation project in Maharashtra, because of anticipated supply gap. As BSES
initiated action in this behalf, GOM further extended their license initially up to 1991, and later
for another ten years i.e. up to 2001 to satisfy one of the conditions of the Bank loan.
4.    The Bank's strategy in the Indian power sector, in close cooperation with IFC, included
support to private power utilities to improve their financial and economic efficiency, and also to
encourage GOI to lower entry barriers for new investors. Bank group involvement in the private
sector comprised five loans to the Tata Electric Companies (TEC) for the staged development of
the Trombay Thermal Power Station and the construction of a pumped storage facility at Bhira.
IFC loans of US$ 20 million equivalent to the Ahmedabah Electricity Co. and US$ 35 million
equivalent to TEC had helped them to strengthen their respective transmission systems. IBRD
and IFC participation in the BSES project helped mobilize financing for the project, facilitating
its satisfactory implementation.
BSES's other comments sent to the Bank with their letter dated May 26, 1997, were included into the ICR.
The letter has been included in the Project File.



- 34-
5.    The project's physical objectives were to: (a) provide additional generation, transmission
and distribution capacity to meet the increasing demand for electricity in the Mumbai area, and
(ii) maintain the high quality of service to BSES consumers. Additionally, the institutional and
sectoral objectives were to (c) support GOI's endeavors to increase private sector participation in
the supply of power, and (d) assist in transforming BSES from a distribution company into an
integrated power utility with responsibilities for generation, transmission and distribution.
6.    However, since its inception, the project was constantly challenged in the Indian Courts
of Law by the Bombay Environmental Action Group and Non-Government Organizations
(NGO), claiming that the project would cause severe destruction of the coastal wetland and
deprive the fisher folk and farmers of their livelihood. Specifically, the objections raised
consisted of: (I) potential disruption of local life (mainly agricultural) due to large work force
implantation (ii) use of canal water would deprive agriculture, (iii) plant gas emissions and their
effect on public health as well as "chikoo" (Areas Sapota) crops; (iv)- liquid discharge from the
plant on aquatic life, and (v) construction within 500 meters of high tide line. The Dahanu site
was selected after careful assessment of the proposed projects development impacts. The power
plant was designed such as to mitigate any adverse impact of the development BSES had to
defend the viability of the project time and time again in the Mumbai High Court and the
Supreme Court of India. In each case, the courts upheld BSES's position and allowed the project
to be implemented. In the process, however, delays were caused. A more detailed discussion of
the environmental aspects of the project and the fall out from objections raised is given in
Appendix D.
Achievement of Objectives
7.    The overall objectives of the project have been achieved. With this private sector
participation, BSES has been transformed from a distribution company into a full-fledged utility
with generation, transmission and distribution functions, the project itself reflects least-cost
power development in the Mumbai area, environmental measures undertaken and monitoring of
impact data on a continuous basis are deemed to be adequate for the purpose of safeguarding all
interests, and tariffs are adequate to ensure an acceptable return on investments.



-35 -
APPENDIX C
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
Background
1.    In 1976, GOM, as a condition for extending the operating license of BSES, mandated that
BSES should install and commission a 500 MW capacity generating station in the state of
Maharashtra to supply power to its consumers by building its own transmission and distribution
facilities.
Fuel Choice and Site Selection
2.    BSES carried out feasibility studies for fuel and site selection for the said power plant.
As gas or naphta were not available, coal was selected as the fuel for the plant'. Site selection
studies were condusted based on GOI Environmental Guidelines for Thermal Power Plants. Nine
alternative sites were assessed. The first preference for a suitable site for the proposed power
plant went in favor of a coastal area near Bassein, just north of Mumbai. However, the site was
within the jurisdiction of the Bombay Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (BMRDA)
of GOM. The other eight sites posed various constraints ranging from lack of cooling water,
access, land acquisition and resettlement-related problems. Upon refusal by GOM to approve the
Bassein site, BSES examined other sites north of Bassein, outside BMRDA's jurisdiction, and
settled on Dahanu, approximately 1 10 km north of Mumbai.
3 .    The plant site, located about 4 km south of the town of Dahanu, provided several
advantages, including: (i) the feasibility of once-through condenser cooling, using sea water, that
would minimize the burden on scarce fresh water resources; (ii) land away from densely
populated areas; (iii) no need for resettlement since nobody was to be physically displaced from
the site; (iv) availability of necessary amount of fresh water; (v) ease of receiving coal or gas
supplies over the sea route; (vi) close proximity to the Indian Railway routes; and (vii) minimal
disruption to land use since the land itself was unproductive for agricultural purposes.
Environmental Impacts
5.    In 1987, BSES completed an initial environmental assessment (EA) of the Dahanu
project. The EA was subsequently approved by GOM and GOI. The major impact of the project
on the terrestrial environment was perceived as the permanent commitment of the land, a total of
816 ha, for the installation of the proposed facilities. The land which was previously used by salt
panners was not and could not be used for agricultural purposes. Route selection for the
associated transmission lines also did not indicate any harmful impact on the environment.
However, to cover for the possibility of availability of gas supplies in the Mumbai area in the future, the
boilers of the Dahanu TPP were designed to bum coal and gas. In view of the unavailability (at appraisal and
currently) of long-term supplies of gas, gas burners were not installed. The Dahanu TPP has been built and is
being operated as a conventional, base-load, coal-fired plant.



- 36 -
6.    However, if appropriate mitigating measures were not taken the site would present the
following environmental issues: (a) the once-through cooling system could become a source of
thermal pollution for creeks surrounding the site; (b) liquid wastes from the water treatment
plant, the demineralizer plant, the waste water treatment plant, as well as from the ash disposal
area could contaminate the creeks and ground water; and (c) the products of combustion, such as
sulfurous oxides (SO, and nitrous oxides (NOJ), as well as Solid Particulate Matter (SPM)
escaping from the stack, could pollute the atmosphere and cause damage to the chikoo plants, a
delicate fruit that is a source of local income.
Environmental Clearances
7.    BSES received environmental clearance from the GOI Ministry of Environment and
Forests on March 29, 1989. The clearance, inter alia, stipulated: (a) setting back the power plant
500 meters from the high tide line (HTL); (b) installation of a flue gas desulfurization system
(FGD) with 90 percent efficiency; (c) cooling water discharge temperature no higher than 50 C at
point of discharge; (d) no forest land to be acquired for the main plant or for ash disposal; (e)
creation of a green belt all around the proposed plant; and (f) no further expansion of the power
plant to be permitted at the proposed site. The requirement of the FGD system was, however,
revised by GOI in 1993 with the stipulation that the SO2 emissions would be monitored for a
period of one year after the plant was commissioned into commercial service. In case ground
level concentrations of SO2 exceeded pernissible limits, then an FGD plant would be installed.
Environmental Concerns
8.    Concerns over the BSES development were raised by environmental groups active in the
area (Bombay Environmental Action Group and the Dahanu Taluka Environmental Protection
Group). Of specific concern to these groups was the danger of grave damage being done to the
"chikoo" plants. They also complained that thermal pollution would potentially destroy the fish
population and deprive local fishermen of their only means of livelihood. The development was
challenged in the Mumbai High Court, as well as in the Supreme Court of India. It was also
stated that BSES had not complied with the provisions of the environmental clearance in respect
of the construction of the plant relative to the HTL. These allegations, however, were determined
as unfounded as the power plant had been physically set back from the HTL by 500 meters,
while the design of the power plant itself had incorporated adequate provisions for the mitigation
of the environmental impacts. Based on this determination, both Courts ruled in favor of BSES
and allowed the construction of the power plant to proceed.
Mitigation
9.    Provisions made to reduce the impact of the pollutants to within acceptable limits are
discussed below:
a.    Once through cooling system - Modeling studies indicated that the use of a 3 km
long, 200 meter wide, discharge channel before the water met the sea, would provide



- 37 -
adequate residence time for the water to dissipate the heat gained in the condenser and
that the fmal elevation of temperature of the water would be less than 3C above the
ambient before meeting the creek. This change in temperature was even less than the
seasonal variations in the sea water temperature. Furthermore, aquatic studies, conducted
by the National Environmental Engineering Institute (NEERI), indicated that the
principal biotic characteristics of the creek waters would not be affected by the thermal
variations and that the fish population or other micro organisms inhabiting the creek
would not be harmed.
b.    Other liquid wastes - Liquid wastes and discharges from the water treatment plant
and demineralizer plant are neutralized in these plants to acceptable quality. The
neutralized water of pH 7.0-7.5 is taken to a drain pond and its overflow is released to the
creek. Ash is disposed of in a slurry form into an ash lagoon (para. 15 below).
c.    Gas emissions - A 275 meter high stack was installed in accordance with the
provisions of environmental clearance for the boilers to minimize the impacts on ambient
air quality. Gas plume dispersion modeling studies indicated that with the selected stack
height and the worst quality of coal that could be burned in the boilers, having a sulfur
content of 0.6 percent, the ground level concentration of S02 would be well within limits
without flue gas desulfurization Bank guidelines impose a limit of 100 ,ug/m3 while GOI
limits for the same are 30 pg/m3 for sensitive areas and 80 ,ug/m3 for residential and rural
areas. To mitigate NO,, emissions, low NO,, burners were designed to be used in the
boilers.
d.    Solid Particulate Matter (SPM)- To reduce SPM emission, electrostatic
precipitators (ESP) having a collection efficiency of 99.8 percent were installed. The
dispersion model indicated a ground level SPM concentration also to be well within
limits vis-a-vis Bank guidelines of 100 ,ug/m3 and a GOI limit of 100 ,ug/m3 for sensitive
areas (200 Jig/m3 for residential and local areas).
The actual emission data in the vicinity of the plant in November 1996, while operating at
full load, is as follows:
STATION             SO2 (9ig/ms)     NO. (WIg/m3)   SPM (ig/mgl)
Allowable Limit                 30.0          30.0            100
Vangaon                         15.5          13.6           22.0
Kosbad                          17.4           9.0            2.1
Ashagad                         14.4          28.3           38.1
Issue of FGD Plant
10.   The initial environmental clearance by GOI and GOM had stipulated that a Flue Gas
Desulfurization Plant (FGD), with 90 percent SO2 removal efficiency, should be built and be
ready for operation when the power plant was commissioned. However, since extensive stack
plume dispersion modeling indicated that the project would comply with air quality standards



- 38 -
even without an FGD system, and considering the additional cost of US$ 40-50 million for
desulfurization, it was concluded that a decision on the installation of an FGD system could be
deferred until the plant went into operation and actual data on plant emissions was collected for a
full period of one year. If at that time, the actual ground level concentration of SO2 indicated a
concentration above permissible limits, an FGD system would be required to be installed.
Adequate space was therefore provided in the design of the plant to retrofit an FGD system, if
necessary, with 90 percent removal efficiency, basically duplicating the design used by TEC for
their Trombay power station, which had already acquired commendable track record in its
performance. At the time of writing this ICR, the one-year data collection is complete and the
results have been forwarded to GOM/GOI for review and comments.
Monitoring
11.   BSES has been monitoring air emissions and liquid effluent from the plant to ensure
compliance with the environmental requirements of GOI, GOM and the World Bank. A Due
Diligence Report is prepared every six months. The data is compared with the baseline data
collected in 1992 and 1993, before the plant went into operation, to indicate if there has been any
significant change in the environment. The data is being audited by the GOM's Pollution
Control Board (MPCB) on a semi-annual basis. The audit reports are available to the public
12.   Now that the plant has gone into operation, data collection is continuing to compare the
environment with the baseline data to see if there has been any change and to what degree, if any.
BSES funded a very comprehensive research by a Professor of the University of Pune to study
the effects of the plant emission on the sensitive chikoo plants. The professor has conducted
green house experiments with chikoo plants, using internationally acknowledged fumigation
chamber techniques, in which the SO2 concentrations of the surrounding environment were
altered. The impact of ash deposition was also studied. The investigation revealed that Chikoo
plants a re tolerant up to 1 ppm concentration of S02 (i.e., 2,680 ,tg/m3) and therefore, are very
resistant to the effects of SOX and ash deposition. These reports are available to the public on
demand. The reports are also available at the Bank's Asia Information Center.
Tribal Development
13.   There is no resettlement component under the project, since no person has been displaced
by project construction. During appraisal, the impact of the project on the tribal people living in
the area was reviewed and found to be indirect and marginal. However, it was agreed that a
tribal development program, satisfactory to the Bank, would be developed and implemented by
the Tribal Welfare Department of GOM. BSES undertook the responsibility for implementing
the program. A Tribal Welfare Program at the Dahanu Taluka was formally prepared in April
1996 by GOM and BSES. Even earlier, however, BSES contributed to improving the livelihood
of the tribals by providing them with employment opportunities, particularly during the
construction phase. BSES also funded a stipend scheme to provide training to the local tribal
boys in various trades. In accordance with the development program, BSES provided training to
the tribals in brickmaking, using fly ash, and allowed them the use of the pilot plant set up for
that purpose, as well as seed money as capital to start their venture. BSES has also funded the



- 39 -
establishment of a local Junior Science College. Other development activities include:
renovation of tube wells, agricultural programs for a second crop, horticulture in selected
villages, animal husbandry, fish farming, and medical camps to increase health and hygiene
awareness among the tribal people. As an understanding with the Bank, BSES has also funded a
Community Development Plan study undertaken and recently completed by the Indira Gandhi
Institute. BSES may seek international grant assistance for the implementation of its
recommendations.
Land Reclamation in the Coastal Zone
14.   Before BSES built the power plant, the site was used for salt production. A dyke was
constructed several years ago by the salt producers for that purpose. This dyke was identified by
the State Hydrographer as the high tide line (HTL). BSES repaired the old dyke, as approved by
GOI/GOM, and constructed a second (inner) one for additional protection. The discharge
channel for the cooling water runs between the two dykes. This specific design is allowable
under the Coastal Regulations.
Ash Lagoon
15.   The ash is sluiced to a lagoon. The decanted overflow from the lagoon is discharged via
a channel into a tidal creek. The quality of the effluent is monitored on a regular basis and it has
been found to be in compliance with GOI/GOM quality standards as well as the World Bank
guidelines.
Greenbelt
16.   Until November 1996, BSES had planted about 2.5 million trees of various species and
more than 4.1 million mangroves in the area. It has signed a contract with the Forest
Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCML) to further these objectives. Initial success
rate of tree plantation has been about 70 percent because of the high salinity of the soil. A 50
meter wide green belt has been created around the power plant to minimize visual impact. BSES
has also developed its own chikoo orchards in the close vicinity of the power plant, which are
fast blossoming.
Coal Washing Facility
17.  Importation of coal from Indonesia and blending with local coal at a ratio of 25:75 has
served to adequately demonstrate the immense economic benefits to be derived from improved
coal quality for power generation. BSES has therefore, formed a joint venture with CLI and
Spectrum Technologies, both of USA, for the construction of a coal washery at the Korba Coal
Fields. Preliminary engineering and part of the detailed engineering have been completed. The
supplier of equipment and construction contractor have been identified. Construction period
would be about 18 months, and the project is expected to be commissioned in mid-1998.
Washing is expected to reduce the ash content of the coal of about 30 percent. Use of washed
coal is also expected to substitute importation.



- 40 -
"Economically Fragile" Area
18.   Due to constant pressure from the environmentalists, GOI declared Dahanu in June 1991,
as an economically fragile area, banning the construction of new industries and any further
development. The business community of Dahanu has taken GOI to court to have this decree
revoked. The Supreme Court of India is likely to deliver judgment on this issue very soon.
19.  In 1995, BSES obtained from MSEB the clearance for building another 2 x 250 MW
power plant at Dahanu. BSES will install this plant only after all clearances from GOI/GOM are
received. However, in view of the negative experience during the implementation of the power
plant, BSES realizes that it cannot build any additional units at Dahanu, and has identified a few
other potential locations, located 25-50 km south of Dahanu, where it is considering the
installation of a liquid fuel or gas-based combined cycle power plant.



- 41 -
APPENDIX D
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW
BSES at Project Appraisal
1.    At appraisal, 59.9 percent of BSES's equity capital was owned by IFIs and nationalized
banks, while the balance 40.1 percent was held by private companies and about 9,000
individuals. Among the private companies the largest shareholder's part was about 7 percent.
The distribution of equity shares at appraisal is shown on Column (2) of Table D. 1.
Table D.1: Evolution of BSES's Shareholders
Porcentage df Shares
At Appraisal   At Competion
Shareholders                          (FY91)         (FY96)
_                  ~~~~~(1)                            (D)(3
Indian Financial Institutions (IFIs) and Nationalized Banks:
Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC)                        21.4            11.5
General Insurance Corporation (GIC) and Subsidiaries             19.9            10.6
Unit Trust of India (UTI)                                        18.1            10.5
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI)     0.0             0.3
Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI)                       0.0             0.5
Industrial Finance Corporation of India (IFCI)                    0.0             0.5
State Industrial and Investment Corporation of Maharashtra        0.0             0.2
Nationalized Banks                                                0.5             0.6
Subtotal - IFIs and Nationalized Banks                         59.9            34.7
Private Shareholders:
Other Mutual Funds                                                4.1             4.3
Other corporate Bodies                                            7.7            12.6
Individual Shares                                                28.3            22.0
Foreign Institutional Investors (FII)                             0.0             7.5
GDR                                                               0.0            18.9
Subtotal -- Private shareholders                               40.1            65.3
Total                                                 100             100
2.    BSES had a solid customer base, which had grown from a meager 1,700 customers in
FY30 to about 1.2 million in FY90. The largest consumer group was made up of residential
users (87 percent), followed by commercial customers (11 percent) and industrial users (2
percent). Residential users consumed about 44 percent of the energy sold, industrial users 38
percent, commercial users 16 percent, while other users accounted for about 2 percent. BSES had
computerized its billings to customers, inventory control, materials management, payroll, shares
and fixed deposits accounting, and some aspects of project costing. Strict enforcement of its
collection policies, combined with reliable service, enabled BSES to collect promptly from all its
customers. As of FY90, the company's receivables were at the equivalent of 45 days of sales and
its financial position, very strong. An independent internal auditing unit, reporting directly to the



- 42 -
Chairmnan and Managing Director (CMD), had the responsibility for reviewing the accounts
specifically for compliance with the Companies and Income Tax Acts. An external auditor
completed BSES's audit of its annual report by July 31 of each year.
3.    BSES was a financially strong company. It regularly serviced its debt and paid dividends
of averaging about 18 percent on its equity capital at par. In FY90, the company issued bonus
shares to its equity shareholders on a 1:1 basis, thus doubling its share capital. It maintained a
comfortable cash flow position, mainly as a result of the cost-plus nature of the business. With
large reserves built up over the years, its debt level was relatively low. In FY90, BSES's debt to
equity stood at about 0. 17, and its net income was steadily increasing. Other than the aberration
of a 0.93 current ratio in FY91 as a result of a bridging loan from commercial banks as current
liability in that year (which was paid off with the Bank's retroactive financing), BSES's current
ratio averaged a comfortable 1.35 between FY87 and FY90.
4.    In addition to electricity distribution, BSES had diversified into other areas of business.
It had entered the field of electrical contracting, which comprised the installation of power plants
and equipment, construction of transmission lines for SEBs, including contracts in Saudi Arabia
and Bhutan. With its experience in software development and the successful computerization of
much of its accounting functions, BSES was able to market its services to other utilities, financial
institutions and other corporations, including assignments in the Middle East. In FY90, BSES's
contracting business accounted for 5.8 percent of its revenue.
BSES at Project Completion
5.    BSES has been converted into a full-fledged utility, with responsibilities for generation,
transmission and distribution. It is already in a position to plan for further expansion of its
services. On the other hand, as IFIs opted to reduce their shareholdings in BSES's equity, BSES
was also transformed to a majority privately-owned company.
6.    The financial position of BSES has remained very strong throughout the implementation
of the project. It revised its financing plan for the project following the depreciation of the
Indian rupee during the implementation period and needs of further distribution investments in
its license area. BSES has also considered in its financial projections for the next five-years, the
financial requirements for a second thermal power station'. BSES opted for a GDR issue of
about US$ 125 million equivalent (Rs. 3.75 billion) which was oversubscribed by almost 9 times
at US$ 875 million equivalent from all over the world (almost $400 million from US markets).
In addition, BSES also issued redeemable preference shares for a total of about US$ 11 million
(Rs 390 million). BSES's net worth has increased substantially with the conversion into equity
of convertible debentures issued in 1993/94. Its debt:equity ratio stood at 0.89 as of March 31,
It is planned to be built at Palghar in District Thane, Maharashtra, about halfway from Mumbai to Dahanu.
This power plant would be a combined-cycle plant of 508 MW capacity and would use naphta or natural gas.
BSES has obtained a clearance from MSEB and has recently applied to CEA for the techno-economic
clearance and its expansion of its operations beyond its license area (Part I, para. 37).



- 43 -
1995, and came down to 0.58 after the GDR issue, compared to a covenanted debt:equity ratio of
2.5:1. As a result, its debt service coverage ratio was a very comfortable 14.7. It was expected
to come down to a projected 4.44 by the end of March 1996, due to an increase in the non-
capitalized interest expenses. It is projected that for the next five years, this ratio will remain
above 2.5, signifying a very satisfactory performance. In 1994/95, BSES distributed dividends
of about 26 percent to its shareholders. BSES's accounts receivable were as of end-March 1997,
68 days of sales to its consumers in its distribution area and of 3 to 6 months from the constituent
WREB.
7.   In early years of implementation of the Project, BSES invested some funds with financial
services companies, without appropriate security. When, in October 1992, there was a crisis with
the said financial services companies, BSES had Rs. 490 million invested in that manner. BSES
has not yet recovered these funds, but its financial position still remained strong and permitted
BSES to complete the Project satisfactorily.
8.    Due to its inexperience with handling IBRD's funds, BSES transferred the funds from
the Special Account opened in US dollars (US$13 million) with the New York branch of the
State Bank of India to an account at the Bombay branch of an international commercial bank and
converted these funds to Indian rupees. This was against IBRD rules. However, IBRD did not
suspend disbursements, as this would have had a negative impact on BSES's standings at the
stock exchanges. IBRD withheld pending disbursements until BSES restored the Special
Account in US dollars at the New York branch of the State Bank of India. This resulted in a loss
to BSES of about US$49,000 due to exchange rate variation in the interim, which BSES made up
by providing to IBRD expenditure documents for eligible expenses.
9.    During the first (in April 1991) and second (completed in February 1994) issues of
convertible debentures and the issue of the GDRs (completed in January 1996), the three major
IFIs opted to reduce their shareholding of BSES. Their actions were in accordance with GOI's
policy to promote private investment. Consequently at Project completion at end-1996, IFIs and
nationalized banks held only 34.7 percent of BSES's share capital. The balance 65.3 percent was
held by private companies and about 194,524 individuals. The distribution of equity shares at
Project completion is shown on Column 3, Table D. 1. The number of shareholders and
percentage of the largest private shareholder at project completion is given in Table D.2



- 44 -
Table D.2: Number of Shareholders and Percentage of
Largest Private Shareholders at Project Completion
(As of April 30, 1997)
Shareholders                Percentage of Shares at
Project Completion
1.  Number of individual shareholders                     194,524
2.  Non-resident Indians                                    4,467
3.  Domestic companies                                      1,164
4.  Foreign institutional investors                            90
(including GDR)
5.  Non-domestic companies                                     12
6.  Percentage of the largest private                     5.759%
shareholder (Reliance Industries Limited)
10.   BSES's financial position at a glance is given in Table D-2.



Table D-3
Implementation Completion Report -- Private Power Utilities (BSES) Project
Summary of BSES's Financial Position -- Actual and Projected
ACTUAL                                                                |                                 PROJECTED
1984       1985       1986        1987        1988       1989         1990        1991         1992        1993          1994         1995         1996          1997          1998          1999        2000
Thtmal Geneation MKWh                                                                                                                                                                   32100        1400 00       2600 00      293000       293000
PowuerPurde- TECMIMWh                          224012    242840       262739     284244      303504       327321      349855      370920       387100       415300        437600       449300        359756        270000       268800        302508
Distrbuton Lom  MKWh                                                                                                                                                                                 12 00/%       12 00%/.      12 00%/.     12 001%
Avemgepnce(Rs,/KWh)                               086        093         1 13        110         113         125         143          168         231          273           308          356           349           360          385          410
Elecnc1tySales(R5s MuI)                        173410    204108       256490     273467      301001       361422      442711       549093      781393       964338       1160429      1501202       1533050       1680770      1903330       2149180
Tol OpembngRevenue                             207591    246039       304603     325709      360518      429782       508989       621819      868747       1058784      1269396      1644849       2014700       2009810      2187490       2461340
Tot8idOpeatingEqcpnditure                      198625    236184       293460     314759      348125      412530       462648       554039      755913       931496       1111624      1400788       1670950       1623470      1765640       2004950
Opemat Inomne                                    89.66      98.55      111.43      109.50     123.93       172.52      463.41      677*0       1128.34       8272.8       1577.72      2440.61       3437.50       3863.40      4218.50       4563.90
lnterstExpaLses                                  2648       2829        3048       3473        3857         5207        6576         6725        7411         6842         11104        70576        117210        130820       140880        143830
Profitbefomlatx                                  6252       6927        79.95      7377        8536        12020       39727        61017       105385       120446       146668       173485        219230        242180       264240        292520
NetIncome                                        5822       6237        7095        6027        6536       12020       33127        38017       62885        70839        146658       173472        219230        242180       264240        292520
TosalFixedAssets                    74753       81028      86666       95454      109780      126643      147398      224772       353855      667027       1159150      1649232      1877286       2275260       2600340      3469820        388249
TolalCurrentAssels                  47341       57417      79929       92343      102993      127482       91873      104468       152832       270903       366461       472824       643262        754720        797770       889740        977240
Long-TermInvestments                 4171        4459       4808        5932        6686        7511        8298       14147       122535       78397         83983        41018       465047        405350        511830       557440        618070
Totl Asets                         1262.96     1429.70    1714.70     1938.29    2194.59      261636      2476.44     3434.62      6292.83     10163.27     16095.94     21630.74     29855.95      34347.30      39099.40     49170.00      54778.0
Total CuemtLaabilities              37899       41138      56967       66463       74572       95009       58838       80101       132121      258466        356506       376826       468039        530260        580550       624450        674970
Total Euty                          49351       55847      63192       70917       77835       88149      100783      134680       174072       345253      396892        859359      1468995       165S880       1826690      2047370       2308380
Total labilites and Equty          1262.9f    1429.70    1714.70      1938.29     2194.59     2616.36     2476.44     3434.62      6292.83     10163.27     16095.94     21630.74     29855.95      34347.30      39099.40     49170.00      54778.00
ebVEqwutyRauo                                     017        0IS         016         017         017         017         011          131         087           180          089          058           062           069           097          096
CurraitRto                                       1 40       1 40        1 39        1 38        1 34        1 56         1 30        1 16         1 05         1 03         1 25         1 37          1 42          1 37          1 42         1 45
AccourtsReceivable                               5200       6500           51         46          50          52           52          57           57           51            59           84            72            61           58           58



- 46 -
APPENDIX E
ABSTRACT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT WORK
CARRIED OUT BY BSES AT DAHANU AREA (*)
Year                           Activity                            In Rst
1990       Scholarship to tribal industrial training institute at Vangaon/  26,000
Medical Camp
1991       Scholarship/drinking water contribution for rehabilitation for  27,200
tanker accident at Mendhavan.
1992       Balak Mela/school material/assistance to Mendhavan accident,   46,600
scholarship and repair of roads.
1993       Balak Mela/school material/scholarship/medical                 60,200
camp/donation for Muk Badhir school.
1994       Prizes for school children/health club/village                 32,869
development/scholarships.
1995       School construction/school furniture donation to NGO/income   497,739
generating program/fly ash brick making training to
tribals/drinking water/medical camp/scholarship/BSES Best
Teachers Awards 95.
1996       School material/scholarships/seminars/tube                    932,996
wells/donation/medical/beautification of Dahanu beach/BSES
Best Teacher Award 96.
Subtotal (1990-96)                                          1,623,604
1997       a) Proposed construction of 2 numbers of school buildings.  1,370,705
b) Proposed science college building                         798,615
c) Provision for laboratories.                               200,000
d) Provision for furniture etc.                              500,000
e) Proposed tube wells 18 Nos. in 17 villages around Dahanu  500,000
Taluka.
f) BSES Best Teacher Awards for the year 1997, in September    50,000
1997.
g) Scholarships, education materials, BSES assistance to    1,275,900
farming community, seminars, supply of medicines and the
regular community development programmes to be undertaken
in the year 1997-98.
Subtotal (1997-98)                                          4,295,220
Total                               5,918,823
(*) Data provided by BSES.






IMAGING
Report No.:         16684
Type:     ICR



