Cocument of
The World Bank
International Finance Corporation
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9499-IN
IFC/T-1095
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
FOR
BOMBAY SUBURBAN ELECTRIC SUPPLY LIMITED
MAY 15, 1991
The Wnrld Bank
Asia - Country Department IV (India)
Transport and Energy Operations Division
International Finance Corporation
Department of Investments, Asia II
Division 1
ls document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank/IFC authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of February 1991)
Currency  Unit                 Rupees  (Rs)
Rs  1.00                       Paise  100
US$1.00               =        Rs 19.00
Rs  1.00              -        US$0.0526
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Meter (m)                                           39.37 inches (in)
1 kilo-Ampere (kA)                                    1,000 Amperes
1 Kilometer (km)3                                     1,000 meters (m) = 0.8214 miles (mi)
1 Cubic Moter (m )                           _        1.31 cubic yard (cu yd) = 35.36 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 Ton (t)                                             1,000 kilograms (kg) = 2,200 pounds (lbs)
1 Kilocalorie (kcal)                                  3.97 British Thermal Units (BTU)
1 Kilovolt (kV)                              =        1,000 volts (V)
1 Kilovolt ampere (kVA)                      =        1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 Megawatt (MW)                                       1,000 kilowatts (kW) = 1 million watts
1 Kilowatt-hour (kWh)                                 1,000 watt-hours
1 Megawatt-hour (MWh)                        =        1,000 kilowatt-hours
1 Gigawatt-hour  (CWh)                                1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEC         -  Ahrmedabad Electricity Company                 LIC          -  Life Insurance Corporation
BEAG        -  Bombay Environmental Action Group              LRMC         -  Long Run Marginal Cost
BEST        -  Bombay Electric Supply and Transport           LSHS         -  Low sulphur heavy stock
EHEL        -  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd.                  H?CB         -  Maharashtra Pollution Control Board
BOOT        -  Built, own, Operate and Transfer               MRTP         -  Monopolies and Restrictive Trade
BSES        -  Bombay Suburban ELectric Supply Company                        Practices
CEA         -  Central Electricity Authority                  MSEB         -  Maharashtra State Electricity Board
CESC Ltd.  -  Formerly Calcutta Electricity Supply            NEERI        -  National Environmental Engineering
Corporation                                                    Research Institute
CHD         -  Chairman Managing Director                     NGO          -  Non-Government Organization
OCL         -  Develcpment Ccnsultants Limited                NHPC         -  National Hydroelectric Power Corporation
DESU        -  Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking           NOx          -  Nitrogen oxide (subscript NOx)
DOC         -  Department of Coal                             NPTC         -  National Power Transmission Corporation
DOEF        -  Department of Environment and Forests          NTPC         -  National Thermal Power Corporation
DCP         -  Department of Power                            P-R          -  Project Completion Report
DTEPG       -  Daharu Taluka Environmental Protection         PFC          -  Power Finance Corporation
Group                                          REB          -  Regional Electricity Board
EIA         -  Envirormentat Impact Assessment                REC          -  Rural Electricity Corporation
ERR         -  Economic Rate of Return                        SEB          -  State Electricity Board
ESP        -  Electrostatic Precipitator                      SEC          -  Surat Electricity Company
FAC            Fuel Adjustment Charge                         S02          -  Sulphur Dioxide (subscript SOZ)
FGD        -  Flue Gas Desulphurization                       TCE          -  Tata Consulting Engineers
GM          -  General Manager                                TCS          -  Tata Consultancy Services
GOI         -  Government of India                            TDP          -  Tribal D^velopment Plan
GOM         -  Government of Maharashtra                      TEC          -  The Tat   lectric Companies
IciCt      -  Industrial Credit and Investment                THE ACT      -  Electric-cy Supply Act of 1948
Corporation of India                           THE LICENSE -  Bombay Suburban Electric License
106l       -  Industrial Development Bank of India            TPP          -  Thermal Power Plant
IFCI       -  Industrial Finance Corporation of India    tpy               -  tons per year
IPR        -  Industrial Policy Resclution                    UP           -  Uttar Pradesh
LCB         -  Local Ccmpetitive Bidding                      UTI             Unit Trust of India
Guarantor's and Borrower's Financial Year: April 1 - March 31
(In this report FY.. refers to the Guarantor's and the Borrower's fiscal year,
which runs from April 1 of the previous year to March 31 of the indicated
year; for example FY92 would mean the fiscal year from April 1, 1991 to March
31, 1992).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
Lo n/Investment and Proiect Summarv
Borrower:              Bombay Suburban Electric Supply Limited (ESES; the
Company).
Guarantor:             IBRD Loan: India, acting by its President.  The
Government of India (GOI) would charge a guarantee fee
of 2.75Z p.a. on the principal amount of the IBRD Loan
withdrawn and outstanding.
IBRD Loan:             US$200 million equivalent.
Terms:                 Repayment over 20 years. including five years of grace,
at the IBRD standard variable interest rate.
IFC Investment:        A Loan: US$50 million equivalent (for IFC's own
account);
B Loan: Up to US$18 million equivalent (for the account
of participants).
Terms:                 A Loan: Fixed interest rate of 10.75Z p.a.
Front-end fee 1S.
Commitment fee 1 p.a. on the undisbursed
balance.
Repayment in 20 semi-annual installments of
US$2,500,000 due from September 15, 1996 through
March 15, 2006.
B Loan: Syndication fee: 0.50? of the amount syndicated
payable to IFC.
Administration fee: US$2,500 per participant in
IFC's B Loan, payable semi-annually to IFC;
however, the total Administration fee not to
exceed US$15,000 annually.
Other terms to be negotiated.
Overall maturity of 15 years, including five years of
grace. The maturity of the B Loan is expected to be
shorter than the maturity of the A Loan; in that event,
the repayment installments of the A Loan will be
adjusted so that the aggregate repayments for the A Loan
and B Loan are approximately US$6,800,000 per year.
Foreign Exchange
and Interest Risks:   The interest rate risk on the IBRD loan, and the foreign
exchange risk on IBRD loan and IFC investment will be
borne by the Borrower.
Mortgage and
Security:              IBRD loan and IFC investment wili be secured against
first charge on all of BSES's assets, subject to certain
prior charges on current assets in favor of working
capital lenders, pari passu with other senior lenders.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii
Prolect Objectivest   The Project's objectives are to provide additional
generation, transmission and distribution capacity to
meet increasing electricity demand in the Borbay area,
maintain good service quality provided to BSES's
consumers, support GOI's endeavors to increase private
sector participation in the supply of power, and assist
BSES in its transformation from a distribution company
to an integrated power utility which operates
generation, transmission and distribution facilities.
Project Description:  The Project comprises: a) a power plant comprising two
250 MW coal-fired units located at Dahanu, including a
flue gas desulphurization plant (FGD) as mandated by
GOI's environmental clearancl; b) two double circuit
220 kV transmission lines of about 105 km, to transmit
power from Dahanu to BSES's license area, and three
220/33 kV receiving stations; and c) strengthening and
extension of BSES's 33 kV and 11 kV subtransmission and
distribution system.
Estimated Cost: a/
Local   Foreign   Total
Project Components                                    ----------us$----------
I. Dahanu Thermal Power Plant b/                    238.8    134.1    372.9
II. 220 kV Transmission Lines and Substations         23.0     23.1     46.1
III. Strengthening and Extension of BSES's
Subtransmission and Distribution System          57.9       -       57.9
Total Base Costs                                      319.7    157.2    476.9
- Physical Contingencies                         22.4       8.0     30.4
- Price Contingencies                            12.5      14.3     26.8
Total Contingencies                               34.9     22.3     57.2
Total Project Cost                                    354.6    179.5    534.1
Working Capital Margin and
Debenture Issue Expenditures                        1  6      -       12.6
Interest During Construction (IDC)
- IBRD and IFC Loans                               -      63.2     63.2
- Other                                         43.4        -      43.4
Total - IDC                                       43.4     63.2    106.6
Total Financing Required                              410.6    242.7    653.3
==Wu=== YD =XX=_==  0==u3-
a/ Including taxes and duties of about US$42.3 million.
h/ Includes the FGD plant as mandated by GOI's environmental clearance.
On account of the low sulphur content of Indian coal and the use of
a 275 meter stack, the project would meet GOI, GOM and World Bank
ambient air quality standards without arr FGD plant. Nevertheless,
GOI required the installation of an FGD plant as part of its
environmental clearance but is now reviewing whether to amend the
said clearance. If GOI decides to amend the clearance to remove the
FGD requirement, IBRD and IFC would not have any objection.



-iii-
Financing Plan:
(US$ million)
Internal Accruals                                65.6
Special Reserves                                 47.5
Fully Convertible Debenturess
- First Issue                                 47.5
- Second Issue                                69.6
Long Term Loans:
- Indian Financial Institutions              155.1
- IBRD                                       200.0
- IFC Investment (A Loan)                     50.0
- IFC Syndication                             18.0
Total                                           653.3
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD/IFC Fiscal Year    FY92        FY93       FY94       FY95       FY96    FY97
-(------- (US  million) -------------------
IBRD Loan:
Annual                   46.5       38.0        68.2      22.4       22.4      2.5
Cumulative               46.5       84.5       152.7     175.1      197.5   200.0
IFC Investment:
Annual                   17.2       19.2        19.3       6.9        5.4      -
Cumulative               17.2       36.4        55.7      62.6       68.0      -
Rates of Return:  Economic : 222 (The proposed project);
25? (1990-2000 time-slice of the Western Region
Interconnected Development Program).
Financial: 15? (The proposed project).
Benefits:    (a)  Technical:  The project would increase generating and
transmission capacity in the Bombay area and would help to
maintain BSES's good service quality. BSES's losses will be
decreased following the strengthening and extension of the
distribution network.
(b)  Institutional:  Bank Group's participation would encourage
greater private investment in the development of the power
sector in India by mobilizing private savings for the
sector.
Risks:        (a)  Technical:  The physical project components, which are based
on conventional technology, do not represent unusual
technical risks. The Bank Group is satisfied that all
necessary measures to mitigate the environmental and social
effects of the project will be implemented.



-iv-
Environmental groups sought at. injunction to stop the
project on the grounds that it posed undue ecological risks.
This generated risks of cost overruns and loss in revenue.
However, following recent rejection of the injunction
request by the Supreme Court of India, it is unlikely that
the case would be reopened. Possible institutional risks
include the inability .f BSES to effectively manage the
implementation and operation of the project. To minimize
this risk, BSES has engaged competent consultants to manage
the project. Furthermore, BSES's reorganization and
strengthening efforts will be closely monitored.
(b)  Financial:  BSES has been gran:ed permission to accumulate
certain special reserves required in accordance with the
financing plan of the project and assurances were obtained
fron. GOI that it would ensure that GOM would permit BSES to
collect special reserves during the operations stage as
well, including special reserves for repayment of debt.
With the approval of these special reserves, the project is
financially and economically viable even without GOI's new
policies on private investments in the power sector being
enacted. The promulgation of the new incentives would
generally enhance BSES's financial position. Increases in
BSES's fuel costs or in Tata Electric Companies' (TEC)
tariffs would be passed on to BSES's consumers as allowed
under the Electricity (Supply) Act.



INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   SECTORAL CONTEXT          ................  ........ . 1
Overview  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   1
Organization of the Power Sector..  . . . .  .*   . . 3
Private Utilities     ..  . .  . . . . . .......... ..4
GOI Strategy in the Power Sector  .                    . . . . . .    . 6
Bank G-oup Strategy in the Power Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Bank Group Participation..  . . .  .*   . . .                         8
II.   THE BORROWER..  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Introduction ...................... . .  . ... 9
BSES's Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . .   10
Ownership.. . . . 11
Organization   and Management    .11
Maintenance. ..i...  12
Accounts and Audit                                                   12
Billing and Collections .                  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Insurance              . . . . . .       .. .   13
Income Tax .. . . . . . . . . . .                                    13
Dependence on TEC and MSEB . ..........  ..  ..  .    .   ..   13
This report is based on the findings of a joint IBRD and IFC appraisal
mission to India in February 1991. Mission members from IBRD were Messrs. A.
Ceyhan (Senior Power Engineer), C.K. Teng (Financial Analyst) and Mrs. M.
Manzo (Energy Specialist); and, from IFC Messrs. D. Lilaoonwala (Investment
Officer) and H. Riddle (Chief, Environmental Unit). Mr. S. Guggenheim
(Anthropologist) contributed to the report.
The report has been reviewed by Messrs. J. Besant-Jones (Principal Energy
Economist), E.W. Moore (Consultant) and T. Storm van Leeuwen (Senior Financial
Analyst) of IBRD, and R. Gale (Principal Regional Economist) and D. Fenton
(Principal Engineer) of IFC.
The report was endorsed by Messrs. H. Vergin (Director, Asia, Country
Department IV - India) and J.F. Bauer (Chief, Transport and Energy Operations
Division, Asia, Country Department IV - India) for IBRD, and Messrs. J. Kassum
(Director, Department of Investr.ants - Asia II) and A. Tharmaratnam
(Divisional Manager, Division I, Department of Ini'estments - Asia II) for IFC.



-i i.- ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    t8e
III.  THE PROJECT..                            .  . ........ . . .  14
Project Objectives  .. .......... .               . . .. . ... .  14
Project Description .......  ..  ...... . . . . . .   .  .  14
Cost Estimates  . . . . .  .      . . . . . . . . . . . .   * .  .   .  15
Basis for the Estimates .                      .  . . . . . . .  15
Project Financing ........  .....  . .  . . . . . . ...  16
Project Implementation Schedule .....  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .  . .  .  17
Status of Engineering and Project Management  . . .      .  . . . . . .  18
Procurement . . . . . . . .......              . . . .     . .   19
Disbursements from the IBRD Loan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Security Arrangements  .......  .         .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Fuel Supply for the Dahanu Thermal Power Plant  . . . . . . . . .  21
Water Supply .... . . . . ..                             . .. . 22
Land Acquisition  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..... ........  .  22
Environmental and Social Aspects  . . . . . . .  .  .    .. . ..   .  23
Project Benefits  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .. .. . .  ..  .    .  29
Project Risks . . .         ...  . .  30
Project Monitoring and Supervision  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
IV.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  ..... ...........                          .  30
Special Reserves and Approved Institutions Status . . . . . . . .  30
Past and Projected Financial Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
Financial Internal Rate of Return.. . . . . . . .   32
Sensitivity Analyses.. . . . . . . . . . . .   33
V.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS.. . . . . . . . . . . . ..33
Western Region Market Profile...  34
BSES Market Base  ......                                    . .   35
Least-Cost Analysis                                         . .   35
Program Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
Project Economics ...... .                                  . .   37
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . 38
Agreements Reached between IBRD, and GOI and BSES   . . . . . . .  38
Agreements Reached between IFC and BSES . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
Recommendation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39



-ili-
ANNEXES
1.1   All-India: Electricity Supply and Demand and Energy Consumption
by Main Consumer Category
1.2   Comparison of Average Tariffs
1.3   Previous Loans and Credits to Indian Power Sector
2.1   BSES Electricity Sales and Consumption Pattern
2.2   BSES Corporate Organization Structure
2.3   BSES Project Management Structure
2.4   BSES Power Purchase from TEC
3.1   Project Description
3.2   Project Cost Summary
3.3   Project Implementation Schedule
3.4   Engineering and Management Consultants Employed by BSES
3.5   Procurement Arrangements
3.6   Procurement Schedule
3.7   Schedule of Disbursements for IBRD Loan and IFC Investment
3.8   Statement of BSES's Secured Borrowings
3.9  Main Characteristics of the lb Valley Coal
3.10 Executive Summary of the Environmental Assessment Document
3.11  Environmental Monitoring Plan and Ongoing Additional Baseline Studies
4.1   BSES's Income Statements
4.2   BSES's Balance Sheets
4.3   BSES's Statements of Sources and Uses of Funds
4.4   Estimation of Financial Internal Rate of Return
4.5   Sensitivity Tests
4.6   Main Assumptions for Financial Projections
5.1   Western Region Power and Energy Demand
5.2   Western Region Interconnected Power System
5.3   Estimation of Consumer Surplus
5.4 Western Region Expansion Program -- Summary of Assumptions
5.5 Results of Sensitivity Analysis of Western Region Program
5.6   Energy Dispatch from Dahanu Thermal Pcwer Plant to the Western Grid
5.7   Estimation of the Project's Economic Internal Rate of Return --
Summary of Assumptions
5.8   Results of Sensitivity Analysis for the Proposed Project
5.9   Evaluation of Combinied Cycle Alternative
6.1   Documents in Project File
MAP
No. IBRD 22938



INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (LSES) PROJECT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
Overview
1.01        The principal challenge facing the Govermment of India (GOI) in
the power sector for the 19909 is to improve the balance in sector development
between efficiency improvement and supply expansion. This will require GOI to
ensure that the sector's institutional development, including financial
reforms, keeps pace with the physical expansion of power supplies. Even with
more efficient utilization of the installed capacity, electricity demand is
proiected to increase by 7 to 92 a year through 2000 and to continue to be
supply constrained. To meet a higher proportion of demand and improve the
quality of supply, GOI plans to install an additional 80,000 MW of capacity by
the year 2000 at a cost of about US$150 billion. This is equivalent to
between 252 and 302 of expected allocations under the Eighth and Ninth Plans.
These enormous investment requirements would place great pressure on GOI's
finances and pose many managerial and technical challenges for GOI and the
State utilities. During the finalization of the Eighth Plan, these estimates
are likely to be reduced due to the acute shortage of public funds.
Nonetheless, the investments still represent a sizeable expansion. To satisfy
this level of investment GOI recognizes that it must harness more resources
and managerial skills from the private sector.
1.02        At present, India's power systems have an installed capacity of
over 62,000 MW (Annex 1.1). This makes India's system comparable to those of
France, the United Kingdom, and all the power systems in Sub-Saharan Africa
combined excluding the Republic of South Africa. The per capita consumption
of electricity in India (about 270 kWh per year) is one of the lowest in the
world. In FY90, India's systems generated 245,000 GWh -- about 70% from coal
stations, 25% from hydro stations, and 5Z from gas, oil and nuclear stations.
Public supply has expanded quickly: in FY81 installed capacity was only 30,000
MW and generation was 104,000 GWh. Even so, India faces a shortage of peaking
capacity of about 27Z, and approximately 1OX of total energy demand is left
unserved.
1.03        The quality of electricity supplies also remains unsatisfactory.
Interruptions and reductions in supply and voltage are common. The poor
quality and unreliability of public supplies cause consumers to purchase
costly back-up generating capacity which uses scarce liquid fuels.
Furthermore, technical and commercial losses are about 21% of net generation.
Approximately 75Z of total supplies are provided by the State Electricity
Boards (SEBs) and 20% are provided by GOI-owned utilities -- principally the
National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and the National Hydro Power
Corporation (NHPC). Private utilities, which are among the largest and most
dynamic utilities in developing countries, provide less than 5X of public
supplies in India. They have a combined capacity of some 2,500 MW and are
presently undertaking projects that will soon add 1,200 MW to capacity, on top
of the 1,000 MW commissioned since 1986. Private captive generation, which
does not enter into the above statistics, is extensive, particularly in
industry. It is estimated to be about 15% of public supplies.



2
1.04        In parallel with expanding supply, the sector has made some
encouraging efficiency gains. For example, plant load factor has increased
from 442 in FY81 to 552 in FY90. This means tha' every 1 kW of capacity now
provides 1,031 kWh (272) more electricity per year than in FY81. In addition,
the rate of coal consumption by power stations has been cut by about 1OZ since
FY81. It now requires 720 tons of coal to generate 1 GWh, compared with 802
tons in FY81. This saves aDnroximately 13 million tons of coal annually
(about 8z of the sector's total consumption) and Is worth about US$300
million/year. These improvements reflect a strengthening of plant ma....-nance
and operations and are commendable in view of the deteriorating quality of
coal the sector is receiving. A significant institutional gain is the one-
third reduction in the ratio of employees to consumers at the power utilities.
This ratio has declined from 29 employees per 1,600 consumers in FY81 to 19
employees at present. Many of the efficiency and institutional improvements
may be attributed to the rapidlv expanding shares of NTPC and the private
utilities in India's power system since FY83. These utilities have a much
better performance than the SEBs.
1.05        Retail tariffs have increased slightly since FY821 in constant
price terms. They also increased slightly as a proportion of long run
marginal costs (LRMC) from about 50% to less than 60% of LRMC. Increases in
real costs (particularly for fuel and wages) have largely neutralized the
increases in efficiency and real tariffs. In the meantime, tariff
differentials among consumer groups have widened. Industrial consumers have
taken the brunt of the increases over the last ten years and their tariffs are
now close to, or in cases even above, LRMC in most states. The rise in self
supply of power needs by industries is attributed to this trend as well as to
poor service quality. Agricultural tariffs, on the other hand, actually have
fallen in absolute terms and now cover less than 102 of their supply rosts.
The large financial burden agriculture already imposes on the power bystem is
increasing. Partly as a result of this subsidization, agriculture's share in
total consumption has grown from about 15% in FY81 to 23X in FY90, and this
rise is expected to continue throughout the 1990s (Annex 1.1). A similar
situation applies to the case of residential uses of electricity.
1.06        With the power sector doubling in size every eight years or so,
the combined financial losses of the SEBs have been steadily increasing, even
though in real terms financial losses per unit of electricity sold have been
checked or even have fallen somewhat. These losses have increased from US$1.3
billion in FY81 to US$1.8 billion in FY90. Losses of this magnitude
materially affect public finances and, because of late payments to suppliers,
create major financial problems for NTPC, NHPC, Indian Railways, Coal Inudia,
and Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL -- the largest local manufacturer
of electrical equipment). As a consequence, GOI has recently been forced to
earmark central transfer assistance to these entities, funds which otherwise
would have been allocated to the budgets of the delinquent states. The
situation in a few states, including Maharashtra is an exception. The
Government of Maharashtra (GOM) has allowed the Maharashtra State Electricity
Board (MSEB) and the private utilities operating in the state to function
under a satisfactory regulatory and financial environment. As a result, MSEB
1      Using FY82 figures, from 40 Paise/kWh in FY82 to 47 Paise/kWh in
FY90.



3
has become one of the most efficient and financially strongest of the SEBs.
It has done this partly bv setting a remunerative level of tariffs.
1.07        Notwithstanding the efficiency gains secured by the SEBs in reLent
years, there is urgent need for major improvement.  Key constraints remain,
for example, in the lack of financial autonomy for publicly owned utilities,
and in the poor financial discipline of the utilities. Physically, these
constraints cause India's power systevs to provide less power and power of a
poorer quality, at higher cost, than they otherwise would be able to provide.
The economic costs of shortages and poor quality supply are exacerbated by
inefficient end-use of power. The latter result from P lack of commercial
incentives in many markets and subsidized power prices. GOI is aware of these
problems and has taken steps to alleviate them.
1.08        In response to the serious difficulties of the SEBs, GOI has
relied increasingly on the central generating companies and private utilities
for the expansion of supply. Since commissioning its first generating unit In
FY83, NTPC has raised its capacity tenfold -- to about 10,000 MW. GOI
recently set up the Power Finance Corporation (PFC) to finance those SEBs that
are willing to undertake, with their state governments, needed financial and
institutional reforms. GOI has caused the relatively more efficient central
utilities (particularly NTPC) to improve cost recovery and ensure that
priority projects are implemented on schedule. CMI has recently established
the National Power Transmission Corporation (NPTC) to rationalize the
construction and operation of India's bulk transmicsion systems. GOI also
plans to establish Regional Tariff Advisory Committees. These committees will
provide advice to state governments, SEBs and central generating utilities on
the level and structure of tariffs needed to assure the financial viability of
all agencies in the sector. GOI also plans to stimulate private sector
involvement in power supply, in order to achieve the desired expansion of
capacity, recognizing resource constraints and the continuing need to increase
efficiency. To rap private sector potential for additional resource
mobilization, in :;d-1990 GOI formulated a policy package containing
incentives for potential local and foreign investors (para. 1.15). The
package foresees amendments to the existing legislation which would remove
many of the financial and .egulatory disincentives to private investment in
the sector. GOI also is reviewing its fuel use policy for the sector. For
example, 8,000 MW of gas-fired plant is to be added under the Eighth Plan.
Organization of the Power Sector
1.09        Responsibility for electricity supply is shared between GOI and
the States. Through the Department of Power (DOP) of the Ministry of Energy,
GOI controls the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), NTPC, NHPC, the Rural
Electricity Corporation (REC), and, through CEA, the Regional Electricity
Boards (REBs). DOP also controls PFC and the newly-created National Power
Transmission Corporation (NPTC). CEA's tasks are to develop a national power
policy and coordinate sector development. Its effectiveness, however, is
severely limited by shortages of financial and human resources. NTPC and NHPC
are bulk supply utilities which sell power to the SEBs. NTPC provides about
13? of India's total power supplies, and has a track record of efficiency and
financial strength. NHPC has yet to enjoy the same success and is developing
relatively slowly. REC plans and finances most investments in rural
electrification. The REBs coordinate dispatch and interstate power exchanges
in each of the country's five regional power systems. The effectiveness of



4
the REBs presently is limited by their lack of statutory authority and by
weaknesses in the structure of bulk power tariffs. This structure fails to
provide incentives for rational interchanges of power within and among the
regions. PFC mobilizes additional resources for the SEBs and pursues
institutional strengthening of its borrowers through conditionality linked to
financing. NPTC will coordinate the development and operation of transmission
systems. Initially these will be systems associated with NTPC's and NHPC's
power stations; later, systems owned by the SEBs also will be covered.
1.10        The States control the SEBs, which generate about 752 of
electricity supplies and provide most of the distribution to final consumers.
Although they are supposed to be autonomous, in practice the SEBs must obtain
state approval for decisions on investments, tariffs, borrowings, salary and
personnel policies. The SEBs are grouped into five regional interconnected
systems. The activities coordinated regionally through the REBs include
generation schedules, overhaul and maintenance programs, power transfers, and
concomitant tariffs. The SEBs also license India's private power utilities
and licensed local authorities.
Private Utilities
1.1i        At Independence, privpte utilities and licensed local authorities
together provided about 80? of public electricity supply. The Electricity
(Supply) Act of 1948 (the Act) created the SEBs and entrusted the Boards with
primary responsibility for public powet supply. The Act also made the SEBs
responsible for regulating private utilities. The Industrial Policy
Resolution (IPR) of 1956 subsequently defined aspects of generation and
distribution which were to be the exclusive responsibility of the states. All
but the few remaining licensees consequently were taken over when their
licenses expired. No new licenses have been granted since 1956. However, the
IPR did not rule out expansion of the remaining licensees, or the possibility
of joint ventures with the private sector when these could be shown to be in
the national interest. Only five private utilities and one local authority
remain; these provide about 5? of public supply. The private utilities are:
Bombay Suburban Electric Supply Limited (BSES), Tata Electric Companies (TEC),
Ahmedabad Electricity Company (AEC), Surat Electric Company (SEC), and CESC
Ltd. (formerly Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation).
1.12        BSES is a distribution company serving the northern suburbs of
Bombay. The Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Ltd. (BEST), the only
remaining local authority, is a municipal corporation which supplies the
southern areas of Bombay. TEC, AEC and CESC generate at least some of the
powez they distribute. SEC is in charge of distribution in the town of Surat
in the State of Gujarat. At present, BSES and BEST purchase their power from
TEC. However, with the proposed project BSES will be generating some of its
power from its 500-MW thermal power station by 1995. Unlike the SEBs, the
remaining private utilities have been alio4ed by their respective state
governments to operate autonomously and in a technically and financially
viable manner. They have not suffered from the institutional and financial
problems of the GOI-owned central entities because the powar they generate is
largely fed Into their own distribution networks which _upply urban
residential and industrial consumers.
1.13        The Act allows private power utilities and licensed local
authorities to pass on all of their costs to consumers through tariffs. These



5
costs include depreciation (at 3.6Z p.a.) and interest plus special reserves
as allowed by the State Government and plus profit equal to a 12Z return on
their remunerable capital base. Special reserves, like depreciation, are
charged on tariffs, thus increasing revenues. However, unlike cash costs,
the special reserves are not paid out. The capital base comprises share
capital and free reserves, but excludes the special reserves. The rate of
return is currently set at 12? p.a. If a utility makes higher profits, it can
retain only 20? of the excess. The private utilities maintain that the 12Z
p.a. rate of return is inadequate. Their cost of borrowing is now 15? p.a.
for long-term loans and 172 p.a. for working capital. In order to compensate
for the lower return on capital base, GOI agreed to ensure that GOM will
permit BSES to create special reserves through its tariffs (para. 4.01).
1.14        Tariff adjustments by private utilities are permitted annually and
do not require state approval. Only 60 days notice by the licensee is
required. The tariffs comprise a demand charge, a fixed component designed to
recover the utility's fixed costs, and an energy charge for actual
consumption, reflecting the utility'- variable cost of generation. The latter
comprises a basic energy charge and _. fuel adjustment charge (FAC), reflecting
the increases in the cost of fuel between two successive tariff revisions. In
deciding on the amount and timing of their increases, the utilities also take
into account economic and political factors (for example, the state of the
economy in their area and the attitude of consumers and of the authorities).
Petitions by consumers requesting stays of the increases are common, as common
as the rejection of these petitions by the courts. BSES and BEST normally
follow MSEB and TEC in raising tariffs (Annex 1.2).
1.15         Prospective Policy Adjustments.  The serious institutional and
financial problems of the SEBs and their inability to expand in line with
demanc have prompted GOI to reassess the environment in which the private
sectcr invests in public power supply. Several reforms were articulated in
the new policies formulated by GOI in mid-1990. These reforms included: (i)
an increase from 122 to 15? in the maximum allowable rate of return on the
capital base for new investments; (ii) an increase in the allowed debt:equity
ratio to 4:1; (iii) capitalization of the interest during construction at
actual cost for the initial project as well as subsequent expansions; (iv)
extension of the initial licensing period .rom 20 to 30 years and subsequent
extensions for 20 years on each occasion; and (v) exemption from the clearance
required under the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices (MRTP) Act.
1.16        GOI is still considering an increase in the depreciation allowance
which would permit the licensees not to use special reserves to bridge the gap
between the debt redemption requirements and resource generation through
depreciation and retained earnings, as laid down in the Act. The Act will
also be amended to permit privately owned "generating cimpanies"2 to enter
into contractual agreements for specified periods in order to sell power to
the SEBs. The sale of power would be regulated through a two-part tariff,
which would be determined in a manner so as to encourage efficient operations.
Local and foreign investors would be required to provide at least 11? of the
total project cost. The equity component would be at least 20? and the amount
2      The companies formed jointly by the private sector and GOI, NTPC,
NHPC, or one or more State Governments or SEBs would also be
considered "generating companies".



6
of financial resources to be obtained from the Indian Financial Institutions
would not be more than 40Z of the total project cost. The companies also
would be required to operate within the interconnected systems and to abide by
the operational grid discipline to ensure optimal grid operation.
1.17        The above stipulations would serve to stimulate private sector
interest in and mobilize additional funds for the power sector. However, it
is not certain whether the SEBs would be able to pay for the energy bought
from the "generating companies". GOI might not be suiccessful in attracting
additional private investment in the power sector unless the SEBs improve
their payment record, sinice the SEBs will be purchasing most of the power
generated by the new      ate power utilities.  The new incentives also are
likely to be incremert   :i nature and to be sponsored by the states unevenly.
The more progressivct-  .'f.J, such as Haharashtra, already have a private
sector presence an-       encouraged the private utilities to expand by
providing the incent-1 -; irmitted within the existing framework. Maharashtra
undoubtedly will take the iead. Overall, it is difficult to predict how
quickly private participation might increase. GOI-IBRD/IFC dialogue on the
issue is under way. For BSLS, the incentives already provided by GOM within
the existing legal framework are adequate to meet the financing needs of the
project (para. 4.01).
1.18        The progress of reforms in the power sector has been temporarily
interrupted by the change of administration and revisions in formulating the
Eighth Plan. In an interim initiative before the policy changes are
announced, GOI and several state governments have invited selected private
investment houses to present proposals for build, own, operate and transfer
(BOOT) generation projects. These projects fall within the provisions of the
IPR (para. 1.11), which allows SEBs to enter into joint ventures with the
private sector for projects believed to be in the national interest. New
joint ventures of this type have not been launched however since the groups
approached are waiting for the new legislation to be enacted.
GOI Strategy in the Power Sector
1.19        The Five-Year Plan constitutes the only formal statement of
India's energy and power policies. Under the Eighth Plar., the roles for
energy conservation and the private sector in the supply of power are likely
to be enhanced. The principal energy objectives are likely to be: (a)
developing supplies at rates which will facilitate growth in other sectors and
meet particular economic and social objectives assigned to the energy sector
(for example, extending irrigation pumping and meeting the energy needs of the
rural poor); (b) substituting indigenous energy for imported fuels wherever
economically feasible; and (c) promoting rational and more efficient energy
use. The objectives of the power sector are similar. The short-term
objectives are likely to focus on easing supply shortages and improving
financial discipline in the sertor.
1.20        Specific investment objectives under the Eighth Plan are likely to
include: (a) accelerating the completion of ongoing projects, particularly
hydroelectric investments; (b) encouraging the construction of energy
efficient and environmentally benign gas-based combined cycle plants; (c)
rehabilitating existing plants; (d) improving the quality of coal supplies
through better coal preparation; (e) increasing investments in transmission
and distribution relative to investments in generation; and (f) continuing the



7
modest development of nuclear power. Less clearly defined are the
organizational, institutional and financial strategies needed to achieve these
investment objectives. Given the magnitude of the task at hand, it is
essential that GOI and the state governments tackle the sector's financial
problems with renewed vigor. GOI's recent initiative in forming the PFC is
expected to begin yielding results under the Eighth Plan. In line with its
operational policies, the PFC is entering into agreements with the SEBs under
which the SBEs commit themselves to follow action plans to improve their
operational efficiency and financial position as a condition for PFC lending.
Although GOI is constrained in its ability to act unilaterally in the power
sector, key initiatives it is likely to pursue will be to; (a) accelerate
development of the relatively efficient GOI-owned utilities; and (b) promote
more extensive private sector participation in power supply.
1.21        GOI's strategy toward public and private interests in the power
sector is basically sound. However, in practice the results have not been
encouraging. The public utilities require substantial efforts in order to
strengthen their institutional development, planning, financial discipline,
resource mobilization, pricing, and load management.
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Sector
1.22        In recent past, IBRD followed a three-pronged btrategy in its
lending operations in the power sector in India. As a means to effect sector-
wide improvements, it supported agencies owned by GOI. It also supported a
selected number of SEBs whose managements and state governments were committed
to reforms. In addition, and in close cooperation with IFC, it provided
support to existing private power utilitias to improve their financial and
economic efficiency, and to encourage GOI to lower eutry barriers for new
investors. IFC has approved loans to three of the five private utilities over
the past two years. In dealing with both public and private utilities in
India, IBRD and IFC are also promoting more comprehensive and vigorous
analyses of environmental inputs in project design and improved implementation
of project components which support the environment. Through syndications,
IFC proposes to mobilize additional resources for the power sector.
1.23        IBRD's support for the central agencies has provided many
opportunities for institutional strengthening. IBRD helped NTPC to grow into
one of India's model utilities and in the process IBRD also helped to improve
operational efficiency nationwide. However, GOIPs and our efforts to develop
the power sector into an efficient and commercially viable part of the economy
have fallen considerably short of the objective, mainly because of the SEB's
weak institutional and financial performance. The pervasive nature of the
sector's constraints and the relative autonomy of the states limit what can be
achieved through involvement exclusively with central agencies. Beginning in
the mid-1980s, IBRD emphasized direct involvement with state governments and
SEBs, attempting to influence selectively the commercial orientation of the
Boards. Tariffs and financial performance will continue to be key components
of IBRD's sector strategy. However, these are also the areas in which
progress is most difficult to achieve since the state governments at this time
would rather provide additional financial support to the SEBs than impose
unpopular tariff increases.
1.24        IBRD's close lending relationship with the SEBs has been
successful in the case of the stronger SEBs, such as MSEB, which has shown



8
improved efficiency, financial performance, and willingness to innovate. It
was always recognized that projects with institutionally and financially
weaker SEBs would carry a correspondingly higher risk, as shown by the
following actions which have had to be taken due to poor performance: (a) in
1989, the loan to Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking (DESU) was cancelled; (b)
in April 1991, disbursements under the Uttar Pradesh (UP) Power Project were
suspended; and (c) the SEBs in the States of Karnataka, Kerala and Himachal
Pradesh have been advised that disbursements would have to be suspended unless
tariff actions to meet the financial covenants are taken. Furthermore, in
response to SEBs' continued poor payment records on their bulk power purchases
which are now seriously straining NTPC's finances, IBRD hae alerted GOI and
NTPC that our continued funding to their projects would no longer be possible
unless actions to correct NTPC's finances are taken. In view of the severity
of the sector's financial problems and the adverse repercussion on the fiscal
deficit, IBRD will now have to apply the legal remedies available whenever the
SEBs and central entities are unable to comply with the rate of return
covenants and with their other commitments to the IBRD.
1.25        Due to the sector's institutional and financial problems, IBRD is
at this time refraining from further commitments to central agencies,
including proposed loans to NTPC (US$375 million) and to PFC (US$265 million)
which had been fully negotiated and scheduled for FY91. Unless power tariffs
are increased in real terms, bill collection is improved, and the management
of the SEBs is strengthened, lending for power projects will be substantially
reduced and will be limited to support for: (i) viable private sector
investments in generation and transmission; (ii) the few better managed and
financially stronger SEBs; and (iii) innovative, small scale developments such
as mini hydro and cogeneration schemes. In addition, IBRD intends to continue
its dialogue with NTPC and may finance the most critical components of this
important agency's core investment program.
1.26        IBRD will also continue to pursue the following key objectives:
(a) assist the Indian power sector with development of a strategy to address
in a uniform and co-ordinated way the environmental and sociological aspects
of power development (including through a proposed loan to mini-hydro and
alternative energy development which are likely to receive support from the
Global Environment Facility); and (b) support developments requiring
coordinated actions within and outside the power sector -- priority areas
being improving coal quality and transport.
Bank Group Participation
1.27        IBRD has made 31 IBRD loans (US$6.3 billion) and 18 IDA rredits
(US$2.3 billion) for power projects in India (Annex 1.3). Twenty-seven
projects have been completed: 20 for generation; 4 for transmission; and 3 for
rural electrification. Ongoing projects include nine for generation (three of
which are for hydro power plants); three for transmission; and seven which
include a mix of generation, transmission and distribution. Five of the IBRD
loans have been extended to one private utility (TEC), in 1954, 1957, 1979,
1984 and 1990. The implementation of Bank power projects in India has
proceeded broadly according to expectations. However, loan and credit
disbursements continue to show large outstanding balances (US$3,965.7 million,
as of February 28, 1991). These are due primarily to the very long
construction periods for generation projects compounded by frequent delays in
procurement and in foreign exchange and import license clearances by the



9
various ministries, and the increasing number of projects under
implementation. Undisbursed balances have been pushed up further by frequent
cost under-runs on major equipment contracts. The latter are due to the
softening of international markets in the mid-1980s and the rapid real
devaluation of the Rupee.
1.28        IFC has made four investments totalling US$153 million to three of
the five priva e power utilities in India. These investments were made in AEC
and TEC in FY89, and in TEC and CESC in FY90. All the projects are
progressing satisfactorily.
1.29        Bank Group participation in these projects has strengthened the
financial performance of these borrowers, by bringing in additional financing
and encouraging improvements such as the extension 3f operating licenses and
the establishment of special reserves. Joint preparation of the proposed
project by IBRD and IFC underscores the commitment of the World Bank Group to
the development of private power supply in India. The association has been
fundamental in advancing the Group's dialogue with GOI on regulatory and other
constraints to extended private sector participation in public power supply
(para. 1.15).
1.30        The Project Completion Report for IBRD's most recently completed
private utility project in India, the Third Trombay Power Project (Loan 1549-
IN) executed by TEC, rates the project a success, even though there wore cost
increases and implementation delays, because an unsatisfactory contractor had
to be replaced. The financial performance of the utility remained
satisfactory throughout project implementation because GOM diligently allowed
TEC to continue to collect the special reserves permitted under the Act.
II. THE BORROWER
Introduction
2.01        BSES is a corporate entity governed by the Companies Act of 1956.
Its electricity distribution business is governed by the Indian Electricity
Act of 1910, and the Electricity (Supply) Act of 1948. BSES is licensed to
distribute electricity in the northern suburbs of Bombay. The Bombay Suburban
Electric License, 1926 (the License), initially was granted by GOM to Messrs.
Killick, Nixon and Company Limited. The License was assigned to BSES in 1930,
and the management of BSES remained with Messrs. Killick, Nixon and Company
Limited under a managing agency agreement. In 1970, the system of managing
agency was statutorily abolished and majority control was transferred to the
Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), General Insurance Corporation (GIC) and its
subsidiaries, and the Unit Trust of India (UTI). The management of the
Company was taken over by a professional Board of Directors comprising
representatives from the LIC, GIC, UTI, GOM, and public shareholders. The
License was,init5ally valid for 50 years. In 1976, GOM extended the License
for 10 years on the condition that BSES install a 500 MW generation project in
Maharashtra to meet the growing power requirements in the company's license
area. By initiating actions to build the generation project, BSES got GOM to
extend the License to 1993.
2.02        GOM has the option to revoke the License if BSES fails to comply
with its terms and conditions. It is very unlikely that GOM will revoke the



10
License, given the growing requirement of power and prevailing power deficit
in the state, and the emphasis on increased private participation in power
supplies. Nevertheless, GOI agreed to ensure that GOM will extend BSES's
license at least up to August 15, 2011, the maturity of the proposed IBRD
loan. This is a condition of effectiveness for the loan (para. 6.03.a).
Furthermore, GOI agreed to ensure that GOM will not take any actions that
would adversely affect BSES's operational performance or financial position,
including restricting BSES's license or supply area (para. 6.01.b.i).
BSES's Activities
2.03        BSES has a solid customer base.  This base has grown from about
1,700 consumers in FY30 to about 1.2 million in FY90. The largest consumer
group is made up of residential users (872). It is followed by commercial
(112) and industrial (2Z) users. Residen.ial users pur hase about 44Z of
energy sold, industrial users 38%, commercial users l -, and other users 2%
(Annex 2.1). BSES estimates that energy consumption in its license area is
increasing by 7Z to 8Z a year.
2.04        BSES's record in the availability and reliability of electricity
supply is good. This is primarily due to proper maintenance and upgrading of
its distribution system. BSES's physical assets for electricity supply
include an installed power transformer capacity of about 679 MVA. This
capacity serves a maximum system demand of 618 MVA. BSES also has about 1,437
km of HT cables, 1,671 km of LT cables, 7 bulk supply receiving stations, and
over 2,257 substations. The proposed project would help BSES to reduce its
dependence on purchased power as demand grows over time. During the first
full year of its operation the proposed Dahanu power plant would meet 40% of
the requirements of BSES's license area. After ten years the plant would
provide about 35Z of requirements.
2.05        In addition to electricity distribution, BSES has diversified into
other areas of businesb. In 1966, it entered into the field of electrical
contracting. The following year 4t entered into computer services. BSES's
contracting business encompasses the installation of power stations and
auxiliary equipment, and the construction of transmission lines for the SEBs,
including contracts in Saudi Arabia and Bhutan. In FY90 contracting business
accounted for about 5.82 of BSES's revenue.
2.06        BSES's Computer Service Department has computerized its billings
to customers, inventory control, materials management, payroll, shares and
fixed deposit accounting, and some aspects of project costing. With its
experience in software development and the successful computerization of much
of its accounting functions, BSES began marketing its services to other power
utilities. To date, it has completed management information systems (MIS)
work for the SEBs, private utilities, financi-l institutions and other
corporations, including an assignment in the Middle East. Receipts from the
computer services business amounted to about 0.5Z of BSES's revenue in FY90.
Since these services are not regulated by the Electricity (Supply) Act, the
profits associated with these services increase the returns to BSES
shareholders.



11
Ownership
2.07        As of FY91, BSES's share capital is owned by about 9,000
shareholders. Equity shares held by the Life Insurance Corporatioa (LIC)
amount to 21.4Z of the total, while 19.9? is held by the General Insurance
Corporation (GIC) and its subsidiaries. Eighteen percent is held by the Unit
Trust of India (UTI), a mutual fund that raises funds from the public through
sales of units and invests them in companies on a portfolio investment basis.
Four percent is owned by other mutual funds, 8Z by other corporate bodies, and
the balance 28.3? by private individuals (Table 2.1). The largest individual
shareholding is 7Z.
Table 2.1: BSES's Shareholders as of FY91
Percent of Shares
Life Insurance Corporation (LIC)                          21.4
General Insurance Corporation (GIC) and Subsidiaries   19.9
Unit Trust of India (UTI)                                 18.1
Sub-total                                          59.4
Other Mutual Funds                                         4.1
Other Corporate Bodies                                     7.7
Nationalized Banks                                         0.5
Individuals (About 9,000)                                 28.3
Total                                             100.0
2.08        Part of the financing for the proposed project will be raised
through two issues of convertible debentures totalling Rs 2,500 million. The
first issue of about Rs 1,000 million was made in April 1991. This comprised
8,000,000 debentures with individual face value of Rs 125. These debentures
will be convertible one year later into five equity shares with individual
face value of Rs 10, i.e., representing a premium of Rs 15 each. The issue
was oversubscribed by about ten times. BSES is permitted to retain Rs 150
million out of the oversubscribed portion. As a result of the conversion of
the first issue of debentures into equity shares in 1992, the number of
individual shareholders is expected to increase to over 150,000 and the
shareholdings of the insurance companies and UTI will drop from 59Z to about
51Z. Further reduction in the institutional shareholding is expected to occur
after the project is completed.
Organization and Management
2.09        BSES is managed by a Board of Directors.  This board includes a
Chairman-Managing Director (CMD), one director each from LIC, GIC, UTI and
ICICI, one GOM representative, two directors nominated from private
shareholders, and two functional directors. The present CMD has more than 30
years of experience in the electric utility business. He is assisted by two
competent functional directors, one for Finance and one for Technical matters.
2.10        BSES's organization has been restructured with the assistance of
management consultants satisfactory to IBRD and IFC (Tata Consultancy Services
- TCS). This restructuring was done to meet expected demands during project
construction and operation, and to respond to the company's needs for business
diversification. The new structure largely reflects functional and business



12
responsibilities such as electricity generation and supply, electrical
contracting and computer services, and financial affairs. In addition, BSES
has created a Human Resources Development Department to oversee BSES manpower
requirements, recruitment, training and vigilance. Two proactive divisions
have been created to handle government liaison, environment%l issues, and
external relations: the Environmental-Corporate Public Relations Division, and
the local (at Dahanu) Public Relations Division. These divisions report to
the Director of Generation and Supply. The Bank Group has reviewed the
restructured BSES and is satisfied that its organization, staffing, and
management system are adequate to properly oversee the implementation of the
proposed project and to operate the power plant at a later stage (Annex 2.2).
2.11        To reinforce its capabilities in the design, engineering,
implementation and management of the proposed project, BSES has retained a
number of consultants satisfactory to IBRD and IFC (paras. 3.09 and 3.10).
These consultants will be used to staff the Project Management Division, which
will carry out overall supervision of the project. The structure and staffing
of key positions in BSES's Project Management Division is satisfactory to IBRD
and IFC. It is shown in Annex 2.3.
2.12        As of FY91, BSES had about 3,800 employees, about 600 of whom were
professionals and 2,200 were skilled and unskilled support staff. The
staffing is commensurate with the company's present business activities and
the work to be generated in implementing the proposed project.
Maintenance
2.13        In FY90, BSES allocated about 5O  of its annual budget (Rs 254
million) to maintenance. This amount is satisfactory and is associated with a
high level of service quality.  BSES uses its own work force to carry out well
established preventive maintenance routines on its electrical equipment and
machinery. Key installations such as receiving stations, sub-stations,
transformers and switchgears are maintained regularly throughout the year.
The company also provides adequate resou.ces to carry out preventive
maintenance of its distribution system, which consists mostly of underground
cables.
Accounts and Audits
2.14        BSES has a computerized accounting system which is adequate for
its utility operations and other functions. An independent internal auditing
unit reporting directly to the CMD reviews the accounts mainly for compliance
with the Companies and Income Tax Acts. An external auditor completes BSES's
audit of its annual report by July 31st of each year. BSES agreed to furnish
its annual financial statements audited by auditors acceptable to IBRD and
IFC, within 120 days after the end of each of its financial year. This will
include annual audits of the Special Account and Statement of Expenditures
(paras. 3.14 and 6.02.a). The audited reports for FY90 are unqualified and
comply with the provisions of the regulatory acts.
Billing and Collection
2.15        BSES has a computerized billing and collection system which
efficiently serves the company's more than 1.2 million customers. Industrial
consumers are billed monthly, and residential and commercial consumers



13
bi-monthly based on meter readings. BSES assesses a 32 to 42 penalty on
residential consumers who fail to pay their bills within 15 days of receiving
notice. Industrial consumers who fail to pay their bills and the penalty are
disconnected. For residential and commercial customers, notice of
disconnection is given following the second time the bill is not paid. If the
bill is not paid within one month of notice, service is immediately
terminated. The strict enforcement of collection policies combined with
reliable service allows BSES to collect promptly from its customers. As of
FY90, the company's receivables were at the equivalent of 45 days of sales.
In other words, BSES has no problem with arrears.
Insurance
2.16        BSES maintains insuran_e policies on its operating machinery and
other assets on a cost replacement basis. These policies protect against
fire, natural hazards, and machinery breakdown. BSES projects under
construction are covered under marine, storage and erection policies based on
their estimated contract values. BSE also ensures that the contractors
involved in the construction of projects have adequate insurance coverage for
the project. IBRD and IFC will request BSES to obtain adequate insurance for
the project from a reputable and financially sound insurance company, with
IBRD and IFC as loss payees. BSES also will be asked to furnish IBRD and IFC
with copies of its insurance policies pertaining to the proposed project at
the time when contracts are awarded and when each policy is renewed, including
during the operational phase of the project.
Income Tax
2.17        The corporate income tax rate applicable to BSES is 40? plus an 8?
surcharge.  This amounts to an effective rate of 43.2Z.  Because BSES will
incur large capital costs for the proposed power project, it will not incur
any income tax liability for eight years following the commissioning of the
project. Adequate provision for tax liabilities thereafter is being made.
Dependence on TEC and MSEB
2.18        BSES will continue to purchase all of its power from TEC until the
proposed project is commissioned in FY96. Thereafter BSES will continue to
purchase a sizable amount of power from TEC. In FY90, BSES bought about 3,270
GWh of electrical energy from TEC. By FY95, it will be buying about 4,540
GWh. TEC sales to BSES will fall to 2,640 GWh when the proposed project
reaches its full generating capacity in FY98, and will gradually increase as
demand in BSES's license area grows (Annex 2.4). Reduced sales to BSES after
project commissioning should not adversely affect the operations or financial
position of TEC. In response to these reduced sales, TEC would reduce its
purchases from MSEB -- releasing MSEB to increase sales to its own retail
customers. The expected shortage of power in the State of Maharashtra, and in
Bombay in particular, will ensure that the power generated by the project is
fully utilized. The Dahanu power plant will be operated in synchronism with
the Western Region grid to which MSEB and TEC power plants are connected
(para. 5.02). BSES will be dependent on MSEB for the power to be used to
start the Dahanu power plant at the beginning and following any incidental
shutdowns. BSES agreed to conclude agreements relating to the operation of
ite plant with both MSEB and TEC, prior to the synchronization of the first
unit of the Dahanu power plant (para 6.02.b).



14
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
3.01        The physical objectives of the project are:
(a)   to provide additional generation, transmission and
distribution capacity to meet the increasing demand for
electricity in the Bombay area; and
(b)   to maintain the high quality of service to BSES consumers.
The institutional and sectoral objectives are:
(c)   to support GGI's endeavors to increase private sector
participation in the supply of power; and
(d)   to assist in transLorming BSES from a distribution compar,y into an
integrated power utility with responsibilities for generation,
transmission and distribution.
Project Description
3.02        The proposed project is part of the least-cost development program
for the Western Region Interconnected System (para. 5.02). It consists of the
following three elements which are described in detail in Annex 3.1:
(a)   a thermal power plant comprising two 250 MW coal-fired units
located at Dahanu, involving steam generators, turbo-generator
sets complete with auxiliaries, a once-through circulating water
system, coal, ash and oil handling plants, a water treatment
plant, a power station switchyard, miscellaneous electrical and
mechanical equipment, environmental safeguard and monitoring
equipment3, and associated civil works and consulting services;
(b)   two double-circuit 220 kV transmission lines of about 105 km, to
transmit power from Dahanu to BSES's license area, and three
220/33 kV receiving substations; and
The project originally was approved by GOI and GOM with the
requirement that a flue gas desulphurization (FGD) plant would be
built at plant start-up to reduce sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions.
An analysis of available data shows that the project would meet
GOI, GOM and World Bank guidelines without an FGD plant (para.
3.32). BSES's design includes allotment of space for rettrofitting
an FGD unit if stack emissions from the plant and resulting
ambient air quality do not meet any of the above requirements.
GOM has amended its clearance along these lines, and GOI is
carrying out its review. If GOI decides to amend its clearance tO
remove the FGD requirement, IBRD and IFC will not have any
objection.



15
(c)   strengthening and extension of BSES's 33 kV and 11 kV
subtransmission and distribution system.
Cost Estimates
3.03          The estimated cost of the proposed project is summarized in Table
3.1. Details are given in Annex 3.2.
Table 3.1: EstImated Project Costs/
Project Description               Local   Foqrotln  Total    Local    for-ign   Total
-Rs MVl]Ton                    -US- us   Iion-------
I.  Dahanu Thermal Power Plant a/     4,641    2,649    7,090   288.8   184.1    372.9
II. 220 kV Transmission Lines
and Substations                  436      439       875    28.0    28.1       46.1
1I1. Strengthening and Extension
of BSES*s Sub-transmission
and Distribution System         1,100     -       1,100    57.9       -       67.9
Total Base Costs b/              6,077   2,988    9,066   819.7    167.2    476.9
- Physical Contingencies           427      162       679    22.4      8.0      80.4
- Price Contingencies            1,067      729    1,798    12.6    14.8        26.8
Total Contingencies               1,494     881    2,876    84.9    22.8        67.2
Total Project Cost               7,671   8,889   11,440   854.6    179.5   654.1
_= a:= s===
Working Capital Margin and
Debenture Issue Expenditure      270       -        270    12.6        -      12.6
Interest During Construction
- IBRD and IFC Loans               -      1,358    1,868        -     68.2      68.2
- Other                            932       -        982    48.4       -       48.4
Total - Interest During Construction 932   1,868    2,290    48.4    68.2    So0.6
Total Financing Required S/      8,778   5,227   14,000   410.6    242.7    658.8
-           -   ~~~~~~Cm=   c==         =
s/ Includes the flue go- desulphurization (FOD) plont (para. 8.80).
k Includes taxes *nd duties of about USt42.3 million.
s/ The total financing requirement Includes USt39 million for the fOD Plant.
Basis for the Estimates
3.04         The cost estimates for the civil works are based on offers
received by BSES and on data available from other projects engineered by
BSES'o consultants in India. The cost estimates for the main contract package
are based on the contract signed between the manufacturer and BSES (para.
3.08). Estimates for the other power plant and transmission equipment and
materials are based on the budgetary offers received from a number of
manufacturers; these offers were compared with the most recent quotations
received by the consultants for similar projects. Estimates for the
distribution packages are based on BSES's experience. The estimated cost of
consulting services is based on already signed contracts. Base prices were
updated to January 1991. Based on the above, physical contingencies were
estimated at 10 for civil works and 5Z for equipment and materials. Physical
contingencies amount to about 6.4Z of the total base cost. Price



16
contingenctes, which amount to about 192 of base cost, are based on expected
annual domestic and international inflation rates. The domestic inflation
rates used for the cost estimates are as follows: 8.8% for FY91, 8.3Z for
FY92, 6.62 for PY93, 6.5% for FY94 and PY95, and 6.22 for FY96. The
international inflation rates used are 6.3Z for FY91 and 3.4% for PY92 and
thereafter.
Project Financing
3.05        The proposed IBRD loan of US$200 million would cover about 33% of
the financing requirements for the project, net of taxes and duties. The loan
would be mainly used to finance the main contract package for the Dahanu power
plant (paras. 3.08 and 3.12). The loan would be issued directly to BSES and
would be guaranteed by GOI, which would levy a guarantee fee of 2.75% p.a. The
IFC investment of US$68 million, which would be made directly to BSES, would
cover about 11X of financing requirements. Of the IFC portion, US$50 million
would be lent from IFC's own resources (A Loan) and up to US$18 million would
be obtained through a syndication comprising participations in an IFC B Loan
and/or through parallel financing from other sources arranged by IFC. The
amount of the syndication is based on BSES's requirement for an overall
maturity of 15 years balanced with the shorter maturities available from
commercial sources. Pre-marketing inquiries by IFC indicate that at the
present time there is a difficult market environment for syndicating funds
with commercial sources, stemming from the market's perception of the
country's current economic and political difficulties. IFC, therefore,
proposes to await a suitable marketing opportunity after the 1991 General
Elections for formally undertaking the syndication of the US$18 million. In
the event that IFC is unable to syndicate the full US$18 million by September
30, 1991, IBRD Management will be prepared to propose to the Board of
Executive Directors a supplementary IBRD loan covering the shortfall up to
US$18 million. The above date was determined in accordance with BSES's
procurement schedule. The interest risk on the IBRD loar. and the foreign
exchange risk on the IBRD loan and IPC investment would be borne by BSES. The
IBRD loan and IFC investment are cross effective with each other (para.
6.03.b). The financing plan for the proposed project is shown in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: Financing Plan for the Proiect
Total Expenditures
(Rs million)           (US$ million)
Internal Accruals                       1,386                  65.6
Special Reserves                        1,000                  47.5
Fully Convertible Debentures:
- First Issue                         1,000                  47.5
- Second Issue                        1,500                  69.6
Long Term Loans:
- Indian Financial Institutions       3,270                 155.1
- IBRD Loan                           4,363                 200.0
- IFC Investment (A Loan)             1,089                  50.0
- IFC Syndication                       392                  18.0
Total                                  14,000                 653.3



17
3.06        The financial analysis summarized in Chapter 4 shows that BSES
would be able to contribute US$65.6 million equivalent from its internal
resources over the construction period of the proposed project (1990 to mid
1995). In April 1991, BSES raised US$47.5 million equivalent from the public
by way of convertible debentures. A second issue of US$69.6 million
equivalent is planned for 1994. BSES agreed to complete by June 30, 1994, the
subscription of the second debenture issue, underwritten to the extent offered
to the public (para. 6.02.c). In accordance with the above financing plan,
GOM has already allowed BSES special reserves for the duration of the
construction period amounting to US$47.5 million. The Indian Financial
Institutions4 complet?d their appraisal of the project with a view to making
a loan of US$155.1 million equivalent. This loan would cover about 33Z of the
cost of the generation and transmission components.6 The loan from the
Indian Financial Institutions will carry an interest rate of 14? during the
first two years and 15X thereafter, and will be repayable in 40 quarterly
installments commencing on May 15, 1997. The remaining US$268.0 million would
be obtained from IBRD and IFC. The major shareholders of BSES have confirmed
that they will ensure that the necessary finances are raised from
shareholders, public, financial institutions or banks to cover any cost
overruns.
Project Implementation Schedule
3.07        The project will be implemented over a period of five years.  BSES
initiated preparation of the design manuals and bidding documents for the
power plant contracts in 1989. After a period of controversy, BSES obtained
environmental clearances from GOI and GCA for the construction of a 2 x 250 MW
coal-fired power plant et Dahanu, 125 km north of Bombay. Despite an
injunction issued by the Bombay High Court based on a petition by
environmental groups (para. 3.24), BSES lost only about two months with
respect to the schedule defined in February 1990. The contract for the main
package was awarded on January 29, 1991 (para. 3.08). Contracts for piling
and foundations will be awarded in April 1991. Physical works except for the
erection af the transmission lines will be carried out by contractors. The
transmission lines will be built by BSES's Contracts Division, which is
experienced and competent in this field. Most of the other contracts are
scheduled to be awarded in 1991 in accordance with the Implementation Schedule
summarized in Annex 3.3. Erection of the boilers will begin during the last
quarter of 1992. The first unit is scheduled to be synchronized in July 1994
and to be commercially operational by January 1995. The second unit will be
brought in service in January 1995 and should be operational by July of that
year. If still required by GOI (para. 3.30), the contract for the FGD plant
will be awarded by July 1992, in order to have it ready for operation by
January 1995 -- when the first unit begins commercial operation. The proposed
project will be completed by December 31, 1995 and the last payments will be
made during the first half of 1996. The implementation schedule is reasonable
in view of the nature of the project and actions already taken by BSES.
The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI),
the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI), and the
Industrial Finance Corporation of India (IFCI).
Under the proposed legislation, the limit for a loan from the
Indian Financial Institutions would be 402.



18
3.08        The contract for the main package covers the supply of boilers,
turbines, generators, electrostatic precipitator, power cycle piping, and
controls and instrumentation. The contract includes complete manufacture and
shop testing, packaging for shipment, coordination and integration of the
supply of equipment, and provision of engineering drawings, manuals, etc. The
contract also includes 1,040 man-months of supervisory services for erection,
testing, commissioning of the equipment, and supervision of related civil and
structural works based on designs provided by the contractor.
Status of Engineering and Project Management
3.09        With the assistance of constiltants, BSES will implement the
project. In the implementation of the power plant, Development Consultants
Limited (DCL) of Calcutta will serve as their 'main consultants", providing
detailed engineering and procurement assistance, and NTPC will function as
'review consultants' for the design manuals, bidding documents, and quality
assurance. Under a separate contract, NTPC will manage consulting services
for the design and engineering of the transmission lines and associated
substations, including related protection and communication systems. The list
of the other consultants employed by BSES is given in Annex 3.4. All the
consultants are acceptable to IBRD and IFC. BSES agreed to establish and
maintain a project management structure satisfactory to IBRD and IFC (paras.
3.09, 3.10 and 6.02.d).
3.10        In order to establish a single point of responsibility for
adherence to the project schedule, BSES is negotiating a contract with BHEL to
appoint it as project manager for the er:tire project. This contract would
cover full-time monitoring of project supervision activities, planning and
monitoring, management of materials, co-vstruction, and commissioning
activities, quality assurance, monito.iag of inspection activities, and
audit i.ng of project results. BHEL will employ a full-time project management
group reporting to an experienced Project Manager. BHEL staff assigned to
this contract will be experienced in the fields of civil, mechanical, and
electrical engineering, and other disciy ines. A master schedule of critical
path networks will monitor the progress .;A the project, including manpower and
costs, and will be continually updated aF each phase of the work is completed.
BSES's own full-time managing team will co-rdinate with the BSEL team and the
manufacturers and consultants. The BSES tea--l will ensure that standards of
quality are maintained, will closely monitor project costs, and will notify
management of any deviations from the project budget. Approval of
construction cost increases will Le handled by BSES. Equipment supplied by
the manufacturers will be inspected at their site of manufacturing by a
separate agency to be appointed by BSES. BSES's proposed project management
structure is shown in Annex 2.3. These arrangements are acceptable to .BRD
and IFC.



19
Procurement
3.11        The procurekment arrangements for the project are summarized in
Table 3.3. More complete details arc shown in Annexes 3.5 and 3.6.
Table 3.3: Procurement Arrangements a/
(US$ millions)
Project Element              ICB      LCB        Other      N.A.     Total Cost
Civil Works                    -       -          51.9        -          51.9
Equipment                   200.0     5.0        231.0        -         436.0
IBRD:         (190.6)   (4.0)                     -       (194.6)
IFC :             -        _        (68.0) b/    -         (68.0)
Erection                       -       -          17.9        -          17.9
Supervisory Services          6.4      -            -         -           6.4
IBRD:            (5.4) c/  -            -          -         (5.4)
Consultants' Services                              3.3                    3.3
Administrative Expenses        -       -            -        9.9          9.9
Land                           -       -            -        8.7          8.7
----      -----
Total:                      206.4     5.0        304.1      18.6        534.1
IBRD:         (196.0)   (4.0)          -          -       (200.0)
IFC :             -        -        (68.0)        -        (68.0)
a/ Contract values include contingencies, taxes and duties (US$42.3 million).
b/ IFC funds will not be used to finance the FGD plant.
c/ Part of the equipment supply contract.
ICB: International Competitive Bidding.
LCB: Local Competitive Bidding.
Other: Direct imports and locally procured items.
N.A.: Not Applicable (Administrative Expenses).
Note: The figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed
by the IBRD loan and the IFC investment.
3.12        The proposed IBRD loan to BSES would be mainly used to finance a
large single contract covering equipment for the power plant. This
procurement approach was designed to overcome BSES's inexperience in
implementing such a large project. The contract was awarded in January 1991,
under international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with
IBRD's Procurement Guidelines. Advance procurement action was duly notified
to the Executive Directors through the Monthly Operational Summary (Document
No. M91-118 of February 1, 1991). IBRD will provide retroactive financing of
up to US$30 million for the project, to reimburse expendltures made before the
Loan AbLeement is signed. The Indian authorities and BSES were alerted to
assume and manage all financial risks associated with any advance contracting,
in the event the Board does not approve the project. Other equipment
contracts would be procured under ICB procedures in accordance with IBRD's
Procurement Guidelines. Contra ts for equipment worth less than US$200,000
each and with an aggregate value of US$4 million may be procured on the basis
of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
IBRD. Bidding documents and recommendations for the award of contracts would
be prepared by BSES with the assistance of consultants. Contracts financed



20
under the IBRD Loan worth US$2 million or more would be subject to prior
review by IBRD. The smaller IBRD financed contracts under ICB would be
subject to selective post-award review. A domestic preference of 15Z or the
corresponding import duty, whichever iF less, would be applied in the
comparison of bids for equipment contracts. Consultants would be selected in
accordance with IBRD Guidelines on the selection of consultants.
3.13        The foreign currency requirements for direct and indirect imports
pertaining to the other generation and transmission packages are estimated at
about US$64 million, including US$17 million in foreign currency requirements
for the FGD plant. With the exception of the FGD plant, funds provided by IFC
would be used to finance both direct and indirect import components. Contracts
financed by IFC will be procured under limited international bidding. The
rest of the equipment and works will be financed by BSES and procured
following established private sector procedures.
Disbursements from the IBRD Loan
3.14        Disbursements from the proposed IBRD loan would be made against:
(a) 100X of the foreign currency expenditures and 100Z of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost if manufactured in India) for equipment; and (b) 1002 of
total expenditures for supervisory services for erection, testing,
commissioning of equipment, and for supervision of related civil and
structural works. Disbursements for equipment under contracts valued less
than US$200,000 equivalent would be made against statements of expenditures
(SOE), the documentation of which would not be sent to the Bank but would be
retained by BSES for inspection by supervision missions. All other
disbursements by BSES would be fully documented. Retroactive financing, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding US$30 million and for expenditures made after
January 31, 1991, will be provided for in the IBRD loan. To facilitate
disbursements, a Special Account would be established for the IBRD loan. This
account would have an authorized allocation of US$13 million, equivalent to an
estimated four months of disbursements (para. 2.14). Annex 3.7 shows the
estimated disbursement schedule as derived from the construction programs of
the project components. The aggregated disbursement profile for the project
is five years. This is faster than the standard profile for an IBRD loan
because of the actions already taken by BSES (para. 3.07). Furthermore, the
components of the project do not have any unusual characteristics. The last
payments are estimated to be made during the second half of 1996.
Accordingly, the closing date for the IBRD loan would be December 31, 1996.
Security Arrangements
3.15          The proposed IBRD and IFC loans would be secured by first charge
on all of BSES's assets, subject to certain prior charges on current assets in
favor of working capital lenders, shared pari passu with other senior lenders.
Annex 3.8 shows BSES's borrowing position and the priority of existing liens
on its properties as of March 31, 1989. BSES agreed to the following security
arrangements for the proposed loans (para. 6.02.e):
(a) A mortgage over all the immoveable properties of BSES;
(b) A floating charge hypothecation on all moveable assets of BSES,
including the BSES's License; and



21
(c)   An assignment by way of mortgage of BSES's License, including
extensions and renewals thereof.
The proposed security will be shared pari passu with BSES's existing senior
liea holders, the Indian Financial Institutions, and other senior lenders for
the proposed project. The security will be obtained in the form of an
equitable mortgage with an assurance from BSES that, at the request of IBRD
and/or IFC, BSES will convert such security to an English Mortgage and for
this purpose will also execute a Power of Attorney in favor of IBRD and IPC to
facilitate conversion of the mortgage. The creation of an equitable mortgage
and execution of a Power of Attorney are conditions of effectiveness for the
proposed IBRD loan (paras. 6.03.c and 6.03.d). Partial disbursement of the
IFC loan would be permitted against hypothecation on BSES's moveable assets.
Fuel Supply for the Dahanu Thermal Power Plant
3.16        In view of the present unavailability of long-term supplies of
gas, the Dahanu power plant will be a conventional coal-fired plant. A
proposed Gas Flaring Reduction Project (tentatively planned for IBRD financing
in FY92) will make substantial additional supplies available in Western India.
However, all these supplies have been committed by GOI to prospective
consumers.  In case, some of these commitments are not utilized, the Dahanu
power plant would be a good candidate to use these supplies.  To cover for the
possibility of availability of gas supplies in the Bombay area in the future,
the boilers of the Dahanu plant are being designed to burn coal and gas.   In
this case, a pipeline to Dahanu from either the Hazira terminal in the north
or the Uran terminal in the south will be constructed.
3.17        The Dahanu power plant will burn run-of-mine coal from the Ib
Valley mines of the South Eastern Coal Fields Limited, located 1,400 km to the
east in the State of Orissa. The Department of Coal (DOC) of GOI has
sanctioned the linkage of the Dahanu power plant with the Gopalpur opencast
mines of the Ib Valley fields. Main characteristics of the coal are shown in
Annex 3.9. The coal would be moved to Dahanu by the railways via
Brijrajnagar-Nagpur-Jalgaon-Udhana. BSES's consultants have confirmed this
transportation to be feasible within the existing railway network. In the
case that the opencast mine and railway siding at the Gopalpur mine are not up
to capacity by the time the Dahanu power plant goes into operation, DOC
decided that South Eastern Coal Fields Limited will supply coal from the
Lakhanpur mines of the same coal fields until the situation is remedied. GOI
reaffirmed its commitment to provide adequate and timely supplies of suitable
fuel for the proposed power plant (para. 6.01.a).
3.18        Consultants have carried out a study on coal deshaling and
beneficiation in the lb Valley. This study found that it was not economically
feasible to wash Ib Vailey coal even though the ash content of the best coal
e     Within the context of existing gas allocations, a separate
variable-load combined cycle power plant has been programmed for
the Western Region grid, to make maximum use of the current high
value of gas and in view of operational flexibility offered by
this type of plant. The Dahanu power plant, on the other hand,
will be operated as a base-load plant, and would complement,
rather compete with the proposed combined cycle schemes.



22
is 412 and involves the transport of a high volume of inert matter. It is not
advisable for BSES to commit itself to beneficiation of coal from the fields
located 1,400 km away, as this might prevent BSES from being linked to closer
coal fields in the future. Low sulphur heavy stock (LSHS) fuel oil would be
used for start-up, warming-up, for low load operation of the plant. This fuel
oil would be supplied by rail tank wagons through the Bombay-Surat railways.
Water Supply
3.19        Seawater for the plant would be taken from the Dahanu Creek and
employed in a once-through condenser system. The total seawater requirement
is estimated to be about 80,000 m3lh. Warm water from the condensers would be
released to the creek system through a 3 km channel. The intake and outfall
structures would be located in such a way as to prevent recirculation of warm
water from the outfall to the intake. The design of the cooling water system,
based on computer modelling studies by the Central Water and Power Research
Station (CWPRS) at Pune, would cnsure that the temperature of water in the
creek would not rise by more than 3 C above the ambient water temperature at
any location (para. 3.33).
3.20        Freshwater for the plant would be obtained from the Surya Prakalp
Reservoir, located about 31 km from the Dahanu site. The water would be
delivered through a pipeline which would be laid alongside existing public
roads. The total freshwater requirement is estimated to be about 2 million
ma/year. This repreaents less than 1Z of the 285 million m8 storage capacity
of the reservoir. The allotment for the project would be taken from the 21
million m3/year allocated for industrial uses. In other words, the project
would not compete for water reserved for irrigation (247 million ms/year).
Land Acquisition
3.21        BSES has acquired 816 ha of land for the project from GOM.  The
project does not involve any resettlement of displaced residents or activities
at this location. Other characteristics of this site are given in paras. 3.26
and 3.27. About 216 ha is to used for construction of the power plant and a
residential colony, and 536 ha is to be used for the ash deposit area. GOM
previously had leased part of this area to salt pan owners. Through GOM the
salt pan owners agreed to terminate their long-term leases against suitable
compensation by BSES. The route of the two transmission lines covers a
corridor about 70 m wide and 105 km long, occupying &bout 567 ha of land. The
survey is complete and the route would pass through or.ly about 2.8 km of
degraded forest land. BSES is in the process in obtair.ing the environmental
clearance for this route from the Ministry of Envirr- -tt and Forests (MOEF).
The route of the water pipeline from the Surya Prakai, :tservoir, which would
run alongside the existing roads and would not require any forest clearance.



23
Environmental and Social Aspects7
3.22        As required by GOI, BSES prepared an Environmental Assessment (EA)
in 1987. Subsequent to this EA, a number of other studies were initiated.
BSES now has completed and revised the EA which has been reviewed by IBRD,
IFC, and IBRD/IFC consultants. Based on IBRD/IFC recommendations, BSES also
prepared an Environmental Due Diligence Plan which it is revising regularly
After many exhaustive reviews, the proiect has received environmental
clearances from the MOEF of GOI, the Department of Environment of GOM, arsd the
Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB).
3.23        Although the Dahanu site would not involve any resettlement of
displaced persons, opposition to the project surfaced over other environmental
issues. Principal objections raised include: (a) the potential disruption to
the local community from the in-migration of large numbers of workers and the
potentially uncontrollable development of industries in an area devoted mainly
to agriculture (paras. 3.27 and 3.28); (b) potential effects of air emissions
from the plant on local tree crops (chickoo) (para. 3.29); (c) potential
effects of liquid effluents and the discharge of the cooling waters on the
aquatic life of the Dahanu creek system (paras. 3.32-3.36); and (d)
construction of power plant structures within 500 meters of the high tide line
(HTL) (para. 3.37).
3.24        In October 1989, two non-government organizations (NGOs) -- the
Bombay Environmental Action Group (BEAG) and Dahanu Taluka Environmental
Protection Group (DTEPG) -- took GOI, GOM and BSES to court, seeking an
injunction to stop the project. At one stage of the court proceedings, the
two NGOs tried to petition IBRD as a respondent, but the Bombay High Court
rejected this petition. Issues raised in the court petitions referred to the
project's impacts on water and ambient air quality, as well as local
agriculture. In December 1990, the Bombay High Court rejected the petition
following a thorough review and in March 1991, the Supreme Court of India
upheld this decision. The Supreme Court ruled that the thermal power plant
should be built in accordance with GOI's clearance order, and if there were
any changes in the order, during the process the NGOs should be given an
opportunity to be heard.
3.25        Regardless of the legal questions involved, BSES has adopted a
proactive position in addressing the issues raised by the NGOs. BSES has
initiated a number of environmental studies aimed at thoroughly assessing the
potential impacts of the project and assuring that these impacts are kept
within levels deemed acceptable by GOI, GOM, and the World Bank Group. The
project complies with the environmental standards of GOI and GOM and with the
applicable environmental policies and guidelines of the World Bank Group.
7      Details are provided in the Environmental Assessment Document for
the Dahanu Thermal Power Station (dated May 14, 1991). This
document was prepared by IBRD/IFC based on information provided by
BSES and is included in the Project File (Annex 6.1). The
Executive Summary of said document was agreed upon by GOI and IBRD
in the course of negotiations, and is given in Annex 3.10.



24
3.16        Site Selection.  After extensive and thorough study, the Dahanu
site was selected for the following reasons. It has seawater available for
once-through cooling of the condenser. It has a secure freshwater supply
which does not take water from agriculture. It occupies a large area of
unproductive land. It will not require any resettlement of displaced persons.
The project will have a minimal socio-economic impact on the area. There is
an adjacent railway to facilitate deliveries of coal. The site is highly
accessible.
3.27        At first, BSES and its consultants (Tata  Consulting Engineers),
limited themselves to sites in the vicinity of Bombay and carried out a
detailed study on nine alternative sites. Seven of these sites were
landlocked and two were coastal. BSES selected the Bassein alternative, but
the site was not approved by GOM because it fell within the Bombay
Metropolitan Area. Thus, BSES was asked in 1986 to locate the thermal power
plant at an alternative site.  BSES then studied the coastal area north of
Bassein and eventually selected the Dahanu site. The Dahanu site is
positioned on a large, degraded salt flat approximately four kilometers south
of the town of Dahanu. Unfit for agriculture, it lies about one kilometer
from the closest human settlement. The project is not expected to have any
adverse impacts on the area's rich agricultural or fishing industries.
3.28        Social Impact.  Dahanu is a commercially active town of some
100,000 people, and town services can easily absorb the influx of 300-600
workers during the construction and operation phases. BSES plans to use about
3,000 local laborers for unskilled activities during construction. The local
labor pool is of sufficient size to meet the expected demand without promoting
extensive in-migration to the area. Nevertheless caution will be exercised to
prevent permanent settlement around the plant after construction activities
are completed. Material and equipment for construction of the plant will be
shipped in by rail rather than road. The overall social impact of the project
is expected to be positive because BSES wages for unskilled labor are
approximately double the prevailing agricultural rate. Nevertheless, GOM is
preparing an incremental tribal development program (TDP) to provide
additional support to GOM's ongoing development activities in the tribal
communities in the immediate vicinity of the plant. The program will commence
in mid-1992 and will be financed by grant funds of about US$0.3 million to be
channeled through GOI and implemented by GOM's Department of Tribal
Development. IBRD and IFC will help GOI obtain such a grant from bilateral
agencies. GOI agreed to ensure that GOM will formulate and furnish to IBRD
for review by March 31, 1992, a tribal development program and implement this
program in a manner satisfactory to IBRD (para. 6.01.b.ii). In addition, BSES
is providing about 20 scholarships a year for local tribal students to study
The second pre-appraisal mission, in November 1990, visited once
again the Bassein site and noted that housing and light industrial
developments are occurring adjacent to the originally proposed
site for the power plant. In summary, Bassein has become a
satellite of Bombay. In addition, Bassein is a much richer
marshland in biological terms than the impoverished salt flats of
Dahanu. Furthermore, the land for Bassein is no longer available
because of private sector purchases of land and long-term
government leases to salt panners. BEAG had also objected to the
original proposal to build the power plant at the Bassein site.



25
at the local Industrial Training Institutes to allow them to be employed in
skilled positions on the project, Although Dahanu was already experiencing
rapid growth and some industrialization, partly as a result of good road and
rail access to Bombay, GOM will check further industrial growth in the area in
line with the environmental clearance of the project.
3.29        Air Emissions.  The plant complies fully with all World Bank
environmental guidelines and the pollution control regulations of GOI and GOM.
Sulphur dioxide (SO ) stack emissions for the 500 MW plant (without flue gas
desulphurization) will come to about 50 tons per day. With a 275 meter stack,
this will result in average annual SO groundlevel concentrations of
approximatelj  0.25 micrograms/mr.  This compares to Bank guidelines of 100
micrograms/m  and a GOI limit of 30 micrograms/ma for sensitive areas (80
micrograms/m3 for residential and rural areas). Particulate emissions from
the power plant will be controlled through the use of electrostatic
precipitators (ESPs) designed to operate at 99.8Z efficiency. This will
result in ground level concentrations of particulates of 0.22 micrograms/m8.
This compares to Bank guidelines of 100 micrograms/mg and a GOI limit of 100
micrograms/m3 for sensitive areas (200 micrograms/mr  for residential and rural
areas). According to an expert horticulturalist, the minimal reduction in
ambient air quality as a result of the project is unlikely to have any impact
on the chickoo.
3.30        Flue Gas Desulphurization.  The project was originally approved by
GOI and GOM with the requirement that an FGD plant with 90? efficiency be
built at plant start-up to reduce sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions. Given the
environmental concerns expressed by the local organizations, particular care
was taken in the air quality evaluation work. After reviewing the stack
emission data and ambient air quality modelling conducted by BSES, and
considering the low sulphur content of Indian coal and the use of a 275 meter
stack, IBRD and IFC believe that the project could be built and operated
without an FGD plant and would meet the most stringent ambient air quality
guidelines of GOI, GOM and the World Bank. Without the FGD plant, the project
could result in a 24-hour groundlevel S02 concentration of 3.2 micrograms/m3
for the worst coal quality (0.9? sulphur content), at a distance of about 4 km
east of the plant site. For average coal quality (0.475? sulphur content),
the maximum 24-hour SO concentration drops to 1.7 micrograms/m8. Annual
average SO2 groundievef concentrations are estimated to be 0.46 micrograms/m8
for the worst quality coal and 0.25 micrograms/mr for average quality coal.
These concentrations are well within the ambient air quality requirements of
the GOI, GOM, and the World Bank Group, as shown in Table 3.4.



26
Table 3.4: Comparison of Ambient Air Quality Requirements
-S2 Groundlevel Concentration
Annual         Maximum 24-hour
Average              Peak
-micrograms/m3 -
Government of India:
- Industrial and Mixed Use Area           120
- Residential and Rural Area               80
- Sensitive Area                           30
Government of Maharashtra: a/                                         5
World Bank Group:                              100                  500
Project without FGD:
- Worst Coal                                0.46                  3.2
- Average Coal                              0.25                  1.7
a/ GOM normally implements the ambient air quality standards of GOI,
but for this project GOM has developed a more stringent SO2 requirement.
3.31        Comparing the expected ambient S02 concentrations with the above
limits indicates that an FGD plant is not required. Nevertheless, GOI's
environmental clearance requires the installation of an FGD unit to be
operational at the time of commissionirg of the thermal power plant. BSES has
requested GOI and GOM to amend the clearances so that BSES may provide space
for an FGD plant, monitor the ambient air quality on commencement of
operations, and build the FGD unit which involves an additional cost of about
US$39 million9 only if the results show that such a plant is necessary. GOM
has amended its permit on these lines. GOI is reviewing the need for the FGD
plant and is taking into account the Supreme Court's recent ruling that if the
conditions of the clearance are changed, then GOI must first provide to the
NGOs who have opposed the project an opportunity to be heard (para. 3.24). In
order not to delay the generation project, IBRD and IFC have included the FGD
component in the project to be consistent with GOI's existing environmental
clearance. If GOI decides to amend its clearance to remove the FGD
requirement, then IBRD and IFC will not have any objection. In this case, the
economic internal rate of return (EIRR) would be marginally higher at 26Z,
instead of 25Z, and the average tariff levels would be Rs 0.03/kWh lower.
During negotiations, understandings with GOI and BSES were reached that:
(a)   GOI will make a final decision on the requirement of the FGD plant
soonest in order to allow BSES to have the FGD plant, if required,
in operation at the start up of the Dahanu power station;
(b)   in case the requirement to build the FGD plant is relaxed, GOI
will, consistent with the Supreme Court decision of March 1991,
amend its environmental clearance suitably; and
(c)   in case the requirement to build the FGD plant is not relaxed:
Including additional interest during construction.



27
(i)   IBRD and IFC funds will not be used to finance the FGD
plant;
(ii)  BSES will take all the necessary actions to build the FGD
plant, in order to have this plant in operation at the time
of start up of the first 250 MW unit of the Dahanu power
station. BSES will inform the Bank and IFC of its choice
of technology and progress in implementation.
3.32        Liquid Effluents.  The major liquid effluents will be water from
the ash disposal area, blowdown from the water treatment plant and surface
runoff (particularly from the coal storage areas). These liquid effluents
will be treated to ensure compliance with World Bank guidelines, which are
more stringent than GOI and GOM requirements. The relevant World Bank
guidelines are: (a) pH: 6 to 9; (b) BOD5 50 mg/l; (c) Total Suspended Solids:
60 mg/l; (d) Oil and Grease: 10 mg/l; (e) Total Heavy Metal: 5 mg/l.
Compliance with these guidelines will ensure that these effluents have no
adverse impact on the aquatic environment in the Dahanu creek system.
3.33        Cooling Water Discharge.  The cooling water, drawn from the Dahanu
creek and warmed through the condenser system where heat is transferred
through conduction, will then be discharged back to the creek system through a
channel 3 km long (para. 3.19). The cooling water will increase in
temperature by about 7 0C to 8 C within the plant (the condenser is designed
for a temperature rise of 7.2 C) and will then cool further as it flows down
the channel prior to discharge to the estuary. The design of the discharge
channel is such that computer modelling carried out by the Central Water and
Power Research Station (CWPRS) indicates that the cooling water reintroduced
to the creek system will be a maximum of 5 C higher than the ambient
temperature of the receiving creek waters, even under low tide conditions. As
a result of dilution by the creek waters, the maximum creek water temperature
rise at the discharge point would be about 3 C. Results also show that,
depending on tide conditions, heat loss coefficient, and ambient water
temperature, any increase in creek water temperature caused by the discharge
of cooling water is quickly dissipated (normally to less than 0.5 C over
ambient water temperature within 1,000 m of the discharge point). Under worst
case conditions (a K value of 0.01 calories/m2/second/C), the maximum water
temperature rise at the proposed cooling water intake structure would be
0.83 C, substantially less than the seasonal variation in water temperature
of the creek.
3.34        These results indicate that the discharge of cooling water is
unlikely to create any environmental problems. In addition, from a
recirculation standpoint, the proposed locations of the cooling water intake
structure and the cooling water discharge channel are acceptable. Siltation
has not been a problem historically in this creek system. However, CWPRS are
currently constructing a physical model of the creek system to study the
effects of siltation on alternative cooling water intake structure
configuration. This study will be completed by May, 1991.
3.35        The only risk from the thermal discharge is likely to come if a
rapid temperature change occurs in the tidal creeks. The design of the
cooling system and associated discharge channel, in addition to dilution in
the creek will basically eliminate the risk of thermal shock as a factor
influencing the viability of aquatic organisms utilizing the tidal creek



28
system. The aquatic species which utilize the tidal areas in the region are
adapted to warm temperature. Some species may, in fact, benefit from the
increased heat input and there may be an opportunity to utilize the cooling
water discharge channel as a site for intensive aquaculture production.
However, to ensure that the injection of water at a temperature of 5 C above
the creek ambient water temperature, does not adversely affect the creek's
aquatic -ystem, BSES has appointed consultants (National Environmental
Engineering Research Institute at Nagpur -- NEERI) to carry out a biological
study of the creek system. The study which began in March 1991, would be
completed in September 1992. The terms of reference for the study are
included in the Project File (Annex 6.1). An understanding with BSES was
reached that in case the results show the presence of aqu,tic species
sensitive to a difference of temperature of 5 C and thus the need to further
decrease the temperature of the cooling water discharged to the creek system,
BSES will implement all precautionary measures to reduce the difference of
temiperature between the discharge water temperature and ambient creek water
temperature. The cost of these measures is small when compared to total
project costs.
3.36        World Bank guidelines state that effluent temperatures should not
be more than 3 C higher than that of the receiving waters. Where the
receiving water temperatures are at 28 CC or less, the effluent temperature
may be a maximum of 5 0C above that of the receiving waters. The temperatures
of the waters of Dahanu creek change from 25 0C during the monsoon season
(June to September) to 35 0C during the dry season (October to May). In its
environmental clearance GOI required that the temperature of the water coming
out of the condenser should not exceed 5 0C at the point of discharge. Based
on the above and BSES's assurances, IBRD and IFC are satisfied that BSES will
comply with the World Bank guidelines and GOI's requirements.
3.37        Construction of Structures within 500 Meters of the High Tide Line
(HTL). In providing environmental clearance, GOI noted that the power plant
structures should not be built within 500 meters of the high tide line. There
have been differences between the NGOs and project as well as state
authorities on the precise definition of the high tide line. Some years ago
GOM built extensive dykes or bunds in the area, which protect the site from
tidal flows. The main thermal power plant has been designed so that it is at
least 500 meters on all sides from these dykes. However, certain minor
structures -- i.e. water pump house -- will be located within the 500 meter
area because it would be uneconomic to build them elsewhere. These exceptions
were taken into account by the Bombay High Court and the Supreme Court.
3.38        Environmental Management Program.  BSES has developed a
comprehensive environmental management program to prevent any harmful effects
on the environment from the plant. The program is based on state-of-the-art
technologies for controlling stack emissions and for treating liquid
effluents. Extensive monitoring programs will ensure that necessary pollution
control systems are operated efficiently, with regular maintenance. The
monitoring program involves continuous monitoring of stack emissions and the
chemical composition of liquid effluents. In addition to continuous and
efficient monitoring, sixteen stations will be installed by June 1992 to
monitor a variety of environmental parameters. These stations will include:
one meteorological station; five ambient air quality me&suring stations (three
stationary and two mobile); and ten ambient water quality measuring stations



29
(six around the ash disposal lagoons, three further downstream in Dahanu creek
and one further upstream in the Savta creek),
3.39        BSES has initiated an extensive greenbelt program.  A tree
planting program for the project's large buffer zone already has commenced.
This program includes a 5 acre mangrove development component for the degraded
area flanking the estuary. BSES has appointed the Salim Ali School of Ecology
of Pondicherry University as consultants for environment-related issues,
especially those concerning agricultural impacts and reclamation of the ash
disposal lagoons. Baseline studies on surface and groundwater quality, air
quality, vegetation and agriculture have been completed. Baseline studies for
the aquatic resources are under way. The environmental monitoring plan and
ongoing additional baseline studies are summarized in Annex 3.11.
3.40        Audit of BSES's Environmental Monitoring.  ESES will submit its
monitoring data to the MPCB monthly. MPCB, under GOM's supervision, will
prepare semi-annual audit reports written in non-technical language. These
reports will evaluate the monitoring information with respect to requirements
and their compliance with legal norms, and will recommend any needed changes
to the BSES monitor'ng program. GOM will make these reports publicly
available, and will promptly send them to community organizations in Dahanu
and to the Bank Group. The project thus builds in an early warning system for
pollution control failures which is accessible to all concerned parties. The
first audit report will be prepared by MPCB, based on BSES monitoring data
collected from January 1, 1991 to June 30, 1991. GOI agreed to ensure that
GOM, through MPCB, will follow the above procedure (para. 6.01.b.iii).
3.41        Environmental Impact at the Ib Valley Coal Mines.  The Dahanu
power plant will, have an average load factor of 702 and will generate 3,000
GWh per year at full capacity. At this level of production, the plant will
require about ^ million tons per annum (tpa) of coal. The Ib Valley coal
fields are projected to be producing about 9 million tpa of coal in FY96. A
World Bank mission has visited the site, examined the situation against the
requirements for this project, and concluded that this project will result in
minimal incremental environmental and socio-economic impacts.
Project Benefits
3.42        The primary benefit of the project consists of the additional
electricity demand to be met by commissioning additional generating capacity.
In the context of the Western Regional grid requirements, this will ease the
forecast gap in power supply and help support the expanding economic
activities in the region. BSES's losses will be decreased following the
strengthening and extension of the distribution network. The project will also
enable BSES to maintain the relatively high level of quality of its service,
despite growing demand, thus providing a positive demonstration effect for the
sector. Likewise, the training and management of plant personnel under a
financially competitive environment will help demonstrate the value of
pursuing efficiency in power plant operation. The Bank Group's participation
will also encourage a greater private sector role in the development of the
power sector in India by mobilizing private savings to the sector. This in
turn, will reduce the reliance on GOI and state budgetary support and in the
longer term increase the sector's capabtlity to contribute to the national and
state treasury.



30
Project Risks
3.43        The physical project components, which are based on conventional
technology, do not present unusual technical risks. The main contract package
has been awarded, and bid specifications for the remaining packages have been
prepared. Contracts will include commonly purchased power plant, transmission
and distribution equipment, and erection services would be routine in nature.
As a result, risks of having cost overruns are estimated to be small. The
Bank Group is setisfied that all necessary measures to mitigate the
environmental and social effects of the project will be implemented.
Environmental groups s ught an injunction to stop the project on the grounds
that it posed undue ecological risks. This generated risks of cost overruns
and loss in revenue. However, following recent rejection of the injunction
request by the Supreme Court, it is unlikely that the case would be reopened.
Possible institutional risks include the inability of BSES to manage
effectively the implementation and operation of the project. To minimize this
risk, BSES has engaged competent consultants. Furthermore, BSES's
reorganization and strengthening efforts would be closely monitored.
3.44        BSES has been granted the special reserves required in accordance
with the financing plan of the project and assurances have been obtained from
GOI and GOM for the operations stage (para. 4.01). Given the approval of
these special reserves, the project is financially and economically viable
even without GOI's new policies on pr_vate investments in the power sector
being enacted. The promulgation of the new incentives would generally enhance
BSES's financial position. Increases in BSES's fuel costs or in TEC's tariffs
would be passed on to BSES's consumers as allowed under the Electricity
(Supply) Act.
Project Monitoring and Supervision
3.45        BSES agreed to furnish quarterly reports on the project beginning
with the quarter in which the loans are signed. These reports will cover the
work of consultants, physical progress, results of environmental monitoring,
costs, disbursements and administrative aspects of the project. BSES will
also furnish copies of the environmental monitoring audits, semi-annual
updates of the Environmental Due Diligence Plan, and annual financial and
administrative reports. GOM agreed to furnish annual progress reports on the
TDP.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Special Reserves and Approved Institution Status
4.01        BSES carries out its electricity activities under the Electricity
(Supply) Act. Therefore, as a regulated utility, it is allowed to recover
through its tariff all operating costs, depreciation, interest expenses, a
return of 12? on its net remunerable capital base (as defined under the Act)
and any additional special reserves allowed by GOM. Regarding the latter, GOM
already has granted BSES permission to create special reserves in order to



31
meet Rs 1,000 million of the proposed project cost requirements.10 GOI
agreed that it will ensure that GOM will allow BSES to collect special
reserves as are permissible, including a special reserve for repayment of
BSES's debt, at least equal to the difference between the principal repayments
and the depzeciation as allowable under the Electricity (Supply) Act (para.
6.0l.b.iv). These special reserves are needed to allow BSES to meet its
cashflow requirements, which include the payment of dividends and servicing of
debts after project commissioning. Moreover, GOI also agreed to ensure that
GOM will treat the loans made by IBRD, IFC and the Indian Financial
Institutions for project financing as loans from "approved institutions" in
accordance with the Act (para. 6.01.b.v). This designation would allow BSES
to charge the interest plus a 0.5Z extra return on the opening balances of
these loans through its tariff. IBRD and IFC estimate that the additional
charges resulting from the special reserves and the 0.5Z loan markup for
"approved institutions" status would increase BSES's tariff only marginally.
Therefore the charges should not unduly burden BSES's customers, given the
good quality and reliability of BSES electricity supply.
Past and Projected Financial Performance
4.02         Given that GOI has agreed to ensure that GOM will grant BSES the
right to accumulate special reserves (para. 4.01), and assuming that the
project is commissioned on schedule and within projected financing
requirements, BSES's financial position will remain sound in the decade of FY
92-2001. BSES's recent and projected financial performance and key assumptions
are detailed in Annexes 4.1-4.6 and its FY 87-2001 performance is summarized
in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: BSES's Financial Performance
Rs MIirt
-   kbel  -                               ProJted
FIca 1w traiiq3iSt larcb  196?  19  I199  19  I9m   12  99  1m 99    IM 9  1?im  it9   2000  200
Owatlq 1U,U.            3,046    3,257    3,405    4,2"    5,072    5,   6,900    7,934    8,90    9,869   20,873   11,696   12,807   14,031   15,3s
frchiu   of hor         2,289   2,433   2,452   3,1  3,622   4,29    4,894   3,55  4,281    4,295   4,37    4,42   5,224   6,073   7,04
cut of Coal               0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0  1,220   1,550  1,93    2,04    2,171   2,302
th1 lwatiU En            64  474  790  903 1,014 1,17  1,339 1,521  1,707 2,328 2,544 2,751  ,9^  3,28  3,50
1,roclatlo               37   40   39  4U     3   72   80   8         m 3 3     sao 593   407  42i
tarot                    30    5   n    a2   4    59   n    118ie  10   1,0  I,U32    1,082    IO,  924  342
Fwda EAclap loou          O    0   a   0    0    0    0    0    0   0   81  100  115  12  143
at 1sm                   71  40  a5  120  328  34  s51  536  350  19  402  782  8t  854  m
sWutary Iwun ad urorUM   24  IS  32  43  17m  257  27m   2    231   8   86  28  241  249  252
Istribotale pdi*t 47          47   53   s9  152   9    237  241  319  53   51   55   575  40   4U
H^idads                  13  1    IS   2S   23  2a     3   95        201  201  201  201  201  201
Titd  Assets            1,93  2,19!    2,616    3,127    4,04  5,839    9,213   13,914   17,32   19,280   19,42   19,2n    19,414   19,559   1,712
Tital Ulwe capitua VW i rvn   709  77n  681   1,00    1,340    1,703   S,170   3,448    4,145    6,070   4,52  7,1U3   7,833   1,557    9,317
Et 2.9-tv  hbt           115  131  147  146  150    1,981    3,7t0    7,707   10,482    9,U11    6,915    8,265    7,53  4,m  ,92
Nbt ;atura l ioty       0.16  0.17  0.17  0.17  0.11  1.14  :.17  Lit  2.53  1.51  1.31  1.U1  0.94  0.79  0.64
Crrlt  Ratto            1.39  1.31  1.34  1.27  0.93  1.34  I.39  1.41  1.4  1.32  1.27  1.32  1.34  1.0  1.4
Cash Available fW  Odt Sorvice  140  136  IU  220  46  48U5  467  743  828   2,024   2,404   2,540    2,542   2,    2,S0
lit fervice              SO   35   43   61   61   n    8    I30  137    1,089   1,744    2,047    I,9  2,"7    I',m
lit Svice Coewr         4.59  3.92  3.82  3.61  7.14  4.51  7,60  5.71  4.43  1.86  1.38  1.25  2.2  1.30  1.33
Averge Tariff, hknA     2.13  1.10  1.13  1.2S  I.S9  1.51  1.44    I  2.90  1.9  2.0S  2.0  2.17  2.27  2.
10     GOM has granted the following reserves to BSES during the project
construction phase.  BSES is allowed to charge to its consumers
(through its tariffs) an additional Rs 0.03 kWh. GOM has also
reduced BSES's purchase price from TEC by Rs 0.03/kWh (TEC will no
longer charge BSES the amounts permitted in the past for TEC to
support its own project cost financing).



32
4.03        BSES is a financially strong company.  It has regularly serviced
its debt and has paid dividends of about 18? on its equity capital at par.  In
FY90, the Company issued bonus shares to its equity shareholders on a 1:1
basis, thus doubling its share capital.  BSES has also maintained a
comfortable cashflow position, mainly as a result of the cost-plus nature of
the business. It has built up large reserves over the past and its debt level
has been relatively low. In FY90, BSES's debt to equity stood at about 0.17.
Its net income has been steadily increasing -- a pattern expected to continue
from FY92 to FY95 as interral accruals grow from the special reserves charged
towards the project costs (para. 4.01). Other than the aberration of a 0.93
current ratio in FY91 as a result of including the bridging loan as current
liability in that year (which wil; be paid off with IBRD's retroactive
financing), its current ratio averaged a comfortable 1.35 between FY87 and
FY90.
4.04        BSES's debt-service coverage ratio is projected to average about
1.40 during the FY96-2001 period. The ratio will reach a low of about 1.25 in
FY98, the first year in which the principal on the Indian Financial
Institutions' loans must be repaid. The company's current ratio is projected
to average about 1.37 during the next decade, and debt to equity is projected
to reach a maximum of 2.53 in FY95. BSES agreed to obtain IBRD's and IFC's
prior consent before taking on any additional long-term indebtedness other
than the loans stated in the financial plan, if after such debt has been
incurred the long-term debt-to-equity ratio were to exceed 2.5 (para. 6.02.f).
BSES also agreed to set its tariffs at levels sufficient to achieve the
prescribed return on its capital base and to recover, through special
reserves, inter alia, the aggregate amount of repayments of principal of its
debt for that year, as permissible under the Act (para. 6.02.g). In addition,
BSES agreed to furnish IBRD and IFC with its financial projections covering
the current year and the next four financial years, within 120 days of the end
of each cf its financial years. These projections will specify BSES
compliance with IBRD and IFC financial covenants and will indicate the actions
BSES may need to take to meet said covenants (para. 6.02.h). IBRD and IFC are
satisfied that with the special reserves (para. 4.01) committed by GOM, BSES
will remain financially sound even within the existing legislation under which
the private utilities are operating. The promulgation of new incentives to
encourage more private investment in the power sector (para. 1.15) would
enhance BSES's financial position.
Financial Internal Rate of Return
4.05        The financial internal rate of return (FIRR) for the project in
constant terms is 15.0Z. This rate was derived by considering the incremental
costs and revenue flows associated with construction and operation of the
thermal plant at Dahanu and its associated transmission and distribution
facilities. The financial gains to BSES attributable to the project primarily
consist of revenues from additional electricity sales and reduced bulk
electricity purchases. The financial rate of return is sustainable over the
operating life of the project, as BSES pursues its cost-recovery-based tariff
policy. Details on the FIRR calculations are presented in Annex 4.4. The
proposed project will provide BSES higher financial returns from its
operations than if it were to continue relying fully on power purchases from
TEC. Moreover, the latter is not an option opened to BSES, because the
conditions attached to its license (para. 2.01) require BSES to contribute its
own share in capacity investments. By so doing, in addition to earning a



33
viable return, BSES gains the advantage of firmer assurance of future supply
as well as a direct control over a large portion of its generation expenses.
Sensitivity Analyses
4.C5        Variations in the cost and revenue profiles were analyzed to
confirm that the project remains financially viable even under adverse
conditions. For example, a project cost overrun of up to 25? or a reduction in
project revenues of up to 12? will still yield an FIR above 12Z. If GOI
removes the requirement for the FGD plant, the FIRR will increase to 16.0?.
Sensitivity analyses also were performed to gauge BSES's debt-service capacity
(Annex 4.5), and to measure the changes in its average tariff arising from the
following scenarios: coal cost increase of 12? p.a.; a plant load factor of
60? at full commissioning, a 20? project cost overrun due to a one-year delay
in project completion, and a 10? devaluation in the Rupee. Since all of its
costs are captured in its tariff, BSES's debt-service coverage would not be
adversely affected by the changes.
4.07        If coal costs increased by 12? per annum instead of the projected
6?, BSES's tariffs would have to increase by an average of 6.7? p.a. instead
of the 5.5Z p.a. assumed in the base case. Similarly, if BSES's plant load
factor were 60? at full commissioning instead of the 70? assumed in the base
case, the additional tariff increase would be small (average 6.1? p.a. versus
5.5? p.a. in the base case, yielding tariffs of Rs 2.22/kWh versus Rs 2.09/kWh
in FY98) and its debt-service coverage would be unaffected. Due to the cost-
plus nature of BSES's operations, a project cost overrun of 20? would result
in an average tariff increase of 6.3? p.a. instead of the 5.5? p.a in the base
case. However, debt-service coverage would be marginally depressed to 1.18 in
FY98 under this scenario. Forty-four percent of project cost is to be funded
by long-term debt, which is denominated in foreign currencies. A devaluation
of the Rupee would increase interest and principal repayments in Rupee terms.
If the Rupee were to devalue at 102 p.a. relative to the US Dollar (compared
to the average 4Z p.a. assumed in the base case), then tariffs would increase
by 6.1? p.a. compared to 5.5? p.a. in the base case, and debt-service coverage
would decrease somewhat. In summary, BSES's financial performance is
projected to be quite robust, with debt-service cover remaining acceptable
under a range of adverse scenarios.
4.08        Sensitivity analyses also were conducted to assess the impact on
tariffs of GOI removing the FGD plant requirement from its environmental
clearance. This result would have a small favorable impact on BSES's tariffs
(Rs 0.03/kWh lower in FY96).
V. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
5.01        The primary justification for the proposed project is the
increased electricity demand to be met in the BSES service area. In addition,
during the project's initial years of operation, it will displace less
efficient thermal-based generation in the Western Regional grid. On the
distribution side, improvement in substation and transformer capacities is
expected to result in reduced transformation and energy losses as well as
increased service reliability. The project's economic viability has been
assessed in terms of whether it yields an adequate rate of return and whether



34
it is an integral part of the Western Regional grid's least-cost power
expansion program.
Western Region Market Profile
5.02        BSES's service area is part of the inter-connected system of the
State of Maharashtra, which in turn is linked to the Western Regional grid.
This grid consists of power facilities of the major state-owned utilities of
Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh augmented by those from the private
utilities (i.e., TEC and AEC).  In addition, the grid is supplied with power
from NTPC and the Nuclear Power Corporation.  In FY90, the grid had a total
installed capacity of 19,029 MW of which 692 was operated by the SEBs, 192 by
GOI entities and the balance of 122 by private utilities.  Thermal stations
accounted for 85Z of the plant capacity, hydro 13? and nuclear 22.
5.03        The Western Region accounts for nearly 302 of electricity
coiusumption in India. The historical and projected Regional and State demand
for electricity are summarized in Annex 5.1. Since FY82 regional demand has
expanded at 102 p.a. and in FY90 unrestricted demand was estimated at 12,440
MW, of which a peak load of 12,007 MW was served, representing a capacity
deficit of 3.5?. To minimize load shedding, the various SEBs have managed the
pea}; loads by enforcing certain regulatory measures (Annex 5.2) including
staggering of weekly holidays among industries as well as restricting hours of
rural supply. On the other hand, there has been minimal shortfall in energy
supply and the grid was able to supply 73,000 GWh in FY90 which largely met
the full demand. The favorable supply conditions obtained last year was
partly due to the successive good monsoons resulting in improved hydro
operations. At the same time, the need for thermal plants to operate at
partial load during off-peak how,rs continues to strain plant equipment and is
shortening their operating life. Through FY2000, power and energy demands are
expectcd to increase by 8.82 and 8.4Z per annum, respentively. But while
energy shortfalls should be minimized with the commissioning of new plant
facilities, the deficit in peaking capacity will be difficult to eliminate in
the medium term. To correct these imbalances in the long term, the generation
expansion plan for the Region includes the installation of a number of peaking
plants.11
5.04        Daily system peak in the regional grid occurs in the evening
between 7 and 10 p.m., with secondary peaks occurring during the morning. In
view of the heavy industrial load in the region, the system load factors have
been relatively high, averaging 78Z on an annual basis, and as high as 80? on
The existing 880 MW Koyna hydropower plant, owned and operated by
MSEB is being expanded by an additional 1,000 MW capacity, under
the IBRD Maharashtra Power Project (Loan 3096-IN), to allow the
entire installation to operate in a peaking mode. The
construction of a 150 MW pumped storage (PS) scheme at the
existing hydroelectric power plant at Bhira, situated 95 km south-
east of Bombay, is included in the joint IBRD/IFC Private Power
Utilities (TEC) Project (FY90; IBRD Loan 3239-IN; IFC Investment
No. 2198-IN). The Bhira Pumped Storage Scheme would provide
additional peak generation capacity and would increase the
capacity utilization of TEC's existing thermal generating units at
Trombay, near Bombay.



35
a daily basis. The ratio between the minimum demand and peak demand was 45?
for FY90 and the system diversity factor ranged from 1.008 to 1.05.
5.05        Electricity demand in the State of Maharashtra accounts for 48Z of
the region's requirement and has been expanding at an annual rate of 9Z. In
FY90, a peak load of 5,883 MW with a corresponding energy requirement of
35,155 GWh was serviced by the power system. The sectoral pattern of demand
served by MSEB in FY90 was 38? industrial, 212 agriculture, lOZ residential,
2? commercial, and the balance for railway traction, public services as well
as bulk power transfers. To supplement its system capability to meet the
State's growing power requirements, MSEB purchases power from the Regional
grid. In FY90 this involved net imports of 3,080 GWh.
BSES Market Base
5.06         Electricity sales in the BSES service area represent about 9.52
of total electricity demand in the State of Maharashtra or 4.5? in the Western
Region. In contrast to load curtailment conditions obtaining in the rest of
the Region, electricity demand in the Greater Bombay Area has largely been
unrestricted since 1980. The city's load requirements have been primarily met
through generation from plants operated by the Tata Electric Companies (TEC)
augmented by supply from the Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB) during
times of peak.. The BSES system accounts for about 38Z of the load served by
TEC. Energy sales by BSES have expanded at an average annual rate of 11l
during the eighties from 1,140 GlWh in FY81 to 2,899 GWh by FY90, while maximum
system load has increased by about 8? annually from 314 MVA to 618 MVA during
the same period. In the medium-term, demand in BSES's service area is
projected to grow by an average annual rate of 7.2? reaching 4,089 GWh by FY95
and subsequently increasing at 5.5? per year to 5,344 GWh by year FY2000. The
corresponding rise in peak load is prcjected at 859 MVA in FY95 and 1,116 MVA
by year FY2000.
5.07        The pattern of demand in the BSES service area is characterized by
a typical daily peak in the evening at between 6 and 10 p.m., with a secondary
morning peak between 10 and 11 a.m. The system's diversity factor ranges from
1.004 to 1.02, and its daily load factor is above 70?. In terms of sectoral
consumption, residential sales presently account for 44? of demand, industrial
39? and commercial 16Z. Over the years, residential and commercial sectors
have progressively increased their combined market share froa 44? in 1980/81
to 602 today. Conversely, industrial consumption has reduced its share from
as high as 54Z in FY81 to the current 39Z. This trend is expected to continue
as population growth in Bombay results in new residential development in the
suburbs served by BSES with attendant expansion of commercial services. On
the other hand, growth of industries within the Bombay city limits is expected
to be held in check by government regulations.
Least Cost Analysis
5.08        The proposed project is part of the least-cost generation
expansion program developed by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) for the
Western Regional grid. Given that market projections for the medium term
indicate continued supply restrictions for meeting peak load relative to
energy requirements in the regional grid, the alternative of investing fr. a
combined cycle facility was reviewed by CEA in view of the operational
flexibility afforded by such plant for meeting intermediate loads. However,



36
available and identified gas supplies in the Bombay area have already been
committed to other users, including power use, and are expected to be fully
absorbed. Within existing gas allocations, a 180 MW and a separate 800 MW
variable-load combined-cycle plant are also being planned for the Western
Regional grid under the aegis of TEC and the Maharashtra SEB, respectively,
for commissioning at about the same time. The Dahanu plant as a base-load
facility would therefore complement, rather than compete with the combined-
cycle scheme in the system.
Program Analysis
5.09        The economic returns of the power expansion program for the
Western Region was estimated by taking the FY91 to FY2000 investment time-
slice. This plan horizon parallels the period required for construction and
initial years of operation of the project. In addition to the capital outlays
for generation plants to be built and commissioned during this time-slice,
investments for transmission and distribution facilities were included
equivalent to about 60? of the generation investment levels. The operating
and maintenance expense profile were developed based on projected system
operations. All financial costs were converted to economic costs applying the
standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8 on local costs, and by removing taxes
and duties. In view of its relatively poor quality, domestic co8l is
considered non-tradeable and its economic price is based on cost at the pit-
head plus transport cost to thermal plants in the system. On the other hand,
the economic cost of fuel oil is based on its border price plus internal
transport charges.
5.10        Incremental benefits, on account of additional electricity
consumption, were valued initially in termr of the present average tariff
level in the grid of Rs 0.86 per kWh. Given the scarcity of power supply,
however, the value of electricity service in India is deemed to be
considerably higher than the rates at which it is sold. Accordingly, the
consumers' willingness to pay has been estimated based on the cost of
electricity from sources other than the grid, i.e., from autogeneration from
diesel generators for industries (Rs 2.07 per kWh), and for commercial and
residential consumers (Rs 2.75 per kWh), and from diesel pumps for irrigation
requirements of agricultural users (Rs 3.41 per kWh). Derivation of these
estimates of cost of alternative sources of power are given in Annex 5.3.
These costs are considered to be the upper limit of consumers' willingness to
pay for their particular levels of power use from the public supply system,
while prevailing tariffs serve as the lower limit. The consumer surplus
attributable to incremental consumption met by the project is estimated to be
equivalent to half of the difference between these limits as the higher cost
of autogeneration is seen to reflect the value of energy to consumers during
the peak and intermediate load periods when there is load shedding, but not
12    On the premise that gas is available, comparative economics of a
combined-cycle plant vis-a-vis the proposed project was separately
evaluated (Annex 5.9). Because of the relatively high economic
value of gas in the Bombay area, and the favorable price received
for the Dahanu station's main equipment package, the proposed
thermal station at Dahanu remains competitive against a combined-
cycle plant costing US$600 per kW installed (US$730 per kW has
recently been quoted for combined-cycle projects in the country).



37
necessarily during the rest of the day when energy from the grid is normally
available.
5.11        The expansion program for the time-slice FY91-FY2000 is estimated
to yield an economic rate of return (EIRR) of 25Z, a net present value (NPV)
at 12Z of Rs 187 billion. If the consumer surplus value were excluded from
the stream of benefits, the return would be 7% reflecting the relatively low
tariffs charged for recovering the costs of power service. Derivation of the
regional program's EIRR is given in Annex 5.4. Variations in cost and benefit
profiles have been analyzed indicating that program investments remain
economically viable even under relatively adverse operating conditions (Annex
5.5). Specifically, the program can withstand capital cost overruns exceeding
25Z, or similar reductions in benefits and still yield an economic rate of
return exceeding 122.
Project Economics
5.12        To assess whether the project itself yields adequate investment
returns, identified benefits accruing from the project were compared with the
project costs and other associated expenses required in delivering the
additional electricity service to the final end-users.   For this purpose, the
simulation runs performed by CEA on generation dispatch in the grid was used
as the basis for determining the levels of unserved energy in the region with
and without the project. Annex 5.6 illustrates the projected dispatch of
energy from the Dahanu plant vis-a-vis the interconnected grid and the
consequent additions to system input as well as displacement of less efficient
existing thermal stations in the Western Region. The incremental electricity
consumption met by the operation of the Dahanu plant is valued in terms of
prevailing tariffs charged to BSES's customers.   In addition, consumer
surplus value attached to these usage are included.
5.13        The economic costs of power supply from the project included the
capital costs and corresponding operating and maintenance expenses for the
thermal station and associated transmission and distribution facilities,
subject to exclusion of taxes and duties and application of the 0.8 SCF on
local cost components. The economic price of coal is taken to be the price
charged at the pit-head of Rs 167 per ton plus transport costs of Rs 443 per
ton. In addition, wiring costs normally incurred by BSES's power customers
are considered at Rs 1,300 per additional kW load connected.
5.14        The resulting EIRR is estimated at 22.0? and its NPV at a 12Z
discount rate is Rs 6,501 million (Annex 5.7); the project is thus deemed
economically viable. Exclusion of the consumer surplus from the benefit
stream would yield a rate of return of 13.3Z. If the FGD plant were excluded
from the project cost, the EIRR would be higher at 22.9Z yielding an NPV at
122 of Rs 6,853 million.
5.15        The robustness of the project's economic rate of return was tested
against adverse variations in cost and benefit assumptions assuming capital
cost overruns, reductions in benefits, and delays in project commissioning.
Results, shown in Annex 5.8, indicate that the project can withstand project
cost increases of up to 5O? and still yield a favorable rate of return of
16.5Z. Erosion of benefits up to 352 or a 3-year delay in plant commissioning
can occur without impairing the project's ability to earn at least 12%.



38
Combined effects of up to 282 project cost overrun and up to 28Z benefit
reduction would still preserve the project's economic viability.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached between IBRD, and GOI and BSES
6.01        GOI has:
(a)   Reaffirmed the availability of adequate and timely supplies of
suitable fuel for the proposed power plant (para. 3.17); and
(b)   Agreed to ensure that GOM will:
(i)   not take any actions that would adversely affect BSES's
operational performance and financial position, including
restricting BSES's area of supply (para. 2.02);
(ii) formulate and furnish to IBRD for review, by March 31,
1992, a Tribal Development Program and implement this
program in a manner satisfactory to IBRD (para. 3.28);
(iii) through MPCB, to carry the audit of BSES's environmental
monitoring program (para. 3.40);
(iv)  allow BSES to accumulate certain special reserves as are
permissible, including a special reserve for repayment of
BSES's debt, at least equal to the difference between the
principal repayments and the depreciation allowable under
the Electricity (Supply) Act (para. 4.01); and
(v)   treat IBRD, IFC and the Indian Financial Institutions'
loans toward the project financing as loans from "approved
institutions" in accordance with the Act (para. 4.01).
6.02        BSES has agreed to:
(a)   furnish its annual financial statements and the status of the
Special Account for the IBRD loan, audited by auditors acceptable
to IBRD, within 120 days after the end of each of its financial
years (para. 2.14);
(b)   conclude agreements relating to the operation of the BSES plant,
with both MSEB and TEC prior to the synchronization of the first
unit of the Dahanu power plant (para. 2.18);
(c)   complete by June 30, 1994, the subscription of the second
debenture issue, underwritten to the extent offered to the public
(para. 3.06);
(d)   establish and maintain a project management structure satisfactory
to IBRD (para. 3.09);



39
(e)   execute the security arrangements for the proposed loan (para.
3.15);
(f)   obtain IBRD's prior consent to incur any additional long-term
indebtedness, other than the loans stated in the financial plan,
if after such debt has been incurred the long-term debt-to-equity
ratio exceeds 2.5 (para. 4.04);
(g)   set its tariffs at levels sufficient to achieve the prescribed
return on its capital base and to recover, through special
reserves, inter alia, the aggregate amount of repayments of
principal of its debt for that year, as permissible under the
Electricity (Supply) Act (para. 4.04); and
(h)   furnish to IBRD its financial projections covering its current
year and the next four financial years, within 120 days of the end
of each of its financial years, specifying its compliance with
IBRD financial covenants and indicating the actions it may need to
take to meet the said covenants (para. 4.04).
6.03        The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
IBRD Loan:
(a)   Extension by GOM of BSES's license to at least up to the maturity
date of the proposed IBRD loan (para. 2.02);
(b)   Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to disbursement of the IFC
Investment have been fulfilled (para. 3.05);
(c)   Creation of an equitable mortgage in a form satisfactory to IBRD
(para. 3.15); and
(d)   Execution of a Power of Attorney in favor of IBRD (para. 3.15).
Agreements Reached between IFC and BSES
6.04        The terms and conditions of the Investment Agreement between IFC
and BSES are consistent with the above.
Recommendation
6.05        On the basis of the project justification and the agreements
reached, the proposed project would be suitable for an IBRD loan of US$200
million and IFC investment of US$68 million equivalent, of which up to US$18
million would be syndicated, to Bombay Suburban Electric Supply Limited.



_40-                                       Annex 1.1
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
ALL-INDIA: ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AND DEMAND
Actual                            Estimated
............ .... ..... ,          ........................................... ..   
Annual                                              Annual
FY82 a/  FY90    Increase b/        FY91     FY95    FY2000           Increase
. .........  .......  ....... .    ... .......  ........... .......   ............ ... .................. ....
FY90-FY2000
1.   Capacity                       (tW)    tNW)          (X)            (KW)    (KW)    (KW)                   (X)
a.  Installed Capacity             32,347  62,700       8.6X           66,894  103,916  165,481              10.2X
b. Peak Capability                 20,121   35,425      7.3X           37,527  61,418  99,365                10.9K
c. Peak Load                       20,121   47,014     11.2K           50,945  71,711  112,319                9.1X
d.  Deficit                          n.a    11,589                     13,418  10,293   12,954
as % of Peak Load                -        24.7X                               14.4K    11.5K
2.   Energy                          (GWh)    (GWh)       (K)            CGWh)    (GWh)   (GWh)                 (K)
a.  Generating Capability         113,827 245,141      10.1%          271,250 381,856 629,087                 9.9X
b.  Energy Requirement  c/        113,827 249,059      10.3K          269,460 384,764 593,773                 9.1K
c.  Deficit                         n.a.     3,918                          0   2,908         0
as X of Requirement              -         1.6%                      -         0.8K    -
a/ Supply constrained. No estimates are availabLe on extent of suppressed demand.
b/ Growth rates are overstated as FY82 data reflect supply rather than demand.
c/ Total final demand for energy plus transmission and distribution losses.
Sources: Annual Report on the Working of SEBs and EDs, Planmirng Commissfon (September 1990)
Thirteenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, December 1987



-41-                                      Annex 1.1
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AND DEMAND
ALL- INDIA: ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY MAIN CONSUMER CATEGORY
Actual tX)                          Estimated tX)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.................... .  ....... ................... ....
Consumer Category             FY82       FY9G a/            FY91 a/     FY95 b/    FY2000 b/
............................. .. .... . ..........................  .........   ---------..... ......... ..............   .........
1.  Domestic                    11.6        13.8               13.9        19.4        23.6
2.  Industry                    57.7        41.4               41.8        39.1        30.6
3.  AgricuLture                 16.9        24.9               24.4        28.1        32.0
4.  Commercilat                  5.8         4.6                4.7         4.8          4.8
5. Traction                      2.8         1.9                2.0         2.4          2.4
6.  Public Lighting              0.9         0.9                1.1         1.3          1.5
7. Public Water                  2.3         1.8                1.9         2.2          2.4
8.  Others                       2.0        10.7               10.2         2.7          2.7
.........   .........    .    .... .........  ---------. .... ......... ....... ........._
Total                      100.0       100.0              100.0       100.0       100.0
................... .............   .........    . .............   .........   ---------
...........................
a/ Provisional
bl Bank estimates
Source: Annual Report on the Working of SEBs and EDs, Planning Commissfon (September 1990)
Thirteenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, December 1987



INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (OSES) PROJECT
COMPARISON OF AVERAGE TARIFFS
MSEB                                        TEC                                 SSES                       BEST
Demand  Energy                     Demand            Energy                   Purchase Selting           Purchase SelLing
Revision Date     Charge  Charge    FAC               Charge            Charge      FAC            Cost    Rate              Cost    Rate
Rs/kVAJmo P/kWh   P/kWh            Rs/kVA/month        P/kWh      P/kWh          P/kwh   P/kWh              PfkWh   P/kWh
Jasuary 28, 1977       16       11  5.3/5.3
March 16, 1979                                       18.4 - 22.6       10.1 - 11.8     9/9
March 17, 1981                                       21.4 - 26.4       11.7 - 13.7    14/17         33.25   45.54                                           4-
Septeber 16,1961       22       20   10/10             24 - 27        20.0 - 20.8  23.5/23.5        46.46   62.14
Janiary2, 1986         35       84  44/ 2              28 - 34        68   - 83       50/0          73.53    92.27            72.91   104.84
unie 1, 1987           35       88   6/6
December 1,1967                                        28 - 34        68   - 85.5      3/0.5
March 24, 1988                                                                                      85.58  110.00             85.32   121.85
February 1, 1989       40      110
may 1, 1989                                             34              97.5                        97.29  125.00             97.70    1.35
nay 1, 1990            60  125-130
August 1, 1990                                          55            85.5 - 106.5                 110.00  142.00            110.00  149.00
Source: NSEB, TEC, BSES and BEST
I-a
N



-43-
ANNEX 1.3
INDIA
PRIVATE POWFR UTILITIES COSES) PROJECT
Previous Loans ond Credits to Indian Power Sector Cas of April 30, 1*#
........................................................................
(Amount in USS Millon)
Borrower   IBRD Loans                                Number    Date         Date       Amount    Disbursed    status
............................. ........ ............     .............  ............  .........    .............  .........   .............  .........
1  India      First DVC   Bokaro   Konar                  23        4/50         2/56        18.5        16.7   Complete
2  India      Second DVC - Maithon - Panchot               72        1/53        6/58        19.5        10.5   Complete
3  Tata       Trombay Power                               106       11/54        9/66        16.2        13.9   Conpleot
4  India      Second Trombay                              164        5/57        9/66         9.8         9.7   Coaplete
5  India      Third DVC   Durapur                         203        7/58        6/65        25.0        22.0   Colplete
6  India      Koyna Power                                 223        4/59        4/65        25.0        18.7   Complete
7  India      Power Transmission                          416        6/65       12/70        70.0        50.0   conplete
8  Tata       Second Kothagudem Power                     417        6/65       12/70        14.0        13.8   Comptlte
9  India      Third Trombay Thermal Power                1549        4/78       12/84       105.0        105.0   Complete
10  India     Ramagundam Thermal Power CU)                1648        1/79        6/87        50.0        45.6   Completo
11  India      Farakka Thermal Power (*)                  1887       6/80         6/89        25.0         2.5   Complete
12  India      Second Ramagundam Thermal Power C')        2076       12/81        6/90       280.0 /a    270.4
13  India      Third Rural Electrification                2165        6/82        6/88       304.5       295.5    Conplete
14  India     Upper Indiavati Hydro                       2278        5/83        6/94       156.4         0.4
15  India      Central Power Transmission t*)             2283        5/83        3/90       250.7       118.4
16  India      Indira Sarovar                             2416        5/84        6/92        17.4 /b      4.9
17  India      Second Farakka Thermal Power C')           2442       6/84        12/91       300.8       176.5
18  Tata       Fourth Trombay Thermal                     2452        6/84        6/90       135.4       123.8
19  India      Chandrapur Thermal Power                   2544        5/85       12/92       300.0       169.3
20  India      Rihand Power Transmission (M)              2555        5/85       12/89       250.0       183.1
21  India      Kerala State Power                         2582        6/85        9/91       176.0        35.9
22  India      Combined Cycle  2')                        2674        4/86       12/91       485.0       443.9
23  India      Karnataka Power                            2827        6/87       12/95       330.0        36.3
24  India      National Capital Power Suuply C')          2844        6/87        6/95       425.0 /c    185.6
25  India      Talcher Thermal Power C')                  2845        6/87        3/96       375.0        44.2
26  India      Second Karnataka Power                     2938        5/88       12/96       260.0        26.2
27  India      Uttar Pradesh Power                        2957        6/88       12/96       350.0        45.5
28  India      Nathpa Jhakri Power                        3024        3/89       12/97       485.0        36.7
29  India      t4aharahstra Power                         3096        6/89       12/96       400.0        20.7
30  India      Northern Region Transmission               3237        6/90        9/98       485.0        20.0
31  India      Private Power Utilities                    3239        6/90        6/95        98.0         0.0
Total                                                                                   6242.2      2545.7
(Total Loans for NTPC Projects)                                                    C   2501.3 )
...............r
/a Out of originat loan amount of LISS300 mtilon, USS20 million were cancetlled.
/b Out of original loan amount of USS157.4 million, USS140 million were cancelled.
/c Out of original loan amount of USS485 million, USS60 million were cancelled.
IDA Credits
1  India      Fourth DVC - Durapur                         19        2/62       12/69        21.9        19.9   Comeplte
2  India      Second Koyna Power                           24        8/62        9/70        21.1        21.1   Complete
3  India      Kothagudem Power                             37        5/63       12/68        24.1        24.1   Complete
4  India      Beas Equipment                               89        6/66        6/74        26.6        26.3   Complete
S  India      Second Power Transmission                   242        4/71        3/77        75.0        72.9   Conplete
6  India      Third Power Transmission                    377        3/73        9/78        85.0        85.0   Complete
7  India      Rural Electrification                       572        7/75       12/80        57.0        57.0   Complete
8  India      Fourth Power Transmission                   604        1/76        6/83       150.0        149.9   CoaMlete
9  India      Singrauli Thermal Power (')                 685        3/77        6/84       150.0        150.0   Coaplbte
10  India      Korba Thermal Power C')                     793       4/78         3/86       200.0       199.9   Complete
11  India      Ramagundam Thermal Power (M)                874        1/79        6/87       200.0       200.0   Comptote
12  India      Second Rural Electrification               911         5/79        3/84       175.0       171.7   Complete
13  India      Second Singrauli Thermal Power C')         1027        5/80        3/89       300.0       292.8   Complete
14  India      Farakka Thermal Power (M)                  1053        6/80       12/88       225.0       225.0   Cotplote
15  India      Second Korba Thermal Power  ')             1172        7/81       12/89       400.0       370.3   Complete
16  India      Upper Indravati Hydro                      1356        5/83        6/91       170.0       158.5
17  India      Indira Sarovar                            SF020        5/84        6/92        13.0 /d      0.6
18  India      Indira Sarovar                             1613        5/86        6/92        13.2         0.0
Total                                                                                   2306.9      2225.0
(Total CrWits for NTPC Projects)                                                   c    1475.0 )
................
(*) UTPC Projects
/d Out of original credit of USS129.8 equivalent, USS116 equivalent were cancelled.



-44-
Annex 2.1
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
Electricity Sales and Consumption Pattern
Financial    Residential      Commercial        Industrial        Street Lighting     Total
Year        Gwh    Consumer  Gwh    Consumer  Gwh   Consumer  Gwh    Consumer  Gwh    Consumer
..... ....... . ........ ........... ....... .............. .......................................... ....................................................
1980     454       524      147       57      676       17       38     -        1315      598
1981     501       569      165       63      733       19       40    -         1439      651
1982     543      617       181       69      754       20       42    -         1520      706
1983     606      671       200       75      805      21        42    --        1653      767
1984     677       728      222      81      861       21        46    --        1806      830
1985      773      777      257       88      942       23       48    --        2020      888
1986     854       822      292       96     1007       24       49    --        2202      942
1987     897       872      318      103    1014        25       50     -        2279     1000
1988     1041      921      368      111     1016       26       52   --         2477     1058
1989     1111      980      405      120     1096       26       54              2666     1126
1990     1268     1051      456      131     1119       27       56   --         2899     1209
Number of consumer figures in thousands.



goi
11 a 
I~~~~~~I~
-~~i7 -M.



INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILMES (BSES) PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
ICMD    I
OIR tECH DINR (FN
GM (GEC N TANTTS
DIR (TECH)
TECHNIJCAL RtEVIEW
PROJECT PLAN?4NG &                      ITCH&ITE  I
MONITORING CELL                -                     GM
(CORPORWE OFFICE)                         CHIEF ENGNEEP
SENOR MANAGERS
GENERAA                           G.SDtACMM ANAGERL                  S.MA|
TRANSAMSSION~  &                  EERTO
220 KV SUBSTATION                                
D   | | Snr OFFIE |    U;USO CELL
ClBEMEG                   CUSTOhilMORT
SFL                             O.S.D.(CML)~~~~~~~~~~~w   ELECER   N STCRU & F8GE   FTGE  RELATIONSI |OFFICER|
ENVIRONMENTALJST                                I~~~~~~~~~NENTRUMENTAIO  MEHNIA           ATE   L |H|ANU
'Thze po   t11w1 be NWy bwaed at Xm Pml                                 EMMO 
O      m "eInOZ 6yardO  FAdydW 0t
die dw   skpss"hIns kcd     V



-47-                                      Annex 2.4
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
BSES Power Purchase from TEC
.  ........ .............. ......... .................. ...... ........... .... .... ...... ................ ......................
Financial        Power Requirements        Energy Input from         Purchase from TEC
Year                    Gwh                Dahanu to BSES's                 Gwh
Distribution System
GWh
1990             3273                                                3273
1991             3516                                                3516
1992             3761                                                3761
1993             4015                                                4015
1994             4276                                                4276
1995             4543                                                4543
1996             4816                      1953                      2863
1997             5093                      2344                      2749
1998             5373                      27j4                      2639
1999             5655                      2734                      2921
2000             5938                      2734                      3204
2001             6220                      2734                      3486
2002             6506                      2734                      3772
2003             6796                      2734                      4062
2004             7091                      2734                      4357
2005             7393                      2734                      4659
2006             7703                      2734                      4969
2007             8023                      2734                      5289
2008             8352                      2734                      5618
2009             8690                      2734                      5956
2010             9038                      2734                      6304



-48-
Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 12
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
Project Description
A.    Dahanu Ther.wal Power Plant
1.    The proposed Dahanu TPP would be built in the Thane District of State of
Maharashtra, near the town which bears the same name. Dahanu is located about
125 km north of Bombay (about 80 km from BSES's licence area). The site is
accessible from the National Highway No. 8 and the nearest railway station is
at a distance of 5 km. The site is surrounded by the Dahanu Creek and its two
arms, on its south (Dandi creek), and north (Savta creek). The Bombay-Surat
railway forms the site's eastern boundary. The power station would comprise
two coal-fired units of 250 MW each. The salient features of the project are
given in the following paragraphs.
2.    Land:  The land is predominantly flat, marshy, non agricultural waste
land and devoid of any vegetation, because it was recently used as salt pans.
The land is also uninhabitated. As such no felling of tress and displacement
of people is involved. BSES has bought the land from the Government of
Maharashtra. Of a total area of 816 ha., 280 ha. would be used for the
construction of the power plant and the residential colony; 536 ha. would form
the ash dumping area (from Agwan and Asangaon villages).
3.    Railway Siding:  The railway siding of about 5 km between the Dahanu
railway station and the power plant would not pass through any agriculture or
forest land nor involve the displacement of population. RITES have been
appointed as consultants for the design and project management of the railway
siding.
4.    Road Accesss  An access road of about 5 km will be built from the Dahanu
town. The road and railway siding will cross the Savta creek on two separate
bridges. A level crossing on the mainline railway has also been built for the
initial construction period.
5.    Coal Supply:  The proposed 500 MW Dahanu TPP would burn about 2 million
tonnes of run-of-mine coal per year. The Department of Coal of GOI has
sanctioned the coal linkage for the project from the Gopalpur opencast mines
of the South Eastern Coal Fields Limited (SECL) in the lb Valley in Orissa,
about 1,400 km from Dahanu. It is expected that Gopalpur mines will start
production in 1992-93, however the railway siding of about 40 km which would
be required to deliver this coal to the Indian railway network will not be
completed until 1994-95. As the Dahanu power station would require coal
deliveries in middle 1994, this program is suitable for the project. However,
in case the railway siding is delayed, SECL have agreed to meet during the
intervening period, BSES's requirements from Lakhanpur mines in the same
valley. The production at the Ib Valley is projected to be about 18 million
tonnes in FY96, the resulting increase for the Dahanu TPP would be about 112.



-49-
Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 12
Characteristics .-f the coal are given in Table 4.1 of the companion document
titled Environmental Assessment for the Dahanu Thermal Power Station. BSES
had a study on the deshaling and beneficiation of the Ib Valley coal carried
out by consultants (CMPDI). The study did not establish the technical and
economic feasibility of washing this coal and then transporting to Dahanu.
6.    Transportation of Coal:  The run-of-mine coal would be transported to
Dahanu by rail. The movement would be normally via the Nagpur-Jalgaon-Surat-
Tapti valley link. BSES's consultants (RITES) have che'ked that movement of 2
million tonnes/year of coal would be feasible through the existing railway
network. The coal will be transported in wagons of about 58 tonnes capacity.
7.    Coal Handling Facilities:  For unloading of these wagons, two rotary
wagon tipplers, one working and other standby of 800 t/h capacity would be
installed. This would handle the peak receipt of a day in about 12 hours and
MCR requirement of a day in about 10 hours. Coal will be stored in the coal-
yard and sprayed with water and compacted by bulldozers to prevent coal dust
being air borne. Wagon tipplers will be provided with dust
trapping/suppression equipment. Other characteristics would be:
Coal Bunkers:   Type:            Cylindrical - cone type;
Number:            Three sets per boiler;
Net storage capacity:            12 hours full load operation;
Coal Feeders:   Type:            Gravimetric type;
Number:            Six sets per boiler;
Pulverisers:    Type:            Tube mills;
Number:            Three sets per boiler;
Reinforced concrete raft foundations will be provided for the conveyor
supports, crusher house, junction towers, trestles, etc. Conveyor tunnels,
reclaim hoppers, wagon tippler will, however, be founded directly on suitable
strata. The superstructure of the crusher house, junction towers and conveyor
supports will, however, be in structural steel with AC sheet cladding in walls
and roofs. Two wagon tipplers with two streams are envisaged. A
staCker/reclaimer will be provided for stacking and reclaiming the coal.
8.    Fuel Oil Supply:  Low sulphur heavy stock (LSHS) fuel oil would be used
for start-up, warming up and for low load operation. The fuel oil system
would be designed to meet 30? MCR requirement of the two steam generators.
High energy ignitors will be used for ignition of the heavy oils directly.
For the black (cold) start-up of the units, when no external auxiliary steam
is available, each of the steam generator will be provided with light oil
firing system, having a minimum capacity of 7.52 BHCR to be installed on the
lower-most burner elevation. A burner design utilizing same burner tip for
both heavy oil and light oil will be used.
9.    Cooling Water Supply: Sea water would be used in once through condenser
system. The total sea water requirement is estimated to be about 80,000
m /hr. The intake for drawal of water will be in the Dahanu creek, which has



-50-
Annex 3.1
Page 3 of 12
a width of approximately 220 meters and average depth of about 6 m at the
center. Five vertical pumps, four running and one standby, each of about
20,000 m8/hr. capacity will be provided for pumping sea water to the plant.
There will be separate intake pipi..g system for each unit and a common
discharge channel for both the units. A chlorination system is envisaged to
prevent marine growth inside the circuit. Coarse bar screens and travelling
screens are proposed on the suction side to prevent debris from entering the
system. The release of warm water will be made to Dandi creek through a
channel of 3 km long; the water temperature will decrease by about 4 to 5 C
in the channel; the temperature increase of water in the creek will be less
than 3 C. The intake and outfall to the creek will be located in such a way
that there should be no recirculation of hot water from the outfall to the
intake. Tidal flow and all other conditions were studied by consultants (the
Central Water and Power Research Station (CWPRS) at Pune, Maharashtra). The
design of the CW system would ensure that the temperature of water would not
rise more than 3 C at any place in the creek. Actual temperature rise would
be very minimal and as such there would be no effect on the aquatic life and
fishing in the creek would not be affected.
10.   Fresh Make-up Water System:  The total fresh water requirement is
estimated to be about 2 million m3/year. This will be obtained from the Surya
Prakalp Reservoir, which has a storage capacity of 285 million mi. The
allotment for the project is less than 1Z of the storage capacity and will be
reserved out of the 21 m8/year allocated for industries; i.e. the project
would not compete for the water reserved for irrigation (247 million m3/year).
Fresh water from the reservoir would be brought to the plant area bl a
pipeline and stored in a tank having a capacity of about a 16,000 m . Three
pumps, two working and one standby, each with a capacitl of 160 m8/h will pump
fresh water into a clarifier having a capacity of 320 m /h.
11.   Steam Generators:  Two conventional two-pass boilers with a single drum,
radient type membrane walled furnace, superheater, reheater and horizontal
multi loop economizer would be built. The boilers would be equipped to burn
10OZ coal or 100Z natural gas (if and when available). Low sulphur heavy
stock (LSHS) fuel oil would be used in conjunction with pulverised coal firing
during start-up and at low loads for warm up and flame stabilisation. The
circulation would be natural. The boilers would be designed for loading as
fast as practicable subsequent to synchronization after cold or warm or hot
start up. They would also be designed for continuous operation with one
heater or all the HP heaters out of service. Burners would be designed for
low NOX emissions.  Other characteristics would be:
Boilers:
Evaporation at MCR:                   805 t/h;
Steam pressure at MCR S/H outlet:   155 kg/cm2
Steam temp. at MCR S/H outlet:       540 C;
Feed water temp. at MCR:             246 *C;
Air temperature:                      30 C (for performance calculation);
Draft system:                        Balanced draft system;
Fuel:       - Main fuel:             Coal, Natural Gas;
- Start-up fuel:         LSHS;



-51-
Annex 3.1
Page 4 of 12
Steam temp. control range:            60Z boiler MCR to 100t boiler MCR
(for coal firing);
Steam temp. control method:           Burner tilt/spray attemperation, gas
biasing and gas mass flow control
(Gas mass flow control is for
natural gas firing);
Furnace:    - Type:                  Membrane wall furnace;
Steam drum: - Number:                One per one boiler;
- Main steam pressure:  155 kglcm    ;
- Main steam temp.:      540 C;
- Reheat steam temp.:   540 C;
- Flue gas velocity:    9 m/sec;
Temperature at outlet of air heater:   135 C;
Boiler feed pumps:                       Two per unit.
12.   Electrostatic Precipitators (ESPs):  Each boiler would be fitted with
ESP of 99.8Z efficiency and having four streams, with one stream out for
maintenance and under worst coal conditions. The ESPs would be of horizontal
gas flow, outdoor type and installed on the cold end side of regenerative air
preheaters.
13.   Chimney:  The emission of the fly ash would be through a chimney of 275
m high. The stack foundation would be in reinforced concrete resting on piles.
NTPC are designing the chimney and will prepare detail specifications as well
as carry out detail engineering.
14.   Turbine-Generator (TG) Building:  The two TG units, each having a 250 MW
and associated auxiliaries, would be housed in a building 183 m long with a
clear span of 25 m. In line with this building, one maintenance and unloading
and service bay, of 12.0 m length would be provided. The building and the
adjacent workshop would be served by two EOT cranes of 115/25 tonnes capacity
each. Along the length of the building, a bay 12 m wide and of adequate
length would be provided to house the electrical switchgear, control room, the
operators' office and shift charge engineer's office.
15.   Turbine-Generator Units:  The steam TG unit would be suitable for direct
connection to the reheat type steam generator designed to provide steam at 150
kg/cm2 (abs) pressure and 5370 C temperature at the turbine inlet. Auxiliary
steam requirement (approximately 5 t/h under normal operating conditions)
would be tapped off from the HP turbine exhaust (cold reheat line). Each
generator would be connected to its own unit step-up transformer. The
auxiliary power requirement would be drawn from unit auxiliary transformer
tapped off from generator bus duct. The TG units would be designed to operate
satisfactorily under prevailing tropical conditions.
16.   Turbines:  Two turbines of 250 MW each, would have high pressure (HP)
and intermediate pressure (IP) modules. The steam turbine will be of tandem
compound, single reheat, regenerative, condensing, multi-cylinder design, with
separate H.P. and I.P. casings with six uncontrolled steam extractions for
regenerative feed heating and directly coupled to a generator suitable for



-52-
Annex 3.1
Page 5 of 12
indoor installation. The unit will be provided with HP-LP (low pressure) By
Pass System having a capacity of 420 t/h. for cold starts, house load
operation, quick hot restart and suddedload throw-off. In the LP cylinder,
the profiles of the last stage blades would be of the type normally fitted on
a 500 MW turbine, so as to permit the unit to produce 250 MW. Other
characteristics would be:
a. Output under Economic Maximum
Continuous Rating (EMCR) at
Generator terminals:                     250,000 KW
b. Turbine throttle steam pressure:         150 kg/cm2 (abs)
c. Turbine throttle steam temperature:    537 C
d. Turbine reheat stream temperature:       537 *C
e. Condenser cooling water temperature:   33 C
f. Turbine speed:                           3000 RPM
g. Frequency variation:                     47.5 Hz to 51.5 Hz
h. Quantity of D.M. water make-up to
thermal cycle:                         3Z of throttle steamflow
The unit will be guaranteed to generate 250,000 KW continuously with max. CW
temperature 35 deg. C with 3Z make-up to the cycle. The turbine will be
capable of operating continuously with valve wide open to swallow 105Z of EMCR
steam flow to the turbine. It shall also be capable of operating continuously
under HP heaters out of service and generating maximum output (not less than
250,000 KW). In case continuous over pressure operation of the turbine, it
will be capable of accepting variation in steam pressure and temperature as
per IEC-45 from the over pressure condition.
Turbine throttle pressure:             150 kg/cm2
Turbine throttle steam temperature:  537 C
Turbine reheat steam temperature:    537 C
Condenser cooling water
temperature at inlets               33 C
17.   Generators:  Two generators of 250 MW (294 MVA) each would be installed.
The stators and rotors would be directly cooled by hydrogen. The excitation
system would be brushless. Other characteristics would be:
Power factor       s  0.85
Terminal voltage  s   16.5 kV
Frequency          :   50 Hz
Speed              s   3000 RPM
S.C. ratio         s  Not less than 0.5
18.   Control and Instrumentation (C & I):  The C & I system would be
Distributed Digital Control System (DDCS), which is the latest proven state of
the art in the field. The system will be designed to operate satisfactorily
under the environmental conditions experienced in coal-fired generating units
and will be tropicalized for high ambient temperature and high humidity.
Overall unit control will be from the BTG board through a network of
coordinated control systems. The BTG board will be of the functional type



-53-
Annex 3.1
Page 6 of 12
with selection and grouping of instruments designed for convenient and safe
unit operation. The design will be such that manual remote operation of the
plant will be possible if automatic controls fail or are temporarily taken out
of service.
19.   Transportation of Plant and Machinery:  Indigenous plant and machinery
will be transported to site by rail over the railway siding. Imported plant
and machinery will be unloaded at Bombay harbor and will be transported to
site by railway. Some minor equipment will be transported by road; this is
not expected to cause significant traffic problems.
20.   Storage of Equipment:  A covered warehouse and open storage yard to
store the spares, consumables and equipment will be built and provided for the
operation and maintenance of the plant. The location of these facilities will
take into account proximity to the railway track area, the access road and the
main plant. Sufficient open space is available for unloading of materials
during construction and storage in open yards and covered sheds.
21.   Service Building:  The administration building, the canteen, the service
premises and the workshop will be provided adjacent to the TG building.
22.   Green Belt:  BSES will create a green belt around the power station, ash
dump and coal storage areas which will act as a screen and will prevent dust
migration from the power station.
23.   Solid Waste Disposal:  Ash, to the extent of 2,400 t/day from the power
plant would be dumped in the bunded area to ensure that ash slurry does not
flow into the creek. BSES has acquired 400 ha. of land for this purpose; this
land would be adequate to store ash over a period extending beyond 25 years
with ash deposition upto 4 meters height. For locating ash pipeline across
Dandi creek, a suitable trestle bridge on piles will be provided.
24.   Noise Control:  All equipment will be designed and operated to have the
total noise level not exceeding 90 dbs. Additionally, since most of the noise
generating equipment will be in enclosed structures, the noise outside will be
still lower. The plant is not expected to add to the present ambient noise
levels.
25.   General Buildings:  Building for pump houses, DM plant, switchgear
rooms, bulldozer workshop and loco sheds will be in reinforced concrete frame
with brick walls and RCC roof slabs with water-proofing. Building for
warehouse will have similar construction except roofing which will be of AC
sheets over steel trusses.
26.   220 kV Switchyard:  Switchyard structures will be in galvanised
structural steel supported on reinforced concrete raft foundations. The cable
trenches will be of reinforced concrete construction. The switchyard will
have roads as required.
27.   Plot/Yard Drainage:  Storm water drains will be provided to take care of
the plot drainage. The drains will discharge by gravity, into specially



-54-
Annex 3.1
Page 7 of 12
created holding ponds inside the plot. Drainage within the plant area will be
through drain trenches/underground pipes. Drains outside the plant area will
be trapezoidal open lined drains. Drains will not be covered except within
the main turbogenerator building and boiler area. In this case, the drains
will be covered 25 MM thick cast iron grills. The drains will be sized on the
basis of permissible velocity a::d maximum intensity of precipitation.
28.   Demineralized Water (DM) System:  It is proposed to use DM water
(condensate quality) in a closed cycle for cooling of the hydrogen coolers of
the TG. The coolers will be designed for the shut off head of auxiliary
cooling DM water pumps. The DM water will be cooled by sea water.
29.   Steam Condensing Plant:  Exhaust steam from the steam turbine, HP-LP
bypass system, heater drains, vents boiler drain flash tank drains and other
miscellaneous drains will be condensed in the condenser.  Sponge rubber ball
type on-load tube cleaning system will be provided with each half of the
condenser to keep the condenser tubes clean during operation. 2xlOOZ vacuum
pumps will be provided for air evacuation duty. Provision will be made for
standby pump to cut in automatically in case the running pump fails and when
condensate pressure falls back to present level.
30.   Regenerative Cycle:  The regenerative cycle will consist of two high
pressure feed water heaters, a constant pressure deaerating heater, three low
pressure feed water heaters, one gland steam cooler, one drain cooler, two
condensate pumps, two boiler feed pumps, and two booster pumps. The turbine
cycle will have a gross heat rate of not more than 2000 Kcal/Kwhr.
31.   Fire Fighting System:  The storage and design of the fire fighting
system will be as per Fire Protection Insurance Rules. The source of water
for fire fighting will be clearwell which stores the clarified water. The
system will have both AC motor driven and diesel engine driven horizontal
pumps. The system will be kept pressurised by jockey pumps. This system will
be common for both units.
32.   Potable Water System:  The potable water requirements will be met by the
clarified water from clearwell after filtration. This will be stored in a
storage tank located in power station area and chlorinated. The system will
be common for both units.
33.   Ash Handling System:  (i) The proposed ash handling system will be
primarily designed for three shift operation with a capacity to handle 2000
tonnes of ash/day/unit. There will be two parallel streams for bottom as well
as fly ash. The bottom ash and the fly ash will be sluiced in wet form to the
ash disposal area. (ii) The bottom ash from the unit will be collected in a
water impounded bottom ash hopper which will have a capacity to store eight
hours of bottom ash. Once a shift the bottom ash will be crushed by the
clinker grinders and sluiced by hydro ejector to the sumps of the ash disposal
pump house. The time for removal of bottom ash in each shift will not exceed
one hour. (iii) Fly ash hoppers will be divided into two groups. Fly ash
from the hoppers will be conveyed by an air stream which will be created by
the vacuum produced by the hydro ejectors, and the ash will be mixed with the



-55-
Annex 3.1
Page 8 of 12
water and will be pumped to the sumps of ash disposal pump house. (iv) The
bottom and fly ash slurry collected in sumps will be pumped out to the ash
disposal area by one or more slurry pumps working in series.
34.   Fuel Oil Storage and Handling System:  Fuel oil will be brought to the
power station siding by rail tank wagons, each having a capacity of about 20
tonnes. The tank wagons will be equipped with steam coil heaters to
facilitate unloading of high viscosity fuel oil. The proposed fuel oil
unloading, pumping and storir.g system will be designed for 30Z fuel oil firing
and will consist of: rotary, positive displacement type fuel oil transfer
pumps and capable of pumping the fuel oil from the tank wagons to the storage
tanks. One pump will normally be working and the other will be standby. The
fuel oil storage tanks, each having adequate storage capacity are proposed.
The tanks will be provided with floor coil heaters and suction heaters.
Complete piping with steam tracing and insulation, valves and flexible hoses
will be provided. Fuel oil from the storage tanks will be pumped to the
boiler by a set of pumping and heating units.
35.   Light diesel oil required for ignition will be received in rail tank
wagons. The proposed light oil unloading, pumping and storing system will
consist of the following equipment:
i)    Two 100Z capacity, rotary, positive displacement type transfer
pumps, each having a capacity of 50 tonnes/hr.
ii)   Two storage tanks having a capacity of 250 m3 each.
iii) Two 100Z capacity pumps to pump oil from the storage tank to the
boiler, with necessary valves.
36.   Electrical Systems:  (i) Generator transformers:  The generators will be
connected to the 220 kV switchyard through the generator transformers which
will step up the generator voltage to 236 kV. The connections between the
generator transformers high voltage terminals and the associated switching bay
in the 220 kV switchyard will be by overhead lines anchored at the staion and
to the station building wall. The generator transformers will be rated at 300
MVA ON/OB/OFB cooled, 900 kV BIL. The high voltage windings will have graded
insulation and the neutral will be solidly earthed. Lightning arrestors will
be provided near the generator transformers, connected to the high voltage
terminals. (ii) 220 kV Switchyard: A 220 kV switchyard with two main and one
auxiliary bus will be provided. A total of ten 220 kV bays will be provided
in the 220 kV switchyard. These will provide for two generator transformer
circuits, 4-220 kV lines, 2-start up transformer bays and transfer-bus coupler
bays. Adequate protection gear, monitoring and metering system shall be
provided.



-56-
Annex 3.1
Page 9 of 12
B.    Dahanu - Licence Area Transmission Lines and Substations
37.   To evacuate power generated at the TPS, two double circuit 220 kV
transmission lines are planned. The length of each line from Dahanu TPS to
the receiving stations in area of supply would be about 105 km. Three
receiving stations 220 kV/33 kV are proposed at Ghodbunder, Malawani and
Versova in area of supply. For start up supply from MSEB, one of the four
circuits will be looped in and out at 220 kV substation of MSEB at Boisar
(near Tarapur). Salient features are given below:
i)    The design permits outage of one circuit for maintenance without
loss of transmission capacity.
ii)   The lines will be constructed with galvanised lattice structures
and All Aluminium Alloy Conductors (AAAC) to avoid corrosion due
to saline coastal atmosphere. The size of conductor will be
equivalent to ACSR "Zebra".
iii)  The Transmission Line Towers will be as per IS-802 and will take
into account Security Class, Gust Response Factors, Terrain
Category, etc.
iv)   One line before reaching Ghodbunder will be looped in and out at
the Boisar 220 kV substation owned by the Haharashtra State
Electricity Board. Boisar substation is at a distance of 20 kms
from Dahanu thermal power station and is also inter-connected witl
Tarapur power station and rest of the MSEB network. The inter-
connection from Boisar will be utilized for start-up power for
Dahanu thermal power station.
v)    The lines will enter into ISES's licence area of supply at the
northern tip, i.e. at Ghodbunder and terminate at central point
Versova.
vi)   The terrain of the line route is plain.  Lines will cross rivers
at four locations and creeks at three locations.
vii)  The lines pass through notified forest area over a distance of 2.8
kms. A corridor of 35 meters has to be provided for each line.
The area involved in reserved forest for right of way is 20
hectares. However, this portion does not involve any tree
cutting. BSES has already applied to the forest authorities for
permission to construct the lines through the forest area; the
forest authorities require equivalent non-forest land to be handed
over to them for the purpose of afforestation in lieu of forest
land affected by the lines. Such non-forest land has been
identified and land is being procured.



-57-
Annex 3.1
Page 10 of 12
viii) There will be three 220 kV/33 kV Receiving Stations with
transformer capacities as given belows
Ghodbunder        2 x 100 MVA  -  200 HVA   (220/33 kV)
Malawani          2 x 100 MVA  *  200 MVA   (220/33 kV)
Versova           3 x 100 MVA  -  300 HVA   (220/33 kV)
2 x 200 MVA  -  400 HVA   (220/110 kV)
ix)   Ghodbunder and Malawani each will have 8 Nos. of 220 kV bays, viz.
Incoming                 2 Nos.
Outgoing                 2 Nos.
Transformer              2 Nos.
Bus Coupler              1 No.
Transfer Buis Coupler    1 No.
x)    Versova will have 11 Nos. of 220 kV and 7 Nos. of 110 kV bays as
under:
220 kV      110 kV
Incoming                 4 Nos.      2 Nos.
Outgoing                  --          4 Nos.
Transformer              5 Nos.        --
Bus Coupler              1 No.        1 No.
Transfer Bus Coupler    1 No.          --
Space will be kept for spare bays for future expansion.
xi)   The Receiving Stations would have outdoor equipment for 220 kV and
110 kV but 33 kV controlling breakers would be indoors. The SF6
switchgear of 40 kA short circuit capacity with the rated
continuous current of 2500 Amps. and 1250 Amps. would be used for
220 kV and 110 kV, respectively.
xii)  The 220 kV busbars would be sectionalized main and transfer bus.
The 110 kV busbars would be only sectionalized bus, while the 33
kV busbars would be indoor single sectionalized.
xiii) 33 kV outlets would be through underground cables.
C.    Strengthening and Development of BSES Subtransmission and Distribution
Systems
38.   Distribution transformer capacity will be augmented by 346 MVA to 1,025
MVA by PY96. BSES's 33 kV subtransmission lines and 11 kV and 0.4 kV
distribution networks will also be strengthened and developed accordingly.
The delivery of the distribution equipment being of the order of six months,
distribution development will be defined on annual basis.



-58-
Annex 3.1
Page 11 of 12
D.    Flue Gas "osulphurization Unit at Dahanu Power Plant
39.   GOI, GOM and MPCB stipulated that an FGD plant with 90? efficiency
should be built in accordance with timetable to be in operation when the power
plant units are commissioned. Due to the low sulphur content of the Indian
coal and 275 meter high stack being built, the project would comply with GOI,
GOM and World Bank Group standards and guidelines, without an FGD plant. In
view of available data, GOM agreed to amend its clearance. GOI is still
reviewing the issue. If GOI also amends its clearance, IBRD and IFC would not
have any objection. If GOI does not amend its environmental clearance, BSES
might build an FGD unit which uses the Seawater Process developed by Flakt
(Norway). A smaller unit was built in 1988 by TEC based on the know-how
obtained from Flakt at their Trombay power plant. This plant has been
operating successfully since its commissioning in March 1988.1
40.   Flue gases from the existing discharge fan are conveyed to a concrete
scrubber using a booster fan. Inside the scrubber, the gases flow counter
current to seawater. Sulphur dioxide is absorbed due to the natural
alkanility of the seawater and clean flue gases leave the top of the scrubber
at approximately 4 0C. They are then mixed with part of the raw gases in a
reheat mixer. The reheated gases at 57 'C exit through the existing 275 m
tall stack. Seawater required for absorption is provided from the condenser
cooling water system seal well, by a siphon system to a distribution chamber.
It is them pumped to the top of the scrubber. Acidic liquor from the scrubber
flows by gravity into a mixing chamber located near the seal well, where it
mixes with excess seawater again drawn from the seal well and then overflows
into the aeration basin. In order to bring the quality of this effluent
within the permissible limits, the effluent is aerated by supplying air with
the help of aeration fans and aeration grid. The treated effluent is then
discharged to the Dahanu creek. In order to have gases leaving the stack at
higher temperatures, resulting in higher plume rise and less condensation of
acidic water in ducts and stack, the clean gases exiting the scrubber would be
heated to 45 C by using the heat content of the raw flue gas to reheat the
clean gases from the scrubber by installing a regenerative heat exchanger.
In May 1988, prior to obtaining satisfactory operational results
of the Flakt Seawater FGD technology, TEC had Tata Consulting
Engineers (TCE) carry an economic comparison between Flakt
Seawater System and the ammonia process (the latter process uses
ammonia liquor for scrubbing of flue gas and the know-how is
provided by Krupp-Koppers (Germany); ammonia sulphate is a
byproduct produced as a saleable fertilizer). TCE's conclusion
was that the seawater and ammonia systems would be comparable in
net annual operating costs, if ammonia was made available to TEC
with a subsidized price as applicable to fertilizer units.
Following the satisfactory operating performance of the initial
seawater based stream, TEC opted for its expansion. The Bank
Group agreed with this decision and included the expansion of the
FGD unit at Trombay in the joint IBRD/IFC Private Power Utilities
(TEC) Project.



-59-
Annex 3.1
Page 12 of 12
The raw gas, after being cooled in the regenerative heat exchanger, would be
conveyed to the scrubber by using a booster fan. The existing pipeline to
transfer scrubber liquor from the scrubber to the mixing chamber of the
aeration basin would be adequate for the increased flow rate.
41.   The design basis for the installation of the proposed FGD stream will be
determined by BSES's consultants. BSES will reconfirm that the salinity of
the water is adequate for the application of the Flakt Sea Water Technology.



-60-
Annex 3.2
INDIA                                 ..
Page 1 of 5
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES CBSES) PROJECT
Project Cost Summ4ry
Project Components                        Local   Foreign  Total              Local   Foreign  Total
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... ...........  .......    .......... .......  .........._ .......    ..............
--   -Re. million    ---            ----- USS miltion-......
2x250 MW Dahanu Thermal Power Station
............ .........................
A. Main Package
1. Boiler Equipment                   926.2    778.1   1704.3              48.7    41.0    89.7
2. Control and Instrumentation        111.4    96.4   207.8                 5.9      5.1     10.9
3. Turbo-Generator Equipment          705.7   670.1   1375.8               37.1     35.3     72.4
4. Supervisory Services                46.3      0.0    46.3                2.4      0.0      2.4
S. Civil Design and Services           25.7      0.0     25.7               1.4      0.0      1.4
6. Spares                             245.6      0.0   245.6               12.9      0.0     12.9
......   ...... .. ......           ...... .. ......  ................... ......... ...
Sub-Total                             2060.9  1544.6  3605.5               108.5    81.3   189.8
S. MechanicaL Equipment
1. Ash Handling Plant                  27.9     83.2   111.1                1.5      4.4     5.8
2. Coal Handling Plant                 93.0   277.4   370.4                 4.9    14.6    19.5
3. Cooling Water System                21.7    64.7    86.4                 1.1      3.4      4.5
4. Chimney Stack Liner                  2.5      7.6    10.1                0.1      0.4      0.5
5. Environmental Monitoring             5.9     17.6    23.5                0.3      0.9      1.2
6. Misc. Mechanical Equipment          29.8     99.2    129.0               1.6      5.2      6.8
7. Fuel Oil Handling Plant             43.2      0.0    43.2                2.3      0.0      2.3
8. Water Treatment Plant              131.2      0.0    131.2               6.9      0.0      6.9
......   ...... .    ... ......     ......   ------   ................. ...
Sub-Total                              355.2    549.7   904.9               18.7    28.9    47.6
C. Electrical Equipment
1. Bus Duct                            30.9      0.0    30.9                1.6      0.0      1.6
2. Transformers                        46.5    138.7   185.2                2.4      7.3      9.7
3. Switch Yard (Oahanu)                10.8    32.3    43.1                 0.6      1.7      2.3
Sub-Total                               88.2    171.0   259.2                4.6      9.0     13.6
D. Erection
1. Ash Handling Plant - Erec.          4.6      0.0      4.6               0.2       0.0      0.2
2. Coal Handling Plant- Erec.          11.4      0.0     11.4               0.6      0.0      0.6
3. Ccoling Water System-Erec.          14.9      0.0     14.9               0.8      0.0      0.8
4. Water Treatment Plant-Erec.          3.5      0.0      3.5               0.2      0.0      0.2
5. Bus Duct Erection                    2.3      0.0      2.3               0.1      0.0      0.1
6. C & I Erection                       9.2      0.0      9.2               0.5      0.0      0.5
7. TG Erection                         23.1      0.0    23.1                1.2      0.0      1.2
8. Boiler Erection                     98.2      0.0    98.2                5.2      0.0      5.2
9. Fuel Oil Hand. Pl. Erection          3.5      0.0      3.5               0.2      0.0      0.2
10. Cable Laying                        9.2       0.0     9.2                0.5     0.0      0.5
11. Switchgear Erection                 9.2       0.0      9.2               0.5      0.0      0.5
12. Switch Yard Erection                11.5      0.0     11.5               0.6      0.0      0.6
13. Transformer (P/S) Erection          4.6       0.0      4.6               0.2      0.0      0.2
......   ...... .. ......           ...... ... ......  ................. ........ ...
Sub-Total                              205.2      0.0   205.2               10.8      0.0     10.8
E. Civil Works
1. Ash Handling Plant - C.U.           16.1      0.0    16.1                0.8      0.0      0.8
2. Coal Handling Plant- C.W.           55.1      0.0    55.1                2.9      0.0      2.9
3. Cooling Water System-C.W.           50.5      0.0    50.5                2.7      0.0      2.7
4. Water Treatment Plant-C.W.          14.9      0.0     14.9               0.8      0.0      0.8
S. Chimney                             63.5      0.0    63.5                3.3      0.0      3.3
6. Piling                              53.2      0.0    53.2                2.8      0.0      2.8
7. Railway Siding                     167.0      0.0    167.0               8.8      0.0      8.8
8. Colony                              57.8      0.0    57.8                3.0      0.0      3.0
9. Land Develop-                       77.9      0.0    77.9                4.1      0.0      4.1
10. Misc. Buildinc.                    150.1      0.0   150.1                7.9      0.0      T.9
11. Foundations                         75.1      0.0    75.1                4.0      0.0      4.0
...... ...... ......                ...... ...... ......
Sub-Total                              781.2      0.0   781.2               41.1      0.0    41.1



-61-
Anex 3.2
Page 2 of 5
Project Components                        Local   Foreign  Total              Local   Foreign  Total
........................                 -------    ........... ....... .   ...  ............ .......  .............. .....................
--   -Rs. million -----                 ---USS million-------
F. Other Equipment
1. 6.6 kV Swltchgear                  42.3      0.0    42.3                 2.2     0.0      2.2
2. LT Switchgear                       35.4      0.0    35.4                1.9      0.0      1.9
3. LT & NT Cables                     117.9      0.0    117.9               6.2      0.0      6.2
4. Switch Yard CDahanu)                11.8      0.0     11.8               0.6      0.0      0.6
5. Illumination (S & E)                49.5      0.0    49.5                2.6      0.0      2.6
6. LP Piping                           53.3      0.0    53.3                2.8      0.0      2.8
7. Misc. Mechanical Systems            53.5      0.0    53.5                2.8      0.0      2.8
8. Misc. Tool & Plant                  94.3      0.0    94.3                5.0      0.0      5.0
... .. .  ......  ......            -----_   ...... ... .... ....... .... ...
Sub-Total                             458.0       0.0   458.0               24.1      0.0    24.1
G. Lard, Training, Etc.
1. Fresh Water                         73.6      0.0    73.6               3.9       0.0      3.9
2. Training                            11.5      0.0     11.5               0.6      0.0      0.6
3. Establishment                      178.0      0.0   178.0                9.4      0.0      9.4
4. Land Cost                           29.2      0.0    29.2                1.5      0.0      1.5
S. Consultancy                         29.5      0.0    29.5                1.6      0.0      1.6
. ......  ........... ......        ......   ........  ......
Sub-Total                             321.8       0.0   321.8               16.9     0.0    16.9
total Base Costs (1)                     4270.5  2265.3  6535.8               224.8   119.2   344.0
VZOAZZ  MMUZ3   3anana              ===3n=  =c3ca3  3=3=33
- Physical Contingencles                  314.0    113.2   427.2               16.5      6.0     22.5
- Price Contingencies                     800.9   546.9  1347.8                  9.4    10.9    20.3
......   ...... .. ......           ...... ... ......  ...... ........ .............
Total Contingencies                       1114.9   660.1  1775.0                25.9    16.9    42.8
Total Project Cost (1)                    5385.4  2925.4  8310.8               250.7   136.1   386.8
533333   33a533   =33=33           =D==3   at====   3====5
- Taxes and Duties (2)                    542.5      0.0   542.5               25.3       0.0    25.3
- Transport and Erection (2)              415.0       0.0   415.0              19.3       0.0    19.3
=3==35=33333                              3333333333333333333331-33533-33533533833
Flue Gas Desulphurization Unit
.... ........... .....................
Base Costs t1)                             270.8    283.0   553.8               14.0     14.9    28.9
- Physical Contingencies                    16.0     17.0    33.0               0.8      0.9       1.7
- Price Contingencies                      72.0    76.0   148.0                  1.2      1.2      2.4
......   ...... .. ......           ...... ... ......  ........ .................. ...
Total Contingencies                        88.0    93.0   181.0                  2.0      2.1      4.1
Total Project Cost (1)                    358.8   376.0   734.8                 16.0    17.0    33.0
=3353   3a333=   333383            ca3ncan  3a33a3   53335
- Taxes and Duties (2)                     116.3      0.0   116.3               5.4      0.0       5.4
- Transport and Erection C2)               36.7       0.0    36.7               1.7       0.0     1.7
33533   3333353333333333Z533333383333333335sst33:3333            as5a3,333353333a-353al-a- -3-235
2x250 Mu Oahanu Thermal Power Station
([net. Flue Gas Desulphurizatfon Unft)
Total Base Costs t1)                     4541.3  2548.3  7089.6                238.R   134.1   372.9
- Physical Contfngenfets                  330.0    130.2   460.2                17.3      6.9    24.2
- Price Contingencies                     872.9   622.9   1495.8                10.6     12.1     22.7
~~~~~~......   ........ ......  ........ ......  ......
Total ContIngencies                       1202.9   753.1   1956.0               27.9     19.0    46.9
Total Project Cost (1)                    5744.2   3301.4   9045.6             266.7    153.1    419.8
M33333    33s333   3B3335           333353   333333   3a5333
- Taxes and Duties (2)                    658.8      0.0   658.8               30.7      0.0    30.7
- Transport and Erection (2)              451.7      0.0   451.7               21.0      0.0    21.0



-62-
Armex 3.2
Page 3 of 5
Project Components                        Local   Foreign   Total              Local   Foreign   Total
.......... ........                      .......  .... .... ...... .          . .... ...  .... ....  .. ..... .
-------Re. million ......           -------lUS mitton.-------
Transmission Lines and Receiving Stations
A. Equipment
1. Transmission Line Towers            41.4    129.4   170.8                 2.2      6.8      9.0
2. Hardwares and Conductors            38.5    120.2    158.7                2.0      6.3      8.4
3. Rec. Stations Switchyards           31.1     97.0    128.1                1.6      5.1      6.7
4. Rec. Stations Transformers          29.6     92.4    122.0                1.6      4.9      6.4
5. Rec.Statfons Switchyard             41.6      0.0     41.6                2.2      0.0      2.2
6. Rec.Stations Nisc. Equipment         7.0      0.0       7.0               0.4      0.0      0.4
... .  ... .  .. ..            .   . .   . ...    ... .
Sub-Total                              189.2   439.0   628.2                 10.0    23.1      33.1
B. Rec. Station Land Cost                115.5      0.0    115.5                6.1      0.0      6.1
C. Civil Works
1. Rec.Stations Build. & Colony        17.3      C.0     17.3                0.9      0.0      0.9
2. Rec.Stations Foundations            23.1      0.0    23.1                 1.2      0.0      1.2
.. ..   . . .    . . ..             ... .    . . .    - - -
Sub-Total                               40.4      0.0     40.4                2.1      0.0      2.1
D. Erection
1. Rec.Sta. Transformers-Erect.         7.0      0.0      7.0                0.4      0.0      0.4
2. Rec.Sta. S/yard-Erection            34.7      0.0     34.7                1.8      0.0      1.8
3. Transmissfon Line Erection          49.7      0.0    49.7                 2.6      0.0      2.6
Sub-Total                               91.4      0.0     91.4                4.8      0.0      4.8
Total Base Costs tl)                       436.5   439.0   875.5                 23.0    23.1      46.1
3=333    Mc3an3   =3333 =3333    3_nc==3             3a==3=
- Physical Contingencies                    33.0     22.0     55.0                1.7      1.2      2.9
- Price ContingencIes                       81.9    106.0   187.9                 0.9      2.2      3.1
Total ContingencIes                        114.9   128.0   242.9                  2.6      3.4      6.0
Total Project Cost t1)                     551.4    567.0   1118.4               25.6     26.5     52.1
333w   333333   3333s               3=3333    3333   C33===
- Taxes and Duties (2)                     178.2      0.0    178.2                8.3      0.0      8.3
- Transport and Erection (2)                56.0      0.0     56.0                2.6      0.0      2.6
Distribution
1. Bulk Trans. & Switchgears          127.6      0.0    127.6                6.7      0.0      6.7
2. Subtransmissfon                    221.2      0.0    221.2               11.6      0.0     11.6
3. 11 kV DistributiOn                 153.9      0.0    153.9                8.1      0.0      8.1
4. Dlstr. Substation Equipment        102.0      0.0    102.0                5.4      0.0      5.4
5. Low Tension DistributiOn           247.4      0.0   247.4                13.0      0.0     13.0
6. St.Lightirn  & MIsc.Works          247.4      0.0    247.4               13.0      0.0     13.0
Total Base Costs (1)                      1099.6      0.0   1099.6               57.9      0.0     57.9
- Physical Contingencies                    63.7      0.0     63.7                3.4      0.0      3.4
- Price Contingencies                      112.7      0.0    112.7                1.0      0.0      1.0
Total ContIngencies                        176.4      0.0    176.4                4.4      0.0      4.4
Total Project Cost (1)                    1276.0      0.0   1276.0               62.2      0.0     62.2
3333-3 .--333   333333         *     33-m3   333333   3s3333
- Taxes and Duties (2)                      69.7      0.0     69.7                3.4      0.0      3.4
- Transport and Erection (2)                64.0      0.0     64.0                3.1      0.0      3.1



-63-
Annex 3.2
Page 4 of S
Project Corponents,                       Local   Foreign   Total              Local   Foreign   Total
----------                               ----   ------- .......        .     .... ....... ...........  .......
-------Rs. million -------          -------USS million-------
TOTAL PROJECT COST
Base Costs
2x250 Mu Dahanu Thermal Power Station     4270.5   2265.3   6535.8              224.8    119.2    344.0
Flue Gas Desulphurization Unit             270.8    283.0    553.8               14.0     14.9     28.9
Transmission Lines and Receiving Station  436.5    439.0   875.5                 23.0     23.1     46.1
Distribution                              1099.6      0.0   1099.6               57.9      0.0     57.9
Total Base Costs (1)                      6077.4  2987.3  9064.7                319.6    157.2   476.8
_=====   ===    ===                 333===  ======   ====== =C
- Physical Contingencies                   426.7    152.2   578.9                22.4      8.0     30.4
- Price Contfngencies                     1067.5   728.9   1796.4                12.5     14.3     26.8
Total Contingencies                       1494.2    8P1.1   2375.3               34.9     22.3     57.2
Total Project Cost (1)                    7571.6  3868.4  11440.0               354.5    179.5    534.1
Working Capital Margin and
Debenture Issue Expenditures            270.0      0.0    270.0               12.6      0.0     12.6
Interest During Construction               932.0   1358.0  2290.0                43.4     63.2    106.6
Total Financing Requirements              8773.6  5226.4  14000.0               410.5    242.7    653.3
- Taxes and Duties (2)                     906.7      0.0    906.7               42.3      0.0     42.3
- Transport and Erection (2)               571.7      0.0    571.7               26.7      0.0     26.7
Total Base Costs excl. Taxes & Duties     5170.7   2987.3   8158.0              277.3    157.2    434.5
33333=   333333   =3=33s            Bs33=== S =3=3   3=;=3=
Total ;.,ntingenefes                      1494.2        881.1   2375.3           34.9     22.3     57.2
Working Capital Margin and
Debenture Issue Expenditures            270.0      0.0    270.0               12.6      0.0     12.6
Interest During Construction               932.0   1358.0   2290.0               43.4     63.2    106.6
~~~~~~~~~ .......   ... ...   ......  ..... .   ......   ......
Total Project Costs excl. Tax. & Dut.,
but including Interest During Const.   7866.9   5226.4  13093.3              368.2    242.7    610.9
(1) Including Taxes and Duties and Transport and Erection expenses as given below.
(2) Included in Base Costs.



-64-
Arnex 3.2
Annual Investments                                                                               ------------
------------------                                                                               Page 5 of 5
Project Components                              FY91      FY92      FY93       FY94      FY95      FY96       Total
----------                                     . ......................  -----   .. .... .  -----   -------.... ----    ---
-------------------------Rs. million-------------------------
2x250 KW Dahanu Thermal Power Station
and Trans. Lines and Receiving Stations   680.0    970.0   2250.0   3050.0   1540.0    939.2   9429.2
Flue Gas Desulphurization Unit                     0.0       0.0    100.0    319.8    255.0          60.0    734.8
Distribution                                     226.0    240.0    250.0    260.0    300.0             0.0   1276.0
..........  .......  ........... .......  ........... -------  ....... .................
Total Costs, inct. Contingencies (1)             906.0   1210.0   2600.0   3629.8   2095.0    999.2  11440.0
&==&=c =   ====       = ====== = =  Z=   ======
Working Capital Margin and
Debenture Issue Expenditures                    0.0      70.0       0.0        0.0    200.0        0.0    270.0
Interest During Construction                       0.0    410.0    520.0    645.0    715.0            0.0   2290.0
........  ......   ------... .. .. ..             -- --      ------ .......... 
Total Financing Requirements                     906.0   1690.0   3120.0   4274.8   3010.0    999.2  14000.0
cm=o==   c1=s=   *U=====   == ==&   Common    ==-a   ===a==
Project Coqmonents                              FY91      FY92      FY93       FY94      FY95      FY96       Total
----------                       .              ... ..... .. ...... .  ------- ..........  ....... ...........  -------  .......... .. .
---------------------------USS million-------------------------
2x250 MW Dahanu Thermal Power Station
and Trans. Lines and Receiving Stations    34.3            47.4    107.2    140.7         68.8      40.5    438.9
Flue Gas Desulphurization Unit                     0.0       0.0       4.8       14.3      11.3        2.6      33.0
Distribution                                      11.9       12.2      12.3      12.3      13.6        0.0      62.2
....... -------... .......    ........... .......  ........... ....... ...... ...................
Total Costs, inct. Contingencies (1)              46.2      59.6    124.3    167.3         93.7      43.1    534.1
Working Capital Margin and
Debenture Issue Expenditures                    0.0       3.3       0.0        0.0       9.3       0.0       12.6
Interest During Construction                       0.0      19.1      24.2       30.0      33.3       0.0    106.6
Totl F g Rs.......  ....... 8 . ......  ....... 1 . . .....  .......  .......
Total Ffnancing Requirements                      46.2      82.0    148.5    197.3    136.3          43.1    653.3
*SffzcD  C-lm common   commont common   =aC==   commn   cmmo



INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES            (BSES) PROJECT
... ........ ..................................
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
...  .... ... .... .... ... ...  .. . . . . . . . . . .
:       1,990       :        1991        :        1992        :        1993                1994        :        1995
................... ......................................... ........ ................ ..................................... ..
Project Cooponent and Activity                         :     1    2 1 3 1 4 :     1     2 1 3 1 4 :    1     2 1  3 1  4 :1 1 2 1 3 1 4 :        1    2 1 3 1 4 :   1     2 1 3 1 4:
*------------------------   *---------  -- - I---I- I---  *.I---I---;.. .                      I---I....--I.. --- I.. ---I---.          I--- --I...------     1     :
:    I    I    I  S:BOAI    I    I            I          I         I    I    I    :    I    I               I    I    I
Pilirng   d Fourdations                       :                                                                           I    I    I          I    I    I         I    I    I
:    I    I    I    :    I S IB 01   A:    I    I    I    :    I    I    I    :    I    I    I    :    I    I    I
General Civil Works                                         I    I    I    :       inminmsininmininu=.m==:=========ininm                                           i I     i
:. I    I    I    :    I S IB OI  A:    I    I    I    :    I    I    I    :            I    I    I    :    I    I    I
Chimney                                                                                                              I                                             I    I    I
:    I    I OI R :A I    I N             :    I    IN/El    :      I    I    IE/T:/L I    I  TIIL:    I    I    I
Steam Generator                                        : inmmmm===inm ==1                                                                                               1
:8      I O  I R :A    I    I  " I       :    I    IN/EI E:    I    I    I    :E/TI/L la TI/L :b   I    I    I
Turbo Generator                                        : mzmmminminmummm====m=m=n====min:m                                                                               I  I
:B I    I O     R :A    I    INI    :    I    I    I E:    I    I    I    :E/TI/L I  TI/L:    I    I    I
Control and Instruientation                            :                                                                                                                 I=in=== n== =  m===a====-===m== m  t    I
:B I    I O     R  A    I    I "         :    I    I    I E:    I    I    I    :E/TI/L I  TI/L:    I    I    I
Power Cycle Piping                                    :==========s===========m===mm==m==mm==m======-==============================   I    I    I
:    I    I    I    :         IS     B   I  A:    I    I    I E:    I    I    I    :T  I  El/TI    :    I    I    I I
Low Pressure Piping                                   :    I    I    I    :    I============a=i=-=n====                            ===   ===-=====   :    I    I    I    :                                  0'
:    I    I    I    :S IB   IO   IA :    I    I    I    :    I    I    I    :E/TI    I  T/L:    I    I    I
Coal HaNrdling Ptant                                  :    I    I    I    :            =                              ===                           ===3     -     1    I    I
:    I    I    I    :S          I OIA :    I    I    I    :        I    I    I    :E/TI    I  TI/L:    I    I    I
Ash Handling Plant                                    :    I    I    I    :  ==        n  Qnina=======3==c                                              S          I    I    I
:    I    I    I    :S IB    O   IA:    I    I    I E:    IT/LI    I    :    I    I    I    :    I    I    I
Water Treatment Plant                                 :    I    I    I    : = =             = - =========                      1    I    :    I    I    I    :    I    I    I
:    I    I    I    :S   19   10   IA:    I    I    I E:    IT/LI    I    :    I    I    I    :    I    I    I
Fuel Oit Hardling Plant                               :    I    I    I    :w=          urn. u ===3u           ====:z= I             I    :    I    I    I    :    I    I    I
:    I    I    I    :        SBIO  I     IA:    I    I    I    :C I    I    I    :T/PI    I  TI/L:    I    I    I
Cooling Water System                                  :    I    I    I    : a=         3=3          =         =Da=3                                                1 3  I
:    I    I    I    :          I S 1     : A I    I    I    :    I    I    I    :El/T I    I    :    I    I    I
Coal Bunker                                           :    I    I    I           I    I  ============m=====m:                   ==========1              1         I    I    I
:    I    I    I                                   ISI B I IA  I    I     IE    I    :T IE   IT   I    :    I    I    I
Generator Transformers                                :    I    I    I         === ==          z======                       --=:  s=:.as:3 =3 I                   I    I    I
:    I    I    I    :SI 8 I O  IA :    I    I    I E:    IE/TI    I  E:/T I    I    I    :    I    I    I
Other Transforuers                                    :     I    I    I    :        u=  3=      3=    srnin3=            u3====I                    I    I    :    I    I    I
:    I    I    I    :SIB OfA             :    I    I    I  E:    I    I E/IT/L:  TI/L I    I    :    I    I    I
6.6 kV Switchgear                                     :    I    I    I    :  =I===I                                                                                     I================  =========I== I    I    :    I    I
I    I    I    :SI B IO  IA:                  I    I    I  E:    I    I E/IT/L:  TI/L I    I    :           I    I    I
LT Switchgear                                         :    I    I    I    :       :3::s3=                m 3=            =                              g          I    I    I
:    I    I    I    :    I    I       S :B 01   Al    I    :El    I E/IT/L:   TI/L                I    :    I    I    I
Bus Duct                                              :    I    I    I    :    I    I    I    3 2 3=              3 3 3=          .u 3         =l       I    ;    I    I    I
:    I    I    I    :    I    I    I  S:  B10   IA    I  E:    I    I E/IT:    IE/TI    I    :    I    I    I
Cables                                                      I
:    I    I    I    : SBI O  IA   I    :    I    I    I  E:    IE/TI    IT   :    I    I    i    :    I    I    I                                  X
Switchyard Equipments                                 .    I                                                                                       I    I          I    I    I
:    I    I    IS B: O IA                :    IN/Cl    I  :        I    I    IE/T:    I    I    I    :      I    I    I    :
Transmission Lines                                         I     I    Isc33=           ins3====                              == -                             : I  I         I    :
:    I    I    I    :    I    I    I    :    ISBOIA   I    :    I    I    I    :E   I    I    I  T:    I    I    I
Flue Gas Desutphurization Unit                        :    I    I    I    :    I    I    I    :                                                                    I=  -   I    I    I
. ................... .......................................... .............. .............................. ..................................................................................................................
LEGENDS:   S: Engineering and Specification;    0: opening of Bids;                       N: Manufacturing and Delivery
R: Wortd Bank Review                          A: Award of Contract           E: Erection                               L: Trial
B: Bidding                                    C: Construction                T: Testing
a: Unit  I - Synchronization                  b: Unit 2 - Synchronization                     Co: Commercial Operation



-66-
Annex 3.4
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
Engineering and Management Consultants Employed by BSES
BSES would be responsible for implementing the Dahanu thermal power
plant and the associated transmission and distribution development, with the
assistance of consultants. BSES has signed contracts with the following
consulting firms:
(a)   Development Consultants Limited (DCL) of Calcutta as "main
consultants", for the design, engineering, procurement assistance,
design office based project management for the power plant;
(b)   National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) of New Delhi as "review
consultants" for the power plant, to draw on NTPC's practical
experience in the design, construction management, testing,
commissioning and quality assurance. NTPC have also been responsible
for ensuring conformity to tendering requirements of IBRD;
(c)   NTPC (under separate contract) for the design and engineering of the
transmission lines and associated substations, including related
protection and communication systems;
(d)   BHEL for the fulltime monitoring of supervision activities at the
Dahanu TPP, including planning and monitoring, material management,
construction management, quality assurance, monitoring of inspection
activities and results, commissioning management, monitoring of
utilization of resources including manpower and costs);
(e)   RITES for the feasibility study, design, engineering and construction
management for the railway siding and railway and road bridges;
(f)   Tata Consulting Services (TCS) for the study of options to reorient
BSES from a distribution company to a full fledged power utility,
including financial, commercial, personnel, management information,
material management systems;
(g)   Central Water and Power Research Station (CWPRS) of Pune for the
design of the circulating water systems, in order to minimize and
mitigate the environmental impact of the cooling water on the Dahanu
Creek and its confluents;
(h)   GOM Irrigation Department for the design and engineering of the fresh
water pipeline;
(i)   CMPDT, Ranchi, for the feasibilty study of beneficiation of the
allocated coal;



-67-
Annex 3.4
Page 2 of 2
(j)   The Salim Ali School of Ecology of the University of Pondicherry for
environmental related issues, especially those concerning
agricultural impact;
(k)   NEERI for the study of the aquatic systems of the Dahanu creek and
its arms; and,
(1)   STUB for the architechtural design of the power plant buildings and
the colony.
BSES will also appoint a separate agency for the inspection of material and
equipment to be delivered by various manufacturers. All the consultants and the
arrangements are acceptable to IBRD and IFC.



-68-
Annex 3.5
INDIA 
Page 1 of 3
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
(USS millions) a/
ICB               LC8              Other         N.A.        Total Cost
Contract  I1RD   Contract   IRRO   Contrect   IBRD   Contract Contract   IBRD
Project Components                    Value   Finance   Value   Finance   Value   Finance   Value    Value   Finance
........ ..........                  ..... ..  ...... .... ... ....  ----  .......  .......  .......  ..... .........  ...... .
2x250 WU Dahanu Thermal Pcwer Station
,................................
A. Main Package                      206.4    196.0                                                  206.4    196.0
(Boiler Equipment. Control and
Instrumentation, Turbo-Gen.
Equipment, Supervisory Serv.,
Civil Design and Services)
B. Mechanical Equipment                                   5.0      4.0                                 5.0       4.0
1. Ash Handling Plant                                                    6.6                        6.6
2. Coat Handling Plant                                                  21.9                       21.9
3. Cooling Water System                                                  5.1                        5.1
4. Chimney Stack Liner                                                   0.6                        0.6
5. Environmental Monitoring                                              1.4                        1.4
6. Misc. Mechanical Equipment                                            7.1                        7.1
7. Fuel Oil Handling Plant                                               2.4                        2.4
8. Water Treatment Plant                                                 7.2                        7.2
, ........   ......   .......... ......   ------.... ......   .......... ----. -..... ...... ..
Sub-Total                            0.0      0.0      5.0       4.0     52.3      0.0      0.0     57.3      4.0
C. Electrical Equipment
1. Bus Duck                                                              1.7                        1.7
2. Transformers                                                         11.0                       11.0
3. Switch Yard (Dahanu)                                                  2.4                        2.4
............... .........   ...... .........   ......   ------... ......   ......   ...........
Sub-Total                            0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     15.1      0.0      0.0     15.1      0.0
D. Erect sn                                                                12.4                       12.4
E. Civil Works                                                             49.6                       49.6
F. Other Equipment
1. 6.6 kV Switchgear                                                     2.4                        2.4
2. LT Switchgear                                                         2.0                        2.0
3. LT & NT Cables                                                        6.8                        6.8
4. Switch Yard (Dahanu)                                                  0.7                        0.7
5. Illumination CS & E)                                                  2.8                        2.8
6. LP Piping                                                             3.1                        3.1
7. Misc. Mechanical Systems                                              3.1                        3.1
8. Misc. Tool & Plant                                                    5.4                        5.4
.. . .. ...... ......... ........   ...... .........   ...... .........   ......   ...... .........   ......
Sub-Total                            0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     26.3      0.0      0.0     26.3      0.0
G. Land, Training, Etc.
1. Fresh Water                                                           4.5                        4.5
2. Training                                                              0.6                        0.6
3. Establishment                                                                           9.9      9.9
4. Land Cost                                                                               2.0      2.0
S. Consultancy                                                           2.7                        2.7
......   ...... ... ......  ......  ...... ... ......  ...... ... ......  ......... ..... .. ...... .........
Sub-Total                            0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       7.8      0.0     11.9    19.7       0.0
H. Flue Gas Desulphurfzation Unit                                          33.0                       33.0
Project Total Cost (Dahanu TPP)        206.4    196.0       5.0      4.0    196.5      0.0     11.9   419.8   200.0
Suza3n   UaUos3  mammon   mammon  *Numan   =uUI=U   noncom  *oUUUW   noco



-69-
Annex 3.5
. ...,... ...
Page 2 of 3
ICe                LCB              Other          N.A.        Total Cost
Contract   IBRD   Contract   IBRD   Contract   10RD   Contract Contract   IBRD
Project Components                      Value   Finance   Value   Finance   Value   Finance   Vatue    Value   Finance
Transmission Lines and Receiving Stations
..^....... .............. ....................
A. Equipment
1. Transmission Line Towers                                                10.0                         10.0
2. Hardwares and Conductors                                                 9.3                          9.3
3. Rec. Stations Switchyards                                                7.7                          7.7
4. Rec. Stations Transformers                                               7.5                          7.5
5. Rec.Stations Switchyard                                                  2.5                          2.5
6. Rec.Stations Misc. Equipment                                             0.6                          0.6
,,.,.. ..., ....... .......   .......... .. . ...    ......   ......   ......... ......   ...........
Sub-Total                              0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0     37.6       0.0      0.0      37.6      0.0
B. Rec. Station Land Cost                                                                         6.7       6.7
C. Civil Works                                                                 2.3                          2.3
D. Erection                                                                    5.5                          5.5
. ......  .........    .  ......  ......... ......  ............ ......  .. .....  ........ ...
Project Total Cost (Tr.Lines & S/S)        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0     45.4       0.0       6.7     52.1       0.0
Distribution
.. _..........
1. Bulk Trans. & Switchgears                                                7.2                          7.2
2. Subtransmission                                                         12.5                         12.5
3. 11 kV Distribution                                                       8.7                          8.7
4. Distr. Substation Equipment                                              5.8                          5.8
5. Low Tension Distribution                                                14.0                         14.0
6. St.Lighting & Misc.Works                                                14.0                         14.0
. ..... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
Project Total Cost (Distribution)          0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0     62.2       0.0       0.0     62.2       0.0
===C==   ===^=   ====a=   == u           unsuz    ===a    cmmo    =CU=   ==am=
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       206.4    196.0       5.0       4.0    304.1       0.0      18.6    534.1    200.0
IFC Finance                                                       t 68.0)                      ( 68.0)
Grant                                                              C  0.3)                     C  0.3)



-70-
Annex 3.5
Pale 3 of 3
ICe                 LCB                 Other           N.A.         Total Cost
................. ......................................... ................. .......................... .............. .................
Contract  I1RO   Contract    91RD   Contract   IBRD   Contract Contract   18RD
Project Corponents                         Value   Finance   Value   Fi'snce   Value   Finf nce    Value    Value   Finance
Total Project Cost by Summary Accounts
2x2SO MW Dahanu Thermal Power Station
.....................................
-Civil Works                                   0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      49.6       0.0        0.0      49.6
*Equipment                                  200.0    190.6          5.0       4.0    131.2         0.0       ^.0    336.2    194.6
-Erection                                      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      12.4       0.0        0.0      12.4
-Supervisory Services                          6.4       5.4       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       6.4        5.4
-Training and Consultancy                      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       3.3       0.0        0.0       3.3
-Administrative Services                       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0                 0.0        9.9       9.9
Land                                         0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0                 0.0        2.0       2.0
......         ...... .. ......     ...... ... ......    ...... ... ......   ............ ......_..... .................. ...
TOTAL PROJECT COST -- Dahanu TPP             206.4    196.0         5.0       4.0    196.5         0.0      11.9    419.8    200.0
sa33a3   .3.333   Manaus   333s33   M...33   Maca33  ......                   3   338
Transmission Lines and Receiving Stations
.................. .............................. .....  ................ 
Civil Works                                  0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       2.3       0.0        0.0       2.3        0.0
* Equipment                                    0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      37.6        0.0       0.0      37.6        0.0
- Erection                                     0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       5.5        0.0       0.0        5.5       0.0
- Training and Consuttancy                     0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
- Administrative Services                      0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
-Land                                        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0                 0.0        6.7       6.?        0.0
,........ ......   ....... .... ........ ......   ........ ......   ......... .......... ......... ....... ...
TOTAL PROJECT COST -- Tr.Lines+S/S             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      45.4        0.0       6.7      52.1        0.0
Distribution
..........
-Civil Works                                   0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
- Equipment                                    0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      62.2        0.0       0.0      62.2        0.0
-Erection                                      0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
-Training and Consultancy                      0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
-Administrative services                       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Land                                         0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
......    ...... .. ......     ...... ... ..... .. ..... ......  -........  ..... .. ..... ..... ............... ......... ...
TOTAL PROJECT COST -- Distribution             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      62.2        0.0       0.0      6.2         0.0
nC=s"s   cancSs   =anon=   =cgan=          *-ms    saa_-   IMMUCU         SMIZ
PROJECT TOTALS
..............
-Civil Works                                   0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      51.9        0.0       0.0      51.9        0.0
Equipment                                 200.0    190.6         5.0        4.0    231.0        0.0        0.0    436.0    194.6
-Erection                                      0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      17.9        0.0       0.0      17.9        0.0
-Supervisory Services                          6.4       5.4        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        6.4       5.4
Training and Consultancy                     0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       3.3       0.0        0.0       3.3        0.0
-Administrative Services                       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       9.9        9.9       0.0
-Land                                          0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       8.7        8.7       0.0
......    ...... .. ------     ...... .. ......    ...... .. ......     ...... .. ...... .............. .................. ...
TOTAL PROJECT COST  - Totals                 206.4    196.0         5.0       4.0    304.1         0.0      18.6    534.1    200.0
LFC Finance  b/                                                         C 68.0)                         C 68.0)
a/ Contract values include contingencies and taxes and duties (USS 42.3 million).
b/ IFC funds wfil not be used to finance the FGD plant.
ICB: International Comp titIve Bidding
LC6: Local Coapetitive 8idding
Other: Direct imports and locally procured Items
N.A.: Not Applicablo (Administrative Expenses)



-71-
Annex 3.6
INDIA                                    Page 1 of 2
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
Procurement Schedule
........ ................. ....
BIDDING
.................-----------------.............-------.   ...        CONTRACT
Specs. Ready      Invitation        Opening      Evaluation          AWARD
2x250 MN Dahanu Thermal Power Station
..  ... ..................................... 
A. Main Package                             January 90    February 90       August 90   Oct./Nov. 90       January 91
(Boilter Equipment, Control and
Instrumentation, Turbo-Gen.
Equipment, Supervisory Serv.,
CiviL Design and Services)
B. Mechanical Equipment
1. Ash Handling Plant                     March 91          May 91       August 91   September 91      October 91
2. Coal Handling Plant                  February 91       April 91         July 91   September 91      October 91
3. Cooling Water System                 February 91       March 91          May 91         June 91      August 91
4. Fuel Oil Handling Plant                 March 91       April 91         July 91   September 91      October 91
5. Water Treatment Plant                February 91       April 91         June 91         July 91   September 91
C. Electrical Equipment
1. Bus Duck                            December 91      January 92        March 92       April 92         June 92
2. Transformers                            April 91         May 91       August 91   September 91      October 91
3. Switch Yard (Dahanu)                 February 91       March 91          May 91         June 91         July 91
D. Erection
1. Main Package                                         January 91                  Feb./March 91        March 91
2. Cable Laying and Switchgear Er.      October 91    December 91    February 92          April 92        June 92
3. PS Switchyard and Transf. Er.            July 91      August 91      October 91    November 91    December 91
E. Civil Works
1. Chimney                                  May 91         July 91   September 91      October 91    December 91
2. Railway Siding                                       January 90                        April 90         June 90
3. Colony
- Phase I                                May 90         June 90       August 90   September 90    November 90
- Phase 11                             March 91        April 91         June 91      August 91       August 91
- Phase III                             July 91       August 91     October 91    December 91       January 92
4. Land Development                            -               -         August 89      October 89    December 89
5. Miscellaneous Buildings                   May 91        July 91   September 91    November 91    December 91
6. Foundations                         December 90      January 91    February 91         March 91       March 91
F. Other Equipment
1. 6.6 kV Switchgear                      March 91        April 91         June 91         July 91   September 91
2. LT Switchgear                          March 91          May 91         July 91       August 91     October 91
3. L  & HT Cables                        January 92    February 92        April 92          May 92         June 92
- Switch Yard (Dahanu)                     April 91        June 91       August 91   September 91      October 91
5. Illumination (S & E)                  January 92    February 92        April 92          May 92         June 92
6. LP Piping                                July 91   September 91    November 91       January 92    February 92
7. Misc. Mechanical Systems                    -               -              -               -            June 92
8. Misc. Tool & Plant                          -               -              -               *        January 93
G. Land, Training, Etc.
1. Fresh Water                                 -              -               -               -      September 90
2. Consultancy
Review (NTPC)                             -       February 89        March 89       April 89         June 89
- Main (DCL)                           March 89          May 89         July 89      August 89      October 89
- Transmission Lines (NTPC)                 -           June 89                         July 89   September 89
* Colony (STUP)                         July 89       August 89   September 89      October 89    February 90
H. Flue Gas Desulphurization Unit             April 92         May 92         June 92         July 92         July 92



-72-
Amex 3.6
Page 2 of 2
BIDDING
.....................                            -----.......................................  CONTRACT
Specs. Ready     Invitatfon         Opening      Evaluatfon          AWARD
................................... ...........................................................................
Transmission Llnes and Receiving Stations
A. Equipment
1. Transmilsson Line Towars             October 90    November 90    February 91         March 91        April 91
2. Hardwares and Conductors            February 91        March 91          May 91         June 91        July 91
3. Rec. Stations Switchyards             August 91   September 91    November 91    December 91        January 92
4. Rec. Stations Transformers          Decewber 91      January 92        March 92          May 92        June 92
5. Rec.Stations Switchyard            Septefber 91      October 91    December 91    February 92         March 92
6. Rec.Statlons Misc. Equipment         January 92    February 92         April 92          May 92        June 92
B. Civil Works                                 July 91      August 91      October 91    November 91    Decenber 91
C. Erection                                                                      -               -            July 91
Distribution
............
1. Bulk Trans. & Switchgears      ) The order of equipment for distribution is of continuous nature
2. Subtransm ssion                ) at BSES and are based on standard specifications already prepared.
3. 11 kV Distribution             ) The delivery of the distribution equipment is of the order of 6 months.
4. Distr. Substation Equipment   )
5. Low Tension Distribution       )
6. St.Lighting & Misc.Works       )



-73-
Annex 3.7
I.NDIA.
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements for IU'RD Loan and IFC Investment
..................... ....................................................... ..................................
(USS million)
IBRD Loan                         IFC Investment
...... .............. ........ ..................... .....................  ................................... .........
Total                                Total
IBRD and IFC Fiscal Years        Quarterly                             Quarterly
Quarters Ending                  Disbursements      Cumulative         Disbursements      Cunulative
. ..............................................  .............  .............  ............. . ....... ............. ............. ............ ..
FY92
December 31, 1991                  28.8               28.8                5.0                5.0
March 31, 1992                      9.0               37.8                6.8               11.8
June 30. 1992                       8.7               46.5                5.4               17.2
FY93
September 30, 1992                  8.3               54.8                                  17.2
December 31, 1992                   9.5               64.3               14.2               31.4
March 31. 1993                      9.2               73.5                 -                3.4
June 30, 1993                      11.0               84.5                5.0               36.4
FY94
September 30, 1993                 17.4              101.9                 -                36.4
December 31. 1993                  21.1              123.0               19.3               55.7
March 31, 1994                     17.7              140.7                 -                55.7
June 30, 1994                      12.0              152.7                 -                55.7
FY95
September 30, 1994                  8.0              160.7                 -                55.7
December 31, 1994                   6.4              167.1                6.9               62.6
March 31. 1995                      4.8              171.9                                  62.6
June 30, 1995                       3.2              175.1                 -                62.6
FY96
September 30, 1995                  2.0              177.1                 -                62.6
December 31, 1995                   2.0              179.1                5.4               68.0
March 31, 1996                      1.5              180.6                 -
June 30, 1'96                      16.9              197.5                 -                  -
FY97
September 30, 1996                  1.5              199.0                 -
December 31, 1996                    1.0             200.0
Closing Date of the IFC Investment : June 30, 1996
Closing Date of the IBRD Loan        : December 31, 1996



INA
PRIVATE POWER UTILIUTES (SES) PROJECT
Statement of BSES's Secured Borrowings
I. 1981f_RES
Rupees               Date of Redemption                      Type of Mort!agM
10,000 - 61.2X 'AO C..ss                 10,000,000         1st July, 1993 or on vesting date,           Legal mortgage
whichever is earlier
207,384 - 16X IC  Class                  20,736,400 )       At the expiry of 7th, 8th and 9th                -do-
7,818 - 16X WC: Class (Reissuod)           784,800 )       year from 1st June, 1986 or                      -do-
25,421 - 1SX '0  Class                    2,642,1W0 )       vesting date, whichever is                       -do-
24,579 - 16X '0' Clase (Reissued)         2,457,900 )       earlier                                          -do-
53,950 - 13.5X 'E' Class                  5,395,000 )       1st July, 1992 or on vesting                     -do-
16,050 - 13.5X OE  Class (Reissued)       4,606,000 )       date, whichever is oarlier                       -do-
93,637 - 15X 'F' Class                    9,363,700         1rt July, 1997 or on vesting                     -do-
date, whichever is earlier
200,000 - 15X '0' Class                   20,000,000         At expiry of 6th, 7th and 8th year           Equitabl, mortgage
from 31st August, 1989 or on
vesting date, whichever is earlier
200,000 - 155 OH' Class                   20,000,000         18th May, 1991 or on vesting date,               -do-
whichever is earlier
200,000 - 15% *IO Class                   20,000,000         11th October, 1992 or on vesting date,           -do-
whichever is earlier
____________
Deposited with UCO Bank as                116,884,900
collateral security for additional             =
cash credit facility of Rs 90 lakhs
It. IUM LOAN
Term Loan from
United Commercial Bank (UCB)                9,500,000                                                      Equitable mortgage subject
to prior charges created
1*1. CASH CREDIT FACIITY                                                                               In (I) above
United Commercial Bank (16)               23,500,000 )                                                   Deoe  of Hypothecation
Crera Bank (1IX)                           17,600,000 )
41,000,000
==w 



-75-
Annex 3.9
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
Main Characteristics of the Ib Valley Coal
Z Parameter                      Worst Coal        Best Coal
Gross Calorific Value Kcal/kg            3,080             3 10
Moisture          Z                        6.3               6.9
Ash               1                       47.2              41.2
Volatile Matter  2                        22.4              23.5
Sulphur           1                   0.35 to 0.60      0.35 to 0.60
Fixed Carbon                              22.4              28.4
Note: 2 - Percentage by weight.



-76-
Annex 3.10
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
Environmental Assessment -- Executive Summary
(Agreed between the Government of India and IBRD)
1.1   INTRODUCTION
Bombay Suburban Electric Supply Limited (BSES) is a private
utility which distributes power to consumers in the northern suburbs of
Bombay. BSES currently purchases all its power requirements from the Tata
Electric Companies. In 1976, the Government of Maharashtra (GOM), as a
condition of BSES's operating license extension, stipulated that BSES must
develop in-house generation capability to meet part of the projected increase
in electrical demand in their service area.
BSES carried out a site selection for the proposed 500 MW
coal-fired power plant, utilizing the Government of India's (GOI)
Environmental Guidelines for Thermal Power Plants. After evaluating nine
alternative sites, Bassein, a coastal site north of Bombay, was the initial
site selected for the project. Lack of government approvals forced BSES to
examine a number of other coastal sites in 1986, resulting in the selection of
the Dahanu site, 80 km north of Bombay. This site provides several advantages
including:
-     once through condenser cooling using sea water;
-     adequate land base away from densely populated areas;
-     no resettlement of displaced persons;
-     a secure freshwater supply;
-     the opportunity to take delivery of oil or gas; and
-     a railway in close proximity to facilitate coal delivery.
1.2   THE PROJECT
The proposed facility is a 500 MW thermal power station consist!.ig
of two 250 MW, wet cooled units, capable of burning coal, natural gas or oil.
The main fuel supply will be coal from the mines in Orissa, some 1400 km away.
Coal will be transported to the site by rail. The plant will be cooled by a
once through system utilizing sea water drawn from the estuary which is
adjacent to the plant site. The plant will be located at least 500 m from the
high water line as required by GOI environmental regulations. Fresh water
will be supplied by a 31 km pipeline from the Surya Prakalp Reservoir.
Power will be transmitted to Bombay by twin double circuit 220 kV
transmission lines to three 220 kV/33 kV receiving stations at Ghodbunder,
Versova and Malvani in BSES's distribution area. The route selected for both
the transmission lines and freshwater makeup pipeline will minimize disruption
of the natural habitat.



-79-
Annex 3.10
Page 4 of 6
with the standards of these governments and World Bank guidelines. This
temperature rise in the creek system, which is substantially less than the
seasonal fluctuations in creek water temperature, will minimize any risk of
thermal shock to organisms inhabiting the creeks. The ash handling and
disposal system will contain all this waste material for the operating life of
the plant, while providing adequate treatment for slurry water prior to
discharge to the creek system. Leaching from the ash disposal lagoons will be
controlled by lining these ponds with clay. All effluents discharged from the
plant site and ash disposal area will meet World Bank guidelines and will be
monitored prior to discharge. Based on the available information, the project
is thus not expected to adverrely impact either the water or aquatic resources
of the creek system. However, the final impact prediction must await
completion of the aquatic studies (by the third quarter of 1992).
Coal for this project will be supplied by Coal India Limited from
existing mines in the lb Valley, State of Orissa. Current Ib Valley coal
production is about 6 million tons per annum and will be 9 million tons per
annum in 1995-96, with about 2 million tons per annum slated for the Dahanu
thermal power project. A World Bank mission has visited the site, has
examined the situation against the requirements for this project, and has
concluded that this project will result in minimal incremental environmental
and socio-economic impacts.
Construction and operation of the power plant is predicted to have
limited impacts on the socio-economic environment. The siting of the plant
does not require relocation of residents and will not affect forestry or
agricultural production. The construction wcrk force is expected to peak at
about 3000 people which is about 1Z of the region's population. Approximately
2500 people will be hired lccally, with the remaining 500 construction workers
being immigrants to the Dahanu area. The employment associated with
construction is predicted to increase opportunities for local area merchants
and the agricultural sector, although competition for labor may increase the
costs of unskilled labor. The operation of the power plant will employ
approximately 500 primarily skilled persons. This will aid in the
diversification of the region's economy.
BSES is committed to employing local residents -where practical and
strengthening the local infrastructure to ensure adequate services for the
area's residents. This will in part be accomplished throur,h provision of
training and conanunity development programs, administered 'y the GOM's
Department of Tribal Development. The objective of these yrograms is to
upgrade the educational skills of the area's tribals, particularly the women.
A broad range of opportunities are currently being assessed including:
_     upgrading and enhancing the community center at Saravali to
provide handicraft and health care training;
-     upgrading and enhancing the capacity of the Indu.'trial Training
Institute for tribals at Wangson; and
a variety of small scale schemes predominately aimed at improving
educational opportunities for the youth in the surrounding tribal
communities.



Annex 3.10
Page 5 of 6
1.5   MITIGATION
BSES has adopted a variety of practices and technology to minimize
environmental and socio-economic impacts and enhance the benefits of the
project. During construction, equipment movements will be limited to the
construction site and designated access routes. Disturbed areas will be
stabilized and reclaimed as soon as practical. Vegetation will be developed
and maintained as a buffer between the construction site and surrounding wattr
bodies, and to control erosion. Drainage from the construction site will be
controlled and treated to minimize the introduction of sediments to the
creeks.
Mitigation measures related to plant operation primarily involve a
combination of design features and standard operating practices which BSES has
adopted to minimize environmental impacts. Electrostatic precipitators (99.8Z
efficiency) will be installed and operated to ensure particulate emissions
meet regulatory standards and guidelines. The plant will be designed to
accommodate the addition of a FGD unit should future monitoring indicate it is
necessary. All surface runoff and liquid effluent discharges will be
collected and treated to ensure compliance with regulatory standards before
release to the environment. If the ongoing aquatic studies indicate that the
proposed project will adversely impact the Dahanu Creek system, BSES will be
required to install further treatment for liquid effluents to reduce such
impacts to acceptable levels. Ash will be contained in lagoons which will be
covered and reclaimed as they become filled.
BSES will ensure that economic benefits for the region are maximized,
through participation in programs aimed at upgrading the skills of the area's
tribal peoples, and investigation of the opportunity for by-product
developments such as aquaculture and the use of ash wastes in the manufacture
of construction materials. BSES has already hired a Senior Environmental
Specialist and Community Relations Officer to promote the achievement of these
objectives.
1.6   MONITORING
The proposed monitoring program is considered criXical to ensuring
the success of the mitigation of predicted impacts. The program is designed
to sample a variety of environmental components to vcrify that impacts are
within the projected ranges. Baseline data collection programs have been
reconmended for those sectors for which existing data is considered deficient
and the required studies have been initiated. The aspects being monitored
include climate, air quality, water quality, hydrogeology, soils, vegetation
and aquatic resources. Ir. addition the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board
will audit the environmental monitoring data semi- annually and release the
audit report to all, interested parties (including interested non-government
organizations). Any non-compliance with GOI, GOM and World Bank requirements
will require immediate action by BSES.
1.7   CONCLUSIONS
Changes in the environment are associated with all major
developments which are undertaken to maintain or improve the Indian standard



-77-
Annex 3.10
Page 2 of 6
Pollution control systems are incorporated into the thermal plant
operations to minimize impacts oi the surrounding region. BSES will monitor
all air cinJssions and liquid effluents to ensure compliance with the
environmental requirements of the World Bank, the GOI and GOM. BSES has
appointed the Salim Ali School of Ecology, Pondicherry University, to assist
in the development and implementation of the monitoring plan. The GOM's
Pollution Control Board will audit the monitoring results on a semi-annual
basis, releasing the audit report to all interested parties.
BSES has also committed to maximize local staffing of the
construction and operation phases of the project to ensure the maximum
economic benefit accrues to the region.
1.3   EXISTING ENVIRONMENT
The Dahanu plant site experiences euu-tropical meteorological
conditions with definite monsoon, wind and p:ecipitation patterns. The plant
site is adjacent to a tidal estuary and is approximately 3.9 km inland from
the ocean. Evidence indicates the estuary supports a subsistence fishery.
The site is approximately 816 ha in size. The soils on the site
tend to be saturated because of the site's proximity to sea level and the
natural cover has been removed by a variety of land uses. The current use
involves commercial salt production. The site is not considered a valuable
natural habitat because of its current condition.
There are no permanent residents on the plant site proper. The
region's population of 300,000 people is widely dispersed in smi'll communities
although approximately one third reside in or near the town of Dahanu, S km
north of the plant site. One half of the area's total population is estimated
to be tribals, living mainly in rural villages. The region's population is
involved in diverse economic endeavors, including agriculture, fishing and
cottage-type manufacturing industries. There appears to be consideraule
opportunity for diversification in such areas as tourism, food production and
processing, horticulture and cottage industry manufacturing. Current
infrastructure limitations including irrigation water and transportation were
cited as limiting factors to the area's overall development.
1.4   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
In 1987 BSES compleced an initial environmental assessment (EA)
for the project, which was subsequently approved by both GOI and GOM. Since
that time substantial additional information has been collected by BSES. As a
result, a consultant financed by the World Bank prepared a new EA document
which gatthers together all the relevant information on the project compiled by
BSES and others (e.g. World Bank consultants). Preparation of this new EA
reflects Bank concerns about the environmental and socio-economic consequences
of the proposed power plant project. The new EA document has been thoroughly
reviewed by Bank staff and consultants, and found to be satisfactory, although
a study of the aquatic system of Dahanu Creek is continuing. This document is
the Executive Summary of the new EA.
The overAll impact of the development and operation of the Dahanu
thermal power plant will be positive for the western region of India. It will



-78-
Annex 3.10
Page 3 of 6
supply a benefit in the form of economical and reliable energy for Bombay, and
diversification of the local economy and improvement of the infrastructure for
the benefit of the Dahanu area residents. The impact evaluation included
examination of the influence of construction and operation on the local and
regional environment. Changes which might occur in the various components
including air quality, soils, vegetation, wildlife, water quality, aquatic
resources and the socio-economic environment have been analyzed.
Construction and operation of the plant will not cause significant
changes in regional air quality as stack emissions are projected to be well
below the World Bank guidelines. Impacts on ambient air quality are based on
the results of computer modelling studies assuming a 275 m stack, use of worst
coal quality and proper operation of electrostatic precipitators. An
extensive monitoring program will be carried out by BSES, involving both fixed
and mobile stations, which will measure groundlevel cor,nentrations of S02,
NO , and particulates. Continuous stack monitoring wi include measurements
of SO2, NOx, particulates and opacity.
GOI and GOM permit approvals initially required BSES to install
flue gas desulphurization (FGD), with 90X efficiency, at plant start.n.
Subsequent review of stack emission data and information from ambient air
quality modelling indicated that the proposed power plant would easily comply
with international (including World Bank) SO2 requirements without FGD. GOM
permits have therefore been revised to require BSES to leave sufficient space
for future installation of FGD should extensive monitoring after plant startup
indicate a need. GOI is reviewing its position with respect to the FGD plant.
If GOI decides to amend its clearance to remove the FGD requirement, then IBRD
and IFC will not have any objection to this decision which will marginally
increase the economic internal rate of return of the Dahanu project and
marginally reduce BSES's tariffs.
The major impact on the terrestrial environment is the permanent
commitment of 816 ha of land to the proposed facilities. However, the area
affected is not particularly valuable or unique from an environmental
standpoint, in both a local or regional context. Information on the route
selection for the pipeline and transmission line indicate that the preferred
alignment minimizes disruption of undisturbed natural lands.
Construction and operation of the power plant could pose a risk
for the aquatic environment, primarily through the introduction of
contaminants which could alter water quality and ultimately the aquatic
system's productivity. The available data on the Dahanu Creek system provides
insufficient information on which to predict the project's potential impacts
with certainty. Studies have therefore been initiated to provide a more
complete understanding of the local aquatic system and to provide a base for
impact prediction.
The once through cooling water system can be a source of thermal
pollution which might stress the aquatic system, but modelling studies
indicate that the use of a 3 km long canal provides adequate residence time
for heat dissipation. Cooling water will be discharged to the creek system at
a maximum of 5 C above ambient. The resulting change in water temperature in
the creek will not exceed 3 C above the ambient water temperature, as
required by the Grant of Site Clearance issued by GOI and GOM, and in line



-81-
Annex 3.10
Page 6 of 6
of living. Trade-offs must be made between negative and positive rspects of
projects. In this regard local non-government organizations who oppose this
project have been extensively consulted uver the last 2 years. Major issues
raised (construction of permanent plant structures at least 500 meters from
the high tide line, possible adverse impact of increase in the temperature of
creek waters on the aquatic life, possible adverse impact on chickoo orchards,
etc.) have been discussed and mitigation measures instituted. The proposed
audit by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, with public release of the
audit reports, in large measure reflects the concerns voiced by the
non-government organizations consulted.
This project does rot have any major negative implications for the
biophysical environment, and as regard socio-economic concerns. The overall
impact is projected to be positive. The success in achieving this result is
dependent upon BSES's diligence in planning, implementation and monitoring to
ensure they achieve the objectives which have been established by the process
to date. In this regard the most critical undertakings are related to the
planning and implementation of initiatives to ensure that regional economic
benefits are maximized and disruption to culture and infrastructure are
minimized. The risks to the environment can be minimized provided BSES abides
by all the recommendations in the EA report and to their commitments in this
regard. However, central, state and local authorities in India, as well as
local and national non-government organizations and international
organizations, must remain vigilant to ensure early identification of any
environmental and socio-economic problems associated with this project and
BSES must be prepared to adopt practical solutions in a timely manner to
minimize any negative impacts and to create a project which, in both the short
and the long-term, can serve the best interests of India



-82-
Annex 3.11
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
Recommended Monitoring Plan and Additional Baseline Studies
1.1   INTRODUCTION
The following program is proposed to test the validity of the
impact predictions and/or to provide baseline information to ensure existing
environmental conditions are adequately documented.
1.2 METEOROLOGICAL DATE
A meteorological station will be located in the Vadkum Village
area north of the proposed housing colony. The station will be operated on a
continuous basis with information available on wind speed at groundlevel and
10 meters above groundlevel, solar radiation, temperature, and precipitation.
The data collected will be used to verify previous plume dispersion modelling
studies.
1.3 AMBIENT AIR QUALITY
A system of five monitoring stations (3 stationery and 2 mobile)
will measure groundlevel concentrations of SO2, NO, and particulates (Table
3.11.1).  One station will be lorated at the meteorological station, one near
Dahanu Road Railway Station, and one west of the power station in Badapokharan
Village. The two mobile stations will be used to monitor ambient air quality
in adjoining communities such as Motapoda, Vadkun and Dahanu, etc. Care will
be taken to ensure site selection minimizes the influence of unrelated
activities such as traffic and agriculture which can significantly affect
particulate readings.
The fixed stations and the meteorological station will be
furnished with data links to allow on-line data collection. This program will
be started as soon as possible (mid-1992) to ensure a minimum of two years of
baseline information prior to startup of the first 250 MW unit.
1.4 STACK MONITORING
Continuous stack monitoring will include measurement of SO2, NXX,
particulates, and opacity. These measurements will provide assurance that the
plant is being operated in compliance with Government of India, GovErnment of
Maharashtra, and World Bank stack emission requirements. In addition, stack
monitoring will ensure that ESP's are being properly maintained and operated
efficiently.



-83-
Annex 3.11
Page 2 of 5
Table 3.11.1
Air Quality Monitoring -- Dahanu Thermal Plant
Sampling Program and Schedule
No. of Stations:                      5 locations (3 stationery and 2 mobile).
Frequency:                            3 x 8 hours samples per day.
Duration:                             Continuous monitoring.
Parameters to be Monitored
a) Suspended Particulate Matter:   8 hours (3 samples/day)
b) Sulphur Dioxide:                  8 hours (3 samples/day)
c) Oxides of Nitrogen:               8 hours (3 samples/day)
1.5 WATER QUALITY
Water quality is critical to the operation of the plant and to the
surrounding environment, therefore water quality parameters will be monitored
in the incoming water, discharged effluents and at various points in the
surrounding environment which may be influenced by development and operation
of the power plant. The recommended parameters to be monitored in the
incoming fresh water supply are presented in Table 3.11.2.
Ambient w"'ter quality stations will be established at ten
locations around the plant site, with six of the locations arou:nd the ash
disposal lagoons, three locations further downstream in Dahana Creek, and one
location in Savt.a Creek. Water samples will be taken monthly for analysis of
all parameters ahown in Table 3.11.3, except for heavy metals. Every two
months, the samples taken from the six locations around the ash disposal
lagoons will be analyzee for all parameters as shown in Table 3.11.3,
including heavy metals. In addition to the water samples, creek sediment
samples will be taken ftzm three locations every three months and analyzed for
heavy metals.
After five years of plant operation, certain parameters, sample
sites, and the frequency of monitoring will be adjusted based upon the
recorded results. This may involve dropping some parameters or stations and
decreasing the sampling frequency to quarterly or semi-annually at some
locations.
1. 6 MYDROLOGY
The sites proximity to the ocean causes the soils to be saturated
and the water table to be at or near the surface. It is anticipated that
seepage may occur from the ash lagoons or coal storage areas. The groundwater
profile will be essentially flat except in the areas which are proposed to be
raised for construction of the plant site and the ash lagoon systems. This
flat profile ensures that there is little head to drive leachates off-site,
although over long-term there will be some movement from the site toward the
creeks or possibly to the ocean.



-84-
Annex 3.11
Page 3 of 5
During the year prior to plant commissioning, piezometers will be
installed around tne ash lagoons and the coal storage area to determine the
current water quality. The parameters monitored will be based on fuel supply
coal and ash analysis. A monthly monitoring program will be established.
Table 3.11.2
Fresh Water Supply Water Quality Parameters
pH
Alkalinity (mg/L CaCO )
Hardness (phenophtaleln)
Calcium (mg/L Ca)
Magnesium (mg/L Mg)
Total Hardness (mglL CaCO8)
Chlorides (Img/L Cl)
Silica (mg/L S02)
Sulphates (Img/L S04)
Turbidity (FTU)
Nitrate (ImgL N)
BOD5 (mg/L)
Bacteria
Dissolved Oxygen (mg/L 02)
Total Solids (mg/L)
Totel Dissolved Solids (mg/L)
Total Suspended Solids (mg/L)
Total Vo'iVile Solids (mg/L)
Total Volatile Suspended Solids (mg/L)
Dissolved Iron (mg/L Fe)



Annex 3.11
Page 4 of 5
Table 3.11.3
Water Quality Parameters
Temperature
pH
Dissolved Oxygen (mg/L 02)
Alkalinity-P (mg/L CaCO8)
Alkalinity-T (mg/L CaCo3)
Turbidity (FTU)
Colour (APHA)
BODr (mg/L)
Total Suspended Solids (mglL)
Total Dissolved Solids (mg/L)
Total Volatile Solids (mg/L)
Oil and Grease (mg/L)
Phenolic Compounds (mg/L)
Sulphate (mg/L SO4)
Chloride (mg/L C1)
Calc!.um (mg/L Ca)
Magnesium (mg/L Mg)
Sodium (mg/L Ns)
Potassium (mg/L K)
Total Hardness EDTA (mg/L CaCO3)
Fluoride (mg/L F)
Total Organic Carbon (mg/L C)
Total Inorganic Carbon (mg/L C)
Phosphate - Ortho (mg/L P)
Phosphorous - Total (mg/L P)
Nitrite (mg/L N)
Nitrate (mg/L N)
Ammonia (mg/L N)
Chlorophyll (mg/m3)
Total Nitrogen (mg/L N)
Boron (mg/L B)
Mercury (mg/ L Hg)
Metals (Fe, Cu, Zn, Mn, Pb, Ni, Ca, Co, As, Ba, Cr, Se,
Mo, Al, Mg, Be, Cr, Ag, V, Bi, Zr)
1.7   AQUATIC RESOURCES
In March 1991, BSES retained the National Environmental
Engineering Research Institute at Nagpur to undertake a seasonal survey to
determine the estuary fisheries resource. Terms of reference for this study
are provided in the Project File. The study will involve test nettings and
habitat mapping of the estuary surrounding the plant site. The sampling
frequency will be determined by the anticipated seasonal use based on the life
cycles of the species endemic to the region. Species and abundance will be
determined by the test nettings. The habitat map will permit an estimate of
the total productivity of the system. Sampling will be carried out three
times per year. While the NEERI study will be completed in 18 months
(September 1992), the monitoring of the aquatic resources will continue for a



-86-                       Annex 3.11
Page 5 of 5
minimum of five years after commissioning of the power plant to ensure
organism response is as predicted in the assessment. However, details of this
sampling program must await the results of the NEERI study.
1.8   SOILS
Air dispersion modelling suggests that the plant operation will
have little impact on the region near the plant site. However, monitoring
sites will be established in areas of predicted high sulphur deposition to
verify current predictions. A soil monitoring program will be established to
define background conditions and conditions during the operation of the power
plant. Particular attention will be Sivan to selection of the sites to ensure
soil chemistry is not affected by other practices such as agriculture or
irrigation. Soil pH and constituents critical to local crops will be
monitored.
1.9   VEGETATION
BSES has retained the services of an expert horticulturalist to
assist in the design and implementation of a number of environmental programs.
The terms of reference (included in the Project File) relate to the following
areas:
--    long-term monitoring of the area's chickoo orchards;
--    preparation of ash lagoon reclamation programs;
--    preparation of a greenbelt plan, including research on the
suitability of species for inclusion in the greenbelt areas;
-_    completion of field research on the re-establishment of mangroves
around the plant site; and
--    provision of advisory services to BSES and others, as necessary.
With regard to the work with the chickoo orchards, determinations
will be made to define the parameters which currently affect productivity,
including a measure of the natural variability in productivity, seasonally and
over several years. These studies will ensure that BSES are not subject to
claims of lost income due to the impact of the operation of the power plant on
the area's chickoo orchards.



"loll
SECUW  tOIYITE i  0MtFtlitE S togs) ESI1i
fuaaci2l bolysis
locom  Stateuto                                                                 its 'tii40
k---itter1 64itedi----- -------   ---------        ---------------------------- otected ------- - -------- -------
7isgoa  Year "Win  5lst tl ck               1905     1906     I"7       290      I9m9     1990     I        1972     I903     994      1995     11"96     mr      20       999      2000    2MT1
-        . .      ---      ....     ...        _      ---      ---        .-      ---      -  -    - -      ....      . .      ...   .  ---      ...
!W6veal Sinrat,tn Mob)                         0                 0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0    1,O53    2,344    2.714    2.734    2,126    2,734
Pow  Pswobnr from TEC 9200hl               2,240    2,i2d    2,627    2,942    S,035    3,213    3,536    3,761    1,415    4,276    6,543    2.et5    2,16?    2,t59    2,92t   3.240    3,420
Total 690902                               2,2t0    2,420    2,621    '042    3,035    3,M        5.11    3,761    t,015    4,276    4,543    4,816    5,093    5,313    5,033    5,03     6.0
91strObOtic0 Logogo 120                      22m9 226          348      36S      369       574      404      395      402      420      454      492      509      531      366      59i      622
Sal"  .4 Envogy 0mtat,4       0                0n       0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0     ,1'59    2,110    2,461    2.460    2,902    2.161
Sal" o4 Esffq  Pwtl osed 116)0i0           2,021    2,202    2,279    2,477    2,6?    2,099    3,112    3,366    3,614  35,e0        4,0B7    2,571    2,414    2,175    2,629    2,eB     3.1;7
. ..  ...    .....    . .. .     ...    -----                                   .      ....    ---       .. .    -- -     ....    -_ -          - -
total tOwsrt Galn  (0t2bl                  2,021    2,202    2,279    2,477    2,161    2,099    3,112    3,366    3,614    3,849    4,029    4,3l4   4,354    4,016    5,090    5,344 i     ,5t8
Oiwra"  9rff MtAlIlN                        0.06     0.03     11.3     I.l0     1.13     9.25      1.39     1.51     1.64     1177     1.90    12.6      2.05     2.09     2.17    2.21      2.
Eltericily Sales  tih iFillirl             1,134    2,046    2,535    2,135    3,410    3,614    4,329    5,496    5,922    6,428    7,7513    0,17   9,392   10,102  3110!8   62,93    31,2S
twratiq Rt"fni
Eledfltit7 Sitn                            1,714    2,041   2,65S    2,135    3,010    3,611   4,119    5,006    5,922   6,820   1t,53 1,3t?   9,332   10,102   2t,068   12,31S   13.296
El.trt,c,l  Ohkg                             I66      222      254      204      360      396      45       536      651       n52      0m       S37    9,033    I,269    2,210    1,335    1,465
0Cb wtKoe                                    is       t1       20       26       2B       39        34       3t       39       41      .4        46       49       52       54       51        59
6.o.  1cc. Cosorotts Dinvs,,                 M2       963      le       294      280      226     t9l       196      213       232     25t       272      9n       316       4       312 4s 5.
ICuow fro  Cuouteri eirsii9 It                         le       l9       le       20       2S       23       25       28       30       33       36       tO        41       41       52       5(
l2ooe lro. Ft.,ip Pojcts                       0        0        0        0        0        0       40       44       47       5t       56       6        65        10      716       82       ES
To9tal OWrsalq Fos.n                       2,076    2,460    3,046    3,257    3,605    4,298    s,0o2    5,9      6,980    7,S34    S,990   9,4"    20,013   29,696   12,001   24,032   25,65
0,0r8etlo  Ei.pditun
Rtoctar of Pwr                             I,525    1,7156    2,29    2,433    2,652    3,21S      ,622    4,290    4,604    5,359    6,201    4,203    4,395    4,452    5,229    6,4n1   1,O0
lielric  it Iot 966                                   221      254      2e04     3O       S%9      41       536      651       751     il5       *37    1,033    9,221    t,2tO    1,335    1.463
cost ofcol                                     0         00                       0        0        0        0         0        0        0    2,220    1,550   I2,03     2,040    2,171    2s,30
OPtrStCa   god  00,ot      1oa.Pf.           6E9      904      all      122      81S      1i4    22          26t      303      352      400      851      929    2,002     ,0S    1,213    9,1211
Salain ad &9S.                                44       51       t0       it       1        99       tt      105       226      121     12        161      212      2t4      257      25       53119
Owetia6ion                                    S2       29       31       40       39       48       63        72      so        69       9       232      569      Stt      5ni  s601         0n
t2 ts of , Casttrts 6ivis09                  120      235      I10      982       080     216      210       a1y      203      22       230      255      20       502      327     353        82t
sposn olf lower 6iwi6soo                      12       12       I3       1S       24       15        s       t6        19      22       23        26       29       50       33       36       r
Fore,gp FrojKts tp s                           0        0             0        0        0           23       42        43      69       s3       57        62       61       fl       78       i5
Total tWr8t0  E sdiluo                     12,9e6    2,362    2,935    3,148    I,4i1   4,125    4,649    5,545    6,539    7,169    6,49?    0,916    9,039    9,fl1   00,1519  12,t09   13,679
Opeotla lmo                                   916ti929                  20       929      213       313      423     31        16       903    2,i65    I,13      ,919    I,9M9    2,922    1*1te
interest Efrpu                                26       20       50       35       St       52      4t        59       12      fi       ItiO I0,09 19,322,I2    2,403                 t4       642
fl loss,on Ia 0r1 a b                          0o       0        0        0        0        0        0        6        0        0        0         0       IF      too00   2l5       121      142
It* off O   lstl  ibie asoets                  I        I        I        I        0        0        I        I        I        0        0        is       13       i5       15       15       Is
frolt botintt                                 63       a 9      gO       N4       e5      120      320      354      5        641      123      560      6*2        992    161       8t       991
s, lot                                         4        7        9       14        0        0        0        0        0      I9T      913        0        0        0        6         0        0
Net   M                                       58      6l2       7t       if       l5      120      329      354      513      536      330      399      t02      1S2       62t6    i54       ml
Stattry trwm   I twrWridltiom
bo  kw"ru      1 Olov. 2w x6lo @4e w     it   1         6       Is       til      20       4t        t        0        0        0        0        6        O        6        0        O         0
06l,t.re iO ,aspium f0                                    O        s     3        I        S        I        1        1        4        4        4         I        0       o         o        0
Cttqr cf Reserv                                2 e1              5        9        e        9        6        I        6        e        *       42       42        43       44       45      4t6
SpKial fwpiot,otins
for tb,a       of j e lwme 0                          0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        a        014e0 ISO                          IO       250
t.d.   f,oKt CoEt                            0        0        0        0        0        6      23O      210      230      250       900       0        0         0       0        0         0
i0 hI,fO4 d4 2o"slu     Al  n e              0        6        0        0        0        0       50       31       32       32      3i        41       43       45       41       54       5
frd. Sbarm ECitu ib eptmti vbrv                0        2        1        1        1        1        1        1        1        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0
1e4al ruwrwn I A iarlio n.                    i3       32       24       23       32       62      215      25?      217      295      231        6       862 2             41 26   m        252
istriOuta2e Prorrit                           45       It       47       4t       S3      5s       152       99      231      241      39       503      5126    s3o       55       tO6      GU6
3,i,as                                        12        2       11       IS       13       23       23       23       es       95       95      201      201      201      201      201      201
Oetaiedw arsis                                14       19       34       34      40         5      ISO        5      15i4    246       224      52       315       34t     524       405      435
get ProOitlOUFao                               3t       St       20       2S      2n        33       it       60 a      1       13       61      6t        63       1       63       63       61
6,0 FrofatfEft 1tti2 lOt                               lOt      lOt       e       g 01     m23      241      211      963      15S      15       101       0t      291      20 1      O 103    2
Or.9)q Itoc..lb u                             41       42       43       33  n             4s        19      n        n9      903      203     120       22       In        151     124       121
lterwnl Cowr Itlenl                         3.39     3.48      .66     3.15     3,21     3.31     9.32     1.06      . 18    6.67     5.02     1.55     2.62     2. 1 e    .06     2.00     2.24



SEI 1      TE PWER UTIItTIES tBSESI ES1WECT
Fioejsial nalssis
Balmte Sheet                                                                 Rs tIioo
----- - ------- kt-al Auditeld ---------------- ---- -----       - --------  rojeiteo ----------------               ----
Rs at Slst tltnh                            IM 19   1986      987      1968    199      19"9      991      992    1993      1i99     1995    1996      1997     1998     1999    2000      2b4I
ASSETS
ir0oss Fixoe  Assets                       1,4Z6   1i144    1,269    1,410    1.627    1,867    2,100    2,344    2,596    2,061    3,165   15,937   16.280  10,642   17.924   I'.40   1 ,9g(
Less ktu ulateo Deoreiatio.                 266       295     332      373      411      459      522      594      674      763      961    1,194    1,763    2,344    2,937    ','AZ    * lt5
Change due to Foreiqn Echriaqe Variation      O         0       0        0        A        0        0       57      IS      402      647      911   1,064    1,i23    1,174    1,100    1,176
Capital  'ort-ie-Prslress                     40      17       la       53       51       66      74Q    2,120    4,9t9  9,008   11,520         70       70       70       8o       90      0E9
_ - - -    _ - -  _ -  --  - --    ---    --_-  -----    -----    - --    _ --    -----    -----    ---       -- ---    -- ---    -- --  -    _
Not Filed Assets                            810      867      955    2,898    1,266    1,474    2,318    3,927    7,072  1i,500   14,470   15,724   15,650    5.492   15,341   15,262   15,ftv-
t0 '42                                                65        75      66       99      162      143      808      t93      223      217      457      562      530      5e8      639      723
I-ve-t7raes                                  l6       13       16       20       19       28       32       37       37       42      342      336      390      470      4S4      525      55:
Feree,ables                                 m        436      427      409      492      616      7t:      860    1,004    1,153    1,305    1,432    1,577    1,696    1,857    2,034    2,22S
Lteas I Advances                             57       52       72       90       64      126       43       45       47      68      375      3Z6      227       56       57       59       61
Other Corrent  ssets                        659      234      334      445      581      697      690      700      700      710      710      720      720      730      7S0      740      74e
Total Current kssets                        574      7W       923    1,030    1,275    1,569    1,648    1 756H   I,98     2,287   2,906    5,268    3,402    3,480    3,722    3,796    4,502
Crstinqgry Rese .o Inrestwnts                 31      34       42       49       57       65       71       76       82       89       97      136      177      218      260      3O4      Z45
tt      lerestr*nts                          I        14       27       to       t9       8        7        8        8        7        7        4        4        3        3        2 _
Teotal noestet ts                            45       48       59       67       75       63       7d       63       90       97      04      141      191      221      263      306      330
Deferred Expenws/lntagqlible Assets            t        I       i        O        0        1        0       70       70       70      50      635      120      05       90       75       60
Total Assets                               1,430    2,715   I,938    2,195    2,616    3,127   4,044    5.839    9,213   13,954   17,652   19,200   19,432   19,299   19,426   19,559   19,7lM
LIDlIUIES 12 EUITT
Seodnr creditors                             174     237      254      219      294      35       363      424      471      527      589      444      453      461      528      09     6W.
Short Tlre Ba t Creolt                       34       39        9        7        0        6       50       50       50       50      250      160      170       689     199      200      219
Bridgelto                                     0        0        0        0        0        0      530        0            0        0        0        0OD 0                     0              0
Other Current tliailities                   204      294      40t      516      647      868      795      629      891    I,040    1,226    1,358    1,263    1,115   1.131    1,656    1,172
Current htorities of oeq-ter De6t             0        0        0        4        9       16       t6       16       12        7        0      525     W65       680      8P4      908      923
Total Crreont Liabilitms                    411      570      665      746      950    1,239    1,774    1,310    1,424    1,624    6,967    2,4817   2,752    2,63     2,742    2,00     2.9T4
Sernrity Deoits                             233      250      276      346      430      486      536      586      636      66   16           786      6m36     e66      936      99S    1,036
Other Loq-trn Liabilitit                    132      247      173      193      240      228      2U4      259      274      269      304      319      334      349      364      37       304
Total Loet-ler Liabilities                  364      398      449      539      637      724      780      045      910      975    1,040    1,195    8,170    1,235    1,300    1,325    1,43O
ison-conwtible T.hntbr.es                    86      0OS      106      106      186      106      106      106      106      196      106      106       86      266      166      186      IDA
Coavertsble DebntarnO  0                               0        0        0        0        0        0    1,090        0    8,840    2,50         0        0        0        0        0 
Losn froi I6 D                                        0        0        0        0        0        0      600    I,SO    3,245   4,"7    9,682    4,505    4,260   4,010    3,77    3,447
toa froee IFC                                 0        0        0        O        0        6        0      247      687    1,267    1,;04    1,544    1,422    2,274    1.121     958       780
Loai Irom tndhan Finotcial Insttotlotms       0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0    1,340    2,060    3,140    3,270    2,943    2,616   2,289    1,962    1,635
Other tortere toLas                           1T      10       20       26       42       61       45       29       27       28       0       10       t0 10             t        10      1t
Total Long-terw Dot                          95      II5      I1S      131      147      166      150   1,981    3,710   7,707   10,482    9,611   6,985    8,205    7,53       6,772    5,902
Ordicerq Share Capital                       59       5?       59       59       59     7II       117      II?      517      527      517    1,117   8,12      I,12     1,217    1,117    1,117
Pre4erence Share Capital                     11       1i       10       20       10       10       20       60       28       10       10       to       20      0       :D        1        0              t
Shere 8re,in                                  0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0      600      600      600  1,0   1,500    2500    2,590    2,500    I.5 .SO
Retained Earnimjq                           157       73      203      233      275      252      331      456      610      756      982    1,283    2,598    2,9t4   2,315    2,720   3.155
Sltattory Peservn andWoroprtioues           186      222      251      266      298      360      535      792   1,070    1,365    1,596    1,682    1,768    2,005    2,246    2,495    2,746
Service Ii.e Cstribotilon                   145      167      287      22t      244      270      298      329      33       400     441       486     536      590      650      712      709
total S6wre Capital aod Rewrs               550      632      709      77       681 2   ,000    1,340    2,703    3,170    3,648    4,245    6,078    6,528    7,163    7,e30    8,557    9,317
Total Liabilltits nd Eqeity               1,t30    1,765    1,938    2,195    2,616    3,127    4,044    5,839    9,213   13,954   17,633   19,281   19,433   19,29    19,416  29,559   19,7t2
let tooq-ters DdtiEqoWtt                   0.17    0.18      0.16     0.17     0.17    0.67      0.11     1.16     1.17     2.11     2.53     1.58     2.38     6.25    0.96    0.79      0.64
torrent Ratio                               1.40     2.0     1.39     1.30     1.34     1.27    0.93      1.39     1.39     1.42     1.48     1.32     1.27     1.32     1.36     t.48     1.



SEW32 P2IVATE P1M  tUTILITIES i(sESI PRWEtT
Finsocial Analysis
Statewnt of Sources I 'sts of fods                                                      R8  h II2 io
Atutal                                                --------------     Projected
Fisal year ending 31st Itfch                I9W5    19o6   I997       I        1989     1990    1991      2992     1993     1994    2995      1996     1997     199      199      7000    2012
U9wratmg Ilnte                               90       99?     III      109      224       1n3     373      423      587      763      903    1,693    1,916    1.979    1,99    1.92.   1,097
OWKWlatiDO                                   31       29       37       40       39       49       63       72       E        89       99       333     569      SBO      593      07       622
total loteral Get atlo                      121      127      149      250      163      220      436      495      667      954    I,C0I   2,026    2,404    2,560    2,542    2,529    2.309
9o-coovertible Odentares                     20       20        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0 0               0        0        0        U O
cov'tiblel M   tnrf                           0        0        0        0        0        O        0    1.050        0    1,000      500        0        0        0        O        9
toan trot I2                                  0        0        0        0        0        0        0      569      990    1,520      720      699        0        0        0        0
Loe fro  tFt                                  0        0        0        0        0        0        0      230      410      530      230       70        0        0        0        0        O
loan Eros Indian Finonial Institutlons        0        0        0        0        0        9        0        0    2,360      720   1,090       230        0        0        0        0        Q
Otor ltn.-tere Ltes                           0        0        0       20       25       35        0        0        0        0        O        0        0        O        0        0        9
Chae doe to forueIg Etoc2a   Varlation        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       57      202      244      245      264      240      160      265      144      t2
Total tsrourinls                             20       20        0       20       25       35        0    t,847    2,742    4,904    2,M      1,154      240      260      2S5      144      132
Share taital                                  0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0   ,I00          0        0    1,500        0        0        0        0        0
OtherSo Sces                                 69       99       72      112      129      105       95       95       99      103      1026     20       225      120     125       252      239
Total Soerts                                209      203      222      282      317      M60      529    2,427    4,507    4,962    3,92    4,790    2,159    2,039    2,92    2,9Q4    2.779
PtiCAT2I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
'C
loetat to Fled Besets:
Geoeratiso  &, trasisoni                      0        0        0        0        0       30      651   2,390    2,970    4,092     2,510    2,009        0        0       0         0       d
9,stribotih                                  94       95      125      183      207      226      256      264      254      293      313      323      343      352      m        4*2     4$2
Ehao   due to Foretqo Erchm     arlatiu       0        0        0        0        0        0        0       57      101      244      245      264      155       60       SO       It      t2
Total lemstet in Flied kots                  94       95      125      193      207      255      907    1,681    3,22S    4,517   3,068    1,587      49S      422      443      64       441
Interest Etpese                              26       29       30       35       39       52       45       59       n       19       2t0    1,099    2,132    1,082    2,03      92       942
Printipal Ripaywit:
Loo fron IWO                                  0        0        0        9        0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0      347      356      365      375      24
ton from IFt                                  0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0                 0      178      1823     lI      192      197
taan ffoe Indn Financlal ln ltetltei          0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0     327      327       327     327
Otar Long-term osns                           0        0        a        0        4        9       16       26       t6       17        7        0       0         0       0        0        9
Fl lossn a loen repymt                        0        0        0        O        0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0       87       100     i25       129     143
Total Det Serevce                            26       28       30       35       4S       61       62       75       go      130     127    1,089    1,744    2,47    1,999    1,947    1,t93
iarp in torting Capital                      68       67       29       29       46       13    14M61    57          06      l01     272       377      m        129     169      166      201
Pamet of2 ot        tax                       4        7        9       94        0        0        0        0        0      II       273                0        0        0        o        o
Faywt ef Oividend                            12       12       13        3       23       23       23       25       83       95       95      201     201      201      292      292      201
Coo,wos,r,n d  >etcrres                       0        0        0        O 0      0        0        0        0    t,49        0        0    2,500        0        0        0        0        0
Otber  pllctatieos                            4        4       14        8        9        9       26)      77        6        6       87       37      40       41       42       43       4a
Iota! 99p2icatio                           209      293      221      292      317      30       529   2,427    4,507    4,991   3,891   4,791    2,739    2,940    2,932    2,904    2,77
Oebt S,vire coesrap                        4.40     4.26     6.59     3.92    L32       5.61     7.16     6.52     7.60     5.7t    4.43      1.896   2.3      1.25     2.27     2.30     2.33



INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
ESTIMATION OF. FINANCIAL INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
(in Million Rupees)
==  = == =    =============_=========5=Z____
INCREMENTAL COSTS                   INCREMENTAL REVENUES               NET
~--~----  ---------------------------       FINANCIAL
FY ENDING         CAPITAL    O&M -3UB-TOTAL           REVENUE  SAVINGS SUB-TOTAL          BENEFIT
1991            817.1              817.1                                               -817.1
1992            1028.0           1028.0                                               -1028.0
1993            2223.2           2223.2                                               -2223.2
1994            3051.9           3051.9                                               -3051.9
1995            1713.3           1713.3                                               -1713.3
1996            1104.9   1179.5   2284.4            367.5   1848.9  2216.4              -68.0
1997                     1234.9  1234.9             742.5  1973.3  2715.8              1480.9
1998                     1410.2  1410.2            1120.5  2094.7  3215.2              1805.0
1999                     1410.4  1410.4            1501.5  1784.2  3285.7              1875.3
2000                     1410.5  1410.5            1882.5  1473.8  3356.3              1945.8
2001                     1410.7  1410.7            2263.5  1163.4  3426.9              2016.2
2002                     1410.9  1410.9            2650.5   848.0  3498.5              2087.6
2003                     1411.0  1411.0            3040.5   530.2  3570.7              2159.7
2004                     1411.0  1411.0            3439.5   205.1  3644.6              2233.6
2005                     1411.0   1411.0           3691.2            3691.2            2280.2
2006                     1411.0   1411.0           3691.2            3691.2            2280.2
2007                     1411.0  1411.0            3691.2            3691.2            2280.2
2008                     1411.0  1411.0            3691.2            3691.2            2280.2
2009                     1411.0  1411.0            3691.2            3691.2            2280.2
2010                     1411.0  1411.0            3691.2            3691.2            2280.2
2011                     1411.0  1411.0            3691.2            3691.2            2280.2
UNTIL
2019                     1411.0   1411.0           3691.2            3691.2            2280.2
2020                     1291.0  1291.0            3691.2            3691.2            2400.2
- = =====         --===  =2==== ==== ====- =======_ _     -_=__=____
FIRR   :     1.0%
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12%   Re 1,949 Million
S
fN



SECOND PRIVATE PONER UTILITIES (15ESI PRJECT
Financial halysis
Snsitivity Tests                        Rs Nillion
----------------------Projected--- ---                                          -   AAR
Fiscal Year ending 31st Narch              1991    1M        1993      1994    ISff    19S6    1997       198      1999    2000      2001   1991-2001
Base Case (CI
Aveage Tariff (Rs/kVh)                   1.39     1.51     I.64     1.77     1.90     1.96     2.05     2.09     2.17     2.27     2.39      5.51
Debt Servire Cover                       7.16     6.51     7.60     5.71     4.43     1.86     1.38     1.25     1.27     1.30     1.33
Coal Cost Intreasing 121 p.a. I(C 621
Average Tariff (RsIb/h)                   1.39     1.51    1.64     1.77     1.90     2.05     2.17     2.27     2.39     2.52     2.66      6.7!
kebt Service Cover                       7.16     6.51     7.60     5.,.    4.43      1.86     1.38     1.25     1.27     1.30     1.33
oad Factor 604    C 70D
Avrage Tariff IRs/kibm                    1.39    1.51      1.64    1.77     1.90     I.9      2.05     2.22     2.31     2.41     2.52      6-
Debt Service Cover                       7.16     6.51     7.60     5.71     4.43     1.86     1.38     1.25     1.27     1.30     1.33
Project Cost Overrn 20M
Aerage Tariff (RsitEh)                   1.39     1.51     1.64     1.78     1.91     2.02     2.34     2.50     2.39     2.46     2.55      6.3!
Dbt Service Cover                        7.16     6.51     6.91    5.22      3.61     2.51     1.44     1.18    1.26      1.29     1.31
Psis Dvalu  oa 102 p.a. (C 42)
Average Tariff tRs/klh)                  1.39     1.51     1.64     1.77     1.90     1.99     2.11     2.17     2.27     2.38    2.50       6.12
Debt Service Cover                       7.16     6.51     7.61     5.71     4.44     1.9I     1.26     1.13     1.12    1.11      1.09
Project Eacludiag fGD Plant
AIerge Tariff (Rs/tkhl                    1.39    1.51     1.64     1.77     1.89     1.93    2.02      2.07     2.15     2.25     2.35      5.42
Debt Service Covr                        7.16     6.51     7.80    6.09      4.63     1.75     1.30     1.21     1.22     1.25     1.27



-92-
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
SECOND PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
MAIN ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1. Project Completion:   First unit commissioned in January 1995, second unit
commissioned in July 1995. Revenues from commercial operations assumed to begin
from FY1996.
2. Inflation Rates: Based on IBRD projections: International inflation at 3.41
p.a.; Domestic inflation: FY1991 - 8.3X, FY1992 - 6.6X, FY1993 & FY1994 - 6.5X
p.a., FY1995 & FY1996 - 6.2X p.a., FY1997 - 6.11, thereafter 6.0% p.a.
3. Contingencies:  Physical contingencies: 5X on plant and equipment, 10X on
civil works. Price contingencies: based on domestic and international inflation
rates.
4.  Exchange  Rates:    Based on IBRD projections,  averaging about 4% p.a.
devaluation of the Rupee versus the $, with Rsl9.43/$ in FY1991. Sensitivity
done for 101 Rupee devaluation.
5. Plant Load Factor: 50% in FY1996, 601 in FY1997, and 70X assumed thereafter.
Energy delivered at the sub-stations: 1,953 GWh in FY1996, 2,344 GWh in FY1997
and 2,734 GWh thereafter; net of 9% auxiliary consumption end 2% transmission
losses.
6. Electricity Sales: Net generated energy sold: 1,758 GWh in FY1996, 2,110 GWh
in FY1997, and 2,461 GWh thereafter; net of 101 distribution losses. Balance
energy required to meet the demand of BSES's license area is purchased from TEC.
7. Power Purchase Cost:  Rsl.10/kWh in FY1991, escalated thereafter based on
projected domestic inflation rates.
8. Coal Cost: Rs630/ton in FY1991 (base rate of Rsl90/ton plus transport cost
of Rs44C/ton), escalated thereafter based on projected domestic inflation rates.
9. OReration and Maintenance Expenses:   Generation: 2.51 of capital cost in
FY1996, escalated thereafter based on projected domestic inflation rates.
Distribution: escalated based on projected domestic inflation rates.
10. Other Divisions: Revenues of electrical contracting and computer services
escalated based on projected domestic inflation rates. Expenses of electrical
contracting at 951 of revenues and expenses of computer services at 701 of
revenues.
11. Depreciation: Generation project: 3.61 p.a.; Distribution facilities: 3.5%
to 4% p.a.; Other Divisions: as per Companies Act.



-93-
Annoy 4. 6
Page 2 of 2
12.  Interest Expenses:   Non-convertible debentures:  15% p.a.;  Convertibl'
debentures: 12.51 p.a.; IBRD: 7.73% p.a. with 2.75% GOI guarantee fee and 0.25X
commitment fee; IFC: 10.75X p.a. with 1% commitment fee and 1X front-end fee;
Indian Financial Institutions: 14X p.a. for the first two years, 151 thereafter
with 1X front-end fee; Consumer deposits: 5.5% p.a.
13. Provision for Tax: At the present rates of corporate income tax prescribed
under the Indian Income Tax Act: 401 plus 8% surcharge (effective rate of 43.21).
Because of the higher depreciation rates permissable under the Income Tax Act,
BSES is projectid to have no tax liabilities for 8 years.
14. Provision for Dividend: Assumed at 18% p.a.
15. SRecial Reserves:
(a) Project Cost:  During project construction, BSES permitted by GOM to
charge RsO.03/kWh to its consumers and a further RsO.03/kWh reduction of purchase
price from TEC, until BSES has accumulated Rsl,O0O million towards project cost
funding.
(b) Contingency Reserve: 0.25X of original capital cost.
(c) Repayment of Long-term Debt: For repayment of long-term debt including
losses on foreign exchange variations.
(d) In lieu of Investment Allowance: Equivalent to the amount of Investment
Allowance previously permitted under the Income Tax Act.
16. Reasonable Return:   121 on capital base plus 0.51 on opening balance of
outstanding loans from approved institutions.
17. Working CaDital: Minimum cash of RslOO million, inventories of 60 days supply
of coal, receivables of 50 days for sales of electricity and 3 month- f,r other
Divisions, other current assets pro,ected based on past trends. Payables for
coal purchases of 15 days, payables for purchase of power from TEC of 1 month,
other current liabilities based on past trend-.



-94-                                            Annex  5.1
INDIA
PRIVATE POWSR UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
WESTERN REGION POWER AID ENERGY DEMALID
Average                                     Average
Actual              Growth                  Projected            Growth
.. ............... ......... ......  .......... ....  ...... ........... .  ............ .
FY82 a/   FY90          FY82/FY9O           FY95 bl  FY2000          FY90/FY2000
...... ........... ..  ............       ............. ......   .    ... ........ .. .
(Provisfonal)      (K p.a)                                    (t  p.a)
1. PEAK LOAD (NW)
Gujarat Co                   1,616    3.547            10.3X              5055      7160             7.3X
Nadhya Pradesh               1,107    2,894            12.8X              4792      7578            10.1X
Nharashtre d/               2,996    5,883              8.8X              9353    13974              9.0X
Goa                            82       117             4.5X               216       329            10.9X
Total                 5,801   12,441             10.0X             19416    29041             8.8%
............ .........     ....             ......   ... ....           .. ...........
Peak Availability           5,801   12,007              9.5X             19299    29041              9.2X
DefIcit               - a/        434                                117        0
2. ENERGY REQUIREMENT (GUh)
Gujarat c/                 10,176   21,000              9.5X            27,343   38,729              6.3X
Madhya Pradesh              6,502   16,247             12.1X            27,041   42,721             10.2%
Naharashtra dV             18,127   35,155              8.6%            53,731   80,275              8.6X
Goa                           284       549             8.6X               950      1455            10.2X
Total                35,089   72,951             9.6K           109,065  163,180              8.4X
... ...  .. ... .           .. .            ......    ........ ..... ...
Ener&y AvailabilIty        35,089   n,951               9.6X           109,065  163,180              8.4%
Deficit                e/         nil                                  0         0
.............................................. .................................................................................,O ... @*........ .....
a/ Data for FY82 reflect actual consuptfon rather than poner and energy demands.
No data avalable on the extent of urmot load or mount of unserved enery.
b/ Actual data for FY89 are not yet aviflble from CE
c/ Including Ddra nd  Nagar HavelI
dV Includinr Dman and Dlu
Source: Thirteenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, Wstemn Regional ElectrIcIty Board and Bank eatimates.



-95-                             Annex 5.2
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
WESTERN REGION INTERCONNECTED POWER SYSTEM
A.    Details of Power Cuts and Regulatory Measures in Force During FY90
Maharashtra
1.    The demand cut applicable for H.T. industrial consumers is as follows:
a)  General Industries:         151
b)  Continuous Process:         101
c)  Textile Industries:         10o
2.    There is no demand cut for industrial consumers up to a demand of 2,500
MVA in areas outside Bombay Metropolitan and Pune Metropolitan Areas.
3.    No energy cut.
4.    24 hours power supply to rural areas.
Guiarat
1.    Generally no energy cut during the yp c.
2.    Power supply to rural areas is available generally from 1200 to 2400
hours.
3.    Demand cut for H.T. industries raziged from 0-252 between the months of
November 1989 and January 1990.
Madhya Pradesh
1.    No demand cut throughout the year and power supply to rural areas is on
a 24-hour basis, subject to the following regulatory measuress
a)  H.T. Consumers:         Staggering of weekly off.
Single and two shift industries to work
between 1400 and 2200 hours.
b)  Mini Steel Plant:       To draw power for 16 hours a day from 2200
hours to 1400 hours of the following day.
c)  New H.T. Consumers:    Not subject to any power cuts for 2 to 5
years depending on the area.
d)  L.T. Consumers:         Not subject to any power cut/restriction.



-96-                             Annex 5.2
Page 2 of 3
e)  Rural Discipline:       Rural feeders are to be divided into two
groups. Three-phase supply is to be
maintained on these feeders.
f)  Essential Services:    Exempted from power cuts with the
understanding that as and when desired by the
Board, they wiil reduce their load to the
extent requested by the Board.
Goa
No power cuts during the year.
B.    Existing and Planned Capacities in Maharashtra
1.    Existing Capacity as of March 31, 1990
Total
Installed
Particulars              Capacity (MW)
Number of Units x KW
Hydro
1.  Koyna                    4 x 65; 4 x 75; 4 x 80           880.0
2.  Tillari                                                     60.0
3.  Koyna DPH                2 x 20                             40.0
4.  Eldari                   3 x 7.5                            22.5
5.  Vir                      2 x 4.5                             9.0
6.  Bhatgar                                                     16.0
7.  Radhanagari              4 x 1.2                             4.8
8.  Vaitarna                                                    60.0
9.  Vaitarna-Dam toe         1 x 1.5                             1.5
10. Tata Electric Cos.       Bhira      -  6 x 25 )            294.0
Bhivpuri - 6 x 12 )
Khopoli   -  6 x 12)
11. Bhira Tailrace           2 x 40                             80.0
12. Paithan                                                     12.0
13. Pench 1/3 Share                                             53.0
14. Bhandardara                                                 10.0
15. Pawna                                                       10.0
1,552.8



Annex 5.2
Page 3 of 3
Total
Installed
Particulars              Capacity (MW)
Number of Units x MW
Thermal
1.  Nasik                     2 x 140; 3 x 210                 910.0
2.  Trombay 1, 2 & 3          3 x 62.5                         187.5
3.  Trombay 4, 5 & 6          1 x 150 )                      1,150.0
1 x 500 )
1 x 500 )
4.  Koradi                                                   1,100.0
5.  Bhusaval                                                   482.5
6.  Paras                                                       92.5
7.  Parli                     2 x 30 )                         690.0
3 x 210)
8.  Khaperkheda               3 x 30  )                        510.0
2 x 210 )
9.  Uran (Gas)                                                 672.0
10. Chandrapur                                                 840.0
6,634.5
2.    Planned Additions by 1994-95 in accordance with the survey
Hydro                 WIT            Thermal                          MW
1. Bhatsa            15              1. Chandrapur                  1,000
2. Khadakwasla       16              2. Khaper Kheda Extn II-IV    630
3. Ujjani            12              3. Uran Waste Heat               240
4. Kanher             4              4. Dahanu                        500.
5. Dhom               2                                             -
6. Terwanmedh         0.2                                           2,370
7. Warna             16                                             -----
8. Manikodh           6
9. Surya              6
10. Dimbhe             5
11. Duganga           24
12. Bhandara Ph2      34
13. Koyna IV       1,000 a/
1,140.2
a/ Unlikely to be commissioned fully by 1994-95 and thus peaking
deficits will further increase.



-98-
Annex5.3
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
PRIYATE POERB UTILITIES IBSES) PROJECT
sconomic Analysis
Eatimation of Consumer Surplus
I. AGRICULTUR1% CONSUMRSB
The economic value of consumers' willingness-to-pay for public
electricity for irrigation is estimated as the electricity rate which equates the
economic costs of diesel and electric irrigation pumping.
Estimated Costs of Dieoel and Electric Pumo-ing
Blactric          Diesel
Motor/Engine Size (H.P.)           5.0 a/             7.0
Pump Lifetime (years)            15.0               10.0
Pump Capital Cost (Rs)          4,440             11,365
Annual Charge  (Rs)               652              2,011
0 & M Costs (RS)                1,017              2,857
Costs of Diesel Fuel (Rs/hr.) /   -                  8.8
Annual Diesel Costs (Rs)                           7,000
Cost of Electricity (paise/kWh)  XXX g/               -
Total Annual Cost        1,699 + 2,984(NXXX        11.868
Electricity rate at which electric and diesel pumping costs the same:
Paise XXX/kWh - (11,868 - 1,699)/2,984
- Paise 341 psr kWh
A/    I M.P. - 0.746 kW.
k/    Assuming an economic price of high speed diesel of Rs 3.5 per liter, and
consumption of 2.5 litres per hour and operation for 800 hours per year.
c/    2,984 a 5 x 0.746 x 800.



-99-
Annex 5.3
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES .IBES1 PROJECT
Economic Analysis
estimation of Consumer SurDlus
II I.  2 R  SRS
Consumers' willingness-to-pay for public electricity is related to
the additional financial cost that would be incurred through private supply.
Correspondingly, the economic value of this willingness-to-pay is related to the
economic costs of private supply, which are estimated below.
Estimated Costs of Autoceneration
_    Cost oer kW of Ca2acity (Rg1
SO km--Machine    200-400 kW Machine
Capital Cost a/                      6,300              4,420
Annual Charge  9/ 925                                     649
Salaries                               668               449
Maintenance                            134                 92
Total annual Fixed Costs             1,727              1,190
Cost 2er kWh Generated (Paisel
2.    Variable Costs
Diesel Fuel J                         140                 112
Lubricant                                4                   4
Total Variable Costs                   144                 116
3.    Fixed Costs at 15% Load Factor 4/      131                  91
4.    Average Cost of Generation             am                  2QZ
A/    C.1.F. price, plus handling and installation.
k/   Assumlng a 15-year life and 12% discount rate.
I/    Assuming an economlc cost of high speed diesel of Rs 3.5 per liter and
specific consumptLon rates of 0.4 liter per kWh and 0.32 liter per kWh,
respectively in the 50 kW and 200-400 kW machine;.
4/    CRA's estimate of the average load factor of private generators.



-100-
Annex 5J
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES fDSES) PROJECT
Economic Ain_ysis
Western Reoin Exvansion Proaram
Summary of AssumDt-ions
FY91 to FY2000 investment time slice, including only those projects
that would be implemented fully during the period.  Construction
periods assumed are: coal-fired - 5 years; hydro stations - 8 years;
gas-fired - 3 years.
Station capital costs in January 1991 prices are estimated at: coal
stations - Rs 14,260 per kW; hydro stations - Rs 11,250 per kW; and
gas stations at Rs 6.500 per kW (average cost of retrofitted and
new units).
Associated transmission and distribution investments assumed to be
equivalent to 60% of generation investments.
- Annual operating and maintenance costs are assumed as: coal-fired
and gas-fired stations - 2.5% of station capital costs; hydro
stations - 1.1% of station capital costs; and T&D - 1% of capital
costs.
Average fuel consumptions of new stations are assumed as: coal
stations - 0.6 kg/kWh of coal and 10 ml/kWh of oil; and gas stations
at 0.23 cu.m./kWh .
Economic fuel costs are assumed as: coal - Rs 360 per tonne (average
of pithead and load center stations); oil- Rs 2.7 per litre; and gas
- Re 2,200 per thousand cu.m.  For pumped-storage projects, fuel
costs are based on coal at Re 520 per tonne.
Annual generation by new stations is assumed as : coal - 1,000 hours
Ln the first year, 3,500 hours in second year, and 6,150 hru per
year thereafter; gas - 6,000 hours per year; hydro - 2600 hours
per year; and pumped storage (excluding Bihar) 2,200 hours per year.
Consumption by station auxiliary equilpment is assumed ass coal - 10%
of gross generation; gas - 2%, and hydro - 1.
Transmission and distribution losses are assumed as 20% in FY 91
declining to 15% by FY2000.



INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILIlIES (BSES) PROJCCT
Economi Analysis
Vestern Regia, Expansion Program
NPV at 12X : Rs 187.345 sillion
(Rupees 4illion)                                                     EIRR : 25.2X
Fiscal               Capital Costs                                Operating Costs                                      Incresental Benefits                     TOTAL
Year       ---------------------------------------------  ---------------------------------    TOTAL         ----------------------------------  TOTAL          MET
ending      Thermal    Hydro      Gas      T&D   Sub-total   Fuel  Gen CSM  T&D OS Sub-total   COSTS          sales    Reverue Consu4er Surplus 3ENEFITS    BEFITS
a/       bI
1991         2438      760      3071              6269                                           6269                                                         -6269
1992         6473     1000      4711             12184                                          12184                                                        -12184
1993        14970     2595      5557             23122                                          23122                                                        -23122
1994        18349     4079      1887             24314                                          24314                                                        -24314
1995        22954     5186              11356    39495      7681      998               8679    48174        13280    11421    13546            24MI6        -23208
1996        255Z0     6800              17034    49353      9013     1446              10459    59812        19619    16b72    20011            36PR4        -22928
1997        23552     7106              17034    47692    11172      1952      454    13579    61270         26313    22629    26839            494S8        -11802
1998        15041     5561              22712    43314    13306      2774      681    16761    60075         34035    29270    34716            63986          3910
1999         6002     2976              22712    31690    16372      3690      908    20969    52659         44790    38519    45686            84205         31546
2000         1426     1166              11356    13948    19746      4219      1022    24987    38934        56971    48995    58110           107105         68171
2001                                    11356    11356    21808      4219      1135    27162    38518        63363    54493    64631           119123         80605
2002                                                       22461     4219      1211    27892    27892        65391    5S236    66698           122934         95042   1
2003                                                       22461     4219      1211    27892    27892        65391    56236    66698           122934         95042  P-
2004                                                       22461     4219     1211    27892    2789r.        65391    56236    66698           122934         95042   0
2005                                                       22461     4219     1211    27892    27892         65391    56236    66696           122934         95042
unti I
2021                                                       22461     4219      1211    27892    27892        65391    56236    66696           122934         95042
a/ Based on average economic tariff level of Rs 0.86 per kWh
bJ   Coansw  surplus estimated at Rs 1.02 per kWl.
Source: Bank and CEA estimates
0.
> *
pJ 4



-102-
Annex 5.5
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES I3BSES PROJECT
EconomLc Analysis
Rgulte of Sensitivitv Analysis of Wegtern Realonal Proaram
XIRR           NPV at 12%
I 1 1       (In Re BDllionsl
Dame Case                      25.2                187
Without Consumer
Surplus Value                 7.0                (55)
Higher program costes
10%               22.6                161
25%               19.3                122
5C%               15.0                 57
Lower program benefits:
10%               22.3                143
25%               17.8                 75
50%                8.8                (36)
Program delays:
One year                 21.4                 151
Two years                _8.7                 118
Three years              16.7                  87



INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
ENERGY DISPATCH FROM DAHANU THERMAL POWER PLANT TO THE WESTERN GRID
PROJECT'S IMPACT ON GRID            DAHANU OPERATION
REGIONAL         ---------------________________   ---------------------------
FY             SYSTEM           ADDITIONAL        ENERGY             NET    GROSS   PLANT
ENDING          REQUIREMENT a/   INPUT b/          DISPLACEMENT b/    GEN c/  GEN    L.F.
 ---------------------------------------------                      ---         -------_______
GWh              GWh              GWh               GWh     GWh      GWh
1995           109065
1996           118177              201              1792             1993    2190   0.500
1997           128094              1832              559             2391    2628   0.600
1998           138151             2140               650             2790    3066   0.700
1999           150518             2333               457             2790    3066   0.700             o
2000           163180             2480               310             2790    3066   0.700
2001           176887             2653               137             2790    3066   0.700
2002           191746             2790                               2790    3066   0.700
2003           207852             2790                               2790    3066   0.700
2004           225312             2790                               2790    3066   0.700
2005           244238              2790                              2790    3066   0.700
2006           264754             2790                               2790    3066   0.700
___________________________
a/ Assumes 64% system load factor from FY2002 and thereafter
b/  Based on CEA's simulation of system generation dispatch and resulting LOLP and levels of
unserved energy with and without the project.
c/ 9% station use for Dahanu Thermal Plant



-104-
Annex- 57
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES 1lSESl_ ROJECT
Economic Analvais
.; ,. n_of the Project's Economic Internal Rate of Return
Summary of Assumptions
Among the cost elements (expressed in January 1991 prices) considered in
estimating the economic costs of the project are:
a)    Direct capital costs, inclusive of physical contingencies, for the
thermal station, FGD plant, and associated transmission and
distribution facilities; subject to exclusion of taxes and duties
and to a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8 on the local
currency components. Residential and commercial wiring costs of Rs
1,300 per kW additional load connection.
b)    operating and maintenance expenses for generation equivalent to 2.5%
of capital costs of the thermal station; for transmission - 1.0% of
line investment; and for distribution - Rs 200 per additional kVA
connection based on prevailing levels.
C)    Coal expense based on an ex-mine cost of Rs 167 per ton plus
transport cost of Rs 443 per ton and coal consumption of 0.60
kg/kWh. Fuel oil expense is based on an economic price of Rs 2,700
per liter and consumption of 10 ml/kWh.
d)    Plant load build-up is assumed at 50% plant factor during the first
year of commissioning, 60% during the second year and 70%
thereafter.
In evaluating the benefits derived from the project, the following
parameters were assumed:
e)    Energy losses reflecting Dahanu thermal station use of 9% of gross
generation; transmission loss of 2% from the station to the load
center; 10% distribution losses within BSES service area.
f)    An average tariff of Re 1.50 per kWh, subject to 0.8 SCF, for
incremental energy sales attributable to the operation of the Dahanu
Thermal Station; consumer surplus value among BSES consumers
estimated at Rs 0.64 per kWh.
g)    Cost  savings  due  to  displacement  of  less  efficient  thermal
generation estimated at Rs 0.50 per kWh.



INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
ESTIMATION OF ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN FOR THE PROJECT
(in Million Rupees)
INCREMENTAL COSTS W/ FGD              INCREMENTAL BENEFITS                  NET
------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ------------------------------------  ECONOMIC
FY ENDING     CAPITAL     O&M   SUB-TOTAL     TARIFF   C.SURPLUS SAVINGS SUB-TOTAL       BENEFIT
-----------------------------------------------------------__----------------__-----------------
1991         672.9             672.9                                                 -672.9
1992         806.2             806.2                                                 -806.2
1993        1742.7            1742.7                                                -1742.7
1994        2361.1            2361.1                                                -2361.1
1995        1302.8            1302.8                                                -1302.8
1996         932.0   1001.5   1933.5         217.1    115.8    896.0   1228.9        -704.6
1997          69.0   1172.4   1241.4        1978.6   1055.2    279.7   3313.5        2072.1
1998          71.4   1343.3   1414.7        2311.2   1232.6    325.0   2868.8        2454.1
1999          76.1   1343.5   1419.6        2519.6   1343.8    228.5   4091.9        2672.3                o
2000          78.4   1343.6   1422.0        2678.4   1428.5    155.0   4261.9         2839.9               VI
2001          81.9   1343.7   1425.6        2865.2   1528.1     68.5   4461.8         3036.2
2002          62.6   1343.8   1406.4        3016.4   1608.8            4625.2         3218.8
2003          67.0   1344.0   1411.0        3016.4   1608.8            4625.2         3214.2
2004          68.5   1344.0   1412.5        3016.4   1608.8            4625.2         3212.7
2005                 1344.0   1344.0        3016.4   1608.8            4625.2        3281.2
until
2020                 1344.0   1344.0        3016.4   1608.8            4625.2         3281.2
EIRR   : 21.99%
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12% : Rs 6,501 Million
0 0
vK 
tD 
0a
o .J



-106-
Annex 5.8
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
Economic AnalVsis
Results of Sensitivity AnalvEis for the Pronosed Proiect
EIRR           NPV at 12%
( % I       (In Rs Millionsl
Base Case                      22.0                6,501
Without Consumer
Surplus Value                13.3                  677
Without FGD plant              22.9                6,853
Higher project costs:
10%               20.6                5,964
25%               18.8                5,157
50%               16.5                3,812
Lower benefits:
10%               19.6                4,740
25%               15.7                2,099
50%                6.9               (2,303)
Project delays:
One year                 19.4                5,131
Two years                17.4                3,907
Three years              15.8                2,814
Project cost overruns
and lower benefit combined:
10%               18.4                4,203
25%               13.1                  755



-107-
Annex 5.9
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSESI PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Evaluation of a Combined-Cycle Alternative
The comparative economics of a combined-cycle alternative vis-a-vis
the project was examined notwithstanding the fact that the gas supply situation
in the Bombay area is presently not conducive for setting up a gas-based plant
for BSES. The results indicate that while the combined-cycle alternative would
have been able to serve more load in the system because of its operational
flexibility for intermediate loading, the proposed Dahanu thermal stdtion remains
competitive due to the relatively attractive bid offer received for the
generation equipment and the relatively higher fuel expense attached to gas use
given the limited supply and large potential demand.
For purposes of the economic analysis, two estimates of the capital
cost of a combined-cycle facility were taken, i.e., at at the conservative price
of US$600 per kW and at US$730 per kW installed including site development costs.
The latter estimate is based on the latest price offers received for the main
plant turnkey contract for one of NTPC's gas projects and follows recent upward
trend in costs of combined-cycle plants in the world market. Gas pipeline costs
serving the power plant installation, in this case from the Hazira terminal, was
taken at $25 million (at USS 250,000 per km of pipeline). The economic value of
new gas supply in the area is estimated to be about Rs 2,200 per thousand cu.m.
and approximates the equivalent fuel oil price parity (at US$20 per barrel of
crude) for gas use among industries in the Bombay area. The heat value of gas
is estimated at 8,500 kcal per cu.m., and the power plant's heat rate at 2,000
kcal per kWh. The plant's auxiliary consumption is assumed to be equivalent to
3% of gross generation.
The following table presents the derived economic rate of return
for a combined-cycle alternative relative to that of the proposed project:
Table 1. Com3arative Economics of the Combined-Cycle Alternative
vs. the Proposed Project
EIRR                  NPV at 12 %
M8)               (In Rs. Millions)
Combined-Cycle
at US$600 per kW       22.9                     6,545
at US$730 per kW       20.7                     5,742
Proposed Project
with FGD               22.0                     6,501
without FGD            22.9                     6,853



-108-
Annex 5.9
Page 2 of 2
The differences in economic yields between the proposed project and a
combined-cycle plant are hardly significant, such that modest variations in cost
parameters, particularly with respect to capital cost and fuel price movements,
can shift the economic advantage of one scheme over the other. For example: even
against a low combined-cycle plant cost of about US$600 pe;: kW installed, the NPV
at a 12% discount rate of the proposed project is sufficiently attractive, and
more so if the FOD unit is excluded. The cur- nt tight international market for
gas-based plants also enhances the project'B attractiveness.
In any case, the non-availability of assured long-term gas supply has been
a critical factor for not pursuing a combined-cycle plant option. Nevertheless,
to cover the possibility of increased gas reserves becoming available in the
Bombay area and assuming that future gas market conditions result in a lower
economic value attached to gas, the proposed plant's boilers has been designed
for dual-firing (coal or gas). The operational efficiency associated with the
combined-cycle operation would not, however, be attained.



-109-
Annex 6.1
INDIA
PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES (BSES) PROJECT
Documents in Prolect File
1.    2x250 MW Thermal Power Station in Western Maharashtra -- Feasibility
Report; BSES; August 1988.
2.    Basic Information for Environmental Appraisal; BSES; June 1987.
3.    Environmental Impact Assessment -- Supplementary Report; BSES; 1988.
4.    Flue Gas Desulphurization Relevance in Indian Context; BSES; 1988.
5.    Environmental Appraisal for the Dahanu Thermal Electric Project; James
H. Trall (IBRD/IFC Consultant); Harza Engineering Company; October 1989.
6.    The Dahanu Thermal Power Project - A Social Impact Reconnaissance
Report; Jasper Ingersoll (IBRD/IFC Consultant); October 1989.
7.    Dahanu Thermal Power Station; BSES: October 1989 (Booklets 1 and 3).
8.    Discussion Material Provided by BSES to October 1989, July 1990, October
1990, and February 1991 Joint IBRD/IFC Missions.
9.    Due Diligence Plan (Environment) -- Status Report; BSES; January 15,
1991 (two volumes).
10.   Organization Structure; BSES; January and April 1990.
11.   Action Plan for Human Resource Development; BSES; 1990.
12.   Environmental Assessment; IBRD/IFC Consultant and Project Team;
May 1991.



..____________________ _ .l_ _IBRD   229 f
I N D I A
SECOND PRIVATE POWER UTILITIES PROJECT (BSES)
DHLYA46           VAHM                    DAHANU THERMAL POWER STATION AND
o          ASSOCIATED TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUlION DEVELOPMENT
.    PROPOSED POWER STATION
DAHANJ) COAL FIRED                    0   PROPOSED SUB STATIONS
rAHANUO EPOWESTATION               -      PROPOSED 220 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
BSES SUPPLY AREA
liSf       o                    i    ^ BEST SUPPLY AREA
TAkWROPA                 AM KHURD
BOISAR           USAKHURD                 ^ EXISTING TARAPUR POWER STATION
*   EXISTING SUB STATION
EXISTING 220 kV TARAPUR-BORIVLI AND
TARAPUR-GUJARAT TRANSMISSION LINES OF MSEB
RIVERS
O   SELECTED TOWNS
MO,HiMAO                                  0'F \Ao  r
GHODBlKD             /                    g          ,4_ H    R
TUPADE 0
IL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-
U -|-  6 *j        ZO0M             FA   1- 7KL ,
V\>j (/Y 9MM
BOMBAY    4:/,, -( 
,     (                TUR^DEO                       o - r*ns*Beaivoflo-Slot, 
APRIL 1991



