Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3344 IN
             (Private Power Utilities (BSES) Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
              BOMBAY SUBURBAN ELECTRIC SUPPLY LIMITED
                        Dated July 12, 1991
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3344 IN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 12, 1991, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) and BOMBAY SUBURBAN ELECTRIC SUPPLY LIMITED
(the Borrower).
      WHEREAS (A) India, acting by its President (the
Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank,
the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of the Loan;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from
International Finance Corporation (IFC) a loan (the IFC
Loan) in an amount in aggregate equivalent to $68,000,000
comprising an A Loan for $50,000,000 from IFC's own
Page  2
account and a B Loan for $18,000,000 through syndication
to assist in financing the Project, on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (IFC Investment
Agreement) or in any supplemental agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and IFC; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
and
      (b)   in Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-
lettered as sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k)
is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have
      arisen under which any further withdrawals under
      the Loan would be inconsistent with the purposes of
      Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
      Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Existing Liens" means the liens referred to in
Schedule 6 of this Agreement;
      (b)   "Subsidiary" means any company which is a
subsidiary of the Borrower within the meaning of the
Companies Act, 1956, as amended, of the Guarantor;
      (c)   "Rupees" and "Rs" mean the currency of India;
      (d)   "License" means The Bombay Suburban Electric
License, 1926 duly assigned to the Borrower on May 30,
1930 and such term includes any and all amendments,
extensions or renewals of the License;
      (e)   "Electricity Act" means the Electricity
(Supply) Act, 1948, as amended from time to time, of the
Guarantor;
      (f)   "Companies Act" means the Companies Act, 1956,
as amended from time to time, of the Guarantor;
      (g)   "Second Debenture" means the proposed second
debenture and/or equity issue of the Borrower for Rs 1500
million; and
      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
Page  3
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan,
with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of
such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit
account in State Bank of India on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1996 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month
                   period ending on the date immediately
                   preceding each date specified in Section
                   2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
                   the Interest Period in which this
                   Agreement is signed.
            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
                   cost, as reasonably determined by the
                   Bank and expressed as a percentage per
                   annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                   the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
                   excluding such borrowings or portions
Page  4
                   thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and
                   (B) loans which may be made by the Bank
                   after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
                   rates determined otherwise than as
                   provided in paragraph (a) of this
                   Section.
            (iii)        "Semester" means the first six
                         months or the second six months of
                         a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on
            the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for
            each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the
            preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one
            percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the
            rates applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the
            end of each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the
            Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month
            period commencing on January 1, April 1, July
            1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish and
maintain a project management structure satisfactory to
the Bank.
                            ARTICLE IV
Page  5
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its
operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with
sound administrative, financial and engineering practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times
operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and
other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
      Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets
which shall be required for the efficient carrying on of
its businesses and undertakings, including the Project,
but the Borrower shall be at liberty to dispose of any of
its properties or assets which are not so required.
      Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause its subsidi-
aries (if any) to observe and perform the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement to the extent to which
the same may be applicable thereto as though such
obligations were binding upon each such subsidiary.
      Section 4.06. The Borrower shall inform the Bank
prior to making any major changes in its organizational
structure or in the scope of activities handled by it.
      Section 4.07. The Borrower shall, prior to the
synchronization of the first unit to be constructed under
the Project, conclude commercial agreements with the
Maharashtra State Electricity Board and the Tata Electric
Companies in respect of the plant operations by the
Borrower.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements
                   of income and expenses and related
                   statements) and the records and accounts
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later
                   than four months after the end of each
                   such year: (A) certified copies of its
Page  6
                   financial statements for such year as so
                   audited, and (B) the report of such
                   audit by said auditors, of such scope
                   and in such detail as the Bank shall
                   have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)        furnish to the Bank such other
                         information concerning said
                         records, accounts and financial
                         statements as well as the audit
                         thereof as the Bank shall from time
                         to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain, in accordance with
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, records
                   and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after
                   the Bank has received the audit report
                   for the fiscal year in which the last
                   withdrawal from the Loan Account or
                   payment out of the Special Account was
                   made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)        enable the Bank's representatives
                         to examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts
                   are included in the annual audit
                   referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                   Section and that the report of such
                   audit contains a separate opinion by
                   said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted
                   during such fiscal year, together with
                   the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related
                   withdrawals.
      Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall, subject to the
provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section and to the
priorities existing on charges created to the date of
this Agreement, create in favor of the Bank an equitable
mortgage/charge in such form as the Bank may reasonably
require to constitute by way of security for the Loan:
            (i)    a first specific charge upon all of its
                   immovable assets together with all
                   rights and interests appertaining to or
                   necessary for said assets to which the
                   Borrower is now or may hereafter become
                   beneficially entitled, such mortgage to
                   rank in point of security equally and
                   ratably with mortgages/charges upon the
                   said assets in respect of Existing Liens
                   but prior to any other lien upon the
                   assets of the Borrower, now existing or
                   hereafter created;
            (ii)   an assignment by way of mortgage of the
                   Licenses, together with any extensions,
                   amendments or renewals thereof such
                   assignment to rank in point of security
                   equally and ratably with the
Page  7
                   mortgages/charges upon the Licenses in
                   respect of the Existing Liens but prior
                   to any other lien upon the Licenses now
                   existing or herein-after created; and
            (iii)        a first specific charge upon all
                         movable assets of the Borrower, now
                         existing or subsequently added
                         thereto, together with all rights
                         and interests appertaining to or
                         necessary for said assets to which
                         the Borrower is now or may
                         hereafter become beneficially
                         entitled such charge to rank in
                         point of security equally and
                         ratably with the Existing Liens
                         upon the said assets but prior to
                         any other liens upon such assets,
                         now existing or hereafter created.
      (b)   Pursuant to the provisions of Section 9.03 (b)
of the General Conditions, it is agreed that the Borrower
may:
            (i)    (A)   create liens, ranking in point of
                         security equally and ratably with
                         the assignment of the Licenses
                         under sub-section (a) (ii) of this
                         Section and the first specific
                         charge referred to in sub-section
                         (a) (i) of this Section, upon all
                         the assets mentioned in said sub-
                         section together with all rights
                         and interests appertaining to or
                         necessary for said assets to which
                         the Borrower is now or may
                         hereafter become beneficially
                         entitled; and
                   (B)   create liens, ranking in point of
                         security equally and ratably with
                         the first specific/floating charge
                         referred to in sub-section (a)
                         (iii) of this Section, upon all or
                         any assets of the Borrower referred
                         to in said sub-section;
                   for securing debts or borrowings up to
                   an aggregate under sub-paragraphs (A)
                   and (B) of this paragraph, of Rupees
                   11,000 million or such other amount
                   acceptable to the Bank for the purposes
                   of financing or refinancing capital
                   investments including the investments
                   required for the Project; and
            (ii)   create liens, including hypothecations,
                   ranking in priority to the security
                   provided for in paragraph (a) of this
                   Section on current assets (stores, spare
                   parts and fuel, including coal) securing
                   debts or borrowings maturing not more
                   than one year (at a time) from their
                   respective dates and incurred to bankers
                   in the ordinary course of business, in
                   an amount not exceeding in the aggregate
                   at any one time Rupees 1,000 million or
                   such other amount acceptable to the
                   Bank.
      (c)   The Borrower undertakes that no subsidiary (if
any) of the Borrower shall at any time without the
Page  8
consent of the Bank create any lien on its undertakings
or assets (including uncalled capital) or any part
thereof otherwise than in favor of the Borrower and that
all liens created by any subsidiary of the Borrower in
favor of the Borrower shall be retained by the Borrower
and shall not be sold, transferred or otherwise disposed
of by it and that it will not sell, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any shares for the time being held by it in
any subsidiary.
      (d)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    take all necessary steps and shall
                   require all other necessary parties to
                   take all necessary steps to ensure that
                   all liens, including the Existing Liens,
                   outstanding upon the assets and all
                   liens upon such assets to be created
                   under this Section 5.02 shall be
                   discharged or be varied to the
                   reasonable satisfaction of the Bank so
                   as to ensure that full effect may be
                   given to the foregoing provisions of
                   this Section; and
            (ii)   obtain all necessary consents for the
                   valid creation of aforesaid security and
                   shall duly register or file, or cause to
                   be duly registered or filed, as
                   necessary, such security in accordance
                   with the Companies Act, together with
                   such other documents as may be necessary
                   or proper in order to render the same
                   fully effective in accordance with its
                   terms.
      (e)   The Borrower shall secure all necessary
permissions from the Government of the State of
Maharashtra to enable it to carry out its obligations
under this Section.
      (f)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of
this Section, the Borrower shall, if required by the
Bank, convert the equitable mortgage to be created in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, into a
legal mortgage in English form by way of a Trust Deed in
favor of such trustees and in such form as the Bank may
reasonably require to constitute by way of security for
the Loan substantially in accordance with the foregoing
provisions of this Section 5.02. To this end, the
Borrower shall execute in favor of the Bank an
irrevocable power of attorney authorizing the Bank, inter
alia, to execute on behalf of the Borrower a legal
mortgage in English form as aforesaid.
      Section 5.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise
agree, if the Borrower shall directly or indirectly pay
or otherwise settle for a consideration, before maturity,
part or all of any outstanding secured debt, the Borrower
shall repay a proportionate part, or all, as the case may
be, of the Loan.
      Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall: (i) set its tariffs at levels
sufficient to achieve the prescribed return on its
capital base and to recover, through special
appropriations, inter alia, the aggregate amount of
repayments of principal of its debt for that year, as
permissible under the Electricity Act; and (ii) not incur
any debt if after the incurrence of such debt the
aggregate principal amount of debt of the Borrower then
incurred and outstanding would be greater than 2.5 times
Page  9
the equity of the Borrower.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness
                   of the Borrower maturing by its terms
                   more than one year after the date on
                   which it is originally incurred.
            (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A)
                   under a loan contract or agreement or
                   other instrument providing for such debt
                   or for the modification of its terms of
                   payment, on the date of such contract,
                   agreement or instrument; and (B) under a
                   guarantee agreement, on the date the
                   agreement providing for such guarantee
                   has been entered into but only to the
                   extent that the guaranteed debt is
                   outstanding.
            (iii)        Capital base of the Borrower shall
                         be calculated in the manner
                         prescribed in paragraph XVII of the
                         Sixth Schedule to the Electricity
                         Act.
            (iv)   The term "special appropriations" means
                   the appropriations allowed in accordance
                   with the provisions of paragraph XVII of
                   the Sixth Schedule to the Electricity
                   Act.
            (v)    The term "equity of the Borrower" means
                   the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up
                   capital, retained earnings and reserves
                   of the Borrower not allocated to cover
                   specific liabilities.
            (vi)   Whenever for the purposes of this
                   Section it shall be necessary to value,
                   in terms of the currency of the
                   Guarantor, debt payable in another
                   currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful
                   rate of exchange at which such other
                   currency is, at the time of such
                   valuation, obtainable for the purposes
                   of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a
                   rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, by November 30 of each
year, furnish to the Bank its financial projections
covering its current and next four financial years
projected performance, indicating the actions, if any,
required to be taken to meet the foregoing provisions of
this Section.
      Section 5.05. The Borrower shall, not later than
June 30, 1994, complete subscription of the Second
Debenture, underwritten to the extent of public issue.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
      (a)   the Memorandum or the Articles of Association
Page  10
of Borrower as at the date of this Agreement shall have
been amended without the prior consent of the Bank;
      (b)   the License shall have been amended, abrogated,
waived, assigned, suspended or revoked without prior
consent of the Bank; and
      (c)    (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
                   paragraph:
                   (A)         The right of the Borrower to
                               withdraw the proceeds of any
                               loan made to the Borrower for
                               the financing of the Project
                               shall have been suspended,
                               cancelled or terminated in
                               whole or in part, pursuant to
                               the terms of the agreement
                               providing therefor; or
                   (B)         any such loan shall have
                               become due and  payable prior
                               to the agreed maturity
                               thereof.
            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall
                   not apply if the Borrower establishes to
                   the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A)
                   such suspension, cancellation,
                   termination or pre- maturing is not
                   caused by the failure of the Borrower to
                   perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
                   for the Project are available to the
                   Borrower from other sources on terms and
                   conditions consistent with the obliga-
                   tions of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.
      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to
the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   a valid security in favor of the Bank, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, has been created
to secure the Loan;
      (b)   the power of attorney referred to in Section
5.02 (f) of this Agreement has been executed;
      (c)   the validity of the License has been extended
at least up to August 15, 2011; and
      (d)   all conditions precedent to disbursement of the
proceeds of the IFC Loan specified in Section 5.01 of the
IFC Investment Agreement, except for those related to the
Page  11
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
      Section 7.02. The following is specified as an
additional matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely,
that all action necessary or proper in order to create a
valid security in favor of the Bank, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, has been taken to
secure the Loan.
      Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The Chairman and Managing Director of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 82987 (FTCC)
                   Washington, D.C.               197688 (TRT)
                                            248423 (RCA) or
                                             64145 (WUI)
      For the Borrower:
            Bombay Suburban Electric Supply Limited
            Nagin Mahal, 6th Floor
            82 V.N. Road
            Bombay, 400020
            India
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                 SUPERPOWER                        11-85808 BSES IN
                 Bombay
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Heinz Vergin
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
Page  12
                       BOMBAY SUBURBAN ELECTRIC SUPPLY LIMITED
                       By /s/ M. L. Shishoo
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)      Equipment           186,300,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
(2)      Consultants'          3,700,000        100%
    services
(3)      Unallocated          10,000,000
                             ___________
         TOTAL               200,000,000
                             ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Guarantor; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Guarantor.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $30,000,000, may be made on
account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after January 31, 1991.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist in the
least-cost development program for the Western Region
interconnected power system in India.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Page  13
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:     Power Plant
      The acquisition and installation of two 250 MW coal-
fired turbo-generating units at Dahanu in the State of
Maharashtra including steam generators; turbo-generator
sets complete with auxiliaries; once-through circulating
water system; a coal handling plant; an ash handling
plant; a water treatment plant; an oil handling plant;
power station switchyard, electrical and mechanical
equipment, environmental safeguard equipment; associated
civil works and consulting services.
Part B:     Transmission Lines
      The acquisition and installation of two double
circuit 220 kV transmission lines of about 105 kilometers
to transmit power from Dahanu to the Borrower's licensed
area of operations, and the construction of three 220/33
kV receiving substations.
Part C:     Subtransmission and Distribution System
      The strengthening and extension of the Borrower's 33
kV and 11 kV subtransmission and distribution system.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
      February 15, 1997                               3,645,000
      August 15, 1997                                 3,790,000
      February 15, 1998                               3,935,000
      August 15, 1998                                 4,085,000
      February 15, 1999                               4,245,000
      August 15, 1999                                 4,410,000
      February 15, 2000                               4,580,000
      August 15, 2000                                 4,755,000
      February 15, 2001                               4,940,000
      August 15, 2001                                 5,130,000
      February 15, 2002                               5,330,000
      August 15, 2002                                 5,535,000
      February 15, 2003                               5,750,000
      August 15, 2003                                 5,970,000
      February 15, 2004                               6,200,000
      August 15, 2004                                 6,440,000
      February 15, 2005                               6,690,000
      August 15, 2005                                 6,950,000
      February 15, 2006                               7,220,000
      August 15, 2006                                 7,495,000
      February 15, 2007                               7,785,000
      August 15, 2007                                 8,085,000
      February 15, 2008                               8,400,000
      August 15, 2008                                 8,725,000
      February 15, 2009                               9,060,000
      August 15, 2009                                 9,410,000
      February 15, 2010                               9,775,000
      August 15, 2010                                10,155,000
      February 15, 2011                              10,545,000
      August 15, 2011                                10,965,000
____________________________
Page  14
*     The figures in this column represent dollar
      equivalents determined as of the respective dates
      of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
      3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                           Premium
                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                           0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                           0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                             0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                          0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                           1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured
in India may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
      Items or groups of items estimated to cost the
Page  15
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $4,000,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost
the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1) and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  16
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $13,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special
                   Account, the Borrower shall furnish to
                   the Bank requests for deposits into the
                   Special Account at such intervals as the
                   Bank shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such
                   request, the Borrower shall furnish to
                   the Bank the documents and other
                   evidence required pursuant to
                   paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis
                   of each such request, the Bank shall, on
                   behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
                   the Loan Account and deposit into the
                   Special Account such amount as the
                   Borrower shall have requested and as
                   shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out
                   of the Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of
Page  17
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide
such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall
so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower have provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Existing Liens
1.  DEBENTURES
                                        Date of     Type of
                           Rupees      Redemption   Mortgage
 10,000-61.2% "A" Class  10,000,000    July 1, 1993  Legal
                                                     mortgage
207,364-15% "C" Class    20,736,400)  At the expiry    -do-
  7,818-15% "C" Class       784,800)  of 7th, 8th &    -do-
 25,421-15% "D" Class     2,542,100)  9th year from    -do-
 24,579-15% "D" Class     2,457,900)  1st June, 1986   -do-
 53,950-13.5% "E" Class   5,395,000)    July 1, 1992   -do-
 16,050-13.5% "E" Class   4,605,000)                   -do-
 93,637-15% "F" Class     9,363,700    July 1, 1997    -do-
200,000-15% "G" Class    20,000,000    At expiry of   Equitable
                                      6th, 7th &      mortgage
                                      8th year from
                                      Aug. 31, 1989
Page  18
200,000-15% "H" Class   20,000,000    May 18, 1991     -do-
200,000-15% "I" Class   20,000,000    Oct. 11, 1992    -do-
2.  TERM LOAN
Term loan from United                                 Equitable
Commercial Bank           9,500,000                   mortgage
3.  CASH CREDIT FACILITY
United Commercial
Bank (16%)               23,500,000)                  Deed of
                                   )                  Hypothe-
Canara Bank (16%)        17,500,000)                  cation
