Document of
The World Bank F4L   tr6k
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2174a-IN
INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF THE
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
June 30, 1980
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division C
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00    =  Rupees (Rs) 8.40 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                          =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                     =    0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                       =    2.47 acres (ac)
1 sq. km                             =    0.39 sq. miles
3
1 million cubic meters (Mm )         =    810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
3
1 cVbic meter per second (M /sec)  =    35 cubic feet per second (cusec)
1 kilogram (kg)                      =    2.20 pounds
1000 kilogram (kg)                   =    0.98 long tons
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CCF       -    Construction Conversion Factor
CWC       -    Central Water Commission
DFO       -    District Forest Officer
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP    -    FAO/Cooperative Program
GOI       -    Government of India
GOP       -    Government of Punjab
HYV       -    High Yielding Varieties (Seed)
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
IDA       -    International Development Association
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
M         -    Million
MARKFED   -    State Marketing Federation
OER       -    Official Exchange Rate
PAU       -    Punjab Agricultural University (Ludhiana)
PCR       -    Project Completion Report
SCF       -    Standard Conversion Factor
CROP SEASON
Kharif  -   Rainy Season
Rabi    -   Winter Dry Season
1/|  Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been fixed against a "basket"
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have
been made at US$1 to Rs 8.40, which represents the projected exchange
rate over the disbursement period.



INDIA                          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND ........................................                    1
Agriculture in India .........................                   1
Bank Group Support ...........................                   1
II.    THE STATE OF PUNJAB ...............................                    2
General ......................................                   2
Agriculture ..................................                   2
Agricultural Development Strategy ....           ........        3
III.    THE PROJECT AREA ..................................                    4
A.   Background ...................................                    4
B.   Socio-Economic Conditions ....................                    6
C.   Agriculture ...9...... I.....................                     9
D.   Executing Agencies ...........................                   13
IV.    THE PROJECT .......................................                   15
General Description ..........................                  15
Detailed Features ............................                  16
A.    Rehabilitation of Upper Catchments ....           .......       17
Soil Conservation .......................                 17
Revegetation .............................                17
Development Package for Farmers and
Livestock Owners .....................                18
B.    Flood Control and Irrigation ....            .............      19
Flood Protection Works in Dholbaha ......                 20
Dholbaha Dam and Irrigation System    ......              21
Flood Protection and Development Works
in Watersheds other than Dholbaha ......               22
C.    Farm Development  .............................                 24
Land Development in Dholbaha ....          ........       24
Land Development in Other Watersheds ....                 25
Horticultural Development ....           ...........      25
Fisheries Development .....           ..............      25
This report is based on the findings of a Bank Mission which visited India in
May/June 1978, comprised of: Messrs. N. Krafft, P. Nottidge, and R.D.H. Rowe
(Bank); A. Plummer, J. Phelan and R. Noronha (Consultants); and R. Greathouse
(Research Assistant). The project was reviewed and cost tables up-dated in
April 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
D.   Technical Assistance, Studies, Research
and Training .......         ..........................      26
Technical Assistance .....         ...............      26
Groundwater Investigations, Studies
and Trials ........ ..    27
Research ................................               27
Training ................................               28
E. Project Administration, Monitoring and
Evaluation ..................................               29
V.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ......................                 29
A.   Cost Estimates ...............................                29
B.   Proposed Financing ...........................                31
C.   Procurement ..................................                31
D.   Disbursements and Audit ......................                32
VI.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...............          ........       33
General ......................................               33
Project Organization and Coordination           ........     34
Project Management and Technical Assistance ..               35
Operation and Maintenance ....           ................    36
Monitoring and Evaluation ....           ................    37
Cost Recovery ................................               37
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ........................                38
General ......................................               38
Benefits in Upper Catchment Areas ....         ........      39
Farmer Benefits in Areas Below the
Upper Catchments ...........................               39
Dholbaha Watershed ...........................               40
Other Project Components .....................               43
Employment, Production and Marketing .........               43
Direct Project Beneficiaries ....           .............    44
Social Benefits ..............................               44
Environmental Impact .........................               44
Project Risks ................................               45
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......46
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1          Terms of Reference for Internationally Recruited
Consultants
Appendix         Terms of Reference for Locally Recruited Project
Economist
Chart            Initial Phasing of Consultants (19216)



- 1iii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 2         Supporting Tables
Table 1        Summary of Project Costs
Table 2        Reforestation and Soil Conservation Measures
in Upper Catchments
Table 3        Livestock and Fisheries ')evelopment
Table 4        Dholbaha Dam and Irrigation System
Table 5        FLood Protection Works (Dholbaha)
Table 6        Soil Conservation Works Between Hills and
Road (Dholbaha)
Table 7        Directorate of Water Resources (Including
Overseas Training)
Table 8        Groundwater Investigations, Recharge Studies
and Trials
Table 9        Agricultural Research and Horticultural Develpment
Table 10       Program Planning and Coordination Unit
Table 11       Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 3        Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 1        Summary of Prices for Financial and Economic
Analysis in Constant 1978 Prices
Table 2        Crop Input Requirements
Table 3        Financial Farm Budget for 2-ha Farm
Table 4        Economic Farm Budget for 2-ha Farm
Table 5        Models I & II:  Project Economic Benefit at
Full Development (Dholbaha)
Table 6        Model III:  Economic Benefit from Flood
Protection Only (Dholbaha)
Annex 4        Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
List of Charts and Maps
Chart 1        Physical and Economic Factors that Need to be Examined in
Watershed Planning
Chart 2        Organizational Chart (19041)
Map 13694      Dholbaha Watershed Development Proposals
Map 13695      Kandi Tract
Supplementary Implementation Volume
The following annexes are in a suppleliXentary volume which is
available on request.
Annex 5        Forestry/Livestock Development
Annex 6        Hydrology, Irrigation System and Dholbaha Dam
Annex 7         Flood Protection and Soil Conservation Works (Dholbaha)
Annex 8        Guidelines for Preparation of Watershed Feasibility Reports
Annex 9        Supplementary Cost Tables (Fi.,lKries, Horticulture, and
Agricultural Research)






INDIA
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
Agriculture in India
1.01      India has a population of 640 million which is growing at an
annual rate of 2.0%. Per capita income reached approximately US$150 per
annum in 1977 and is increasing at about 1.1% p.a. The dominant sector in
the Indian economy is agriculture, which contributes about 45% of GNP,
employs about 70% of the labor force and provides the base for some 60% of
India's exports. However, the current annual growth rate of agricultural
production is only about 2% - barely keeping pace with population growth.
There has thus been little change in the living standards of the vast masses
of rural poor, which, conservatively measured, consist of some 300 M people
with incomes below the poverty line of US$70 per capita per year (1972).
1.02      India's strategy of agricultural growth has remained remarkably
consistent since its formulation in the mid-1960s, with the main focus on
foodgrain production, principally wheat and rice, and on exploiting technolo-
gical advances in their production. Government's policies thus mainly concen-
trated on organizing the supply of complementary inputs - HYV seeds, chemical
fertilizer, irrigation and credit - and encouraging their use. Other programs
receiving public support include soil conservation, warehousing, cooperation,
command area development, livestock development, minor irrigation, special
small farmer programs and the development of drought-prone areas. Recently,
a number of these activities have been amalgamated into the Government's
rural development program, which is to receive increasing financial support
in recognition of the need to increase rural incomes.
Bank Group Support
1.03      In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting
minor irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit
operations. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying
are other agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the
Bank Group has been active in financing the expansion of output in the
fertilizer sector and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance
institutions, in a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-
scale industrial enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and
components for selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating
better capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active



- 2 -
in supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and
railways. Family planning, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
1.04      The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, under development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for on-farm
investments, improved water managment and intensification and streamlining of
extension systems, form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for
the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting
small farmers. Projects supporting water supply, sewerages, and urban develop-
ment also form an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the
next several years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial
investments will focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
II. THE STATE OF PUNJAB
General
2.01      The State of Punjab, situated in northwest India, is bordered by
Pakistan in the west, Rajasthan and Haryana in the south and southeast, and
Himachal Pradesh to the northeast. It has an area of about 50,000 sq km, and
a population of some 15.5 M which is growing at about 2% per year. Per capita
income at about US$230 is the highest in India and between 1960/61 and 1975/76,
State income grew at an annual rate of 4.8%. By almost all economic indicators,
Punjab is the most advanced state in India. Although 75% of the population
is rural, the rural areas are more developed and accessible than the rest of
India. Nearly 80% of villages have metalled roads and most have electricity
and drinking water. Yet, as with most states in India, there are pockets of
poverty. A recent study on "Rural Poverty and Agricultural Growth in India"
put out by the Bank's Development Research Center, shows that 24% of the rural
population of Punjab live below the absolute level of poverty.
Agriculture
2.02      Agriculture provides the key to Punjab's impressive growth record.
Agriculture and related activities account for over 60% of the State income,
and provide employment for about 70% of the work force. Although Punjab is one
of the smallest states in India, it continues to make the major contribution
to meeting the shortfall in India's foodgrain requirements. In 1976/77, Punjab
procured 3.9 M tons of wheat and rice for export to deficit states, represent-
ing nearly 50% of its production. Foodgrain production increased at 7.7% per
annum in the sixteen years from 1960/61, by any standards a remarkable achieve-
ment over so long a period. This has been brought about by annual increases
in yields of some 5% and in cropped area of 2.7%. In brief, the main factors
responsible for the rapid increase in agricultural production are:



(a)  an increase in the area under High Yielding Varieties (HYV)
(90% of wheat and rice is sown to high yielding or improved
varieties);
(b)  an increase in the use of fertilizer and pesticide (con-
sumption of fertilizer is now 60 kg/ha); and
(c)  an increase in the irrigated area (864' of the net area
sown is irrigated).
2.03      Unfortunately, the tempo achieved during the peak years of the Green
Revolution has slowed considerably in recent years. From 1971/72 to 1976/77,
foodgrain production grew only at a rate of 3.5%, slightly above the pre-Green
Revolution period. However, rice production still retains its growth momentum
with area and yield increases at an annual rate of 7.9% and 5.4%, respectively.
Since 1971/72, wheat yields have largely remained stationary at about 2.5 tons/
ha. Barley production increased substantially at 16.5% per annum. However,
this is mainly due to a recovery in area which declined sharply during the
Green Revolution period to allow expansion of the area under wheat. Except
for sugarcane, production to other cash crops has also grown at a slower rate
than that of the previous period.
2.04      The slowiiig down of agricultural production growth is attributed to
several reasons: (i) the weather -- 1972/73 and 1974/75 were extreme drought
years; (ii) increased cost of fuel has affected the profitability of tubewell
irrigation which was largely responsible for the rapid agricultural growth in
Punjab; (iii) increased cost of fertilizers in 1973/74 to 1974/75; (iv) non-
availability of high yielding varieties (HYVs) for crops other than wheat and
rice; and (v) groundwater potential has been nearly fully utilized.
2.05      While the slow down in agricultural production growth of recent
years is partly explained by unfavorable exogenous factors, it is clear that
the easy benefits of the Green Revolution have already been reaped. Thus,
further increase in the intensity of cultivation and crop yields is increas-
ingly dependent on better utilization of irrigation supply and improved drain-
age in areas subject to seasonal flooding and waterlogging.
Agricultural Development Strategy
2.06      To regain momentum, the thrust of GOP's agricultural development
strategy is now two-fold: firstly, to increase production further by improv-
ing the efficiency of existing resources and secondly, to concentrate efforts
on developing backward and neglected areas of the State. The first objective
will be met by improving the efficiency of already existing irrigation systems.
This will be achieved by improving the water conveyance system and land devel-
opment and irrigation practices at the farm level. To support these efforts
in Punjab, IDA has been assisting in an on-going irrigation project (Credit
889-IN) since July 1979 that includes modernization of canals and water courses
and studies and pilot demonstrations to test advanced irrigation technologies
for water distribution and on-farm works. Overall efficiency is expected to
be improved by upgrading arrangements for marketing and distribution of inputs.



- 4 -
To this end, GOP is planning an integrated rural development program which
also aims to provide a hospital and high school for each cluster of villages,
drinking water supplies in each village and metalled roads to every village.
The second objective will be addressed through the proposed project, which
seeks to solve the dual problems of developing a backward area and repaicing
the ravages of erosion. A solution to the latter problem will also enable
the rapid development of a considerable area of high potential land which lies
largely unexploited through the constant threat of devastation caused by un-
controlled run-off from adjacent hills.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Background
3.01      The largest area of undeveloped agriculture in Punjab is the
Himalayan sub-mountainous zone, known as the Kandi Tract.  This zone includes
part of the Shiwalik range of hills which extend across the whole of northern
India at the foothills of the Himalayas. The Shiwaliks seldom rise above
1000 m above sea level, and are derived from poorly consolidated miopleisto-
cene sands, gravels and conglomerates, the erosion products of the Himalayas
themselves. The Punjab Shiwaliks run for about 250 km along the northeastern
part of the State, bordering Himachal Pradesh.
3.02      The Kandi Tract includes all land within the Punjab Shiwalik Hills,
together with a narrow band of largely underdeveloped farmland. This band
lies immediately below the hills and to the north of the main highway, which
runs from Chandigarh in the southeast through the towns of Ropar and Hoshiapur
to Dasuya in the northwest (see Map 13695). Thus, on the north of the road
lies the Kandi Tract, and to the south the mainly irrigated and rich agri-
cultural land of the plains of Punjab. The project area comprises a number
of watersheds to be selected in the Kandi Tract, and includes agricultural
land south of the Chandigarh-Hoshiarpur road below these selected watersheds
that is affected by floods emerging from the Shiwalik Hills. The main focus
of the project, however, is on the Kandi Tract, identified as the most back-
ward area in the State and which lies mainly within the administrative 2
districts of Hoshiarpur and Ropar. It covers an area of about: 4,600 km (9%
of the State) and contains some 6% of Punjab's population.
Historical Perspective
3.03      Prior to the middle of the last century, the Shiwalik Hills were
strictly preserved for hunting and no cultivation, grazing or exploitation
of timber was permitted. At that time the hills were covered with thick,
lush acacia and pine forests with a profuse undercover of shrubs and grasses.
The forests contained numerous commercial species and supported a wide variety
of bird and animal wild life. Perennial streams flowed from the hills and



supported agriculture in the plains below. 1/ However, after the Sikh Wars
(1845-1849) the Sardars and Rajahs, who owned the hunting lands, were evicted
and the forests were handed over to villages as additions to their village
common lands. In less than two generations unrestricted tree felling and
overgrazing destroyed the vegetative cover. Heavy rain eroded the weakly
cemented soils of the upper catchments and formed steep knife-edged ridges
dropping sharply into ever-deepening gullies. The result was that after heavy
rains, perennial clear-running streams became seasonal torrents carrying large
amounts of sand and gravel down to the plains below. On leaving the hills,
flood waters spread out in a fan-like fashion, depositing their silt load and
causing the torrent bed to rise higher than the surrounding areas. The
torrent would then seek a new course, subjecting new areas to flood and
sediment damage.
3.04      These torrents are locally known as "choes".  Within Punjab, there
are some 21 major and 120 smaller choes that disgorge from steep, rough, highly
erodible catchments in the Shiwaliks. 2The major2choes emerge from the larger
catchments that range from about 20 km to 56 km in extent. The choes then
flow through the gently rolling Kandi Tract and eventually find their way into
the Rivers Sutlej and Beas (See Map 13695). Each choe is unique in its
characteristics; its size and potential for causing devastation determined by
the magnitude and condition of the catchment area feeding it.
3.05      At first the choes brought fertile silt, whose presence was welcomed
by the farmers, but later the silt was replaced by sand which overlaid the
fields and destroyed them. By 1895, these choes had spread over and ruined
thousands of hectares of valuable agricultural land in the plains. Recognizing
that the basic cause of the problem was loss of vegetative cover in the hills,
Government passed the Punjab Land Preservation (Choes) Act in 1902. This
allowed areas to be closed to grazing, controlled the type of livestock per-
mitted within grazing areas and could prohibit tree felling, cultivation and
quarrying. Two categories of land were recognized under Sections 4 and 5 of
the Act. In Section 4 areas, farmers were allowed: (a) to keep cattle and
sheep but not goats or camels; and (b) to extract fuelwood, small timber and
fodder for their own needs. Section 5 areas were closed to all livestock, and
extraction of fuelwood and small timber was prohibited; fodder grass cutting,
however, was permitted. Unfortunately, the Act was not implemented with any
vigor until the late 1930s and even then only for a few years and in a small
number of upper catchments. From the 1950s to mid-1970s lack of funds for
reforestation and soil conservation works, together with increases in live-
stock and human populations led to even further degradation, particularly in
the Section 4 areas which were generally situated close to habitations at the
lower end of the upper catchments. Thus, although the problem and its solu-
tion has been recognized for nearly 100 years, only during about ten of them
1/   Historical background is taken from "Erosion in the Punjab:  Its Causes
and Cure," by Sir Harold Glover (published 1944).



(1939-49) was there action taken on a large scale. The result is severe gully
erosion, devastation of the plains below through flooding and sedimentation
deposits, an exceedingly sparce vegetative cover of non-economic annual
species with minimum soil and water retention properties in the hills, and a
cessation of the perennial stream flows.
3.06      Fortunately, adjacent to the project area is an excellent example
of successful Shiwalik Hill upper catchment rehabilitation using exactly the
techniques proposed for this project. In 1965, some 2500 ha oE land in the
Kansil Khol catchment was handed over to the Department of Forests. Livestock
was excluded, trees and grasses were planted and soil conservation structures
were put in wherever needed. The results have been spectacular. Two years
after closure, grasses and shrubs were evident on all but the steepest slopes.
Now some 80% of the area is covered with vegetation and includes well estab-
lished plantations of trees, and bhabhar grass (Eulaliopsis binata) used for
paper pulp manufacture. Within 20 years it is expected that the catchment
will be 70% rehabilitated; that is, it will have recovered 70% of its original
soil holding and moisture retention properties.
Present Situation
3.07      Year after year, the choes continue to cause heavy flood and sedi-
ment damage. In 1977, in Hoshiarpur district, damage included: loss of nine
lives, 63 cattle and 650 houses; damage to roads and bridges amounting to some
Rs 2.5 million; and destruction of some 5,000 ha of crops. Unfortunately,
records of partial crop damage are incomplete and it is thus not possible to
quantify crop damage. However, the major economic loss resulting from the
continual floods is the income foregone from lack of investment in areas
subject to flood damage. Because of the annual devastation, there has been
little investment in infrastructure in the project area, for example in small
industries, and farmers have not invested in irrigation and land development.
Similarly, farmers apply little or no fertilizer in the kharif season, believ-
ing these will be washed away. In sum, until floods are controlled, only
marginal investments will be induced in the project area and it will continue
a backward area. The proposed project would provide the environment to induce
private investment, both on- and off-farm.
B. Socio-Economic Conditions
3.08      Village Composition.  The Punjab village is generally a cluster of
mud-walled houses, increasingly being replaced by stone or cement walls and tile
roofs--surrounded by fields. Most villages contain representatives of all
major castes in varying proportions: the upper (Brahmins, Jat, Rajput, Gujar,
Gosain, Banjara) and the scheduled ("service") castes such as the Kamin (scav-
enger), Teli (oil processer), and Tanhar (carpenter). Caste permeates village
life and is expressed in spatial segregation of residence and the provision of
separate drinking water wells. Generally, the scheduled castes account for
about 25% of an average village population of 2,000. However, in the upper



- 7 -
reaches of the Shiwaliks, village populations dwindle to as small as 150 persons.
According to the Punjab Forestry Department's 1977 survey, some 22,000 persons
live in 22 villages situated in the upper patchments of five wat5rsheds.  This
amounts to a density of 100 persons per km (against some 300/km for the State
as a whole) and 150 families per village.
3.09      Farming and Farm Size.  The main source of livelihood in the Kandi
area is mixed farming - sedentary agriculture (generally at subsistence level
only) supplemented by livestock (buffaloes, cows for ploughing, goats and a few
sheep). Here, too, the caste hierarchy is reflected in patterns of economic
dominance: the upper castes own more land and, consequently, have a higher
and more stable source of income; the lower castes are economically dependent
on the upper castes. Landholding patterns are not, however, entirely related
to caste status. The average farm size in the project area is about 2 ha, but
there are variations between districts as evidenced by the following:
Hoshiarpur District             Ropar District
Farm Size         % of Farms    % of Area    % of Farms    % of Area
_(h-a)
Below 1                    55             11             49             9
1 -  2                  17             14             18            12
2 -  5                  19             32             23            34
5 - 10                   6             23               8            26
10 - 50                   2             18               2            18
Above 50                    1              2              -             1
Total               100            100            100           100
Average Size of
Holding (ha)           1.8                            2.1
The median size of operational holdings is about 0.9 ha in Hoshiarpur District
and 1.1 ha in Ropar District. However, the figures above relate to the dis-
tricts as a whole which include irrigated land below the road and where the
farms are generally smaller. It is likely that the median size of dry land
farms is 1.5 ha.
3.10      Livestock:  Livestock are an integral part of the village economy.
Nearly every family possesses a few buffaloes and cows--the former for milk,
the latter for manure; both provide draught power. The Department of Forests'
1977 survey of livestock in the proposed project's upper catchment areas
(24,000 ha) recorded some 16,000 head:
Goats                7,450
Camels                  90
Oxen                 1,960
Cows                 4,030
Buffalo              2,290
Sheep                  180
16,000



Allowing for unrecorded animals, the true figure is probably closer to 20,000.
Buffaloes are stall fed; cows are allowed to graze free. The wealthier employ
non-family labor for fodder collection; among the poorer sections, female
members carry out this task. Buffalo milk is an important supplement of diet--
consumed directly or converted into ghee. But the poorer groups substitute
the goat for the buffalo as a source of meat and milk, particularly since
their care and maintenance involves minimal cash outlay. Even though the goat
is important to the poorer people, goats are not compatible with a replanting
program in the catchments and will have to be replaced. Under the project,
the aim is to exchange goats for sheep and to encourage farmers to take up
other livestock enterprises.
3.11      For the majority in the project area, an estimated 70%, agriculture
and livestock do not suffice to provide subsistence for an average family of
six persons. The able-bodied are thus compelled to find alternative sources
of income outside the project area - mainly as unskilled laborers in nearby
urban areas or through service in the armed forces.
3.12      The economic situation is worsened by population growth, the degrad-
ation of the slopes of the Shiwaliks through overgrazing and tree removal and
the erratic direction of the ephemeral choe torrents. The villagers are aware
of the effects of the degradation and choe torrents and recognize the need for
regeneration of plant cover and control of torrents. They, however, feel that
the steps necessary to do so are beyond their financial, technical and social
capacity, and that closure of areas to grazing without adequate substitutes
would have an immediate negative financial impact, particularly on poorer
sections who now graze goats in these areas.
3.13      Evidence of Poverty.  There are no reliable statistics available to
estimate per capita income or consumption in the project area--although one
sample survey carried out during project preparation indicated that per capita
consumption of grain was 50% higher in the neighboring district of Ludhiana.
As noted in para 2.01, 24% of the rural population of Punjab live below the
level of absolute poverty. Whilst there is little evidence of striking
poverty in the plains of Punjab, there are several economic and social indi-
cators that highlight the backwardness of the Kandi area and suggest that the
majority of people in the Kandi Tract, who comprise 6% of Punjab's population,
are part of the 24% that live below the poverty line. Yields, for example,
are low. Yields of wheats are 700 kg/ha against a State average of 2,500 kg/ha.
Less than 10% of the cropped area is irrigated compared with 86% for the State
as a whole. Regarding mechanization, the Kandi Tract has only one-seventh the
number of tractors (per ha cropped) in the rest of the State. Fertilizer
consumption per ha is less than one-third of the state average and high yield-
ing varieties of seed are rarely used--only 17% of the area under wheat is
sown to HYV against a State average of 92%. These figures relate to cropped
area, but only 58% of the potential agricultural land is cropped. The other
42% is made up of natural grassland, scrub and choe beds. In the rest of the
State, almost all potential agricultural land is cropped.
3.14      Social services in the project area are far below the State average.
For example, in Dholbaha, the area in which it is proposed to commence project
works first, there is no high school. Public dispensaries are dispersed,
understaffed, and underequipped while unlicensed medical practitioners thrive.



- 9 -
The project area suffers from chronic water shortage. Communications, par-
ticularly in the more elevated areas, are poor and consist mainly of foot,
camel and mule tracks. Less than half the villages are linked with metalled
roads, compared with nearly 100% in the plains. Finally, a factor which
cannot be quantified, but is nevertheless very important, is that those
living below the Hills exist in continual fear of flood dama6a, including
loss of life, livestock and homes. In recognition of the state of development
of these areas, GOP has designated the Kandi Tract a "backward area."
C. Agriculture
Factors Affecting Agriculture
3.15      Climate and Soils.  Several factors are responsible for the low level
of agricultural production in the project area: floods (which are responsible
for the low level of investment), climate, soils, water availability, and the
level of agricultural supporting services (paras 3.21-3.30). Climate in the
Kandi Tract is one of extremes, with very hot, dry summers (mid-April to mid-
June) and cold winters. These two extreme seasons are divided by the monsoon
season from mid-June to mid-October, during which time 80% of annual precipi-
tation falls. Winter rain is meager and unreliable and even during the monsoon
season, rains can be sporadic and often are characterized by prolonged periods
of drought. Average annual rainfall is high at about 1,100 mm, and can be
intense with downpours of up to 100 mm/hr. The highest daily rainfall recorded
i 228 mm, but storms lasting six days have been recorded including one in
1972 with a total of some 510 mm. The combination of intense rain falling
on bare, highly erodible soils leads to flash flooding in the choes. This
causes considerable quantities of sediment-laden water to burst from the Hills,
spilling on to the plains below. Soils in the Kandi area vary in texture
between sandy, sandy loam and loam at the surface, and loam to clay loam at
subsurface levels. South of the road, soils are part of the extensive and
fertile alluvium of the Indo-Gangetic plain. Soils on the whole are easily
worked; their fertility, however, is low.
3.16      Groundwater Resources and Hydrology.  The Beas and Sutlej Rivers, now
controlled by the Pong and Bhakra dams, respectively, cut through the Shiwalik
Hills and supply surface irrigation water to much of the plains. However, this
water has little effect on most of the project area where those farms presently
irrigated derive their irrigation principally from groundwater. Flash floods
and runoff from the Shiwaliks play a significant role in replenishing ground-
water recharge and maintaining groundwater levels. A brief field survey in
1978 showed that the depth of the water table varies from about 2-5 meters
near the Beas river to about 3-8 meters near the Chandigarh-Hoshiarpur road.
Immediately below the Hills, depth increases to over 30 m and, in some areas,
to over 70 m indicating that depth of the water table is highly variable.
Comprehensive information regarding the groundwater situation is lacking,
and would be studied under the proposed project (paras 4.32 and 4.33).



- 10 -
Agriculture in Project Areas
3.17      Agriculture provides a livelihood for 90% of those living in the
Kandi Tract. Three distinctive types of agriculture can be identified, depen-
dent on social status of farmers and location of their land. Those owning or
renting land in the Shiwalik Hills live principally from livestock-keeping,
grazing their herds and flocks over the sparce, natural grasslands. Those
cultivating land immediately adjacent to the Hills and north of the Chandigargh-
Hoshiarpur road are entirely dependent on rainfed agriculture. In areas south
of the road, irrigated farming predominates, especially in those areas not
affected by seasonal flooding. In flood-prone areas, the cropping pattern
is similar to that north of the road.
3.18      Agriculture North of the Road.  In these areas, fields are generally
not levelled and are subject to severe erosion. Because there are frequently
long dry periods in the monsoon, yields of kharif crops often suffer. During
winter, rainfall is generally insufficient to sustain good crops; thus, yields
are largely determined by the amount of water stored in the soil at the time
of sowing. The principal summer crop grown is maize, sown in late June or
early July and harvested in late September or early October. Farmyard manure
(8-15 tons per ha) is ploughed in at the onset of the monsoon, shortly before
sowing of the crop. Chemical fertilizers are generally not applied; conse-
quently, yields are low. Wheat and gram, often inter-planted, constitute the
main winter crops and are generally sown on heavier soils; some fertilizer is
applied, but yields are erratic, being largely dependent on the extent of winter
rains. Yields of wheat average 700 kg/ha and that of gram 500 kg/ha (2,500
and 990 kg/ha, respectively, being the State average yields for these crops).
3.19      Agriculture South of Road.  In unirrigated areas (generally flood
prone), cropping patterns and agricultural practices are similar to those north
of the road but with somewhat higher yields. In irrigated areas (those not
subjected to flooding), which amount to about 60-70% of the area south of the
road, paddy constitutes the principal summer crop, with small areas of maize
and fodder. Yields are up to statewide averages. In winter, wheat and potato
form the main crops, the area being particularly suited to the production of
an early potato crop, which commands a premium in the market. Husbandry
practices are good.
3.20      Scope for Improvement in Agricultural Production.  Considerable
scope exists for improvement of crop yields under rainfed conditions. Since
1971, the Soils Department of the Punjab Agricultural University has been con-
ducting trials in areas north of the road. Results show that, given flood
protection, present yields can be more than doubled by following simple
improvements. These involve the adoption of soil and water conservation
practices, requiring partial land shaping and raising of bunds around fields,
creation of a dust mulch once summer crops are removed, planting of improved
crop varieties, correct seed rates and spacing and use of small amounts of
fertilizer (40 kg/ha of a compound fertilizer) drilled with the seed at plant-
ing. Production of winter crops can be assured if a light irrigation can be
given immediately after planting.



- Iit -
Agricultural Supporting Services
3.21      General.  The situation with regard to supporting services in Punjab
is generally very satisfactory and is unlikely to prove a constraint on project
implementation.
3.22      Agricultural Research.  Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) is
responsible for agricultural research which is undertaken at Ludhiana and at
regional centers covering the whole of the State. At Ludhiana, there is also
a strong Department of Agricultural Economics which undertakes a wide range
of farm management and marketing studies. Overall research at PAU is compre-
hensive and practical, being aimed at solving the problems of the farmer and
at achieving better utilization of farm resources. At the beginning of each
cropping season, a recommended package of practices is prepared, covering all
important crops. The All-India Coordinated Dryland Farming Research Project
in Hoshiarpur District is supervised by PAU and is developing packages of
practices for dryland farming areas.
3.23      Agricultural Extension.  Agricultural extension is undertaken both
by the State Department of Agriculture and by PAU. The Department of Agricul-
ture is represented at District level by a Chief Agricultural Officer who is
assisted by a number of staff, including Subject Matter Specialists in Agro-
nomy, Plant Protection, Seed Development and Horticulture. Additional support
is provided by District Information and Statistical Officers, a Deputy Registrar
of Cooperative Societies, an Assistant Agricultural Engineer (Minor Irrigation)
and officers responsible for special projects (cotton, citrus, land reclama-
tion, etc.). At Block level, there are normally from 3-5 Agricultural
Inspectors (graduates), and at Village level, Sub-Inspectors of Agriculture
are responsible for extension programs. Each Sub-Inspector covers from 5-10
villages. Current staffing rates allow a ratio of one village level extension
worker to every 800 farming families. These levels are considered adequate.
3.24      Areas north of the Chandigarh-Hoshiarpur road are well suited to
irrigated fruit production, especially mango, litchi, pear, guava, and mandarin
oranges.  Advice to growers is provided through a Horticultural Development
Officer located in each district and supported by a number of Horticultural
Inspectors. A Horticultural Research Station in Hoshiarpur District and run
by PAU, provides improved planting material and uptodate advice to growers.
3.25      In addition to normal extension activities, the Department of Agri-
culture provides training for farmers at Training Centers (one of which is
located in each district) and within villages. PAU also provides a Farm
Advisory Service with 3-5 Subject Matter Specialists in each District who
organize farmer-training programs at District and Block level as well as
in selected villages. In addition, PAU provides a wide range of specialized
training courses, ranging from a few days up to one year.
3.26      Agricultural Marketing.  All agricultural crop surpluses are now
exclusively sold at either regulated markets or foodgrain procurement centers.
Regulated markets operate under the Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets Act
of 1961. Produce is sold at open auction and sellers are charged 3% of value
of produce sold as a market fee. These fees provide for the operation of



- 12 -
existing markets, development of new markets and construction and improvement
of farm to market roads. In general, a regulated market serves about 110
villages. To facilitate sale of foodgrains the Government's food procurement
agencies also buy from farmers at temporary procurement centers strategically
located throughout all districts. Present facilittes are considered adequate
to handle anticipated increased production under the project.
3.27      Processing.  Rice and oilseeds are the two main agricultural crops
requiring processing. Existing facilities in project districts are considered
adequate to meet anticipated demand. There are numerous rice shellers, par-
boiling rice plants and small oil extraction plants located throughout the
State, and adequate funds and initiative are available for any expansion to
processing capacity.
3.28      Storage.  Storage facilities are provided by five main agencies:
the Punjab State Warehousing Corporation, the Punjab State Cooperative Market-
ing Federation, the Food Corporation of India, the Food and Civil Supplies
Department and the Central Warehousing Corporation. All agencies own storage
facilities in the project area--totalling 178,400 metric tons in 1977 and rent
a further 48,500 tons. In addition, on-farm and village level storage is
estimated to be 5% of marketing surplus. Present facilities are considered
adequate to meet anticipated project requirements. Total storage capacity in
Punjab is stated to be 2.2 million tons and expansion of capacity is to be
assisted through the Bank-assisted Crop Processing and Storage Project
(Credit 747-IN).
3.29      Agricultural Credit.  Agricultural credit is well provided for in
Punjab State. Short and medium-term credit are provided through a three-
tiered cooperative organization--the Punjab State Cooperative Bank at State
level, Central Cooperative Banks at district level and primary Cooperative
Credit and Service Societies at village level. Recovery performance which
used to be excellent has declined in recent years. For example, overdues of
primary credit societies which were 17% of demand in 1967 are now up to 40%.
GOP and the Reserve Bank of India are aware of the situation and plan to
rationalize the short-term credit institutions in Punjab. Long-term loans are
provided by Land Development Banks. Commercial banks are also engaged in
providing credit in all three fields. In backward areas of the State (includ-
ing the project area) where land values are low as a result of under-develop-
ment, farmers have difficulty in raising sufficient collateral to make them
eligible for institutional long-term credit. In these backward areas, the
State Government provides credit from budgetary sources for such items as land
and horticultural development.
3.30      Input Supplies.  There is a well developed system throughout the
State for distribution of seeds, fertilizers and pesticides. Certified seed
of all principal crops is produced and distributed by the State Seed Corpora-
tion, whose development is being furthered by two Bank assisted projects
(Ln 1273-IN and Cr 816-IN). There are no shortages of seed and sufficient
seed is produced annually to replace at least 10% of the statewide crop
concerned. MARKFED (The State Marketing Federation), an apex cooperative
organization, to which service cooperative societies are affiliated from all
over the State, has principal responsibility for procurement and distribution
of fertilizer, handling about 170,000 tons of nitrogenous and 50,000 tons of



- 13 -
fertilizers annually. It also handles the sale of pesticides. In addition,
there are numerous private distributors handling input sales and as these are
widely located, inputs are generally available within easy reach of all
farmers.
D. Executing Agencies
Department of Irrigation
3.31      The Department of Irrigation, with a staff of some 300 engineers, is
responsible for the planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance
of dams, irrigation systems, and flood protection levees along rivers and
drains. Over the past 30 years, the Department has been mainly concerned with
large-scale projects, such as the Bhakra and Pong dams. Completed projects are
functioning effectively. Departmental activities are divided amongst six chief
engineers, each heading a separate branch of the Department: (i) irrigation
canals (construction and operation); (ii) projects (construction); (iii)
drainage (design and construction); (iv) design of hydel projects; (v) Thien
dam (design); and (vi) Thien dam (construction). Also within the Department
is the Directorate of Water Resources; details are in para 3.34. The parts of
the Irrigation Department that would be involved with the proposed project are:
the branch for construction of projects; the drainage branch; and the Directorate
of Water Resources.
3.32      The Projects Branch (Construction) is responsible for construction
of projects which do not fall within the jurisdiction of one of the other
branches of the Department. Technical staff are experienced and would have
no difficulty to construct dams and irrigation systems envisaged under the
project.
3.33      The Drainage Branch is responsible for design, construction and
maintenance of large-scale drainage works and flood levees. Most of its work
has been confined to the broad, flat Indo-Gangetic plain. Over the past 15
years, the Drainage Branch has constructed and maintained embankments along
a few choes to confine and control flood waters. However, efforts have not
always been coordinated with other Government Departments and the particular
works have not been accompanied with reforestation in the upper catchments,
nor have there been sound criteria for the design of stable channels. The
aim has been to be to attain high velocities to carry sediment from the upper
catchments to the outfall. Instead, channels should be designed for stability
- so that the channel neither aggrades nor degrades over time and the banks
are stable. To do this, past work needs to be more fully evaluated; new
disciplines and techniques, principally in the fields of hydrology and sedi-
ment transport, developed; and planning, design and monitoring strengthened.
The proposed project is designed to meet these needs. The Drainage Branch's
implementation ability is adequate.
3.34      Directorate of Water Resources.  While past emphasis of the Depart-
ment has been on construction of large-scale projects, GOP has recently begun
to give increasing attention to small scale water development projects and to



- 14 -
improve management of existing irrigation. This change of emphasis has re-
quired the collection of new data and development of new planning skills. To
meet this need, GOP set up the Directorate of Water Resources primarily to
collect data, particularly for groundwater, but also to undertake the planning
of smaller projects, particularly those involving other Government Departments.
The Directorate, responsible for planning the irrigation (but not drainage)
aspects of the proposed project, has little experience in the utilization of
water from small flashy streams, and integrating such use with groundwater
supplies and flood protection. Neither is the Directorate adequately staffed
to carry out flood damage field surveys nor able to evaluate the economic
benefits of various planning alternatives. In sum, the Directorate lacks staff
specialized and experienced in the comprehensive planning of small watersheds
involving flash flood hydrology, sediment transport, design of stabilized
flood channels and flood damage evaluation.
Soil Conservation and Engineering Department
3.35      The Soil Conservation and Engineering Department, is responsible
for soil conservation and all land improvement on farmers' fields. The Depart-
ment is divided into a number of operational circles, the North Circle operat-
ing in the project area. This Circle has the capability to plan, supervise
and implement works for which they would be responsible. Past activities of
the department involve the improvement of irrigated lands by improving water
conveyance systems and land levelling; in rainfed area work has primarily been
land levelling and providing water disposal systems. The Punjab Land Improve-
ment Schemes Act, 1963 (amended in 1965), provides the legal means for the
Department to carry out soil conservation works and requires the approval of
50% of landowners. Maintenance of works is the responsibility of the farmers
and if not satisfactory, is carried out by the Department and the cost charged
to the farmer. Generally, the quality of work is good, although somewhat high
in cost. However, experience in integrated planning and treatment of water-
sheds is limited, in particular in the fields of hydrology and sedimentation.
Support in this field is provided by the Soil Conservation Research Station
at Chandigarh, but even they have done little work in the field of sediment
transport.
Department of Forests
3.36      The Department of Forests is responsible for forest protection,
reforestation, social forestry and wood procesing. The Chief Conservator of
Forests is assisted by two territorial conservators and a third conservator
in charge of development including research, working plans, training and util-
ization. The State is divided into 11 forestry divisions headed by Divisional
Forest Officers; two of the divisions, Hoshiarpur and Ropar, fall in the pro-
ject area. Professional staff are trained at the Indian Forestry College and
Rangers at the Forest Rangers College, both located in Dehra Dun. Over the
last ten years some 54,000 ha of plantations have been established; 35% in
strips along road, rail and canal sides and the balance in blocks. The
quality of work is good and the Department would have no difficulty under-
taking work proposed under the project.



- 15 -
Department of Animal Husbandry
3.37      Veterinary and artificial insemination services are provided to
farmers through a series of veterinary hospitals, permanent dispensaries,
mobile clinics and artificial insemination centers located throughout all
districts. Under the control of District Animal Husbandry Officers, these
facilities are staffed by Veterinary Assistant Surgeons, Veterinary Com-
pounders and Livestock Assistants. All units are well staffed. Veterinary
centers provide treatment for farmers' animals (in excess of 100,000 animals
are treated annually in each of the project districts), undertake vaccination
campaigns, principally against Haemorrahagic Septicaemia, Rinderpest, Black
Quarter, Foot and Mouth Disease, Swine Fever and Fowl Pox, and provide castra-
tion of excess male animals. Artificial insemination centers encourage the
upgrading of both cattle and buffalo.
Inland Fisheries
3.38      Punjab is well endowed with waters capable of producing considerable
quantities of freshwater fish. Fish farming is developing rapidly throughout
the State and there are now 500 ha of privately owned and stocked water in 72
of the 117 administrative Blocks covering the State. There are firm proposals
to develop a further 800 ha in the near future. Fingerlings are supplied by
the Fisheries Department to farmers from six "seed" farms located throughout
the State. These farms provide some 550,000 fingerlings annually, mainly India
Major Carp and Chinese Carp. Advice to farmers is provided through district
based staff, whose activities are complemented by a centrally based, but mobile,
Training Unit.
IV. THE PROJECT
General Description
4.01      The proposed project would be the first comprehensive attempt to
tackle the problems of the Himalayan sub-mountainous zone. Its primary objec-
tive would be to lay the basis for sound investment on a larger scale in the
future to: (a) reverse man-made ecological degradation that has been going
on in the lower foothills of the Himalayas for decades and (b) protect and
develop agricultural land that is presently subject to serious erosion and
flooding. The focus of the project is, therefore, on institution building,
in particular strengthening GOP's capability to plan, implement and monitor
similar projects in the sub-mountainous zone. It would be a pilot project
and would comprise a package of complementary investments, most of which have
been tried at one time or another in Punjab, but which have failed to bring
expected results because they have been tried in isolation. The project would
introduce technical and social improvements that, through their replicability,
could have an impact far beyond the proposed project. The project would be
confined to the most backward and neglected areas of the State and would
largely benefit farmers presently living below the absolute level of poverty.



- 16 -
4.02      The basic unit for project planning and implementation would be the
watershed, each of which varies in size, topography, hydrology and degree of
vegetative cover.  Because of these differences, each watershed has to be
planned separately if the best technical and economic solution is to be
arrived at. To draw useful lessons for future replication, a variety of
watersheds need to be examined and planned under the project. To this end,
the project would, through strengthening the planning and implementation
capacity of the Government of Punjab, rehabilitate and develop five watersheds
situated in the Punjab Shiwaliks. Planning has been completed in Dholbaha,
one of the five watersheds; the remaining watersheds would be selected, and
works planned, during the first years of project implementation (para 4.19).
4.03      For the five watersheds selected, the five year project would
comprise:
-    Rehabilitation of upper catchments to reduce runoff and
erosion from the hills, through soil conservation, reve-
getation (including tree and grass planting) and a com-
prehensive development package for farmers and livestock
owners;
-    Flood protection and irrigation of farm land below the
hills, through control and utilization of run-off; and
-    Development of farm land protected from floods, through
land development (including land shaping, terracing and
bunding), irrigation, horticulture, livestock, poultry,
and fisheries development.
The project would also comprise:
-    Technical assistance, Studies, Research, and Staff and
Farmer Training; and
-    Project administration, monitoring and evaluation.
Detailed Features
4.04      Project works to rehabilitate the upper catchments would be similar
in each of the selected watersheds and are, therefore, discussed under one
heading, "rehabilitation of upper catchments." Works to protect land below
the hills from flood and to develop the land to its full potential would differ
from watershed to watershed. Thus, under each of the headings, "flood protec-
tion and irrigation," and "farm development," details of project activities are
first given for Dholbaha, the only watershed on which detailed planning has
been completed. Details of project activities in the other watersheds follow.



- 17 -
A.   Rehabilitation of Upper Catchments
4.05      The key component of the project is the rehabilitation of the badly
denuded and eroded upper catchments in five watersheds (Dholbaha and four
others). This would reduce runoff and erosion and would be achieved through
a program of soil conservation and revegetation. The program would be carried
out over about 24,000 ha of upper catchments in the five watersheds. 1/
However, the measures would only succeed if all upper catchment areas are
closed to grazing. During negotiations, the Government agreed that all lands
in the upper catchment areas to be rehabilitated under the project would be
closed to: (a) livestock grazing; and (b) unauthorized extraction of fuel wood
and timber. To ensure effective closure to grazing, land owners and right
holders will be induced to withdraw their cattle and goats from the Shiwalik
Hills. One approach would be for Government to buy the land, declare the
areas as forest reserve, evict all livestock and assist farmers in finding
alternative areas in which to settle. But this would be expensive and would
entail problems of relocation as adequate alternative land is not available in
Punjab. An alternative approach, and the one proposed under the project, aims
at obtaining the full participation of the farmers and livestock owners. Land
owners and right holders would be allowed to remain; upper catchment areas
would be closed to grazing and a comprehensive development package would be
offered to farmers and livestock owners presently living in these upper catch-
ment areas. Details are given in para 4.09.
Soil Conservation
4.06      To repair the ravages of erosion and to induce the process of reve-
getation, small conservation structures (vegetative and stone check dams,
channel grade stabilizers, small drop structures, crate wire dams and debris
basins) would be constructed in gullies of the upper catchments to augment
reforestation and grass planting planned for non-gully areas. Many of the
structures would complete the task of gully stabilization after two or three
years; thereafter, vegetation would take over the task of soil protection.
Where gullies have been stabilized, vegetative recolonization would be assisted
by planting pioneer species such as Arundo donax, Vitex negunde and Ipomea
carnea. Direct costs of soil conservation works are estimated at about
Rs 350/ha.
Revegetation
4.07      The techniques and species used in the past for replanting in upper
catchments have proved most successful, and would be continued under the pro-
ject until research, which is also provided for in the project (para 4.35),
indicates that the use of other approaches and species would reduce costs and
increase benefits. The prime purpose of replanting is to reduce water flows.
In so doing, the productive capacity of upper catchments would be improved.
Two types of tree/grass combinations would be established. Firstly, 6,500 ha
would be planted to Acacia catechu and fodder grass species (Chrysopogon mon-
tanus, Dicanthium anulatum and Cenchrus spp), which would supply the bulk
1/   Dholbaha, Janauri, Chohal, Maili and Patiala-ki-Rao.



- 18 -
of fodder required to stall feed cattle. Secondly, 11,750 ha of mixed Acacia
catechu and bhabhar grass would be established, which would slupply bhabhar
grass for paper pulp manufacture and rope making. Other local tree species
that produce fodder (Albizzia lebbeck), small timber (Dalbergia sissoo), fuel-
wood (Eucalyptus tereticornis) and resin (Pinus roxburghii) would be included
where ecological conditions permit. Direct costs of replanting are estimated
at Rs 1,580/ha.
4.08      The aim would be to replant areas close to villages first as these
are the areas which have suffered the greatest damage due to overgrazing and
felling. The last areas to be treated would be the more remote areas located
mostly in higher elevations of the upper catchments. The average tree density
after planting would be 600 per ha. Fodder grass would be planted at 3,000
tufts/ha and bhabhar grass at 2,000 tufts/ha. Trees would be planted in the
middle of contour trenches and grasses along the downslope berm of each trench.
The project would also provide for 80 km of forest service roads to improve
accessibility, forest nurseries, land preparation, planting, weeding, main-
tenance, fire protection and incremental staff, buildings, vehicles and equip-
ment required to carry out the program. The total direct and indirect cost
of the soil conservation and revegetation program is estimated at about
Rs 2,530/ha, excluding price contingencies.
Development Package for Farmers and Livestock Owners
4.09      The development package to livestock owners and rightholders in the
upper catchments would include:
(a)  Introduction of Alternative Enterprises:  Villagers in the
project area recognize the need to close the upper catch-
ment areas to grazing. They also recognize the need for the
exclusion of goats. But since goats are mainly owned by the
poorest sections of the population, their exclusion would
result in immediate hardship for these sections. ViLlagers,
however, have indicated that they would be willing to accept
in exchange, alternate livestock enterprises involving poultry,
pigs and sheep (in that order of priority). A program for
their introduction has already been formulated under the Small
Farmer Development Assistance (SFDA) scheme. This scheme
would be expanded in project areas. In addition, the project
provides for a livestock exchange program through the provi-
sion of 5,000 head of improved cattle and 20,000 head of
sheep to be exchanged for the existing 10,000 head of free
grazing, low yielding cows and buffaloes and 10,000 head of
goats. The basis for exchange would be one improved cow for
two existing animals and two sheep for one goat; but the
exchange ratio would be altered to suit prevailing con-
ditions in particular watersheds. Cattle would be stall-fed
and provision would be made for haymaking equipment (balers),
fodder seed, fodder stores and limited concentrate feed for
dairy animals. Sheep grazing would be confined to areas
outside the upper catchments. In addition, credit would be
provided to enable landowners to take up poultry and pig



- 19 -
keeping and for the establishment of cottage industries such
as rope and bed making (details of credit arrangements are in
para 5.04). Provision would also be made, through the Punjab
Poultry Corporation, for supply of poultry feed and daily
marketing of eggs. Extension services and training of farmers
and livestock owners would be an integral part of these
programs. Technical advice, through the services of a locally
recruited, part-time livestock specialist and full-time
sociologist, would also be provided to ensure the meaningful
participation of villagers. Villagers have been consulted
frequently during project preparation and it is reasonable to
assume that they will cooperate fully in project activities.
(b) Land Development: Scattered throughout the upper catchments
areas are some 3,730 ha of small cultivated fields which
require partial land levelling; terracing and construction
of simple water harvesting structures. The project provides
that this work would be undertaken by the Soil Conservation
Department at a cost of about Rs 1,800/ha.
(c) Development of Social Services: Social services (schools,
public dispensaries, drinking water supplies and roads) in
the project area are below the state average. Development of
these facilities is covered by on-going statewide GOP programs,
in particular the recently inaugurated Integrated Rural Devel-
opment Program. Under these programs, priority would be given
to development works in the Kandi area.
Assurances were obtained from GOP that it would (a) furnish to the Bank for
review, the details of the above programs to improve the social and economic
conditions of farmers and livestock owners in the upper catchment areas; and
(b) in the case of Dholbaha, furnish said details to the Bank by December 31,
1980.
B. Flood Control and Irrigation
4.10      The reforestation and soil conservation measures to be undertaken
in upper catchments would considerably reduce the incidence of flash floods
and the amount of sediment carried by runoff. Total monsoon runoff would
not, however, be significantly reduced and without flood protection works,
agricultural land below the hills would still be subject to flooding. The
proposed project provides for the protection of agricultural land lying
within the influence of choes emerging from Dholbaha and the four other
watersheds to be selected. It also provides for the utilization of runoff
through construction of a multi-purpose dam (flood-protection and irrigation)
in Dholbaha.



- 20 -
Flood Protection Works in Dholbaha
4.11      As mentioned in para 4.02, detailed plans to protect and develop
Dholbaha are being drawn up. To protect agricultural land below the hills
from flooding, the original plan called for runoff from the hills left and
right of Dholbaha Choe to be diverted into the main Dholbaha Choe. In the
original plan as shown in Map 13694, diversion levees were proposed to be
constructed immediately below the hills. The present plan, which is a more
effective and less costly alternative, consists of diverting the 25-year
flood flows from Dholbaha dam and the catchments to the right of the dam
into the Dasuya-Zangur Pur Choe. This would involve some enlargement,
strengthening and extension of the existing choe, and construction of a bund
across the Dholbaha Choe about two miles below the dam. Provision would be
included for passing non-flood flows through the Dholbaha bund. This solu-
tion was also found more socially acceptable since it would not require the
acquisition of a significant area of highly productive land in the project
command area for the previously proposed channelization and extension of the
Dholbaha Choe. More importantly, detailed investigation of the originally
proposed plan determined that the elevation of the receiving Beas River con-
siderably exceeded that of the contributing Dholbaha Choe at the proposed
point of confluence. Initial capicity of the channel below Dholbaha Choe
would be adequate to contain 70 m /sec at Dholbaha Choe equivalent to the
current 45-year frequency flood release, since She initial capacity would
be 295 m /sec increasing progressively to 850 m /sec at its confluence with
the Beas River. The project provides for purchase of the land on which new
levees would be constructed channel, lined waterways under bridges, for
remodelling of an existing railway bridge which crosses the proposed channel,
and for minor raising and strengthening of the existing embankment.
4.12      Design standards for proposed channelization work in Dholbaha are
considered adequate, given that one of the major objectives of the project
is to monitor results, so that design standards can be further developed to
assure final stability of these open channels. Establishment of improved
design standards would be one of the principal functions of the team of inter-
nationally recruited consultants provided under the project (paras 4.30 and
4.31). Construction of levees would confine water to a main channel; the
higher velocities that result, however, would tend to erode the steeper upper
portions of the channel and deposit sediment in flatter sections near the
outfall. This would be expected to occur even if the watershed above is well
covered with vegetation since clearer water entering the channel would pick
up sediment from the channel itself. To prevent serious degradation of the
channel, the project provides for construction of drop and other structures
in the channel, and for means to prevent bank erosion through construction of
riprap and revetments, and turfing along side slopes of embankments. However,
after heavy floods some degradation of the channel and bank erosion would
occur. The monitoring program to be established would identify problems
as they develop and remedial measures would immediately be taken. The design
of future channels would be modified accordingly.
4.13      Construction Methods:  Construction would generally be carried out
by manual labor. This is in line with GOP policy to provide maximum employ-
ment during the implementation of public works and to give priority for employ-
ment of local resident labor. The use of some machinery is, however, necessary



- 21 -
and the project provides for vehicles and equipment, including bulldozers,
concrete mixers and vibrators, and dewatering pumps.
Dholbaha Dam and Irrigation System
4.14      Dam.  The project provides for the construction of an earthfill
dam to collect runoff from the hills and thereby prevent flooding and provide
an assured source of irrigation water. The dam would be located in Dholbaha
Choe ab9ut 800 m upstream of Dholbaha village. The dam would create a
25.6 Mm storage reservoir at full reservoir level 424 m. It would have a
340 m long embankment with a 10 m top width. Upstream and downstream slopes
would be 3 to 1 and 2.5 to 1, respectively, above elevation 415.0, and 2.5
to 1 and 2.0 to 1 below that elevation. Sufficient, suitable material for
embankment construction is available within 4 km of the dam site. The dam
would rest on the underlying sandstone which provides a satisfactory founda-
tion. The upstream slope of the embankment would have a 60 cm riprap work
face.  The presently envisaged spillway design consis s of three gated 2 m
diameter pipes, sufficient for discharging up to 94 m /s (about a 100-year
frequency flood routing) and a 30 m long open crest auxiliary spillway at
a higher elevation located on a rock saddle to the right of the main dam.
The combined syillways are capable of passing the maximum probable inflow
flood (3,200 m /sec) either preceded or followed in three days by a 25-year
frequency flood (730 m /sec). Criteria for design have been agreed and final
designs are under preparation. The top of the dam would be at elevation 430 m
with the maximum water surface at elevation 427 m.  Single purpose flood con-3
trol storage would be obtained in the reservoir above elevation 424 m (6.1 Mm ).
Joint flood control and conservation storage would in5lude the reservoir space
from elevation 424 m down to elevation 417 m (11.7 Mm ) and single-purpose
conservation storage below that to dead storage level 402 m. Compensation
would be paid to those losing land and/or residences which would be submerged
as a result of dam construction. The area to be submerged in Dholbaha catch-
ment encompasses the lands and some of the homes of 75 families. Assurances
have been obtained that GOP would complete by December 31, 1981 the relocation
of, or finalize compensation to, residents, right-holders, and landowners in
the area to be submerged by Dholbaha dam. Compensation for land and buildings
would be paid in accordance with standard GOP procedures for compulsory acquisi-
tion which are satisfactory.
4.15      Regarding dam safety, GOP has established and will maintain a
special panel of experts to review and approve the planning and design of
dams to be constructed under the project in accordance with appropriate design
practices; and will ensure that dams are constructed in accordance with
appropriate engineering practices. Assurances regarding dam operation and
maintenance are in para 6.16.
4.16       Irrigation System.  The irrigation distribution system has been
designed to cover a cultivable command area of 3,750 ha. The system would
have a left bank canal 9.4 km in length with a capacity reducing from about
0.7 cumec at the head to 0.1 cumec at the end, capable of serving 1,400 ha.
A right bank distributary canal originating at the dam would be 2.8 km



- 22 -
long and about 1.2 cumecs capacity, dividing into two minor canals, one 7.6 km
long and the other 6.2 km long and capable of serving 2,350 ha. These canals
would be lined to reduce water losses. Layout and designs have been completed
and are satisfactory. The distribution system would be designed to serve
about 8 ha chaks, with no holding farther than 300 m from a lined water
course.
4.17 2    Water Supply and Demand.  The Dholbaha Choe, with a catchment of
56 km , is the only choe for which streamflow measurements have been made;
eight years of record are available for the monsoon period and 4 years for
the non-monsoon season.  By correlating these with 30 years 3of rainfall data,
the annual average streamflow has been estimated at 13.8 Mm3 during the mon-
soon or kharif season (late June-early October) and, 3.8 Mm during the dry
or rabi season (late October-early April). Although monsoon runoff can vary
from 28% of average runoff to over 240%, irrigation water availability for
rabi season cropping will be known each year by September 30 at the end of
the principal replenishment period.
4.18      The project water demand has been established using the modified
Penman method to compute water requirements of typical cropping patterns and
using appropriate assumptions for conveyance efficiency and field efficiency.
Because the irrigation system is small, it would be fully lined, and because
all land development would be ensured (since it would be financed from the
budget), an overall irrigation efficiency of about 60% has been assumed.
With judicious operation of the total single and dual purpose conservation
storage (25.4 Mm ), it would be possible to irrigate, on an average about
3,000 ha out of the 3,750 ha cultivable command area, in the rabi season.
Key features would be reservoir operation aimed at the promotion of an
irrigated crop calendar which would make maximum use of the monsoon rainfall
for storage and irrigation and provide effective rabi season irrigation.
irrigation releases would be timed for their maximum impact on crop yields.
The target would be to irrigate up to 3,350 ha of rabi crop and in wetter
years to carry over storage to provide a pre-monsoon irrigation. The final
cropping pattern and water distribution scheme will be developed from opera-
tional studies based upon the WATREQ simulation model.
Flood Protection and Development Works in Watersheds Other than Dholbaha
4.19      As discussed in para 4.02, a variety of watersheds will be investi-
gated and the most typical and viable will be developed so as to draw useful
lessons for future replication. The project provides funds for development
of four watersheds in addition to Dholbaha. Works to rehabilitate the upper
catchment areas in each of the watersheds would be similar to those for
Dholbaha and have been described in paras 4.05-4.09. Works below the hills
would differ depending upon the physical and environmental factors in each
watershed. At appraisal it was found that the proposal to replicate the
technical solution found for Dholbaha would probably be sub-optimal in other
watersheds. For example, Dholbaha has the largest catchment areas of the
choes, the largest runoff, and is one of the few with a suitable site for
a storage dam. Protection of land below the hills in watersheds other
than Dholbaha may involve the reduction and control of water fLows with-
out the construction of a dam. Planning to find the optimal solution to
protect and develop these four watersheds would require technical expertise



- 23 -
not presently available in India and which is provided under the project
through internationally recruited consultants (para 4.31). To ensure that
the watersheds selected are representative of problems encountered in the
Punjab Shiwaliks and that plans drawn up are technically and economically
sound, assurances have been obtained, in respect of watersheds other than
Dholbaha, that GOP would:
(a) select four watersheds for implementation under the
project, based on their technical feasibility and
economic rates of return of not less than 12% unless
otherwise agreed with the Bank. To enable early start
of construction taking advantage of the consultants'
presence, studies would first be conducted on Janauri,
Chohal, Maili and Patiala-Ki-Rao. If selected, con-
struction activities on these watersheds can proceed
expeditiously since the upper catchment works on these
four watersheds have already been started
(b) substitute another watershed if any of the four water-
sheds fail to meet the criteria specified in (a) above
(c) submit for Bank's approval, as a condition of disbursement,
the detailed implementation plans for watersheds selected
for impementation under the project; and
(d) by March 31, 1985, complete preparation of plans for about
ten watersheds representative of watersheds generally in
terms of problems encountered in the project area, including
the four mentioned in (a) above.
4.20      Cost of Component.  It would cost about US$1,770 per ha including
both the irrigation, flood control and land development costs to protect
and develop land below the upper catchment of Dholbaha watershed. As men-
tioned, Dholbaha has the largest runoff of all the watersheds. To control
this runoff requires the construction of flood protection levees and a dam.
Other watersheds have smaller upper catchment areas, and it is likely to cost
only about US$600 per ha to protect and develop land below these catchments.
To determine the cost to protect and develop land in watersheds other than
Dholbaha, an analysis has been carried out of the benefit that would be
obtained in Dholbaha if no dam were provided (since the other catchments may
not require or may not have suitable sites for storage dams). It is estimated
that the net present value of the stream of benefits from flood protection and
land development alone would be about US$1,000 per hectare protected (at a 12%
discount rate). Details are in Annex 3, Section V. This then represents the
switching value - the value above which the return would be acceptable. With
the US$1,000 per ha value and preliminary plans developed by GOP, the flood
protection works to be implemented in the four watersheds other than Dholbaha
would cost an estimated US$13.2 M.



- 24 -
C. Farm Development
Land Development in Dholbaha
4.21      Construction of the Dholbaha dam, irrigation system and levees to
protect agricultural land from flood would benefit farmers owning land on
either side of the Dholbaha Choe. The primary benefit would be derived by
farmers with undeveloped land north of the road, but would also accrue to
farmers south of the road where land is presently occasionally subject to
flooding. To realize the full potential economic benefits of the project,
it would be necessary to undertake land development in these areas. The
present land use in Dholbaha, including flood-free and upper catchment areas,
is as follows:
Present Land Use in Dholbaha (ha)
(Includes Flood-Free Land)
Cultivated                     Cult-   Uncult-
Irrigated                                ivable  ivable
(Tubewells)  Rainfed   Total   Forest  Waste    Waste   Total
Dam Catchment
Area              -            370       370   5,180      -          60   5,610
North of Road       160        2,885    3,045   1,270   1,725    1,160   7,200
South of Road    4,700         1,900    6,600      -        500       200   7,300
Total       4,860         5,155   10,015   6,450   2,225    1,420  20,110
4.22      Upper Catchment Areas:  Treatment of the (a) 5,180 ha forest land
in the catchment area of the dam and 1,278 ha forest above the left and right
diversion embankments (Map 13694) and (b) cultivated land in t:he dam catchment
area, have been included in estimates of works in the upper catchments (paras
4.05-4.09).
4.23      North of the Road.  The 7,200 ha between the dam and the road in-
cludes 2,170 ha above the left and right diversions and 5,030 ha below. Of
the area above the diversions, 40% comprises crop and waste land with slopes
greater than 2% or is cut up by gulleys resulting from past erosion. This
land requires conservation treatment as otherwise it would add considerably
to the sediment load within the flood control channel. Similarly, land below
the diversions requires treatment to increase productivity and prevent erosion.
The project thus provides for: bench terracing on land with slopes above 2%,
estimated to cost Rs 4,500/ha; land leveling on flatter land, estimated to
cost Rs 2,200/ha; and gully reclamation, estimated to cost Rs 3,000/ha. Gully
plugging comprises construction of small check dams, debris basins, crate wire
dams and drop structures and would be accompanied by a planting program of tree
and shrub species which would assist the soil stabilization process. The comr
bined effect of flood protection, irrigation and land development would be to
increase the cultivated area by nearly 60% and to increase substantially the
agricultural potential of these lands. Details are in Chapter VII.



- 25 -
4.24      Dholbaha dam would irrigate, on average, 3,000 ha of a 3,750 ha cul-
tivable command area (para 4.18). The project provides for the brick tile
lining of watercourses to reduce seepage losses. Where appropriate, under-
ground pipes would be installed. These would also be installed in command
areas of the few existing tubewells north of road, which would increase the
irrigable area by some 30%.
4.25      Area South of the Road.  About 65% of the land south of the road
is currently irrigated, mainly from private sources, the remainder is rainfed
(25%) and waste (10%). A small part of this irrigated land and most of the
rainfed land is subject to flooding in the monsoon season. With the provision
of flood protection works it is to be expected that much of the present waste-
land would be brought under cultivation, and that much of the present rainfed
land would be brought under irrigation. Details are in Chapter VII. To this
end, it is expected that farmers would utilize credit to finance installation
of private tubewells and land development south of the road. As such, these
items have not been included in project costs. Adequate institutional credit
is available and which could be refinanced by the Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation.
Land Development in Other Watersheds
4.26      In addition to Dholbaha, it would also be necessary to undertake
land development in the other four watersheds once they have been protected
from floods. The project provides funds for similar works to those envisaged
in Dholbaha. The cost of such works have been included in the estimate in
para 4.20.
Horticultural Development
4.27      Over the project period, 1,100 ha of fruit trees (mango, mandarin
orange, litchi, pear and guava) would be established by farmers throughout
the project area. Existing nurseries are able to provide planting material
for the first two years, but will be unable to meet requirements subsequently.
Consequently, the project provides for the establishment and operation of a
25 ha nursery-cum-progeny orchard. Fruit trees would be sold to farmers at
rates determined from time to time by the Director of Agriculture; the current
price being Rs 1.0 per tree.
4.28      To ensure adequate advice to growers, existing district horticul-
tural staff would be strengthened by the provision of one Horticultural Devel-
opment Officer, five Horticultural Inspectors and fifteen village level workers.
Headquarters staff would also be strengthened. The project provides transport,
housing and logistical support for these staff, together with mechanical and
hand-sprayers for loan to growers to assist in pest control.
Fisheries Development
4.29      Present statewide demand for fingerlings has outstripped the capa-
city of the Fisheries Department. In order to ensure an adequate supply of
fry for stocking dams to be constructed under the project and to improve the



- 26 -
overall fingerling position in the State as a whole, the project provides
for the establishment and operation of a hatchery to be located on the banks
of the Sutlej River near Ropar.
D. Technical Assistance, Studies, Research and Training
Technical Assistance
4.30      As discussed in para 4.19, development plans would be drawn up for
ten watersheds in addition to Dholbaha, and four more would be selected for
implementation under the project. Although the Shiwalik watersheds are small,
their development involves complex and inter-related technical problems that
differ between watersheds since each watershed varies in size, topography, and
hydrology. In arriving at the optimal solution for flood and erosion control,
it would be necessary to: (a) consider a number of alternatives for water and
sediment control; flash flood mitigation and disposal of water; irrigation,
either from surface storage or from groundwater, land shaping and other mea-
sures to reduce soil erosion; and disposal of stream bed sediment loads; and
(b) analyze the most promising alternatives in detail. Thus, the number of
factors involved in the planning process are large (a list of factors that
need to be examined is in Chart I).
4.31      There is limited experience in India with the comprehensive and
multi-disciplinary analysis required for development of watersheds of the
type found in the Punjab Shiwaliks. The project, therefore, provides for
technical assistance to meet this need. Consultants are critical to the
success of the project and are required to introduce technical improvements
and improved planning techniques and thereby to build up GOP's capability to
plan and execute projects of a similar nature in the future. Because planning,
execution and monitoring of the watersheds is a dynamic process, the objective
is for the consultants to be involved in the full scope of operations--planning,
construction and monitoring. Thus, as works are implemented, results would
be carefully monitored and designs and construction standards modified accord-
ingly. In brief, consultants would assist GOP to: investigate, plan and
analyse various technical alternatives for watershed planning; prepare reports
for submission to the Bank summarizing findings (and which would contain
detailed technical, social and economic justification of the solution pro-
posed); implement works; monitor progress; draw up technical guidelines and
criteria to enable GOP to plan future works; and arrange and provide in-service
training. To this end, the following specialists would be recruited to
provide technical assistance in the first two years of the project (terms of
reference in Annex 1):
Months
Watershed Planning Specialist (team leader)    24
Small Watershed Hydrologist                       18
Water Resource Engineer                           24
Sedimentationist                                   4
Groundwater Specialist                             6
Other Specialists                                  3
Subtotal                                    79



- 27 -
It is expected that some of the consultants' contracts would be extended
beyond two years. The project, therefore, provides for a total of 120
man-months of technical assistance in the form of internationally recruited
consultants, at an estimated cost of US$8,500 per man-month. The project
also provides for a locally recruited project economist to work with the
team. Terms of reference are in the Appendix to Annex 1.
Groundwater Investigations, Studies and Trials
4.32      Flash floods play a significant role in replenishing groundwater.
Several years of investigation and analysis are required to generate informa-
tion needed to understand the groundwater situation as it relates to ground-
water pumping and the influence of flood protection, new surface irrigation,
water spreading for groundwater recharge and improved vegetation in the upper
catchments. There is substantial scope to improve the groundwater situation by
artificial recharge. Moreover, because many of Shiwalik watersheds do not have
suitable sites for economic surface storage of water, groundwater storage may
prove a viable alternative. Therefore, to assess the effect of project works
and to find means of economically increasing groundwater recharge, the project
would include a five-year program of groundwater investigations and trials to
strengthen both GOP's information base for planning future projects and its
capacity to monitor the hydrologic effects of groundwater development.
4.33      The groundwater investigation would cover the entire Bist Doab tri-
angle (see map); initially, the major focus would be on areas immediately
below the Shiwalik hills. The project provides for the installation of experi-
mental recharge wells, about 250 ha of siltation and infiltration basins in
choe beds, geologic exploration, and investigation of underlying soil strata.
This would lay the basis to evaluate the economics of groundwater recharge and
to determine which of the choe beds should be preserved for water spreading
and which should be eventually farmed. The project also provides for (a) the
installation of a network of observation wells, to record fluctuations in the
water table; (b) establishment of 10 stream runoff stations; (c) a series
of pumping tests to provide more accurate estimates of yield and transmis-
sability; and (d) a groundwater mapping program, to permit well locations to
be accurately recorded. Detailed terms of reference are contained in the
Supplementary Implementation Volume. To implement these components, the
project provides for construction and maintenance of settling and recharge
basins, installation of wells, and equipment and vehicles. Provision has
also been made for the establishment of a Groundwater Division within the
Directorate of Water Resources to undertake these investigations and trials.
Research
4.34      Agricultural Research.  Low agricultural productivity in the Kandi
Tract can be mainly ascribed to the continual danger of floods, soil loss due
to erosion, lack of water conservation due to run off, and to the low inherent
fertility of the soil. Adoption of suitable soil and water conservation
measures with associated aspects of crop, livestock and soil management, both
in the catchment as well as in cultivated areas is, thus, basic to stabiliza-
tion of the agricultural economy in these areas. Research so far carried out
by PAU has shown that crop yields can be more than doubled by adoption of
simple improved farm practices. This work, while of considerable importance,



- 28 -
is far from comprehensive and has largely been carried out on farmers' fields.
To further experimentation, especially in respect of developing water harvest-
ing techniques, integrating livestock into the farming system (through evolu-
tion of suitable pasture and fodder tree regimes) and by improving husbandry,
and soil and water conservation practices, the project proposes to establish
an agricultural research farm to be run by PAU. The farm would comprise about
30 ha of arable and 250 ha of adjacent forest/grazing land. The sites for the
farm have been selected and are available. Assurances have been obtained that
GOP would, by December 31, 1980, submit to the Bank for review and comment, a
detailed program of work for agricultural research.
4.35      Forestry Research:  Project research would support the work already
being carried out by the Research and Training Division of the Department of
Forests at Hoshiarpur and would be undertaken in close collaboration with:
PAU; Soil Conservation, Demonstration and Training Center, Chandigarh; and
other departments participating in the project. Special emphasis would be
given to species and provenance trials of both trees and grasses; collection
of runoff and sedimentation data; fertilizer trials; spacing trials; growth
rate studies and yield table preparation and nursery practice. Funds would
be provided for incremental research staff, construction of a laboratory and
staff quarters, equipment and vehicles required to carry out these studies.
An assurance was obtained from GOP that, by December 31, 1980, it would
submit to the Bank for review and comment, a detailed program of research work.
Training
4.36      To build up the Directorate of Water Resources' planning capacity,
the team of consultants would work closely with staff of the Directorate and
would provide in-service training. To this end, the project provides for
appointment of counterpart staff and for overseas training for 7 specialists
for periods ranging from 6 to 12 months (Annex 2, Table 7). During nego-
tiations an understanding was reached with GOP that it would make its best
effort to select trainees who, on their return, would be likely to stay for
about three to four years on the jobs for which they had received training.
4.37      Farmer and staff training forms an important part of project content.
Provision is made for farmer training in agriculture, horticulture, fisheries
development and forestry using existing departmental staff and facilities.
To assist in working with farmers and livestock owners to obtain their full
participation in project activities, a mobile unit would be established within
the Office of the Project Coordinator. The unit would also be available to
assist participating GOP Departments in carrying out their training programs.
4.38      Staff training, both within and outside India, is provided under the
project. Local staff training would either be carried out within the State or
at facilities located elsewhere in India. In addition to the overseas train-
ing provided to staff of the Directorate of Water Resources (para 4.36), the
project provides for two foresters to be sent for overseas training to broaden
their experience in the rehabilitation of upper catchments.



- 29 -
E.   Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.39      Funds would be provided under the project for staff, equipment,
vehicles and to meet the operating costs of the Joint Development Commis-
sioner's (Project Coordinator's) Office, which would be established under
the project. The project would also strengthen the Directorate of Water
Resources through the establishment of two divisions: a Groundwater Inves-
tigation and Trials Division, and a Surface Water, Hydrology and Planning
Division. Funds would also be provided for project monitoring and evaluation
(paras 6.17-6.19); preparation of a second phase project; and staff, equipment
and vehicles for the information unit (para 4.37) to produce training material
for participating departments and to assist in activities aimed at obtaining
full participation of farmers and livestock owners.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01      Total project costs are estimated at Rs 511 M (US$60.8 M) net of
taxes and duties (which are negligble), with a foreign exchange component of
Rs 48.1 M or some 9% of total cost. Detailed cost estimates are given in
Annex 2, and summarized below:



- 30 -
Million Rupees          Million US Dollars
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
A.   Upper Catchments
Reforestation and Soil
Conservation            60.4    0.7      61.1      7.1      0.1      7.2
Livestock Development        39.7    0.4       40.1     4.8       -       4.8
Subtotal                  100.1    1.1    101.2    11.9        0.1    12.0
B.   Flood Control & Irr.
Dholbaha - Flood Control   24.5    1.4         25.9     2.9      0.2      3.1
Dholbaha - Dam & Irr.        49.4   10.3       59.7     5.9      1.2      7.1
Other Watersheds /a         100.1   11.1    111.2    11.9        1.3    13.2
Subtotal                  174.0   22.8    196.8    20.7        2.7    23.4
C.   Farm Development
Horticulture                  4.0    0.3        4.3     0.5       -       0.5
Fisheries                     5.6    0.2        5.8     0.7       -       0.7
Land Development in
Dholbaha                   18.6    1.4      20.0      2.2      0.2      2.4
Subtotal                   28.2    1.9      30.1      3.4      0.2      3.6
D.   T.A. and Research
Technical Assistance &
Overseas Training           6.1    7.2      13.3      0.7      0.9      1.6
Groundwater Studies          11.6    0.9       12.5     1.4      0.1      1.5
Research                      5.7    0.2       5.9      0.7       -       0.7
Subtotal                   23.5    8.2      31.7      2.8      1.0      3.8
E.   Project Administration,
Monitoring and Eval-
uation                      7.8    0.6        8.4     0.9      0.1      1.0
BASE PROJECT COST                333.6   34.6    368.2    39.7        4.1    43.8
Physical Cont.                     37.2    3.8      41.0      4.4      0.5     4.9
Price Cont.                        91.6    9.7    101.3    11.0        1.1    12.1
Subtotal                         128.8   13.5    142.3    15.4         1.6    17.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              462.4   48.1    510.5    55.1         5.7    60.8
/a   Includes land development.
5.02      Cost estimates are based on findings during appraisaL and updated
to March 1980 prices. Costs include charges for administration, design, and
supervision, in respect of dam construction, soil conservation works and
flood protection estimated at about 15% of construction costs. Physical
contingencies have been estimated for the individual project components and
average about 11% of base project costs.  No physical contingencies have been
applied on vehicles and staff salaries. Price contingencies have been added
using the following rates, compounded annually: 1980 = 10%, 1981-83 = 7%, and
1984/85 = 5%.



- 31 -
B. Proposed Financing
5.03      Finance to cover total project costs of US$60.8 M would be provided
as follows:
IBRD       GOI/GOP        Total
-------- US$ Million --------
30          30.8          60.8
(49.7%)       (50.3%)      (100%)
The proposed Bank loan of US$30 M (Rs 252 M) would finance about 50% of
project costs. This would cover all foreign exchange costs (US$5.7 M) and
about US$24.3 M (45%) of local costs. Bank funds would be channeled through
GOI to GOP on GOI standard terms and arrangements for financing of state
development projects. The balance of project financing would come from GOI/
GOP. Incremental costs, following project completion, would be met from GOP's
budgetary sources; they are estimated at about US$1.2 M equivalent annually
and would be met without difficulty. Retroactive financing up to US$1.0
million would be provided from April 1, 1979 to the date of loan signing to
cover eligible expenditures for: (a) soil conservation, land levelling and
revegetation work carried on in Dholbaha and about four other watersheds to
be selected (paras 4.06, 4.07 and 4.08 and Table 2, Annex 2); (b) consultant
services and overseas training of specialists assigned to the Directorate of
Water Resources and the Department of Forests (paras 4.31, 4.36 and 4.37 and
Table 7, Annex 2); (c) cattle and sheep to be used in the livestock exchange
program for the upper catchments (para 4.09 and Table 3, Annex 2) and (d) farm
development in the area to be protected by Dholbaha Dam (paras 4.21, 4.22,
4.23, 4.24 and 4.25 and Table 6, Annex 2).
5.04      In accordance with GOP policy for backward areas, farm development,
purchase of improved cattle and sheep, and development of minor cottage indus-
tries, would be financed from budgetary sources and would be recovered by GOP
as arrears of land revenue. The interest rate charged would be 8-1/2% p.a.
with repayment over 10-15 years. This compares with about 10-1/2% charged by
domestic lending institutions for similar types of lending and similar repay-
ment periods. The annual rate of inflation for the five-year period 1974/75
through 1978/79 has been between 4.0% - 4-6% p.a. The year 1979/80 produced
a rather drastic upsurge in the rate but this higher rate is not expected to
continue. Price increases for the future are projected at 10% in 1980, 7% in
1981-83 and 5% thereafter.
C. Procurement
5.05      The main item to be financed under the loan would be civil works.
The major single contract would be for the construction of the Dholbaha dam
comprising: dam foundation, earthwork placement, spillway and outlet



- 32 -
(US$5.4 M). Construction would be limited to the dry season and spread
over three years. It would be awarded after local competitive bidding (LCB).
Construction of Dholbaha irrigation system (US$1.0 M) would be labor inten-
sive and, therefore, suitable for small piecework contracts. Construction
of Dholbaha flood protection works (US$2.1 M) and the flood control and
irrigation systems of the other watersheds to be selected (US$15.1 M) would
also be labor intensive and restricted to the dry season. It would not
be possible to group this construction into large enough contracts to be
attractive for international competitive bidding (ICB). Construction would
be carried out under LCB and piece rate contracting procedures. Invitations
to tender would be advertised locally in accordance with the general condi-
tions of contract and implementation guidelines agreed with GOI. Force
account, limited to 30% of the flood control and irrigation works (Part B
of Table under para 5.01) would be used where required by safety or quality
considerations or when the quantities are exceptionally difficult to estimate
in advance.
5.06      Equipment, instrumentations and vehicles would cost US$1.6 M.
Equipment, which includes small off-the-shelf items, would be bulked for
local competitive bidding wherever possible, or purchased by limited
tendering through normal trade channels if required in small quantities
(less than US$100,000). Field vehicles would be procured locally through
standard GOP procedures acceptable to the Bank to ensure availability of
spare parts and services.
5.07      Land Development work for Dholbaha comprising land levelling,
bench terracing, gully reclamation, etc. (US$2.3 M) would be carried out
by force account by the Soil Conservation Department at standard Government
rates. Equipment required for levelling and terracing would be provided by
the Land Development and Seeds Corporation and rented to the Department.
Upper Catchment work consisting of reforestation and soil conservation mea-
sures (US$6.6 M) would be carried out primarily by the Department of Forests
on force account. However, some soil conservation structures, such as stone
check dams and crate wire dams, involving mainly labor charges, would be built
through piece work contracts. Livestock development, including the purchase
of improved cattle and sheep (US$3.8 M) for farmers in the hills would be by
prudent shopping in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Shopping would be by the Animal Husbandry Department as this would involve
buying in village markets outside the State. International consultants
(US$1.6 M) are being recruited in accordance with Bank guidelines. The
balance of the project costs do not involve procurement actions and include
land acquisition (US$2.3 M), staff salaries and operating costs (U$5.7 M),
and technical assistance, research and training (US$1.2 M). Physical con-
tingencies are included in above amounts but not expected price increases
(US$12.1M).
D. Disbursements & Audit
5.08      Disbursements would be made for:
(a) 100% of the cost of consultancy services, including services
of PAU for project evaluation, and of overseas training;



- 33 -
(b) soil conservation, land leveling and revegetation works in
the upper catchment at the rate of Rs 2,300 per ha (US$270)
against a certificate stating that soil conservation works
have been completed and that trees and grasses have been
planted;
(c) 70% of the cost of civil works expenditures (including land
leveling and other soil conservation measures) other those
in (b) above;
(d) 70% of the cost of well drilling and construction of settling
and recharge basins for groundwater investigations;
(e) 100% of the cost of locally manufactured goods procured
ex-factory, or 70% of the cost of other locally procured
goods;
(f) 70% of the cost of cattle and sheep; and
(g) 50% of the cost of salaries for incremental project staff.
5.09      Disbursements for force account work and for payments of less
than Rs 300,000 under civil works contracts and Rs 150,000 for equipment and
vehicles would be made against certificates of expenditure. Documentation
for these works would be retained by GOP and made available for inspection by
the Bank during review missions. Full documentation would be required for all
other disbursements. GOP would have its auditors audit all certificates of
expenditure at least once every six months and furnish the audit report to
the Bank promptly thereafter. It would be a condition of credit disburse-
ment against expenditures for civil works in any of the watersheds other than
Dholbaha, that the Bank had approved the detailed implementation plan for that
watershed (para. 4.19). This condition does not apply to expenditures for
soil conservation, land leveling and revegetation works in the upper catch-
ments. A schedule of estimated disbursements is in Annex 2 Table 11.
5.10      Concerned Government departments and agencies would be subject to
normal Government control and auditing procedures which are satisfactory.
Assurances were obtained that all institutions and Government departments
using project funds would keep separate accounts of expenditures made under
the project to be audited annually, for each fiscal year, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied by independent and qualified
auditors. Audited accounts, together with the auditor's report, would be
submitted to the Bank not later than nine months after the end of each such
year.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
6.01      GOP's organizational set up relevant to project components is
detailed in Chart 2.



- 34 -
Project Organization and Coordination
6.02      Implementation would be the responsibility of the following GOP
agencies: Department of Forests for reforestation, fodder and bhabhar grass
development and soil conservation in upper catchment areas; Soil Conservation
and Engineering Department for land treatment (land and bench leveling, ditch
lining, gully reclamation and tank construction); Department of Irrigation for
design, construction and maintenance of dams, irrigation systems and channels
to convey flood runoff and sediment to major rivers; Department of Agriculture
for provision of agricultural extension services and horticultural development;
Department of Animal Husbandry for development of livestock enterprises and
provision of supporting services; Department of Fisheries for development of
hatcheries and for advice to farmers; and the Punjab Agricultural University
for agricultural research and project evaluation.
6.03      The Department of Irrigation falls under the jurisdiction of the
Secretary for Irrigation; the Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Departments fall
under the Secretary for Animal Husbandry and Fisheries; and the rest fall
under the Financial Commissioner, Development and Secretary to the GOP.
Coordination at this level of government would be through a Policy Review
Committee which has been established under the project and is chaired by the
Chief Minister. This committee would consist of inter alia: Secretaries and
Heads of Departments participating in the project, Vice-Chancellor of PAU,
Deputy Commissioners from concerned districts, and elected representatives
from the project area.
6.04      Overall responsibility for project implementation would lie with
the Financial Commissioner, Development. He would be assisted by a Project
Coordinator, (designated as Joint Development Comissioner, Kandi Watershed and
Area Development Project) who would head a small Program Planning and Coordi-
nation Unit (para 6.06). The Project Coordinator has been appointed and the
Program Planning and Coordination Unit established. Assurances were obtained
from GOP that the position of Project Coordinator would be filled at all times
for the duration of the project. To give effect to policy decisions taken by
the Policy Review Committee, and to coordinate the activities of the implement-
ing Departments and Agencies, an Implementation Committee, chaired by the
Financial Commissioner and Secretary to Government has been set up. It com-
prises, inter alia: the Secretary for Irrigation or his nominee, the Secre-
tary for Animal Husbandry and Fisheries or his nominee, heads of participating
departments, Deputy Commissioners from concerned districts, a representative
from PAU, and the Project Coordinator.
6.05      Heads of Department would ensure implementation of project actions
through their district staff. Inter-departmental coordination at this level,
would be ensured through District Level Committees established and chaired by
the Deputy Commissioner in charge of the respective District. The committees
comprise, inter alia: representatives at the district level from the depart-
ments participating in the project and elected representatives from the
district.
6.06      The Program Planning and Coordination Unit, under the Joint Devel-
opment Comissioner, would be responsible for inter alia: drawing up and



- 35 -
programming agreed annual development proposals; collating expenditures for
reimbursement from the Bank; project reporting, monitoring and evaluation;
preparation of a project completion report (PCR); sociological support for
work in the upper catchments; and through a small information unit, providing
information to project beneficiaries concerning future project actions.
Assurances were obtained that GOP would, not later than six months after the
closing date, furnish the Bank with a PCR in such detail as the Bank would
reasonably request.
Project Management and Technical Assistance
6.07      During appraisal, a review of the planning and implementation capa-
cities of participating GOP departments was carried out. For most Departments
only minor strengthening is required and provision for such has been included
under the project. The major task of planning, designing and drawing up devel-
opment plans for the ten watersheds would largely be the responsibility of the
Directorate of Water Resources.
6.08      Directorate of Water Resources.  The Directorate would be strength-
ened by the establishment of two divisions: a Groundwater Investigation and
Trials Division; and a Surface Water Hydrology, Sedimentation and Planning
Division. The two divisions would work closely. The Groundwater Division
would be primarily responsible for planning and implementation of the ground-
water investigation, studies and trials in the Bist Doab triangle (paras
4.32-4.33).  Detailed terms of reference for the trials are contained in the
Supplementary Implementation Volume. The Surface Water Hydrology, Sedimenta-
tion and Planning Division would be primarily responsible for planning,
designing, analysing and drawing up feasibility plans for each watershed.
Feasibility plans would focus on technical, economic and social aspects of
each watershed. The Division would explore the various technically feasible
options, and would estimate preliminary costs and benefits. Detailed plans,
together with the economic analysis, would then be drawn up for the most
promising options. GOP would then select one of the options for submission
to the Bank, with a detailed justification for the selection of that option.
Guidelines for preparation of feasibility reports are contained in the
Supplementary Implementation Volume.
6.09      Irrigation and Drainage.  Responsibility for construction of Dholbaha
dam and its irrigation system, and future flood control and irrigation systems
would be under the Chief Engineer, Thein Dam with a new circle (irrigation) to
be established under a superintending engineer. Responsibility for execution
of drainage works (channelization) would be allocated to construction circles
under the Chief Engineer, Drainage. The Circle assigned responsibility for
project works, comprises two operational Divisions (controlled by an Executive
Engineer) and supported at circle headquarters by design engineers, drafting,
tracing and clerical staff. Additional staff, would be required to carry out
project proposals and details are in Annex 2, Tables 4 and 5.
6.10      Department of Forests.  Day to day responsibility for execution of
forestry works would be given to a specially appointed Conservator of Forests.
To undertake project works two additional Forestry Divisions would be created.
Details are in Annex 2, Table 2.



- 36 -
6.11      Soil Conservation and Engineering Department.  The North Engineering
Circle, administered by a Conservator of Soils, would have responsibility for
all conservation works in project areas. To carry out project works in addi-
tion to present programs, it would be necessary to strengthen the North Circle
through the provision of additional planning and engineering staff. Details
are in Annex 2, Table 6.
6.12      Department of Agriculture.  Existing facilities and numbers of staff
are sufficient to meet farmer needs for advice and training envisaged under
the project. The horticultural development program would require additional
field level staff and a small increase in support services at departmental
headquarters. Details are at Annex 2, Table 9.
6.13      Department of Animal Husbandry.  District level staff would be
strengthened in order to handle the livestock development program. To give
support for the development effort the services of a sociologist and part
time but experienced livestock consultant would be provided. Details are
in Annex 2, Table 3.
6.14      Punjab Agricultural University: Agricultural Research.  Strengthen-
ing of the Department of Soils at PAU is necessary in order to staff the small
research center to be established under the project. Details are in Annex 2,
Table 9. Project Evaluation: Responsibility for carrying out an evaluation
of the impact of the project, on both the environment and beneficiaries, would
lie with the Economics Department of PAU. Details are in paras 6.17-6.19.
Funds would be provided to enable the Department to engage additional staff
required to carry out any surveys required.
6.15      Technical Assistance.  The team of internationally recruited con-
sultants would be responsible to the Financial Commissioner, I)evelopment and
Secretary to Government. Under him, the team would work primarily with the
Directorate of Water Resources and closely with the Department of Forests, the
Soil Conservation and Engineering Department, and other Departments involved
in project planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation. Consultants
with qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Bank have been internationally recruited.
Operation and Maintenance (Irrigation and Drainage)
6.16      The operation and maintenance of Dholbaha dam and irrigation system
would be the responsibility of the Project Branch of the Irrigation Department.
Maintenance of flood channels would be the responsibility of the Drainage
Branch. Assurances have been obtained that GOP would, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank, cause dams, spillways, irrigation canals, and
flood channels constructed under the project to be periodically inspected, in
accordance with sound engineering practices, to determine whether there are
any deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or in the quality and
adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of same, which may endanger
their safety and will promptly take all required remedial measures, to correct
such deficiencies. Assurances have also been obtained that GOP would provide
adequate funds at all times to operate and maintain, in accordance with sound



- 37 -
engineering standards, facilities constructed under the project. Maintenance
of field irrigation ditches would be the responsibility of the farmers. In the
event they fall into disrepair, the Irrigation Department is empowered to repair
them and recover the costs from beneficiaries through the Revenue Department.
Monitoring and Evaluation
6.17      Monitoring (and reporting) of physical progress and financial inputs
would be the responsibility of the Director of the concerned department. Such
reports would be collated by Project Coordinator and forwarded to the Bank
once a year (para 6.06). To provide a measure of the degree of achievement
of project goals, as well as to generate data concerning the effect of
project actions, continuous data gathering would be required. This would
be supplemented by long and short-term studies as required.
6.18      PAU would assume the major responsibility for project evaluation.
To provide data for improvement of design criteria, and to measure the effects
of soil conservation, flood protection and irrigation works, it will be neces-
sary for the Departments of Irrigation, Drainage and Soil Conservation to
establish procedures for data recording. To measure the impact of works in
the upper catchments on flood control, would involve the cooperation of the
Department of Forests and the Central Soil Conservation Demonstration and
Training Center. In order to measure the effects of project actions on the
economic and social welfare of project beneficiaries would require the coop-
eration of several departments of PAU and involve baseline and continuing
household surveys. Finally, to understand the groundwater situation as it
relates to groundwater pumping and the influence of flood protection, new
surface irrigation, water spreading for groundwater recharge and improved
vegetative cover of the Shiwalik Hills, it would be necessary to initiate
a long-term study to be carried out by the Directorate of Water Resources
(paras 4.32 and 4.33).
6.19      PAU, in consultation with the proposed team of consultants and the
agencies mentioned above, would prepare details of work to be undertaken.
Assurances have been obtained that, by September 30, 1980, PAU would forward
to the Bank, for review and comments, detailed proposals to evaluate the
economic and social effects of the project on beneficiaries. The results
of this evaluation would be furnished to the Bank yearly.
Cost Recovery
6.20      Unlike an irrigation scheme, where beneficiaries are easy to iden-
tify, it is difficult to pinpoint which farmers should pay for the cost of
flood protection works. Flood damage varies from year to year, with some land
subject to perennial flooding and some only occasionally inundated. Thus,
charges would vary depending upon the frequency and severity of damage. No
records of this exist. Moreover, the flood protection works would benefit
large numbers of people not directly affected by flooding as they would pro-
tect roads and bridges, and would lead to secondary benefits, such as invest-
ments in permanent housing and small-scale industry. Such benefits would



- 38 -
accrue to both the farming and non-farming population. Thus, it is difficult
to determine what proportion of the cost of works should be borne by farmers.
6.21      In addition to difficulties of determining who should pay, and how
much, the imposition of a tax on farmers for flood protection works is not
justified on equity grounds. First, the main objective of flood protection
is to restore agricultural land to its original condition. The choes which
cause the flood and sediment damage are of recent origin and have resulted
from overgrazing and felling of trees in the upper catchments. Agricultural
land has been damaged by actions of those in the hills (who are frequently not
landowners) and the problem has been exacerbated by the inability of Govern-
ment to rectify the situation. It would be inequitable to tax farmers to
return land to its original condition when the damage has been caused by a
third party. Second, the population of the Kandi Tract is the most backward
in the State. Thus, most of those who would have to pay the tax are presently
living below the absolute level of poverty. To offset years of neglect and
poverty, GOP has declared the Kandi Tract "a backward area" and, as a matter
of policy, has directed that development expenses (other than for on-farm
development) would not be recovered through direct means. Moreover, unlike
irrigated areas which usually raise incomes above those of the rest of the
State, post-project incomes of those living in the Kandi Tract would still
be below those of the plains where over 80% of the area is irrigated. Finally,
since the dam is dual purpose--to control flooding and provide irrigation
water--any proportioning of the cost of the dam between flood control and
irrigation would be arbitrary. Therefore, it is not proposed to recover costs
of flood protection works by direct means. However, investment would be part-
ly recovered through marketing fees and other indirect taxes. Water and water
related charges for irrigation would be collected in accordance with State
practice. 1/
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
7.01      The proposed project would lay a sound basis for future development
in the lower foothills of the Himalayas to reverse ecological degradation
that has been going on for decades and to protect and develop agricultural
land that is presently subject to serious erosion and flooding. The project
would largely benefit those living near or below the absolute level of poverty
and would have a considerable beneficial impact on income distribution.
7.02      Because the project would be the first integrated attempt to tackle
the problems of the Himalayan sub-mountainous zone, there is no similar exper-
ience in India on which to base an estimate of project benefits with any
1/   The adequacy of existing water charges in Punjab is analysed in detail
in the Punjab Irrigation Project SAR, dated March 19, 1979.



- 39 -
degree of accuracy. Moreover, the long-term benefits from strengthening GOP's
capability to plan, execute, and monitor future projects in the submountainous
zone cannot be quantified. However, there is no doubt that the benefits of
the project are considerable. This chapter briefly discusses project benefits
and indicates, as an illustration, the benefits that might be expected from
investments in the Dholbaha watershed, the only watershed on which planning
has been completed. This shows that the expected economic rate of return (ERR)
in Dholbaha is satisfactory (para 7.11). The ERR in the other four watersheds
will exceed 12% (para. 4.20), since only plans in watersheds that have an
acceptable return would be approved by the Bank (risk is discussed in paras
7.19 and 7.20).
Benefits in Upper Catchment Areas
7.03      Although the main benefit of the upper catchment activities are
environmental in nature, the project would substantially increase the con-
sumption and welfare of those living in the hills. This would be achieved by
increased production of fodder grass for stall-feeding to improved cattle;
bhabhar grass, which is in great demand as a pulping material for making
printing and writing paper and is also sold for making rope, brooms, beds, and
fruit baskets; timber for construction, fuelwood and charcoal; and meat, eggs
maize and wool.
7.04      Work in upper catchments would also bring about substantial benefits
to areas below the hills, in particular by increasing infiltration of ground-
water and by reducing flood runoff and sediment damage. Reduction in soil
erosion would increase the life of Dholbaha dam since sediment inflow would be
reduced by about 65%. In addition to reducing erosion, it would reduce peak
floods by about 20%. The reduction in sedimentation and in size and frequency
of floods means that the size and cost of flood protection structures can be
reduced accordingly.
Farmer Benefits in Areas Below the Upper Catchments
7.05      The proposed project would directly benefit farmers owning land
below the hills, but whose holdings are now subject to the ravages of flood
and sediment damage and who live in constant fear that their families, homes,
cattle, farm investments, and crops might be swept away by flash floods.
Accordingly, farmers in these flood-prone areas north of the Chandigarh-
Hoshiarpur road, have invested little in permanent structures and in land
development. Moreover, because farmers anticipate that fertilizer will be
washed away by floods, they practice low-risk farming practices with minimal
cash inputs and land preparation, so that if crops are destroyed, losses are
small.
7.06      Without the project, flooding and erosion would continue on these
lands. Year after year the quantity of sand deposited would increase. Slowly
the area under cultivation, and with it, soil fertility would decrease. Thus,
"without the project" production from flood prone lands is likely to decrease.
By converting flood-prone land into flood-free land, the project would make
it attractive for farmers to invest in land development, including land level-
ling and sinking of tubewells, in improved land preparation, and in use of



- 40 -
cash inputs, such as improved seed, fertilizer and pesticides. As a result,
crop yields would increase from their present low level, farmers would change
cropping patterns moving into higher value crops, and cropping intensities
would increase. In addition, land which is currently idle would be brought
under cultivation. The following indicates the likely changes that would
take place in Dholbaha watershed as a result of the project.
Dholbaha Watershed
7.07      In the case of the Dholbaha watershed, project works below the
hills would benefit farmers in two areas: the undeveloped land north of the
Chandigarh-Hoshiarpur road and those areas south of the road that are presently
subject to flooding. Presently all areas north of the road are subject to
flooding. South of the road, only about 40% of the area is flood-prone,
(generally adjacent to unconfined natural drainage ways); the remaining is
flood-free. Unfortunately, data on the extent of areas flooded annually and
of complete or partial crop damage are incomplete and any estimate of crop
damage would, therefore, be highly speculative. Consequently, crop damage has
been excluded from the financial and economic evaluation. Similarly, damage
to infrastructure has been omitted as data are incomplete. However, because
infrastructure is so poorly developed in the project area, damage is small.
The omission of crop and infrastructure damage in the analysis means that
benefits are understated. In relation to total benefits, however, the effect
is small, since by far the largest project benefit derives from the realiza-
tion of the agricultural potential of these lands.
7.08      It has been assumed that production "without the project" would
remain unchanged, a conservative assumption since, as mentioned above, pro-
duction is likely to decrease. Details of changes in crop yields and cropping
patterns are in Annex 3, Tables 2 and 3. Regarding changes in land use, the
following table shows land use "without" and "with" the project. The tables
are the same as the table in para. 4.21 except that they exclude presently
flood-free land as this would be unaffected by the project.



- 41 -
Land Use in Dholbaha Without Project (ha)
(Excludes presently flood-free land)
Cultivated
Irrigated   Irrigated                       Cultivable
(Tubewells)    (Dam)       Rainfed   Total       Waste    Total
North of the Road        160           -        2,885      3,045    1,725       4,770
South of the Road         -            -        1,900      1,900       500     2,400
160           -       4,785      4,945    2,225       7,170
Land Use in Dholbaha With Project (ha)
(Excludes presently flood-free land)
Cultivated
Irrigated   Irrigated                       Cultivable
(Tubewells)    (Dam)       Rainfed   Total       Waste    Total
North of the Road        170         3,000      1,600      4,770        -       4,770
South of the Road    1,300             -        1,100      2,400        -       2,400
1,470         3,000      2,700    .7,170         -       7,170
7.09      Details of the anticipated change in land use in Dholbaha are in
Annex 3.  In brief, north of the road, the following changes have been assumed,
that:
-- existing cultivable waste would be brought into cultivation;
*- the Dholbaha dam would provide rabi irrigation to 3,000 ha;
and
-- the remaining cultivable land would be rainfed, although
(after levelling and with increased use of farm inputs)
productivity would be enhanced.
Based on the assessment that 40% of the area south of the road is also flood-
prone, it has been assumed that:
-- existing cultivable waste (which comprises 5% of the area)
would be brought under rainfed cultivation; and
-- production on 1,900 ha rainfed land (25% of the area) which
is presently flood-prone would increase as a result of the
project and complementary investment in tubewells.
The remaining land south of the road, all of which is presently irrigated
by tubewells, is assumed to be unaffected by the project.



- 42 -
7.10      To show increases in farm income based on these assumptions, farm
budgets have been prepared for representative 2-ha farms (the average farm
size) "with" and "without" the project. Details and assumptions regarding
prices, yields, input requirements and the derived crop and farm budgets are
in Annex 3. In brief, farm incomes would increase as follows:
Full development  Full development    Relative increase
without Project      with project       due to project (%)
(w)               (w)                   (w - w)
(w)
North of Road
Rainfed            Rs 1,020 /a      Rs 4,550                     350
Irrigated (dam)        -            Rs 7,790                     660
South of Road
(flood-prone)
Rainfed            Rs 1,630 /a      Rs 4,550                      170
Irrigated
(tubewells)           -            Rs 10,870                    540
/a   Over estimated since figures have not been adjusted for probability
of failure due to floods.
Farm incomes are thus expected to increase by as much as 660% as a result of
the project, depending upon whether a farmer owned land north or south of the
road and whether he would receive irrigation or not. The reason that these
increases are so high lies in the extremely low base at which farmers operate
at present--over 30% of the area "without the project" is uncultivated; thus,
incremental production would be substantial.
7.11      Rate of Return based on Dholbaha Watershed.  Based on the benefit
assumptions in paras 7.07-7.10, the economic rate of return for Dholbaha
watershed (32% of project costs) is estimated at 16%. Details are in Annex 3.
In brief, the following costs have been included: cost of soil conservation
and reforestation works in upper catchment areas; Dholbaha dam and irrigation
system; flood protection works; soil conservation works; maintenance costs
over the life of the project; and complementary investment in land levelling
and tubewells.
7.12      Sensitivity Analysis.  To test the sensitivity of the ERR to a change
in assumptions, a second model (Model II) has been run. In this, it has been
assumed that benefits north of the road would be as in Model [, above. As
mentioned, this is already a very conservative assumption since no private
investment in tubewells is assumed. South of the road, however, in Model II,
it is assumed that the only benefit would be from the 500 ha of uncultivated
land which would be converted to rainfed farming. Thus in Model II the 1,900
ha of existing rainfed land is assumed to be unaffected by the project. The
ERR so calculated is 13% showing that even with the most conservative benefit
assumptions the rate of return is acceptable.



- 43 -
7.13      ERR for Rehabilitation of Upper Catchments:  To show that reforesta-
tion and soil conservation measures in the upper catchments are viable in
their own right, the ERR has been calculated on this component alone. Details
are in Annex 3, Section VI. In order to achieve benefits in the upper catch-
ment areas, forests would have to be closed to grazing, resulting in loss of
certain benefits to users. After deducting these foregone benefits, the ERR
is estimated at 12%. Because the estimate of benefits foregone is uncertain,
a sensitivity analysis was carried out using a 25% and 50% increase in bene-
fits foregone. The ERR fell by less than one percentage point, showing the
return is rather insensitive to errors in estimating benefits foregone.
Other Project Components
7.14      In addition to work in the hills (soil conservation and revegetation)
and below the hills (flood protection, irrigation and land development), the
project includes components for: (a) livestock, fisheries and horticulture;
and (b) technical assistance, overseas training, agricultural research, and
groundwater investigations and trials. The economic analysis of the livestock
component has, in part, been reflected in the analysis of the reforestation,
grass and soil conservation component in upper catchments. In this, the econo-
mic price of grass has been derived from the economic price of milk. Regard-
ing fisheries (1.6% of project costs), existing facilities in Punjab for the
production of fingerlings are fully utilized. The fisheries component pro-
vides for construction of one farm to raise fingerlings to stock the Dholbaha
and other reservoirs. Fingerlings not used in the Dholbaha reservoir would be
used to stock farm ponds, reservoirs and unused canals and would be absorbed
without difficulty. The component would enable full utilization of the reser-
voir, provide additional employment and considerably enhance nutritional levels
in the upper catchment areas. Regarding horticulture, the sandy soils north
of the road are ideally suited to horticulture which has a high financial and
economic value and would provide a major source of cash income to farmers.
Costs and benefits of this component have been included in the analysis of the
Dholbaha as horticulture has been included in the future cropping patterns.
Employment, Production and Marketing
7.15      As discussed, because this is a pilot project, estimation of benefits
is highly speculative. However, in order to have a rough estimate of project
output, it has been assumed that the per hectare benefit would be the same
on the 12,000 ha to be protected and developed in the four additional water-
sheds as for the 7,170 ha in Dholbaha. On this basis, it is estimated that
on-farm employment would increase annually by about 1.6 M mandays annually
at full development, equivalent to the creation of some 5,000 full-time jobs.
The project would also create about 6 M mandays of employment during the con-
struction phase. The projected increase in production of major crops, exclud-
ing fodder (which could be marketed without difficulty) is as follows:



- 44 -
Incremental Production at Full Development
Dholbaha              Other Watersheds          Total
Wheat (tons)               7,000                    11,400              18,400
Maize (tons)              _5,700                     9,600              15,300
Sub-total (tons)          12,700                    21,000              33,700
Oilseeds (tons)              200                       300                  500
Potato (tons)              2,600                     4,300               6,900
Sugarcane (tons)          20,000                    33,500              53,500
Horticultural
Products (tons)          5,200                     8,700              13,900
Milk ('000 litjes)         3,200                     7,500              10,700
Timber ('000 m )               90                      230                  320
Bhabhar Grass (tons)       3,300                     7,700              11,000
Direct Project Beneficiaries
7.16      The project would directly benefit some 4,000 farm families in upper
catchments and about 12,000 farm families below the hills (of which about
4,500 would be in Dholbaha). In the upper catchments, the cost per farm
family benefitted is US$2,800. However, only part of the benefit accrues to
those living in the upper catchments -- most accrues to those living below the
hills. Below the hills, the cost per farm family is US$2,500 in Dholbaha and
US$1,700 in other watersheds (excluding contingencies). As discussed, invest-
ment in other watersheds would not be restricted to this amount but would be
determined on a watershed by watershed basis.
Social Benefits
7.17      The project would have a considerable beneficial impact on income
distribution. As discussed, most of those who live in the Kandi area live
below the absolute level of poverty. The project would have an immediate and
direct impact on their incomes. In addition, the project would, by eliminating
the fear of flooding, make it possible for farmers to initiate development on
their own accord -- to invest in tubewells, farm machinery, better housing,
etc. The proposed project, thus, provides a unique opportunity for all
farmers, small and large, to benefit.
Environmental Impact
7.18      The project would have a strong positive environmental impact.
Reforestation, soil conservation and closure to livestock in the upper catch-
ment is expected to result in a recovery of the soil and water retention
properties which prevailed when the hills were covered in forests. The
storage dams, retention dams, diversionary channels, levees along the choe
outlets, gully plugging, bench terracing, and land levelling will control the



- 45 -
flood waters in the middle and lower catchments and allow the farm lands of
each watershed to be developed to their full potential. Once an ecological
balance has been reestablished in the upper catchments, it is expected wild
life and perennial streams would reappear.
Project Risks
7.19      There are four main project risks, each of which relates to the pilot
nature of the project. First, although most of the project components have
been tried in Punjab, the proposed project would be the first attempt to inte-
grate the various components. The project is thus unproven in its totality and
there is, therefore, a risk that the project will not realize adequate bene-
fits to generate an acceptable rate of return. Such a risk is unavoidable
in any pilot project. However, the risk is small in relation to potential
benefits (which are considerable since the institution building aspects of
the project will enable the project to be replicated in Punjab and elsewhere
in India). The second risk is that technical problems would emerge that
would be difficult to resolve. For example, there is a danger that with the
canalization of choes as designed, flood water would pick up sediment in the
upper part of the channel and deposit it further down. This would raise the
bed of the channel above that of the outfall, causing flooding. This problem,
should it arise, would be overcome by carefully monitoring sediment movement
and by increasing maintenance of the channels. This may also require con-
struction of additional spurs and drop structures, which could cost up to 20%
of the cost of the levees. This is equivalent to an increase in the cost of
the Dholbaha scheme of some 3%, which would reduce the ERR by four-tenths of
a percentage point. Moreover, one of the main purposes of involving the con-
sultants in project implementation and monitoring is to quickly identify
technical problems as they emerge, to take appropriate remedial action, and
to modify designs of future works accordingly. The third risk relates to the
active participation of farmers and livestock owners in the upper catchments,
in particular their willingness to stop animals from grazing in these areas,
and instead to stall-feed cattle. During project preparation, those who live
in the upper catchments were consulted frequently and have indicated that
(a) they realize the benefits from closing the areas to grazing and (b) they
would willingly participate in project activities, provided assistance is
provided to enable them to develop alternative enterprises to increase their
incomes. The project includes a comprehensive development package, and pro-
vides for a sociologist and livestock specialist to work with villagers on a
permanent basis to ensure the continued and active participation of villagers.
Finally, there is a risk that the reduction in flooding would adversely affect
the groundwater table in the plains. Existing hydrologic data are inadequate
to accurately determine, at this stage, the effect of the project on the water
table. The groundwater investigation and trials would enable means to be
found to recharge the groundwater, e.g. with recharge basins.
7.20      In addition to the above risks, there is a risk to the Bank in
allocating funds for protection works in watersheds for which there are, as
yet, no concrete proposals. However, detailed plans will be prepared on ten
watersheds with the assistance of project consultants and the risk that we
would not find four watersheds on which protection works would be implemented
under the project which are acceptable for economic and technical reasons
would be small.



- 46 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      An agreement has been reached with GOI that Bank funds would be
channeled through GOI on GOI's standard terms and arrangements for financing
of state development projects (para 5.03).
8.02      Agreements have been reached with GOP that:
(a)  all lands in the upper catchment areas rehabilitated
under the project would be closed to livestock grazing,
and unauthorized extraction of fuelwood and timber
(para 4.05);
(b)  it would:  (i) furnish to the Bank for review the details of
a comprehensive program to improve the social and economic
conditions of farmers and livestock owners in the upper
catchment areas; and (ii) in the case of Dholbaha, furnish
such details by December 31, 1980 (para 4.09);
(c)  it would cause its special panel of experts to periodically
examine the concept, the design and the construction of the
dams and spillways included in the project until the dams
have been completed and their performance during the first
filling has been assessed (para. 4.15 and 6.16).
(d) in respect of watersheds other than Dholbaha, GOP would:
(i) select four watersheds in addition to Dholbaha for imple-
mentation under the project. Selection would be on the
basis that works in each of the watersheds are technically
feasible and that the economic rate of return is not less
than 12% unless otherwise agreed with the Bank; studies
would first be conducted n Janauri, Chokal, Maili and
Patiala-Ki-Rao;
(ii) substitute another watershed if any of the four watersheds
fail to meet the criteria specified in (i) above;
(iii)  submit for the Bank's approval, as a condition of disburse-
ment, detailed implementation plans for the irrigation and
flood protection works for watersheds selected for imple-
mentation under the project; and
(iv) complete plans by March 31, 1985 for about ten watersheds
representative of watersheds generally in terms of problems
encountered in the project area, including the four men-
tioned in (i) above (para 4.19 and 5.09);
(e) it would, by December 31, 1980, prepare and furnish to the
Bank for review and comment, a detailed work program for
agricultural and forestry research (paras 4.34 and 4.35);



- 47 -
(f) certificates of expenditure would be audited at least once
every six months and the audit report submitted to the
Bank (para 5.09);
(g) project accounts would be audited annually, for each fiscal
year, by independent auditors. Audited accounts, together
with the auditor's report, would be submitted to the Bank
not later than nine months after the end of each such year
(para 5.10);
(h) it would appoint, at all times for the duration of the project,
a Project Coordinator to assist Financial Commissioner, Devel-
opment and Secretary to Government, who shall be responsible
for the overall implementation of the project. The Project
Coordinator would head a Program Planning and Coordination Unit
(para 6.04);
(i) it would maintain the a Policy Review Committee, the Implementa-
tion Committee, and District Level Committees which have been
constituted for this project (paras 6.03, 6.04 and 6.05);
(j) it would, not later than six months after the closing date,
furnish the Bank with a PCR in such detail as IDA shall
reasonably request (para 6.06);
(k) it would, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, cause
dams, spillways, irrigation canals and flood channels constructed
under the project to be periodically inspected, in accordance
with sound engineering practices, to determine whether there
are any deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or
in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of
operation of same, which may endanger their safety, and will
promptly take all required remedial measures to correct such
deficiencies (para 6.16);
(1) it would provide adequate funds at all times to operate
and maintain, in accordance with sound engineering standards,
facilities constructed under the project (para 6.16); and
(m)  by December 31, 1980, PAU would forward to the Bank for review
and comments, detailed proposals to evaluate the economic
and social effects of the project on beneficiaries. The
results of this evaluation would be furnished to the Bank
yearly (para 6.19).
8.03      With the above agreements and condition, the project would be suit-
able for a Bank loan of US$30 M on standard Bank terms. The Borrower would
be the Government of India.



48



49
ANNEX 1
Page I
INDIA
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
Terms of Reference for Internationally Recruited Consultants
General
1.        The project provides for a team of internationally recruited
consultants to:
-    provide advice, assistance and in-service training to
strengthen GOP's capacity to plan, execute, monitor, and
maintain works on small watersheds of the type found in
the Punjab Shiwaliks;
-    identify data requirements and assist GOP set up a system
to collect such data, in particular data on flood damage
and benefits;
-    assist GOP to:  (a) investigate, plan, and analyze the
various alternative development possibilities in ten
watersheds; and (b) prepare detailed feasibility reports
for submission to the Bank;
-    assist GOP to execute works below hills once plans have
been approved by the Bank;
-    advise GOP on structural and vegetative maintenance
requirements;
-    assist GOP to establish a monitoring system to quickly
identify problems as they arise, such as sediment accumu-
lation in the channels, so that appropriate remedial
action can be taken and future plans modified accordingly;
-    assist GOP to execute and monitor results of the groundwater
investigations, recharge studies and trials;
-    assist GOP draw up design criteria in the light of expe-
rience gained during project implementation which would
serve as a basis for future plans and designs; and
-    assist Punjab Agricultural University establish a system to
evaluate project impact.



50
ANNEX 1
Page 2
2.        Consultants would be responsible to the Secretary for Agriculture
and Forests. The team of consultants would comprise a Watershed Planning
Specialist, Small Watershed Hydrologist and a Water Resource Engineer. These
would be in place initially for a period of about 24 months each, but which
is likely to be extended. In addition, specialists in Groundwater and Sedi-
mentation would be required on a short term basis (6 months initially).
GOP would provide the services of a project economist to work with the team;
terms of reference for the economist are in the Appendix to this Annex. The
major duties of the internationally recruited team members are outlined below.
A.   Watershed Planning Specialist: (Team Leader)
(1) Program and coordinate the activities of the multi-
disciplinary team and be responsible for overall
work of the team.
(2) Keep the concerned Departments informed of progress. He
would be the main contact with other departments.
(3) Assist the Director of Water Resources to: (a) set up
the Groundwater Division and the Surface Water Hydrology,
Sedimentation and Planning Division; and (b) allocate
responsibilities for project planning and implementation
within each division.
(4) Based on the input from team members, provide technical
advice to assist GOP to:
(a)  identify data requirements and set up a system to
collect such data;
(b)  assist GOP to set up a system to monitor progress;
(c)  draw up detailed design criteria and construction
methods which would serve as the basis for future
work; and
(d)  implement project works using modified construction
standards.
(5) Supervise work of team members, particularly to ensure
comprehensive in-service training of concerned GOP
staff;
(6) In conjunction with team members, propose alternative
proposals for treatment of watersheds; advise and assist
GOP to plan and analyze alternative proposals; advise
and assist GOP to draw up detailed feasibility plans and
reports for submission to the Bank; and assist GOP to
program, implement, monitor and maintain works; and



51
ANNEX 1
Page 3
(7) Assist GOP as required in matters related to the
project.
Experience Required:
A University graduate in a related technical field with a 15-20
years experience in soil and water development projects; of which 10 years
experience should be in planning. He should have not less than 5 years
experience as leader or deputy leader of a multidisciplinary planning team,
responsible for comprehensive development of small watersheds.
B.   Small Watershed Hydrologist
(1) Evaluate existing hydrologic procedures; advise on pro-
cedures that are suitable for small watershed planning
and development; and assist in implementation of the
project.
(2) Assist GOP to establish the Surface Water Hydrology
Sedimentation, and Planning Division, and advise on
procedures for its operation.
(3) Identify hydrologic data deficiencies and advise on
equipment, locations, operation and costs of stream
gauging and meteorology observation stations required
to collect data for future planning. In particular, to
assist GOP to collect data for the analysis of ground-
water conditions to assess the scope for groundwater
recharge.
(4) Assist GOP to prepare data on existing frequencies, flow
rates and quantities and for alternative plans and designs.
Data should be in sufficient detail for the analysis of
channel stability and sediment transport.
(5) Assist GOP to prepare and implement plans for monitoring
and evaluation of hydrologic effects of the project.
(6) Assist GOP to establish a program to train staff and pre-
pare technical notes so that GOP staff have a sound basis
for planning of future works.
(7) Assist the project economist with the analysis of flood
damage surveys by providing relevant hydrologic data.
(8) In the absence of the Sedimentationist, assist GOP
to implement plans prepared for collecting information
and analysing sediment production and transport,
and channel stability.



52
ANNEX 1
Page 4
(9) In the absence of the Groundwater Specialist, work
with the Groundwater Division, in particular, the
Groundwater Irrigation, Recharge studies and trials,
and assist GOP to prepare a final comprehensive
report.
(10) Assist GOP with the preparation of hydrologic aspects
of proposed watershed feasibility reports for submission
to the Bank.
Experience required:
A University degree in engineering or related field, with a minimum
of 10 years experience in hydrological research and/or the planning and de-
sign of the hydrologic aspects of soil and water development and land treat-
ment. He should have about 5 or more years experience in feasibility plan-
ning of small watersheds, preferably as part of a multidisciplinary team.
C.   Water Resource Engineer
(1) Evaluate existing criteria and standards for the planning
and design of structural measures with particular emphasis
on the design of stable channels, water control works and
groundwater recharge facilities.
(2) Advise on new standards and criteria for the above.
(3) Identify data deficiencies and advise and assist GOP to
collect engineering data required for planning.
(4) Examine in detail existing proposals for treatment of
watersheds; propose and assist GOP to plan and analyse
alternative solutions; and assist GOP to execute pro-
posals approved by the Bank.
(5) Assist GOP to prepare and implement plans for monitoring
effects of the project so as to quickly identify problems
as they emerge, take immediate remedial action and alter
design criteria accordingly.
(6) Advise GOP on: construction methods; the optimal mix of
equipment and labor, bearing in mind that labor should
be used when possible; and maintenance programs, procedures
and costs.
(7) Assist GOP with the preparation of technical aspects of
proposed feasibility reports for submission to the Bank.



53
ANNEX 1
Page 5
Experience required:
A University degree in Civil Engineering, with about 10 years
experience in the planning, design and construction of soil and water
development and land treatment measures. He should have at least 5 years
experience in multidisciplinary feasibility planning of small watersheds
involving irrigation, drainage, and flood and erosion control.
D.   Groundwater Specialist (short-term)
(1)  Advise and assist GOP in planning and executing the pro-
posed groundwater investigations and studies (terms of
reference for this study are in Annex 6, contained in the
supplementary Implementation Report).
(2)  Assist GOP to strengthen the Groundwater Division, within
the Directorate of Water Resources, and advise on procedures
for its operation.
(3)  Advise and assist GOP in planning, execution and monitoring
of groundwater recharge trials. Assist GOP to evaluate
results.
(4)  Set up a program to train staff of the proposed Groundwater
Division, in particular, to evaluate and interpret ground-
water data.
(5)  Assist GOP with the preparation of maps, charts and reports
on findings of the groundwater investigations. 1/
(6)  Assist GOP with the preparation of groundwater aspects of
the proposed watershed feasibility reports, for submission
to the Bank.
Experience required:
A University degree in geology or hydro-geology with a minimum
of 20 years experience in groundwater studies in semi-arid regions. He should
also have experience in areas with seasonal rainfall and flashy intermittent
stream flows. At least five years of his experience should be as leader of
a team, responsible for (a) groundwater inventory and water balance studies,
and (b) field investigations and the preparation of a final report. Expe-
rience with recharge field trials is desirable.
1/   Since the groundwater specialist is a short-term assignment, the small
watershed hydrologist would be responsible for assisting GOP in his
absence, in particular, to assist GOP to prepare a comprehensive report
outlining findings of the Groundwater Investigations, Recharge Studies
and Trials.



54
ANNEX 1
Page 6
E.   Sedimentationist (short-term)
(1) Evaluate existing sedimentation data and assist GOP on the
development and execution of a program to collect and analyze
data. This is required to determine the effects of sediment
problems on alternative project plans.
(2) Evaluate existing criteria for the design of water disposal
channels and advise and assist GOP to establish planning
and design criteria for stable flood channels.
(3) Advise and assist GOP to set up a system, including instal-
lations and equipment required to monitor project effective-
ness, in particular: sediment production; sediment trans-
port and channel erosion. Special attention should be given
to problems of sediment accumulation near the outfall of
the proposed channels.
(4) Advise GOP on the effects of proposed land treatment measures
on sediment production, both in the upper catchments and
below the hills.
(5) Assist GOP with the preparation of the technical aspects,
relating to sediment, of the proposed watershed feasibility
reports.
Experience required:
A University degree in geology, soil science, or engineering with
a minimum of 10 years experience in carrying out sediment investigations or
research. He should also have a minimum of 5 years experience in planning
and design of stable channels and small watershed projects in arid or semi-
arid areas.



55
ANNEX 1
Appendix
Page 1
INDIA
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
Terms of Reference for Locally Recruited
Project Economist
1.        To generate flood damage data and to carry out the economic evalua-
tion of each of the watersheds, GOP would provide a full time project economist.
The project economist, who would be recruited locally, would work with the
team of internationally recruited consultants.
2.        The major duties of the economist would be to:
(1) establish a sound basis for the economic evaluation of
projects. To this end, set up a program to train GOP
economists in the latest techniques of project evaluation.
(2) identify data deficiencies, particularly in the quantifica-
tion of flood and sediment damage, for example, total and
partial crop damage, and assist GOP to establish means to
collect such data.
(3) analyze past benefits of choe canalization to attempt to
quantify induced investment in tubewells after works
have been completed.
(4) quantify project benefits for the alternative plans under
consideration, for example, the reduction in flood damage
and maintenance costs to roads, benefits from improved
rainfed and irrigated agriculture, etc.;
(5) assess secondary benefits, where possible, such as reduction
in dislocation of traffic, induced investments in project
area, etc.
(6) evaluate alternative proposals for each watershed as
to their financial and economic acceptability.
(7) assist in the preparation of the economic analysis
and project feasibility reports for submission to
the Bank.
(8) assist GOP and PAU to establish a system for monitoring
and evaluation of benefits and costs; and



56
ANNEX 1
Appendix
Page 2
(9) assist the Sociologist in the Office of the Project Coordinator
to develop and implement a comprehensive development package for
the upper catchments.
Experience required:
A University degree in economics with about 10 years experience
with the economic analysis of soil and water development projects, preferably
with experience as part of a multidisciplinary team, responsible for feasi-
bility planning of watersheds in irrigated regions. He should have experience
with economic analysis of flood damage and with the evaluation of benefits
from: flood protection; irrigation; drainage and/or reduction in soil erosion.



INDIA
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
Initial Phasing of ConsultantsL/
MONTH
0                   6                    12                   18                   24
Watershed Planning                      iii_
Specialist                     I                                   U i  I!*|                  i 
Small Watershed                   1 I          I,_I
Hydrologist                  E                   i                .I E                            I      I
Water Resource                 *                         *                          *        I     *I.         I
Engineer                                     I_ -
Sedimentationst2_I I                                                                                          I
Ground Water2"                   I             I                           iI        1i1I 1
Specialist                                             i I       I                 I  I _
I  l  I  l  I   .    ~~I  .,       I  I   l  I.             I  I
Other3'                            I I  I            I  I                  Ii    |  '!                       i
Il  I~ ~ - I  1             I    -Thre Man-Months as Required
Specialists                             i                                             a
Project DevelopmentmetI                                                           II   ,
Economist4-                   _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _I_I               I  I I                      L. L .. ... ,                                                        0                 
jJ Initially for a period of 24 months but likely to be
extended
2/ Schedule may need revision depending on monsoon season
3/ Other specialist to assist with technical problems presently undefined
4] The project economist would be recruited locally by GOP.
World Bank -19216



58
ANNEX 2
Table I
Pale I
DIDIA
KAJ4DI WATZZSH1D AND AILA DIVZLOUIT PIOJICT (PUNJAS)
Sum_ary Project Costs
(is 000)
YEAR                                                           Fore ign
1             2             3              4             5             Total               Exchange
A.  UPPER CATCHIENTS
(i)  kRforstation and Soil
Conservation Measures (Table 2)
Capital                                     3099.8        5782.7      10,774.7        14,986.9      15,218.5          49,862.6               479
Establish,ent                               1094.5        1527.8        2.388.5        2,918.0      .3.318.3          11,247.1               246
S.b-total                              4194.3         7310.5      13,163.2        17,904.9      18,536.8          61,109.7               725
(ii)  Livestock/Poultry etc. (Table 3)
Capital                                      555.9         559.5          492.3          726.5          654.5          2,988.7                 70
Purchase of Livestock                       2270.0        4300.0       5,310.0         7,335.0       7,335.0          26,550.0
Establimbuent                                555.1         758.6          948.0        1,154.0        1,171.8          4,587.5               271
Credit for Nev Forest Enterprises
and Compensation                           235.0         605.0       1,352.5         1,854.5       1,954.5           6,001.5
S.b-total                              3616.0         6223.1       8,102.8        11,070.0      11,115.8          40,127.7               341
Total Upper Catcheents                          7810.3      13.533,6       21,266.0       28,974.9       29,652.6        101,237.4               1066
B.  FLOOD CONTRDL 4 IRRICATION
(i)  Dholbaha - Flood Control (Table 5)
Capital                                     8520          10980          2200                                         21,700                1060
Establishment                               1090           1450           380            650           650             4.220                 380
Sob-total                              9610           12430         2580             650          650             25,920                1440
(ii) Dholbaha Dam & Irrigation Sytem (Table 4)
Capital                                     14810         27540       10,220           2,540           790            55,900                10070
Eatablish.ent                                 600          1070        1.150             660           350             3.830                   210
Sub-total                              15410          28610       11,370           3,200         1140             59,730                10280
(iii) Other Watersheds   1/                               -            5560       22,230          38.900       44.460            111.150                11120
Total Flood Control & Irrigation                 25020         46600        36.180         42.750        46.250            196.800                22840
C.  LAND DTEVLOPHENT
(i)  Dholbaha (Table 6)                                3056          3650        5694            5756          1781             19,937                 1394
(ii) Other Watersheds   2/
(iii) Horticulture Development (Table 9)
Capital                                     839.9         190.5         15.5           67.5           67.5            1180.9                   186
Establishment                               506.9         611.1       655.4           670.9          681.6            3125.9                   116
Sub-total                             1346.8          801.6       670.9           738.4         749.1             4306.8                  302
(iv) Fisheries Development (Table 3)
Capital                                    2645.0         905.0       372.0            12,0           12.0            3946.0                   179
Establishent                                233.3         402.4       418.3           412.6          406.8            1873.4                    68
Sub-total                             2878.3         1307.4       790.3           424.6         418.8             5819.4                  247
Total Land Development                          7281.1         5759.0      7155.2          6919.0        2948.9           30.063.2                 1943



59
INER 2
Table I
INDIA                                                                Page 2
IANDl WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PRYJXCT (PUNJAB)
Sumry Project Costs
(3*000)
YEAR                                                           Foreign
1             2              3              4              5             Total             Exchange
D. TECRNICAL ASSISTANCE. RESEARCH. & TRAINING
(i)  Technical Assistance (Table 7)                3590           3590           2630                                          9810                5210
(ii) Croundwater Investilation & Trials (Table 8)
Capital                                   1460           1700           1640            1660           1050           7510                 740
Establishment                              560            940           1030            1180           1250          4960                  180
Sub-total                             2020           2640           2670            2840          2300          12470                 920
(iii) Agricultural Research (Table 9)
Capital                                   2994           1110            108              48             48          4308                  100
Establishment                              297            320            320             320            320           1577                  43
Sub-total                             3291           1430            428             3A8           368           5885                  143
(iv)  Overseas Training (Table 7)                    690            450                                                         1140                 780
Total Technical Assistance,
Research, & Training                      9591           8110           5728            3208           2668         29305                 7053
E. PROJECT ADMINISTRAnlON, MONITORING
AND EVALUATION
(i) Progrma Planning and Coordination Unit
(Table 10)
Capital                                   427.0          120.0           12.0                                       559.0                 112
Establish.ent                             522.3          583.5          589.5           835.5         835.5        3366.3                 283
Project Evaluation                        240.0          240.0          240.0           24D.0         240.0        1200.0
Sub-total                            1189.3          943.5          841.5         1875.5         1075.5        5125.3                395
(ii)  Countarpart Staff for Technical
Assistanca (Table 7)                          200            240            250             270            290          1250
(iii) Hydrology, Sedimentation and
Planning Division (Table 7)                   310            420            440             450            460            2080                140
Total Project Administration.
Monitoring and Evaluation                  1699.3         1603.5         1531.5          1795.5         1825.5        8455.3                535
BASE PROJECT COST                                  52,223.7       76,166.1       72,856.7        83,647.4       83,345.0      368,238.9            34,582
Physical Contingencies  3/                4.992.1        8,201.1        8,189.8        9,492.7       10.083.5       40.959.2             3,828
Price Contingencies                       5,222.4       13,709.9       18,942.7       29,276.6        34 171.4      101,323.0            9,683
Sub-total                         10,214.5       21,911.0       27,132.5        38,769.3       44  254.9     14Z,282.2            13,511
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                 62,438.2       98,077.1       99,898.2       122,416.7      127,599.9      510,521.1            48,093
(US$60.8)
1/ It is assumed that construction of flood protection works would be phased as follows:
Year 1: 02; Year 2: 5.; Year 3: 202; Year 4: 35%; end Year 5: 402.
2/ Land development costs for other watersheds included undar flood control end irrigation.
3/ Physical contingencies have been estimted for the individual project componentoand averes about
112 of base project costs.



60
ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDIA
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
Reforestation and Soil Conservation (in Upper Catchments)
(Rs 000)
YEAR                                          Foreign
1         2          3          4         5         Total         Exchange
CAPITAL COSTS
I. Civil Works
building and Housing             344.0      516.0      505.0       569.0      468.0      2,402.0          -
Soil Conservation Works         414         931.5    1925.1       3042.9    3808.8    10,122.3            -
Reforestation                   1286.2     2898.9    6060.9       8330.6    7643.6    26,220.2            -
Cho Embankment Planting           23          51.8     129.9       197.8      290.4        692.9          -
Research Trails                    7.6         9.5      18.3        28.1       31.7         95.2          -
Land Development                 342        666       1350        2016       2340       6,714             -
Forest Service Roads             192.0       288.0     432.0       480.0      528.0     1,920.0          -
Sub-total                     2,608.8    5,361.7  10,421.2   14,664.4  15,110.5    48,166.5              -
II.  Vehicles and Equipment             479         415        346        315         96        1,651           479
III. Land Purchase for Offices and
Housing in Sec. 4                  12           6         7.5         7.5       12.0         45.0          -
Total Capital Costs              3,099,8    5,782.7  10,774.7   14.986.9  15,218.5    49.862.6             479
OPERATING EXPENSES
Staff Salaries                     659.7       922.0   1,571.8    2,005.5   2,324.9        7,483.9          -
Operation of Vehicles and
Equipment                    171.6       275.6      403         507       507        1,864.2        186.4
Maintenance of Roads                             9.6       24         45.6       69.6        148.8          -
Upkeep and Running of Stations    23            80.4     155         205.5      262.4        726.3         29.0
Training Costs                     240.2       240.2     234.7       154.4      154.4      1,023.9         31.0
Total Operating Costs            1,094.5    1,527.8   2,388.5    2,918.0   3,318.3    11,247.1            246.4
Total Without Contingencies            4,194.3    7,310.5  13,163.2   17,904.9  18,536.8    61,109.7            725.4
Physical Contingencies                   429.1       860.5   1,621.7    2,300.8   2,365.3        7,577.4        379.0
Grand Total                            4,623.4    8.171.o  14,784.9   20.205.7  20,902.1    68,687.1          1 104.4
1/ Details are in the Supplementary Implementation Volume, Annex 5, Appendix 9.



61
ANNEX 2
Table 3
INDIA
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
Livestock and Fisheries Development 1/
(Rs '000)
YEAR                                             Foreign
1         2           3         4          5          Total         Exchange
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
A. Capital Costs
Housing & Buildings                228         192        36         72          -           528.0          -
Vehicles and Equipment             219          40        20         -           -           279.0          70
Purchase of Food                   108.9       327.5    436.3       654.5     654.5        2.181.7
Sub-total                    555.9       559.5    492.3       726.5      654.5       2,988.7           70
Livestock:
-  Cattle                       1000        3000      4000       6000       6000       20,000
-  Sheep                        1200        1200      1200       1200       1200        6,000
-  Rams                           60           60       60         60         60           300
-  Bulls                           10          40        50         75        75           250
Sub-total Livestock          2270        4300      5310       7335       7335       26,550
Total Capital Cost                 2825.9      4859.5   5802.3    8061.5    7989.5    29.538.7              70
D. 0Oerating Costs
Staff                               222.5       296.8    354.3       354.3      354.3      1,582.2
Operation of Vehicles and
Equipment                        312        409.5    507         702        702        2,632.5          263
Office Expenses                      14.9        20.1      28.7       31.6       34.4        129.7           8
Other Establishment Costs
(Bldg.)                        -         21.8      40.2       43.7       50.6        156.3
Training Costs                        5.7        10.4      17.8       22.4       30.5         86.8
Total Operating Costs               555.1       758.6    948.0    1154.0    1171.8         4.587.5         271
C. Credit/Forest Enterprises
Credit for New Enterprises and
compensation for loss of
earnings                           235         605     1352.5   1854.5    1954.5         6,001.5
Total Livestock Development        3616.0      6223.1   8102.8   11070.0   11115.8    40,127.7             341
Physical Contingencies               73          95        89        128        117          502             5
Grand Total                        3689.0      6318.1   8191.8   11198.0   11232.8    40.629.7             346
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT
A. Capital Costs
Land Purchase                      1,500           -         -          -          -       1,500            -
Civil Works                        1,020         780       360          -          -       2,160           108
Equipment and Vehicles               125         125        12         12         12         286           71.5
Total Capital Costs                2.645         905       372         12         12       3.946          179.5
B. Operating Costs
Staff                             115.3        145.3    162.1      162.1      162.1       746.9              -
Operation of Plant and Vehicles  69.5          139       139       139         139        625.5             62.5
Establishment of Station           40.2        103.5      97.7       92         86.2      419.6              5.1
Training                             8.3        14.6      19.5       19.5       19.5        81.4
Total Operating Costs              233.3       402.4    418.3      412.6      406.8      1873.4             67.6
Total                                    2878.3      1307.4    790.3       424.6      418.8      5819.1           247.1
Physical Contingency                      152         150        90         37         37         466              19
Grand Total                       3030.3      1457.4    880.3       461.6      455.8      6285.4           266.1
1/  Detafls are in the Supplementary Implementation  Volume, Annex 5 (Appendix 9, Table 4) and Annex 9 (Table 1).



INDIA
[ANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
Dholbaha Dam & Irrigation System  1/
(Rs'000)                                        Foreign
Exchange
Year 1     Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year S       Total     Component
CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                                  -
Detailed Survey & Investigations               550        600         -         -          -         1,150    10       120
Land Acquisition                             2,230      3,900       2,230       -          -         8,360     -        -
Road Construction                              310        130         -         _          _           440    10        40
Dam Construction
Earth Work                                7,920     18,410       4,290                           30,620    25    7,660
Outlet Work                               1,400      1,800         600                            3,800    20       660
ON
Distribution System
Distributaries                                       1,000       1,500     1,140                  3,640    10       360
Drainage & Projective Works                                         50       100       50           200     -        -
Watercourse                                         500         800     1,200       740        3,240    10       320
!Buildinas                                   1,800        600        400                             2,800    15       420
Tools and Plant                                200        200         140                              540    30       160
Other                                          400         400        210       100                  1,110    30       330
Total Capital Costs                14,810     27,540      10,220     2,540      790        55,900         10,070
OPERATING COSTS
Establishment Costs (staff)              600        920         920       320                  2,760     -
Maintenance  Costs (dam & IS)                       150        230        340      350         1,070    20      210
Total Operating Cost                  600       1070        1150       660      350         3,830             210
Total Costs                                 15,410     28,610      11,370     3,200    1,140        59,730    17.4  10280
Physical Contingencies                  2.280      4,250       1.700       480      170         8.880    17.4   1540         x
GRAND TOTAL                            17,690     32.860      13,070     3,680    1,310        68,610    17.8  11820
1/ Details are in Supplementary Implementation VOlume, Annex 6.



INDIA
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PRoJECT (PUNJAB)
Flood Protection Works (Dholbaha)
(R' 000)
Unit        Year 1         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4           Year 5        Total   Foreign Excha.ige
Unit   Cost      No.   Cost    No.  Cost        No.   Cost    No.   Cost       No.   Cost       Cost       Component
%          Rs.
A. CAPITAL COST
(a) Land Acquisition                         ha    19.97    135   2696.0  135  2716.0    -          -       -      -        -        -      5412.0   -            -
(b) Civil Works
Preliminary Survey                    Job   10.9       1     10.9      -       -     -        -       -     -         -        -        10.9   -           -
bridges and Inlets                    Job    0.18    -       1000      -   2000      -      2200      -     -         -        -     5200.0   -            -
Embankment Protection              lin.ft              7550  1360  11100  2000       -        -       -     -         -        -     3360.0   -            -
Earthwork & Turfing                100 M ft313.39    200   2680    250  3350         -        -       _     _         _        _     6030.0   15          900
Establishment Right of Way            Job   32.4        -      -        1    32.4   -         -       -     -         -        -        32.4   -           -
Buildings                                               -     500       -   500      -        -       -     -         -        _      1000.0
Sub-total Civil Works                                   5550.9        7882.4           2200                                   15,633.3               900
(c) Equipment
Tools and Plants                      Lot                      115.6    -   200.0   -         -       -     -         -        -       315.6   25          80
Special Equipment                     Lot   100               100.0    -       -     -        -       -     -         -        -       100.0   80.         80
Other Equipment                       Lot                       59.1    -   177.3   -         -       _     _         _        -       236.4    -            -
Sub-total Equipment                                      274.7         377.3   -         _      _      _         _        _      652.0    -          160
Total Capital Cost                                              8521.6       10975.7          2200.0   -      -         _        -   21,697.3    -          1060
8. OPERATING COSTS
Establishment Costs  2/                                      1065.2       1372.0             275.0        540.0             540.0   3,792.2   10          380
Other                                                           26.6         79.0            104.6        104.6             105.6      420.4
Sub-total                                               1091.8       1451.0            379.6         644. 6           645.6   4,212.6                380
Total                                                        9613.4      12426.7            2579.6        644.6             645.6  25,909.9              1440
Physical Contingencies                                       1170.0       1630.0             380.0         80.0              80.0   3.340.0               180
GRAND TOTAL                                                10,783.4    14,056.7             2959.6        724.6             725.6  29,249.9              1620
1/  Construction improveaent of diversion and channel levees, bridges etc. Details are contained in Supplementary Volume, Annex 7.
2/ During construction period estimated at 12j of capital cost; from year 3 onwards at 2t1 of cumulative capital cost. Would provide
sufficient funds to modify construction, particularly where flood channel starts to aggrade or degrade.



INDIA
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
Soil Conservation Works Between Hills and Road (Dholbaha)
(Ra'000)
----------------------YEAR-------_________________                                           Foreign       Foreign
Unit          1               2               3               4              5             Total       Exchange    Exchange
Unit   Cost      No.   Cost      No.   Cost       No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    Component   Component
%       ~~(Rs.)
Land Levelling                         Ha    2.2       600   1,320    600  1,320        900  1,980    900  1,980       -      -      3,000  6,600      10          660
Bench Terracing                        Ha    4.5       100      450    200    900       200    900      -     -        -      _        500  2,250       5          113
Pipe Lines (underground)               Ha    2.5        10       25      20     50       20      50     -      -       -      -         50    125      10            12
Gully Reclamation                      Ha    3.0       200      600    200    600       200    600    200    600    300   900    1,100  3,300          10          330      .
Tanks                                  Ea.  25.0         2       50       2     50        1     25       1      25      1    25          7    175
Watercourse Construction & Lining l/Ha    1.0                                         1,000  1.000  2,000  2.000    500   500    3,500  3.500
Sub-total   2/                                          2,445          2,980           4,555           4,605         1,425            15,950                1,115
Establishment Cost  3/                                         611             730           1.139          1.151            356            3.987                  279
Total                                                   3,056          3,650            5,694          5,756         1,781            19,937                1,394
Physical Contingencies  4/                                      458            548             854            864            267            2.991                  209
GRAND TOTAL   2/                                        3,514          4.198           6.548           6.620         2.048           22.928                1.603
1/  In Command Area of the dam.
2/  Includes all soil conservation measures outside forest area and north of road, i.e. all works to be financed from the
budget.  Soil conservation measures south of the road would be financed from institutional credit and have not been                                                cry
included in project costs.                                                                                                                                         o x
3/  Establishment costs include supervisory and support services, including incremental staff, vehicles, offices expenses
etc. and are estimated at 25. of cost of works.                                                                                                                    a r
4/  15Z of establishment costs.



65
INDIA                                                                                    TabTi   /
X42.DL WATERSHED AND AREA DZVE  OHDIT PIIECT (PUAf)
Directorate of Water  eore   lnldn    vrsa    rIig
-    (Ru '000>
Cost   N.sb-er                                                                                                                            Fcc,
Po.        f1                                      2                  3                   4                  5               T.t.1 
Unit  Month  Specsli.st.   Months  Costs .         ona       Cost.   Mnotha  Costs   Moochs  Costs
ST5ENRTKERING A! Xi,2ECIRATE                                                                                                                      Months___   Coats_   Moths  ___t_                              Au.~~
(I)  Technical ASSEStssne
W      htee.hed PIhn.Ing Sp-eil si            Month   80          1            12       960       12         960                                                              24        19?0
81t WVt                .Is   t  d HyNrologist  Month   52          1            10       520        8         416                                                              18         J26
Water Rsoseoe Engin..er                       Month   76           1            12       912       12         912                                                              24        1c24
SedinestationJt                               Month   74           1             4       296                                                                                    4         29n
oruondeter Spscil-lst                         Honth   79           1             4       316        2         158                                                               6         474
Others                                        Month   74           1             2       14b        1          74                                                               3         222
Suh-t.tE1   1/                                                            44      315'       35        2520                                                              79        5672  b5   3b 7
etenl-o- of contracts  2/                     Month   74                                            6         444     35      2590                                             41        303'1  6>  1972
Tosal                                                                           44      3152       41        2964     35      2590                                            120        1204  12   56
o-rheed (Tra.el  etc.) 3/                                                               1270                 1186             1036                                                       '4I2  20  _  ,,
Ot.o                                                                                    4412                 4150             3626                                                      12.
Co-t/  Nonber of
Year   3pec ialist
(ii)  Cosnte-p.rt St.ff   S/
Planniog Egi..eers (sNnior)                            30          2                      50                   50                60                   h0               70                 290
Reorso  e Hevelopnont Econo-mit                        14          1                      21                   20                20                  30                30                 120 
Agrlccitoral tronomist                   ~~~        ~           ~          ~~15  I  10           10                10                   20               2~                  70          -
Deolgn Engi..er                                        30          1                      20                   30                30                   3J               30                 140
Ant. De.igs EngIneer                                    18         1                       1a                  20                20                   20               20                  90
JunIor Zngineer                                         15         5                       70                  70                70                   70               80                 360
Clerical Stsff                                           6         3                       10                  20                20                   20               20                  0o
Oth.ra                                                   6         3                       10                  20                20                   20               20                  90   -    -
Total                                                                                    200                  240               250                  270              2O                 1250   - 
(t11) Hydrology  nd Sedin...ttion DIcluEct   5/
Otsff                                                                                    130                  200              280                  280               280                1170   -    -
oflon 10pm...                                                                              50                  HO                OH                   HO               90                 3U0 1I    40
VehIcles and Iqulpnent                                                                    70                  8H                 80                   90               90                 414  25   blO
Tr6vel Eupenses                                                                           60                   60                                                                         120   -
Total                                                                                    310                  420              440                  450               460                2060   -   140
OVERSEAS TiLAININC
(I) Direotor.ts of W.ter Deso.rces
r.o..dsa-er Recharge Hydrologist
-  Senior                                                   1             6       110                                                                                              110   70 "
S.di .. t.ti.n HyAA-ologi.t
-  S,nlor                                                   1             6        80        6          80                                                                          60  70   110
-  JunI r                                                   1             6        bO        6          80                                                                         160  /0   110
Small Watershed llydrolgi.t                                       1             4        60        4          70                                                                         190  70    90
Water Re.ouroea E-onprist                                                        h         80       6           80                                                                        ItO  70   1!0
Watetrhed Plnning Eugine-r                                        1             6        80        6         Ho                                                                          160  70    11
Sub-totRl                                              ,                          600                  390                                                                         990  70   t;O
(ii) FPresen
Wat.e.hed M.pg  ent Spoclalist                                     2             5        9C        4          60                                                                        150   70   100
TOTAL OVERSEAS TRAENIKG                                                                    690                  450                                                                        1140  70   760
1/  Av-rg  of US$ 8.500 per  n-eonth.
_/  It 1. eapsotod th.t goonultats' cootract wouId bo entended beyond Iitil1 79 ro.hs.   The proJact, theefore., p-olid-n for a total of 120 to-months.
3/  Travel nehi.ls., affics eqcip-to   etc.   Would elm g-oer  -ost of looElly recrr,ite   proJecE egmsist    Tsken as 40. of total coste
4/  Doe.  not includs counterpart staff in-luded In Hydrology and Sedipent-tin Oliulon cr in ErOAnd-stor 1gventig.tion Dlvislo.
5/  DetH1s are in Suppl-tary l  Iplent.tios R.port, A-..



66
ANNEX 2
Tablc 8
INDIA
KANDI WATERSHZD AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
Groundvater lnvestlgatien. Rechargs Studies *ad Trials 1
(Ri '000)                                   Foreign
Exchange
Year I     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5       Total       Component
X      Rs.
A. CAPITAL COSTS
Well drilling, incl. casing,
collectors, etc.                500         800         840         700         400         3,240      10       320
Deep Piezometer wells             120         120                                               240       5        10
Settling & recharge basins        240         580         600         860         600         2,880       5       120
Vehicles, equipment,
instruments                    600         200         200         100          50         1.150      25      290
Sub-total                 1,460       1,700       1,640      1,660       1,050          7,510              740
B. OPERATING COSTS
Groundwater Invest. Divn. 2/
- Salaries                     260         400         400         400         400         1,860       -        -
Other Operating Expenses
Staff travel allowances         60          60          60          60          60           300      10        30
Vehicle operation               40         120         120         120         120           520      10        50
Headquarters office overhead  40            90          90          90          90           400      -         -
Circle office overhead          90         110         120         150         150           620      -        -
Kachine operation               70         100         120         180         190           660      15       100
Maintenance of basins                       60         120         180         240           600      -         -
Sub-total                   300         540         630         780         850        3,100               180
Total Operating Costs              560         940       1,030       1,180       1,250         4,960      3.6      180
C.  TOTAL                           Z,020       2,640       2,670       2,840       2,300        12,470      7.3      920
Physical Contingencies            200         250         280         300         250         1,280      7.3       90
GRAND TOTAL                     2,220       2,890       2,950       3,140       2,550        13,750      7.3    1010
1/  Details are in Supplementary  Implementation Volume, Annex 6.
2/  Comprises a groundwater division to be set up within the Directorate of Water Resources.  The head of
the groundwater investigation division would act as counterpart to the water resource engineer and the
groundwater specialist in the planning teem to be established under the project.



67
ANNEX 2
Table 9
INDIA
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUiJAB)
Agricultural Research and Horticultural Development .1
(Rs '000)
YEAR                                             Foreign
1           2           3           4            5         Total        Exchane
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
A. Capital Costs
Land Purchase                       1,800                                                         ',800
Land Development                       5SO         150         60                                   360
Buildings                              864         780                                            1,644
Equipment                              180         180         48          48            48         504            100
Total Capital Costs                 Z,994        1,110        108          48            48       4,308           100
B. Operating Costs
Salaries                               228         234        228         228           228       1,146
Establishment of Station                69          86         92          92            92         431             43
Total Operating Costs                  297         320        320         320           320       1,577             43
Total                                     3,291       1,430        428          368          368       5,885            143
Physical Contingencies                      150         170          30          20           20          390            10
Grand Total                                 3.441        1.600        458         388           388       6.275            153
HORTICULTUlkE
A. Capital Costs
Civil Works                         335.9                                                         335.9
Vehicles and Equipment              474          160.5       15.5        67.5          67.5       785.0          179.7
Development of Station               30           30                                               60               6
Total Capital Costs                 839.9        190.5       15.5        67.5          67.5    1,180.9           185.7
B. Operating Costs
Staff Salaries                      263.7        308.9      328.5       328.5        328.5    1,558.1
Establishment of Station             17.8         64.3       77.5        87.5         94.7        341.8             7
Operation of Vehicles               218.4        218.4      218.4       218.4        218.4    1,092              109.1
Training Costs                         7          19.5       31          36.5         40          134
Total Operating Costs               506.9        611.1      655.4       670.9        681.6    3,125.9            116.1
Total                                   1,346.8       801.6      670.9        738.4        749.1    4,306.8            301.8
Physical Contingencies                     30          25          25          25           25         130               6
Grand Total                               1.376.8        826.6      695.9       763.4        774.1    4.436.8            307.8
1/  Details are in the Supplementary Implementation Volume, Annex 9 Tables 2 and'3.



aO S                                                                                                                                       C .-           'W0r>nb**ooo " r    
6 'oC                                                             o              "                     ftt,0           Of  Otfe tf.       "                                                   . .  O  H                           
n~~~~~~~~0~                                                                 "C    nn*=y6 "o,9n >n n'        C n  en                                       '5fl    n
5   .                r >   5       n o         w                            -~f _'f  n1  j  j                                  DI 0IftIl o             n .     rc         n
2                                                         r r                                  0 n3 n*n          
n                          .g .t                 S                     > ,' F--  - - -                                                                       - S =r      ~9~  S6            -  
t<^ ~     ~      '0                   ONCO                              CtCOCO Co  CCr                                     C0             0'o  s   s            n        i
@   >@    W   so tt2g.  .          t'C                  CN0'0. '                    CO0CN'CC'CC'                                    CC.    C- F    o~9         -                  9  CIl1
f         G  U  @              st C D C C C   O '    C  000                                                                                        C    C  C''0 0         0 -C    >s            1ss O 'w 9  10  ft  o    C 
__ ~ ~       ~      ~     ~      N''C0 _P C O'0  NCCCNC_ 0ws__                                               0'__  NCCC          C C                    f
.'  OC C.   '0 OS '0                   OOO 0C'C:      _''0        ON  0      0C,' ;O         PC r  '0  0CC 0. r       CCC1    '              -                      --                              "' OIIn
0'1   O          CQC*.b.t1'         N.                                                       O'COC'0-,0 0'C 'O___  O.                                               --O -_0 w~
.   oa    .   .  ooob   b  oooob   ns '. rr-   ^r            r -'s-rr  .tS*.'.;.                                                        '.A                 ft
1-  0o  0@  -Iro                       I '0CC'b                                             5W0    ]           
Co  -o o                                 C C1        - ''-1W



69                              ANNEX 2
Table 11
INDIA
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Bank Fiscal Year                                     Disbursement
and Semester                              Semester             Cumulative
FY 81
1st                                    0.8/                    0.8
2nd                                    1.0                     1.8
FY 82
1st                                    2.0                     3.8
2nd                                    3.0                     6.8
FY 83
1st                                    3.6                    10.4
2nd                                    4.0                    14.4
FY 84
1st                                    4.0                    18.4
2nd                                    4.0                    22.4
FY 85
1st                                    4.0                    26.4
2nd                                    3.6                    30.0
1/ Retroactive financing for expenditures prior to loan effectiveness.



70
ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
Financial and Economic Analysis
I. INTRODUCTION
General
1.        The proposed project comprises a series of interdependent com-
ponents, from reforestation and soil conservation measures in the upper
catchments to protection and development of presently flood-prone agri-
cultural land below the hills. These works would primarily benefit farmers
below the hills. Below the hills, farmers benefitting would be those with
land subject to the ravages of flood and sediment damage and who live in
continual fear that their families, homes, cattle, on-farm investments and
crops might be swept aside by flash floods. Accordingly farmers in the
Kandi area, and in floodprone areas south of the road, have invested little
in permanent structures and in land develepment, for example only 5% of the
cropped area is irrigated, while south of the road some 70% is irrigated.
Moreover, because farmers anticipate that inputs will be washed away by
floods, they practice low input, risk minimizing cultivation practices --
a thin sowing of seed and minimal land preparation so that if crops are
destroyed, losses are kept to a minimum.
2.        Farmers below the hills can be divided into two categories:  those
with underdeveloped land north of the Chandigarh-Hoshiarpur road; and those
with flood-prone land south of the road. Presently, all areas, north of the
road are subject to flooding, while, south of the road, only about 40% is
flood-prone. The remainder is flood-free. Unfortunately, data on the extent
of the areas flooded annually and of complete or partial crop damage are
incomplete. While reliable records are kept on lives and cattle lost, Gov-
ernment only records crop damage in years of particularly severe flood, when
it is felt farmers would have insufficient resources to see them through to
the rabi crop. In such years, Government provides a small amount of compen-
sation to farmers if crops have been totally destroyed. This data is inade-
quate to quantify annual average crop damage and any estimate of such damages
would thus be highly speculative. These damages have, therefore, been ex-
cluded from the economic evaluation. As a result, benefits are underestimated.
However, since yields in flood-prone areas are low, crop damage is also low,
particularly in relation to the large quantifiable benefit. The major quan-
tifiable benefit of the project is to help to realize the agricultural
potential of these flood-prone lands.
3.        The project would also benefit farmers and livestock owners in the
upper catchments. In this Annex, Section II gives the general assumptions
used in the following analysis; Sections III and IV relate to the economic



71
ANNEX 3
Page 2
analysis of the Dholbaha dam, irrigation system and flood control components;
Section V relates to the estimation of benefits of flood protection works in
watersheds other than Dholbaha; Section VI relates to the economic analysis
of the forestry and soil conservation components in upper catchments; and
Section VII gives the project rate of return.
II. BASIC ASSUMPTIONS (General)
4.        The economic prices of major traded agricultural output and imputs
are derived from the IBRD projected 1990 world market prices expressed in
1980 currency value with appropriate adjustments for freight, handling and
processing. The projected economic prices for non-traded foodgrains, on the
other hand, are based on the historical ratios between these crops and that of
wheat and paddy. The finanical prices of various crops are projected on the
basis of their historical price trends (para 7). Present and Projected
financial and Pcnnomic nrioor nrp ai'iun in Table 1.  The detailed assumptions
behind the estimates are described below.
Official Exchange Rate (OER)
5.        Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a "basket" of
currencies. As these currencies are floatinR, the US Dollar/RuDee exchange
rate is subject to change. Conversions of financial prices have been made
at US$ to Rs 8.40.
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)
6.        Project benefits are evaluated at world market prices, i.e. they
measure what India would have to pay for imports or receive for exports.
Most of the costs, however, are for items that are not traded on the world
market. Tariff and trade restrictions introduce a distortion in the price
relationship between traded goods -- valued at world market prices -- and
non-traded goods -- valued at local prices. Thus, the costs are not directly
comparable with the benefits. In order to make them comparable, a SCF is
applied to the price of non-traded goods and consumption. In the absence
of trade restrictions, the SCF can be approximately calculated using the
formula:
X + M      1/
SCF     + S  + M +     -
x        m
For the period since 1970, this calculation gives a SCF of 0.86. However,
since this estimate does not take into consideration quantitative restric-
tions, it provides only an upper limit for the SCF. The Indian Planning
1/   X = fob value of exports at the official exchange rate (OER); M = cif
value of imports at OER; S  = export subsidies; T  = import duties.



72
ANNEX 3
Page  3
Commission recommends for the evaluation of industrial projects the use of
conversion factors for foreign exchange and for untraded goods that implicitly
give a SCF of about 0.75. Because of the approximate nature of this estimate,
a SCF of 0.8 has been used in the economic analysis.
Prices of Agricultural Outputs
7.         The economic prices for traded goods such as rice, wheat, maize,
and sugarcane are based on their border prices at the OER. The domestic cost
components (i.e. local transport and marketing charges) are adjusted by the
SCF of 0.80. The economic prices for non-traded foodgrains, such as pulses,
are derived by applying the historical price ratios between pulses and wheat 1/
to the economic price of wheat. 1/ The projected financial prices for various
crops are based on the estimated historical price trends 2/ in India, adjusted
for local conditions in the Kandi area. In general, there is a close cor-
respondence between the projected economic and financial prices.
Prices of Agricultural Inputs
8.         Fertilizers have been valued at the projected world market price.
It has further been assumed that there is no change in the taxes, duties
or subsidies levied on them; since these are small, the economic price is
approximately equal to the financial price. Pesticides and insecticides have
been assumed to be traded. The financial price of bullocks and miscellaneous
charges have been multiplied by the SCF to express them in economic terms.
Analyses of farm labor supply and demand in various Indian projects typically
given an economic shadow wage rate for farm labor in the range of 1/2 to 2/3
of the average financial wage rate. The price of farm labor in the Kandi area
is about Rs 8/man-day. Because of relatively high unemployment in the Kandi
area a shadow wage rate of Rs 5/man-day has been assumed -- 62.5% of the
market wage.
Construction Conversion Factor (CCF)
9.         The dam, irrigation system and embankments would be constructed using
a mixture of equipment, skilled and unskilled labor. For the economic analysis,
the CCF is calculated as follows:
% of Construction Cost Conversion Factor
Traded items                15                       1.0              .15
Non-traded                  30                        .8              .24
Unskilled labor             55                        .625            .34
CCF   .75 (approx.)
1/   Actually, to the weighted average of the price of wheat and rice.
2/   See Draft on Economic and Financial Prices of Agricultural Projects in
India, by staff of South Asia Projects Department.



73
ANNEX 3
Page 4
III. ASSUMPTIONS (Dholbaha Watershed) I/
Yields and Crop Input Requirements
10.       Present and projected yield and input requirements (north and south
of the road) are given in Table 2. These are based primarily on data received
from Punjab Agricultural University and the GOP Department of Agriculture.
Present Land Use (Without Project)
11.       The present land use in the Dholbaha, excluding the upper catchment
area is as follows:
Present Land Use in Dholbaha (ha)
(Includes presently flood-free land)
--------Cultivated-----------
Irrigated                            Cultivable      Total
(Tubewells)  Rainfed      Total          Waste         Area
North of road         160        2,885       3,045         1,725         4,770
South of road       4,700        1,900       6,600           500         7,100
Total               4,860        4,785       9,645         2,225        11,870
Uncultivable
land /a                                                                2,630 /a
Total                                                                   14,500
/a  Includes 1,270 ha forest (north of road) and 1,360 ha comprising uncul-
tivable waste, such as roads, villages etc.
As discussed in Para 2, all cultivable land north of the road (4,770 ha) is
today subject to flooding. South of the road, some 40% (2,800 ha) is also
flooded in years of heavy rainfall; however, there is no data to indicate
whether the land flooded is presently irrigated or rainfed. For the purpose
of the economic evaluation, it has been assumed that flooding occurs only on
rainfed land. Thus it is estimated that at present south of road:
--   the 500 ha cultivable waste is frequently flooded;
--   the 1,900 ha rainfed land is flood-prone, with a result
that investments in land development (levelling) and in
cash inputs in the kharif seasons are today very small;
--   a portion of the presently irrigated area is occasionally
subject to flooding. This has been omitted in the calcu-
lation of project benefits.
1/   Below the upper catchment areas.



74
ANNEX 3
Page 5
Future Land Use in Dholbaha
12.       The project provides for:  construction of a flood control and
irrigation dam which would irrigate an average of 3,000 ha in the rabi
season; 1/ flood protection works; and, north of the road, levelling or bench
terracing of land, where required. The flood control works would make it
attractive for farmers to increase substantially cash inputs both on irri-
gated and rainfed land. Moreover, with the fear of floods removed, there
would be strong incentive for farmers to invest in further improvement, such
as in tubewells.
13.       North of the road, the following changes in land use have been
assumed as a result of project, that:
--   the existing cultivable waste would be brought into
cultivation;
--   the Dholbaha dam would provide rabi irrigation to
3,000 ha; and
--   the remaining cultivable land would be rainfed,
although after levelling and with increased farm
inputs, productivity would be greatly enhanced.
14.       Based on the assessment that 40% of the area south of the road is
also flood-prone, it has also been assumed that:
--   the existing cultivable waste (which comprises 5% of
the area south of the road) would be brought under
rainfed cultivation; and
--   production in 1,900 ha rainfed land (25% of the area)
which is presently flood-prone would increase as a
result of the project and complementary investment in
tubewells. Because the groundwater aquifer south of
the road is high, and hence tubewell irrigation inex-
pensive, it is assumed that 70% of the 1,900 ha would
be irrigated. This would increase the area irrigated
by 1,300 ha, so that 85% of the cropped area south of
the road would be irrigated. The remaining land south
of the road, all of which is presently irrigated by
tubewells, is assumed to be unaffected by the project.
15.       Based on these assumptions, the future land use would be:
1/   Lined conveyance canals would be constructed to irrigate 3,500 ha.  In
a year when the dam reservoir fills, the full command area would be
irrigated. In drought years, the reservoir would not fill and only a
portion of the command area would be irrigated. An average of 3,000 ha
is assumed to be irrigated.



75
ANNEX 3
Page 6
Model II:  Future Land Use in Dholbaha (ha)
(Includes presently flood-free land)
---------------Cultivated-------------
Irrigated   Irrigated                        Cultivable   Total
Tubewell       Dam       Rainfed   Total    Waste          Area
North of Road       170         3,000       1,600    4,770        -         4,770
South of Road   6,000             -         1,100    7,100        -         7,100
6,170         3,000       2,700   11,870                 11,870
Cropping Patterns
16.       The average farm size in the project area is 2 ha.  Tables 3 and 4
give the cropping patterns for a typical 2-ha farm: (a) north and south of
the road, and (b) with and without the project. Table 3 gives the farm budget
in financial prices; Table 4, in economic prices.
Benefit Build-up Rates
17.       Major project works in Dholbaha (dam and protective embankments)
would be completed by the end of year three. Full development of project
benefits is projected to be reached eight years after project completion as
follows:
Year          % of Full Benefit
1-3                   0
4                    20
5                    35
6                   48
7                   60
8                    70
9                   80
10                   90
11 onwards          100
Project Period
18.       The project period is assumed to be 40 years.  No residual values
have been taken into account.



76
ANNEX 3
Page 7
IV. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND COSTS (Dholbaha) 1/
"Without-Project" Benefits
19.       Without the project, flooding and erosion would continue on agricul-
tural lands below the hills. Year after year the quantity of sand deposited
during floods would increase. Slowly soil fertility and, with it the area
under cultivation, would decrease. Thus, "without the project" production
from such flood-prone land is likely to decrease. However, for purposes of
the economic evaluation, it has been assumed that on flood-prone land, the
"without project" situation would remain unchanged.  Flood-free areas south
of the road would be unaffected by the project and have thus been omitted
from the calculation of benefits.
Project Benefits
20.       Table 4 gives the per hectare benefit for each of the "with" and
"twithout" project situations. These per hectare benefit figures are multi-
plied by the appropriate present or projected land use to give the net economic
benefit at full development. Details are in Table 5.
Project Costs
21.       Non-traded goods and services have been adjusted by the SCF, CCF or
shadow wage, as appropriate (paras 6-9). Project costs with physical con-
tingencies include:
--   dam and irrigation system;
--   diversion and canalization works;
soil conservation works (which include all bench
terracing and land levelling north of the road).
20% of cost of Program Planning and Coordination
Unit; and
--   maintenance costs over the life of the project.
In addition, the following costs have been included to cover expenditures
south of the road that would be financed through institutiona'L credit and
have not been included in project costs:
--   land levelling of 500 ha of cultivable waste and
1,100 ha of the present 1,900 ha rainfed land;
--   tubewells to irrigate 1,300 ha.
1/   Below the hills.  Upper catchment areas are in Section VI.



77
ANNEX 3
Page 8
Economic Rate of Return in Dholbaha (ERR)
22.       The economic rate of return so calculated is 16%.
Sensitivity Analysis
23.       To test the sensitivity of the ERR to a change in assumptions, a
second model (Model II) has been run. In this, it has been assumed that bene-
fits north of the road would be as before. As mentioned, this is already a
very conservative assumption, since no private investment in tubewells is
assumed. South of the road, however, it is assumed that the only benefit
would be from the 500 ha cultivable waste which would be converted to rain-
fed land. Thus the 1,900 rainfed land south of the road is assumed to be
unaffected by the project. Based on these assumptions, the future land use
would be (details are in Table 5):
Model II: Future Land Use in Dholbaha (ha)
(Includes presently flood-free land)
Cultivated
Irrigated      Irrigated                      Cultivable  Total
(Tubewell)       (Dam)     Rainfed   Total       Waste      Area
North of Road       170          3,000        1,600    4,770        -      4,770
South of Road    4,700             -          2,400    7,100        -      7,100
4,870          3,000        4,000   11,870              11,870
24.       The rate of return so calculated is 13%, showing that even with
the most conservative benefit assumptions the rate of return is acceptable.
Further decreases in benefits and increases in costs generate the following
ERR:
Economic Rate of Return in Dholbaha
Benefits        Costs          Model I    Model II
-              -              16           13
-10            +10              14           11
-20            +20              11            7



78
ANNEX 3
Page 9
V. BENEFITS FROM FLOOD PROTECTION (Watersheds other than Dholbaha)
General
25.       The project also provides funds to develop presently flood-prone
areas in four watersheds other than Dholbaha. This would be achieved by
protecting the areas from floods and utilizing available surface and ground-
water resources. Detailed plans for works in these watersheds would be drawn
up during project implementation. To determine the amount of funding to be
included in the Loan, three factors have been taken into account:
--   the rate at which detailed feasibility plans (acceptable
to the Bank) could be drawn up;
--   GOP's implementation capacity, given that the first imple-
mentation plans would only be ready at the end of year 1 and
that all works should be completed by the end of year 5;
--   the likely per hectare benefit that would be derived from
protecting agricultural lands from flood.
Objective
26.       The following section estimates the expected average per hectare
benefit from protecting agricultural land from flooding. This figure is then
used to calculate project costs in other watersheds. The objective is to
determine the discounted present value (PV) of benefits that would arise
from protecting one of these watersheds from floods. The PV of benefits
indicates the per hectare costs that can be incurred to generate such a
stream of benefits. However, the per hectare cost figure so calculated is
not intended as a limit to the size of the per hectare investment.
Additional Assumptions
27.       Discounting Factor:  Benefits and costs have been discounted at
12%, as this rate approximately represents the opportunity cost of capital
in India.
28.       Construction Costs:  Capital expenditures on flood protection works
are assumed to be phased as follows:
Percent of Construction Cost
Year                       in Each Year
1                            15
2                            45
3                            40



79
ANNEX 3
Page 10
The discounted (present) value of construction costs, in economic prices, is
given by:
Pn x C  x CCF   069c
( l+i)n
n=l
where C    =  total construction cost (including physical contingencies) at
financial prices
CCF  =  construction conversion factor
n    =  year
Pn   =  percent of construction in year n, and
i    =  discount rate (12%)
It is assumed that physical contingencies are applied at 15%. The discounted
value of construction costs, in economic prices, is thus 0.80 C, where C is
total construction cost without contingencies.
Project Benefits
29.       Data are not available on watersheds other than Dholbaha.  To esti-
mate the likely benefits from protecting agricultural lands in other watersheds,
Dholbaha has been used as a model. Since most other watersheds may not have
sites that are suitable for storage dams, benefits have been estimated on the
assumption that no dam would be constructed in the Dholbaha watershed.
Thus, there would be no surface irrigation north of the road. As with Model I
and II, it has been assumed that there would be no groundwater development
north of the road (a conservative assumption). Thus, all land north of the
road would remain rainfed. South of the road, it has been assumed that the
present 500 ha cultivable waste and the 1,900 ha currently rainfed (but flood-
prone) would be converted to 2,400 ha of flood-free but unirrigated land.
Thus, the benefit assumption is more conservative than Model I but more
optimistic than Model II. Based on these assumptions, the future land use
(Model III) would be:
Model III: Future Land Use (ha)
(Includes presently flood-free land)
Irrigated                       Cultivable   Total
(Tubewells)   Rainfed   Total      Waste       Area
North of Road        170        4,600    4,770         -        4,770
South of Road     4,700         2,400    7,100        _         7,100
Total        4,870         7,000   11,870        _        11,870



80
ANNEX 3
Page 11
30.       At full development, the incremental economic production value would
be Rs 12.8 M per year (Table 6). This would be achieved by investment in
flood protection and land development works north of the road, which would all
be paid from budgetary funds. However, it also requires expenditure on land
development south of the road and maintenance of flood protection structures
throughout the project period. Using the same benefit build-up rates as before
(para 17), deducting maintenance costs, and land development costs south of
the road, and finally discounting the resulting net benefit stream at 12%,
gives the present value of the stream of benefits. The PV so calculated is
Rs 50 M. Details are in Table 6.
Calculation of Investment Cost per Hectare
31.       Based on the assumption that 7,170 ha of cultivable land are prone
to flooding, 1/ the net present value of future benefits works out to be
Rs 7,000 (US$833) per hectare protected. Thus the amount that can be spent
to protect and develop land is Rs 7,000   = Rs 8,750 (USS1,040) per hectare.
0.80 2/
This includes the cost of land levelling (estimated in the range US$230-400
per hectare) and land acquisition required for levees. On Dholbaha, land
acquisition worked out at about US$100 per hectare protected.
Project Costs
32.       Based on the above calculation, the benefit from protecting one
hectare of land (in Dholbaha) is US$1,000. However, this assumes only that
present flood prone land would be converted into flood-free rainfed land. No
benefit has attributed to anticipated investment in private tubewells. If
such benefits were included, the benefit from protecting one hectare of flood-
prone land would considerably exceed US$1,000. The amount that can be spent per
hectare of flood protection depends on present and future land use and would
need to be determined on a watershed by watershed basis. The US$1,000, calcu-
lated above, is therefore only a guide to the cost that can be incurred to
generate a stream of benefits yielding a satisfactory rate of return.
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF FORESTRY AND SOIL
CONSERVATION COMPONENTS IN UPPER CATCHMENTS
General
33.       A mixture of Khair trees and Bhabhar grass (used for pulp) would
be planted in the upper catchments.
1/   North of the road, 4,770 ha.; south, 500 ha cultivable waste and 1,900
ha presently rainfed land.
2/   para 28.



81
ANNEX 3
Page 12
Assumptions
34.       Assumptions used in the analysis are given in Section II of this
annex.
Costs
35.       All establishment and maintenance costs to bring trees to maturity
in year 25, have been included. Major establishment costs (in financial
prices) are: 1/
Year 1                             Rs/ha
-- Land clearance                 200
-- Contour trenching              520
-- Seedlings                      375
-- Planting, fertilizing
and transport of
seedlings, etc.              195
-- Soil conservation
works                        350
-- Other                          485
2,125
Year 2                            540
Year 3                            330
Year 4                            110
Year 5                            110
Year 6-25 (maintenance)            60
Benefits
36.       Benefits would be in the form of increased production of:  indi-
genous fodder grass, bhabhar grass and khair trees. At full development,
the following yields have been projected:
Per ha
Fodder grass                    0.6 tons
Bhabhar grass                   1.2 t3 ns
Khair trees                    50.4 M  2/
However, these forest lands are currently grazed by cattle and used for supply
of timber for construction and fuelwood. Once closed to grazing these benefits,
1/   These have been converted to economic costs for the economic analysis.
2/   360 trees (60% of number planted), yielding 0.14 M 3/tree in year 25.



82
ANNEX 3
Page 13
though small since lands are overgrazed and production is low, would be
lost. Present annual production (benefits foregone) is estimated as
follows: 1/
Yield/ha       Price/unit        Total (Rs)
Fodder Grass    1.6 tons         Rs  20/ton            32
Fuelwood         0.5 toys        Rs 170/t3n            85
Timber             .12 m         Rs 155/m              19
Other                                                  20
156
Rate of Return
37.       The economic rate of return, after deducting benefits foregone, is
as follows:
Costs
Benefits        C1      C2     ERR
-  -   -       13
-          +10%      -      12
-10%           -       -       12
-20%           -       -       10
-            -     +25%    12
-  -  +50%    11
Where Cl = Establishment and maintenance costs, and
C2 = Benefits foregone
Because it is difficult to estimate benefits foregone with any degree of
accuracy a sensitivity test has been performed with a 25% and a 50% increase
in benefits foregone. On these assumptions, the rate of return would be
reduced to 12% and 11% respectively, showing the return is rather insen-
sitive to changes in the stream of benefits foregone.
VII. PROJECT RATE OF RETURN
38.       The ERR has also been calculated for Dholbaha watershed as a whole,
comprising the upper catchments (Section VI) and works to protect and develop
land below the upper catchments (Section IV). The rate of return so calcu-
lated is 16%. To test the sensitivity of the ERR to a change in assumptions,
model II has been run (para 23). The ERR fell to 13%, showing that even
with conservative benefit assumptions the ERR is acceptable.
1/   Details are in Annex 5.



83
ANNEX 3
INDIA                          Table  I
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
Economic & Financial Prices
Prices
Crops (Rs/t)                          Financial              Economic
Wheat                                1,300                 1,900
Paddy                                1,100                 1,900
Maize                                1,200                 1,300
Sarghum                              1,200                 1,300
Bajra                                1,300                 1,550
Pulses                               2,650                3,300
Gram                                 2,000                 2,400
Oilseed                              3,300                 3,850
Sugarcane                              150                   200
Potato                                 700                   600
Other Output (Rs/t)
Fodder crops  1/                     70 (K), 80(R)        60 (K), 70 (R)
Fodder grass                         20                   20
Bhabbar grass                        90                    110
Horticultural products  2/           600                  600
Khair (tree) (Rs/m3)                 780                  1050
Inputs
Nitrogen (N) (Rs/t)                  5,100                5,300
Phosphorus (P) (Rs/t)                4,700                4,500
Pottassium (K) (Rs/t)                1,900                1,900
Animal Power (Rs/pair/day)             16                   12.5
Labor (Rs/man/day)                      8                      5
Conversion Factors
Standard Conversion Factor           0.8
Construction Conversion Factor       0.75
Skilled Labor                        0.8
Unskilled Labor                      0.625
Farm Labor                           0.625
1/  K - Kharif      R - Rabi
2/ Farmers sell fruit on the tree: price excludes harvesting cost.



84
ANNEX 3
INDIA                                                                    Page  2
KANDI WATEESHED AND AREA DE1VEWIINT PRO7ECT (PUNIJAD)
Crop Inpue Eacirntt
----GRAM (Rbi) -------    --- PADDY (Kdhorif)        ----OILSEED (Rabi) ---------------       POTATO      SUGARCANE    HORTICULTURE
Without    With         Visout                                      With         With         With
--- Without Pro-ect---    Project      Project         Ctt         ----Wth Protect-----        Project     Proct         Project
UOirrlieted  Irrigated    Irigatd   Irrigat#d    itrriastad    ioiritrd   r t                   rigated   Irriated    lrloate.
Yield tone#/h                                 0.5           1.0          3.0         4.0          0.4             0.5          0.8           t6.0        80.0         15.0
Gross Pioecial Value of Product            1000.0       2000.0        3300.0      4400.0       1320.0          1650.0       2640.0       11200.0      12000.0      9000.0
Gross Ioosotic Volc  of Product           1200.0       2400.0        5700.0      7600.0       1540.0           1925.0      3080.0        9600.0      16000.0      9000.0
MATERIAL IIIPDT
Labor
Total jo-daye)                           40.0         55.0         130.0       150.0         25.0            35.0         35.0         755.0        302.0        10.0  2/
Floonil                                 320.0        440.0        1040.0      1200.0        200. 0          200.         200.0        1240.0       2576.0        80.0
Econoeil                                200.0        275.0         650.0       750.0        125.0           175.0        L75.0         275.0       1610.0        50.0
Bullock Labor (B-days)                    1 0          15.0          33.0        uO.0         10.0            10.0         10.0          35.0        140.0         0.0
FPiaoiai1 (/a/ha)                       176.0        240.0         360.0       640.0        160.0           160.0        160.0         360.0       2240.0         0.0
Eonosic  (R/ha)                        137.5        187.5         437.5       5D0.0        125.0           125.0        125.0         437.5       1750.0         0.0
Seed kg/ha                                 40.0         40.0          25.0        25.0         10.0            10.0         10.0         106.0         16.0         0.0
i niiclil  ks/he                         65.0         64.0          28.0        28.0         30.0            30.0         30.0          63.0        200.0         0.C
Econo-cr   R./ha                         60.0         60.0          38.0        38.0         35.0            35.0         35.0          79.0        150.0         0.0
Fertilizer
N kg/ho                                     0.0         20.0          70.0      10.0           0.0            30.0         50.0          46.0         72.0        63.0
F.an.i l Ris/ha                           0.0        102.0         357.0       570.0          0.0           153.0        255.0         234.6        367.2       306.0  3/
Eronic  as/h                              o.o        106.0         371.0       530.0          0.0           159.0        265.0         243,8        381.6       318.0  3/
P kg/hb                                     0.0         40.0          30.0        50.0          0.0            10.0         20.0          42.0          0.0         0.0
Fioancial  e/hs                           0.0        188.0         141.0       235.0          0.0            47.0         94.0          197.4         0.0         0.0
E.cconic  Ru/ha                           0.0        180.0         135.0       225.0          0.0            45.0         90.0        1l9.0           0.0         0.0
K ku/h.                                     0.0          0.0          15.0        25.0          0.0             0.0          0.0          2b.0          0.0         0.0
FPiosclsl RH/he                           0.0          0.0          28.5        '7.5          0.0             0.0          0.0          53.2          0.0         0.0
Econoffc  Re/ho                           0.0          0.0          28.5        47.5          0.0             0.0          0.0          53.2          0.0         0.0
Pesticide Herbicides                        0.0         30.0           0.0        60.0          0.0             0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0       400.0
TOTAL PRODUCTION COST    I/
FPisocl-l                               561.0       1064.0        2154.5      2740.5        390.0           670.0        dl9.0        234d.2       5383.2        706.0
E-ooelc                                 397.5        838.5        1660.0      2120.5        285.0            539.0       690.0         1777.5      3891.6        768.0
MET VALUE OF PRODIlCTION
Fill'ct',                               429.0        936.0        1145.5      1659.5        930.0           900.0       lo 1.0       8651.h       6616.0      8214.0
E_ooom.c                                802.5       1561.5        4040.0      5429.5       1255.0           1386.0      2390.0         7022.5     12106.4      0232.0
I/ Al] labor i.lerdiog ftlly labor, fut1 costed.  Dore cot include  -ter charges.  (.. A-o  3. Table 3).
2/ Forge    se11 frcit prior to harvesting.  Hro-s-tLig c-oto, therefore, not hohe.
3/ Not brckeo door bet-eec N:P.K.



ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDIA                                                                   P.R.  1
KANDI WATIRSHED AND ANRA DEVE      U  PROJECT (PUEIAB)
Crop Iggot ReruiCar_
---------- MAIZE (kh-arif)------------------    ----------NU5(xharif)--------  ---------------WHEAT (Rbt)a-----------------------------
With
With;ot Proltrt           With Protlect            Without Prolct        Prol''t           WiNho-  P-tu t                     With Prolect
North        Sooth
Uni    _gte   Irrig.ted  Unirrigat.d  Irrigated  U-i-r ted  Irrigated  Irrigated Unirtigated  Ufir-irgaed  Irrigd   jLrat    IrriRted
Yield. to../h.                             0.7          1.2           1.6         2.4          0.5         0.7         O.8       0.7           1.0           2.0        1.5          l.0
Gro-.. PFin-i.l Val1e of Ptoduct        840.0        1440.0        1920.0      2880.0       1325.0      1855.0      2120.0     910.0        1300.0       2600.0      1950.0       3900.0
Cr0... E-toig Valo. of Prodoct         910.0        1560.0        2080.0      3120.0       1650.0      2310.0      2640.0    1330.0        1900.0       3800.0      2850.0       5700.0
MATERIAL INPUT
Labor
Total (tn day.)                      25.0          35.0         40.0         45.0        25.0         35.0        40.0      30.0          40.0         60.0        50.0         00.0
Financ.al                           200.0         280.0        320.0        360.0        200.0       280.0       320.0     240.0         320.0        480.0       400.0        500.0
Et-oic                              125.0         175.0        200.0        225.0        125.0       175.0       200.0     150.0         200.0        300.0       250.0        350.0
BIl1t1-k Lbor(B-dayo)                   10.0         13.0          15.0        15.0         10.0        10.0        10.0      11.0          15.0          15.0       20.0         20.0
Fin.a.l.  1                         160.0         208.0        240.0        240.0        160.0       160.0       160.0     176.0         240.0        240.0       320.0       320.0
E-onoai.                            125.0         162.5        187.5        187.5        125.0       125.0       125.0     [37.0         187.5         187.5      250.0       250.0
S..d kg/h.                              16.0         23.0          20.0        20.0         20.0        20.0        20.0      05.0          20.0         100.0      100.0        100.0
FinancIal Ra/h.                     1.0           26.0         23.0         23.0        52.0         52.0        52.0     114.0          96.0        135.0       135.0        135.0
E-onogit  ga/ha                      2t.0          31.0         27.0         27.0        60.0         60.0        60.0     133.0          88.0        157.0       157.0        157.0
Fertili-er
N kg/ha                               0.0          30.0         20.0         40.0          0.0         0.0         0.0      20.0          20.0         40.0        20.0         85.0
Fio..tial Rg/h.                     0.0         153.0        102.0        204.0         0.0          0.0         0.0     102.0         102.0        204.0       102.0       433.5
Econor-it  R./ha                    0.0         159.0        106.0        212.0         0.0          0.0         0.0    10b.0          106.0        212.0       106.0       450.5
P kg/ha                               0.0          10.0           5.0        15.0          0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0           5.0         20.0         5.0         25.3
Fi.a.cial Rg/h.                     0.0          47.0         23.5         70.5         0.0          0.0         0.0       0.0          23.5         94.0        23.5       117.1
Econogi.  Rg/ha                     0.0          45.0         22.5         67.5         0.0          0.0         0.0       0.0          22.5         90.0        22.5        112.S
K kg/ha                               0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0           5.0         20.0         5.0         .0.0
Fi..nc.a i Rg/ha                    0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0        0.0        0.0           9.5         38.0         9.5         19.0
Econo-iC  E./ha                     0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0       0.0           9.5         38.0         9.5        35.0
Pe-ticida  Rg/ha                     10.0          15.0         20.0         25.0         0.0          0.0         0.0       0.0           0.0          20.0        0.0         30.0
rOTAL ROUCTION COST   1/
Fina.cial                           480.0   2/   729.0         728.5        922.5       412.0        492.0       532.0     632.0         798.0       1211.0       990.0       1615.0
tot-tlc                             301.0   2/   587.5         563.0        744.0       310.0        360.0       3b5.0     526.5         613.5        1004.5      795.0       1369.0
OET VALUE OF PRODUCTION
Fin..ca l                           352.0         711.0       1191.5       1957.5       913.0       1363.0      1588.0     278.0         509.0       13d9.0       960.0      2205..
E.-oi.t                             529.0         972.5       1517.0       2376.0       1340.0      1950.0      2255.0     803.5        1286.5       2795.5      2055.0      4331.0
l/  All labor,  forioding  tni     b- lohor, Eolly cotted -d.   nro t o-lod .oaterohargno  Iaee hoCA-  3. Table 3).
2/ I-cluding Earf. y-rd -macre -t Rt 100/ha.



86
ANNEX 3
Table 3
INDIA
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
Financial Farm Budget for 2 ha Farm
Without Project                                       With Project
North        North           South
North       Irrigated     Leveled        Leveled
North         South      South             Leveled        Rabi            and           and
Unirrigated  Unirrigated  Irrigated        Unirrigated      Only         Irrigated      Irrigated  -
CROPPING PATTERN (ha)
KHARIF
Maize                              352           352           711            1191          1191            1957           1957
Pulses                             913           913          1363            1363          1588             -              -
Paddy                               -             -           1145              -             -             1659           1659
Fodder                             500           500           800             800           800            1000           1000
RABI
Wheat                              278           509          1389             960          2285            2285           2285
Oilseeds                            -            930          1200             980            -               -            1821
Gram                               439           439           936              -             -               -              -
Potato                              -             -             -               -             -               -            8851
Fodder                             500           500          1000            1000          1500            1500           1500
BI-SEASONAL
Sugarcane                           -             -             -               -             -               -            6617
Hsrticultural Producta              -             -             -               -            S214           8214             -
TOT" cuor,rD AlE"                 2.75  1/      3.00  2/       3.00           3.25           3.50           3.75           3.75
NET FX4HZCIAL VALUE OF
PRODUCTION   (Rs)                1,734  1/    2,246  2/      4,845           4,718         8,266          13,064         12,829
MAN DAYS REOUIRED
(family labor)  3/                     81            95            180            172            164            220            375
OTHER COSTS
Irrigation  4/                       0            0            415               0            220           390             600
Other Costs                        133           130            860            160            260          1,260          1,360
NET FINANCIAL VALUE OF PRODUCTION  1,601  1/    2,116  2/         3,570          4,558          7,786          8,414         10,869
1/  Presently some 36, of the area north of the road comprises cultivable waste; thus, a typical 2 ha farm would
comprise 1.28 ha cultivated land, and 0.72 ha cultivable waste. The cropping pattern given here is for a 2 ha
farm, all of which is fully cultivated. Data is presented in this form to distinguish between value of 1 ha
cropped and I ha waste (zero value). To convert to the typical 2-ha farm (with 0.72 ha cultivable waste), data
presented should be multiplied by 0.64, giving a total cropped area of 1.76 ha (0.8 ha in kharif, 0.96 ha in
rabi) and a cropping intensity of 887.. The net value of production on such a farm works out to be Rs. 1,024.
2/  Presently some 500 ha south of the road are cultivable waste.  Assuming such waste is part of the rainfed farms,
then a typical 2 ha rainfed farm would comprise 1.6 ha cultivated land and 0.4 ha cultivable waste. To convert
to a typical farm data presented should be multiplied by 0.80 giving a net value of production of Rs. 1,693.
3/  Each farm family can provide approximately 500 man-days of labor each year,hence all labor requirements can be
met from family labor and are thus costed at zero. See Annex 3, Table 2.
4/  Includes capital and interest repayments on tubewells.



87
ANNEX 3
Table 4
INDIA
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
Economic Farm Budget for 2.0 ha Farm
Without Project                                      With Pro ect
North        North       South
1/            2/                 Leveled        Irrigated     Leveled    Leveled
Narth-        South-                      and           Rabi          and         and
Unirrigated   Unirrigated  Irrigated    Unirrigated        Only       Irrigated  Irrigated 1/
CROPPING PATT ERN (ha)
KHARIF
Maize                                  0.75          0.75         0.40          1.00            1.00         0.75        0.40
Pulses                                 0.10          0.10        0.10           0.10           0.10          -          _
Paddy                                  -             -           0.40           -              -             0.35       0.60
Fodder                                 0.40          0.40         0.35          0.40           0.40          0.40       0.35
RA.BI
Wheat                                  0.85          1.10         1.25          1.25           1.25          1.50       1.00
Oilseeds                               -             0.15         0.1.          0.25           -             -          0.10
Gram                                   0.50          0.30        0.15           -              _
Potato                                 _      -            -            -                      -             -          0.225
Fodder                                 0.15          0.20        0.25           0.25           0.25          0.25       0.25
BI-SEASONAL
Sugarcane                              -             -                                         -             -          0.40
Horticultur.l Products                 -             -           -             _               0.25          0.25
TOTAL CROPPD AREA                          2.75          3.00         3.00          3.25           3.50          3.75       3.75
NET   ECONOMIC VALTE OF PRODUJCTION( )1,563 1/       2,749-/    6,505          4,500           3,834        13,102    16,301
OTHER COSTS 3/ (Rs)
Irrigation  4/                         0             0         415             0             220          390         600
Other Costs -                        133           130          360          160             260           260        360
NET (ECONOMIC) VALUE OF PRODUCTITO     1,355 1/      2,544-       5,730         4,740          9,354       12,360      15,431
11 See Footnote 1, Annex 3, Table 3;
2! s   Footnote 2, Annex 3, Tahle R-
3/ Costs of crop inputs are itemized in Annex 3, Table 2.
4/ Capital costs of tubewells included in economic analysis in year the cost is incurred.



88
ANNEX 3
Table 5
INDIA
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
Models I & II: Project Economic Benefits at Full Development (Dholbaha)
(Change in Land LUse - Flood-Prone Land Only -- and Value of Production)
Incremental
Irrigated      Irrigated                         Cultivable                  Production
(Tubewell)        (Dam)         Unirrigated         Waste          Total          Value
MODEL I-/
North of Road
Without Project
Land Use  (ha)                   160            -             2,885              1,725          4,770
Value per ha  2/ (Rs.)        2,865             _                678               -              _
Total (Rs. '000)                 458            -              1,954               -            2,382
With Project
Land Use (ha)                    170          3,000            1,600               -           4,770          _
Value per ha 2/ (Rs.)          6,180          4,677            2,370               -              -           -
Total (Rs. '000)               1,050         14,031            3,792               -          19,053       16,671
South of Road
Without Project
Land Use  (ha)                    -             -             1,900                500          2,400         -
Value per ha 2/ (Rs)              -                            1,272               -              -
Total (Rs. 'OUO)                  -             -             2,417                -            2,417         _
With Project
Land Use 3/ (ha)              1,300             _             1,100                -            2,400         _
Value per ha 2/ (Rs)           7,716            -             2,370                -              -           -
Total (Rs. '000)              10,030            -             2,607                -           9,127       10,220
MODEL 1      26,891
MODEL II 4/
North of Road
As Model I                                                                                                   14,465
South of Road
Without Project
Land Use (ha)                     -             -                -                 500            500         -
Value per ha (Rs.)                -             -       -                          -              - 
Total (Rs. '000)                  -             -                -                 -              -           -
With Project
Land Use (ha)                     -             -               500                -              500         -
Value per ha (Rs.)                -             -             2,370                -              -           -
Total (Rs. '000)                  -             -             1,185                -           1,135       1,135
MODEL II    17,806
1/ Assumes an increase in tubewell irrigation;
2/ From Annex 3, Table 4;
3/ Assumes that benefit is derived from existing cultivable waste, converted to rainfed land; and 1900 ha flood
prone land, converted to flood-free land, of which 70% is irrigated;
4/ As Model I north of road; south assumes that only benefit is from 500 ha of cultivable waste which can be
brought into rainfed production.



ANNEX 3
Table 6
INDIA
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
Model III: Economic Benefits from Flood Protection Only (Dholbaha)
(Change in Land Use and Value of Protection)
Incremental
Cultivable           Production
Irrigated   Unirrigated       Waste    Total       Value
(Tbewells)i
NORTH OF ROAD
Without Project
Land Use (ha)               160          2,885         1,725      4,770
Value per ha (Rs)         2,865             678           -
Total ('000 Rs)         458          1,956           -        2,414
With Flood Protection
Land Use (ha)               170          4,600           -        4,770
Value per ha (Rs)         6,180          2,370            -
Total ('000 Rs)       1.050         10,902           -       11,952     9,538
SOUTH OF ROAD
Without Project
Land Use (ha)                            1,900           500      2,400
Value per ha (Rs)                         1,272           -
Total ('000 Rs)                      2,417           -        2,417
With Flood Protection
Land Use (ha)                            2,400                    2,400
Value per ha (Rs)                         2,370          -
Total ('000 Rs)                      5,688           -        5,688     3,271
12,809 1/
1/ Based on the assumptions given in Section IV of this annex, the value of production
in Dholbaha (after protecting the land from flooding) would be expected to increase
by Rs 12.81 million per year at full development. Incremental benefits would start
in year 4 and are assumed to reach full development in year 11 (build-up rates are
in Section II of this annex).
The following costs have been deducted before calculating the NPV of the stream of
benefits:
-  cost of levelling (a) 500 ha of presently cultivable waste land
south of the road and (b) 1000 ha of the present 1900 rainfed land
south of the road; and
- maintenance cost of structures, which is estimated at Rs 615,000 per year.
On this basis the PV of benefits derived from protecting this land from flood is
Rs 50 M or Rs 7000/ha flooded.



90
ANNEX 4
Page I
INDIA
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Documents Relating to Project Preparation
1.   Summary Preparation Report
2.   Report of Forest Department
3.   Report of Fisheries Department
4.   Report of Irrigation Department:  Dholbaha Dam and Irrigation System
(i) Dholbaha Dam - General Description and Salient Features
(ii) Dholbaha Dam - General Report, Designs, and Cost Estimates
(Volume I)
(iii) Dholbaha Dam - Drawings (Volume II)
(iv) Dholbaha Irrigation System
5.   Report of Irrigation Department:  Preliminary Details of Storage
Dam Units on Other Watersheds
6.   Report of Drainage Department:  Project Estimate for Canalization
of Dholbaha Choe
7.   Report of Drainage Department:  Project Estimate for Canalization
of Dholbaha, Janauri, Chohal, Maili, and Patiala-ki-Rao Choes
8.   Report of Drainage Department:  Cost Estimate for Canalizing
Dholbaha Choe
9.   Report of Drainage Department:  Estimate for Reclamation of Land
along River Sutlej (not included in Project)
10.   Report of Department of Soil Conservation and Engineering
11.   Report of the Directorate of Water Resources:  Research (Ground-
water Investigation, Recharge Studies and Trials) and Training
12.   Report of Animal Husbandry Department
13.   Reports, Studies, and Trials Relating to Agricultural Research
within Punjab
14.   Additional Maps of Project Area
15.   Photographs of the Shiwalik Hills Showing Status of Erosion
B.   Documents Relating to General Agricultural Situation
1.   The Third Decennial World Agricultural Census (1970-71):
Report for Punjab State
2.   Agricultural Statistics (Punjab)
3.   Hoshiarpur District Census (1971)
4.   Ropar District Census (1971)
5.   Spacial Pattern of Levels and Growth of Agricultural Output
in India, Center for the Study of Regional Development, 1978



91
ANNEX 4
Page 2
6.   Growth of Punjab Agriculture:  Problems and Prospects, Department
of Economics and Sociology, Punjab Agricultural University
C.   Legal and Tax
1.   Income Tax Act, 1961
2.   The Land Improvement Schemes Act, 1963
3.   Schedule of Water Rates
4.   Impact of Indirect Tax on Punjab Agriculture (1975-76),
Punjab Agricultural University
D.   Other Documents and Studies
1.   Erosion in the Punjab:  Its Causes and Cure, Sir Harold Glover,
1944
2.   A Note Regarding Choe Problem in Hoshiarpur District
E.   Supplementary Implementation Volume (See Table of Contents)
The .ollowing Tables and Charts are referred to in the Supplementary
Implementation Volume and are contained in the Project File.
1.   Forestry:  Additional Diagrams
2.   Irrigation:  Additional Tables (Volume I)
Additional Figures (Volume II)
3.   Drainage:  Additional Diagrams



92
INDIA                                                  CKART 1
KANDI WATERSHED AMS AURA DEVKLQPISNT PROJECT (PUNJSAB)
Physical & Iccnoelo factors That Head T.oHe RsAai-ns  in w.tcreICe  PLanning
PHSsICAL WRinS   O   O
(Reweetetiao, channel La-
Prove-manas, dma, .-cals.
.0  0                                well.~~~~~~~211, roads, buldLose. see.)
FACTORS INWIPVED                                        Ma 
ull1 lardA                             0
Valle  landa                                              
SCr.m flosw                                     0           
DMn & Reaw. Site."
Grosmdwtatr00
INTERESTED GROUP
Sectio 4 Laidwners                     0   0   c!                                a
lrr. syutmn                                 0   00    0                          0 
FloodedArea  '                              0                                    a 
ReseOrvoir area                                     0                      0 
For. scry lepe.                        0                                   0    0
Soil Conservation Dept.                     o     '      c a c c            0      
,rIrlaclon Dept.                            0   0   0   0         0          
P-ajabDsvwopammt  Comeu.               0           0     0    0              
SmCentral Utatr C.issmion                          00    0   a   0   0                             ___
SP CICPURPOSES
Os,matic & stock vatox                            10 0
Used & fiber pcodoctioe0     
Vh-nfood                                    0        cx           a
llamas hoLnalg 
Protect property                       0        0   0
faclitate  traneport                                 00
Conserve snergy                             0
1.=cr euelo=eear                       0 Z   .0                  0  0   0
ALTZRNA=  TYPE oP vow
Three.                                 0 
MAsonry0 0 0
ALEIATIMETHODS O? COISTETIOH
Hand lOVabor                              0                 0                       0
Maom powered equipmenatu
AnmlPower                               0     
Local made mactiaes                         0   a   0   0         :
Fri'sre    maed  mctine,                    0  0              
2                                               0   0                        
30
ALTSaATZZ  SIZE 0ft CAPACTIT 
2                                                o  
LZZZ* OF
240"                                                                          
~A1 &                                                                                          I   I(2)
2                                           0                               0    0       (            
3                                           .____    0   0.                              0        
OPERATION &MICIJIEfs
2                                       0        0   t                            C      0            
3                                       0        0      0         0                        0          
AVERAGE ANNUAL WflTS (2)
AVERACE ANNUAL BESIFITS (3)
3                    _____                  c t        c          a    a0                             
HtETCOTRATIO (3)
1                                      0             C0      0 0       0         o       0            
2                                              0       0          0    0     00          0      0 0 0
RETVRN ON I.'JVSTh    (3)
3                                            000                     o                             X x
TOTAL PROJECT
(1)  Ix dstrndg loetcoet for each eizs emay different dedins and construction methdod roat be considered And
s,etiomtd.
(2)  Size andC ro:tof dam -ill vary with capacity of flood control oulcs   pil:veyo  and methodo of operating
for multiple  urpoooo.
(3)  Whoraes copital  oet and annul  coot may be computed for each phystoal work and 0lsz-ootcure  be cn-
s=trutd, the. to -olo    th. besmt toctal  Urojoc: various cocinctlons of aliferent sizes of physical works
.ill hove to be ..lscred for trials to see hich will gi-s the best conbtoed benefits in relation to costs.
ovalla.bllity of fnnl    tine for conatruction and dewel.oo'en, otilcoaties or oxcrvation of scarce natural
reore,deoire  or local  people, sod ability of g-vco,nn  r--on  c...o  an.d nary othsr conaiderotione.
Thoe 'bmiction. hove b..n deissiontd -s "A through X", -co  the        b.rr f:scC -           chooesn ia a jodw.nt
deojojW. of thCs planing  -Xagr.



INDIA
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PUNJAB)
Organization Chart
Chief Miit,          - ----------------- -Rev,evv
Committee
ScetarY                                             Se  tal          |     Financial Commissioner,|                                    Punjab                                              Project
Seiretusbandry                                            rtry                   Development and          -   -  -  -  -  -            Agricultural        -                             Implementation
and Fisheries                                                  lon                Secretar to GOP                                        Univesity                                          Committee
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cons I_omto                                                  Moni__ __       ~e toEalaiong    |
Commissie                               USoioei
Prr,ject Coordinator
Animal Husbandry           Fisheries Department                     Irrigation Department                      Forest Department           Soil Conservation &        Agriculture  epartment
Department               Director & Warden                Irrigation)              (DrainaseC Chief Conservator of                    Engineering Departmen        (Inctuding Horticulture)
Director of A. H.             of Fisheries           Chief Engineer (Projects) Chief Engineer (Drainage)                                          Soils
Consemato           ~~Conservator         Jt. Director     J.Drco
Joint Div. of A.H.           Deputy Director                            Directorate                               o   -                         of Soils           Hortic lture      Agriculture
of Water
Resources
is ri t  ~         Executive               Executive                                                  DiFsina
|ngineer               Engieer                                                    Divisil |DFO   DFODistrict             C                         District
Fishteri  Engineer       Engineer                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~Soil Cons.  Horticulture  Agiutua          L            Level
Offi cer           ~~(Irrigation)           (Drainage)             I      (IVOfficer                                         Officer          Officer                         ee
tJ One for each Project DMstrict (initially Hoshiapur and Ropar), under the Chairmanship of the Deputy Commissioner.
World Bank - 19041






lBRD 1369d
WI J;ID7 t 5b,76slusvel , 75 35'                                                  75-40'                                                    75 45'                                                      5 0                                                      75 55'                                               9 BRD 69
rr,,,r.~~~~~~,~~h~~~vrvrnvd ~~~~INDIA
Dosipre sonvemhAce of jhe    oPunjab
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dholbaha Watershed Development Proposals
9/X                                -    -- Cervrcb-ent A-e  B-ondories of Dholbeho Doer              Proposed Con-I-ot-vn of Chos
;  ! > 11-~ <- Ki h-          N.g.r
<rseNe                ~Cot-6rnet Are  Bo-ooies Abov  D-or--n                                                                                                   Gr--Drndweter,fl-ece L,Te
X,0                 ,,~                                X   /,-'                                    00 /0 9,
5ub-erorro  A-c  of IDoe                                 Proposd  v,r--o  Enrboknrets
(p              L1]  ~~~Prevet Snvt,- 4 Forest end                          t     Prp-sd Doem
cv                                       Presenr~~~~~~~`-tSevt,v5PvFe-ttLnd                       RQ<- ,A
B.d..rrgot- Dtrboto Sytr-                                                                                  0 Ton ed V,11igeS
p0                                          Hersinpre                          -                                 7'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-gt   A-K- RoSd
-    -                                                                                                                                                                             0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  II   14 
vr0,1ovt                                                       Tond(o ~<_ _-~3uoPrt3'0-by}NDA,   
to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.. 0
>.- S/\_\3g BeonBlo Khon                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              : 
C                                                                                                                                                                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
51~~~~~~~~                                                                                        ~          ~~~               ~          ~~~ \1  2  3  4  \                                                      :   ;                        fa0 o
o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~0e                                                                       0          1  Bs       2           3          4           s           \                                                                                             vIferr9o/
Aeon Ghorn Shon            (                                                                                                                                   MILES                                  Honreno                                                   
75t3s                                                     79 00\                                                   7s45                                                       751 50                                                     759500'iS __rn-rb uJ   






IBRD 13695
, Ro 75 3o                                            ' <       ~-.  7s943' W07                                          trio'                       7-30                  13R 13095
tQ.st   ,  mn, 50  ft  t g   .%  t-                                                            I NDIA
'~~~~~~~  CHInA   I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Punjab
IA I I                                     -32-00'       (           . o ;g                                             KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
,_00                                       >, ,, ov 1yS<rlX,0 X                f                             .J: r~'- <. Kandi Tract                               3200
N                                     >  ) -   Y   / m\ --' -                      7, ; \ _ . // ./s K-od, Trct-Shi-ohk Hills
C   I                        ' DIA /_\phSH Kond, Tract -Argo Bete hA-                                                                     n B Sh,ol kiHlls nd Hash1 rpur-Co-digoorh Rood
INDIA                                                                                    '<--Catoh-et Ar- Budreof Dhdoltsah Dar.
/ r"r05                         N                                                                                         Car       Ah arodaros Ab.-e  D-ers-ons
N                                                                                                      -    Pr\   : | c7    t//   t)  0\  ,   , X /  _  oposed D.m
8   )          g72;         *                                                                                                          lt/\   t/ /X/  ,.   rr;goteol Area,
Ar.o Proteotd From Flood
5eo    \\~    j      -- soooor , rI OoMo , ssvv~                                                                                              -  Groundwater -nflGence 1 l. e
:oL'               *                       K                                       <                                                    r                            :WOO
===== ~ ~~                         ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R./ .d                                                <. 
-0  T."""'-  ,..S
3Ir30'    3n - l-            7__                   79,30' 20                    7740'                         75                          7010'                       WO 7               D



