Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2384-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA
FOR THE
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 30, 1980
This documaent hs a retcd drIbution and may be wed by recipients only in the pedrfwmance of
their oIcial di. Its contents may not oterwise be disciesnd witbut Worldl Bak authorizstln.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
'as at June 25, 1980)
Rs 1.00           =    Paise 100
US$1.00           =    Rs 7.864735
Rs 1.00           =    US$0.127150
Rs 1 million      =    US$127,250
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee ex-
change rate is subject to change. Conversions in the
Appraisal Report were made at US$1 to Rs 8.40.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS REPORT
GOI  -    Government of India
GOP  -    Government of Punjab



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            India, acting by its President (GOI)
Beneficiary:         State of Punjab (GOP)
*          Amount:              US$30 million
Terms:               20 years, including 5 years' of grace.  Interest rate
would be 8.25% per annum.
Relending
Terms:             As part of Central assistance to States for development
projects on terms and conditions applicable at the time.
GOI would bear the exchange risk.
Project
Description:       The proposed project would be the first stage of an
integrated development strategy to rehabilitate the
Sub-Himalayan Shiwalik area. It would be a pilot effort
with its main focus on institution building aimed at
strengthening local capabilities to plan and implement
similar projects in the future. The project would contain
a package of components designed to: improve the vegeta-
tive cover in the upper catchments of the Shiwalik Hills,
thereby regulating run-off and reducing soil erosion;
protect agricultural land below the Hills from the devas-
tation of annual floods; and enhance the productivity of
both forest and agricultural land thus protected. The
project would be implemented in five watersheds in the
Kandi Tract, the Punjab portion of the Shiwaliks.
The risks in the project are those inherent in any
innovative pilot project. However, as most of the indi-
vidual components of the project have been technically
proven, the principal risks are associated with the
ability of the project authorities to implement an inte-
grated development program and to obtain the cooperation
of farmers, particularly in the upper catchment areas
where grazing controls will be introduced.
r This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:                                              Million US Dollars
Local     Foreign       Total
Upper Catchments
Reforestation and
Soil Conservation                 7.1         0.1         7.2
Livestock Development               4.8          -          4.8
Subtotal                     11.9         0.1        12.0
Flood Control and Irrigation
Dholbaha - Flood Control            2.9         0.2         3.1
Dholbaha - Dam and Irrigation    5.9            1.2         7.1
Other Watersheds                   11.9         1.3        13.2
Subtotal                     20.7         2.7        23.4
Farm Development
Horticulture                        0.5          -          0.5
Fisheries                           0.7          -          0.7
Land Development
in Dholbaha                      2.2         0.2         2.4
Subtotal                      3.4         0.2         3.6
T.A., Research, Training
Technical Assistance and
Overseas Training                0.7         0.9          1.6
Groundwater Studies                 1.4         0.1         1.5
Research                            0.7          -          0.7
Subtotal                      2.8         1.0         3.8
Project Administration,
Monitoring, Evaluation              0.9         0.1         1.0
TOTAL BASE COST                    39.7         4.1       43.8
Physical Contingency                4.4         0.5         4.9
Price Contingency                  11.0         1.1        12.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST /a              55.1         5.7       60.8
/a   Taxes and duties are negligible and, therefore, are
not calculated separately.
Financing Plan:                                                 (US$ Million)
Local     Foreign       Total
IBRD                              24.3          5.7       30.0
GOI/GOP                            30.8          -         30.8
55.1         5.7        60.8



- 3.11 -
Estimated
Disbursements:                                       (US$ Million)
FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
Annual          1.8      5.0      7.6     8.0      7.6
Cumulative      1.8      6.8    14.4    22.4    30.0
Rate of Return:       16% for Dholbaha, and not less than 12% for other
watersheds.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 2174-IN, dated June 30, 1980






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA FOR THE KANDI WATERSHED
AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to India for the equivalent of US$30 million to help finance a project
designed to protect and develop agricultural land in the lower Himalayan
foothills that is presently subject to serious erosion and flooding. The
loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 8.25% per annum. The proceeds of the loan would be channelled by the
Government of India (GOI) to the Government of Punjab (GOP) on GOI's standard
terms and arrangements for financing of State development projects. GOI would
bear the exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2933-IN, dated May 1, 1980), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 14, 1980. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large and diverse country with a population of 663 mil-
lion (in mid-1980) and an annual per capita income of US$180. Agriculture
continues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the
labor force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the
landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. The share of agriculture in GDP at factor cost (measured in 1970/71
prices) has declined from 59.6% in 1950/51 to 40.7% in 1978/79. The share
of industry has increased over the same period from 14.5% to 22.7%. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor force,
nor to bring about the substantial economic transformation that has led to
higher productivity and rapid urbanization in some other developing countries.
The urban population was 18% of the total in 1960, and is 21% now.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past.  The trend growth rate of
GDP was 3.7% per annum from 1950/51 to 1978/79. Slow growth in agriculture --
2.5% per annum over the same period -- has constrained overall growth, not only
because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce foreign
exchange has often been required to import food. Industrial valued-added has
grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and 1978/79, but this
growth has not been as high as in many other countries, nor as high as required
if the overall growth of the economy is to be accelerated. Slow growth has
persisted despite a quite creditable domestic saving and investment performance.
Gross domestic saving more than doubled from 10% of GDP in 1950/51 to 24% in
1/   Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (Report No. P-2831-IN), dated June 2, 1980.



1978/79. Similarly, gross domestic investment as a fraction of GDP rose from
10% in 1950/51 to just over 24% in 1978/79. Foreign savings have never financed
a large portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during
the early 1960s; by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had returned to much
lower levels. External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and
in per capita terms. Net external assistance has never risen above 3% of GDP.
5.        Except during periods of balance of payments crisis, exports have
received relatively little emphasis in India, which has primarily pursued a
strategy of import subsitution. As a result, India's share of world trade
has fallen consistently since 1950/51. The volume growth of exports between
1950/51 and 1978/79 averaged only 3.0 per annum. The volume of growth of
imports over the same period has slightly exceeded that of exports. During
the early 1970s, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant
during the 1960s, deteriorated drastically, spurring a relatively rapid period
of export growth through the mid-1970s. For the five years ending in 1976/77
the volume of India's exports grew on average over 10% per annum, demonstrating
that sustained rapid growth was possible. While expanding world markets, par-
ticularly in the near-by Middle East, contributed to this process, adjustments
in trade policies designed to improve the profitability of exports played a
major role.
Recent Trends
6.         Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 4.7%,
2.8% and 7.3% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a marginally
better growth performance than the long-term trends from 1950/51 to 1975/76.
However, GNP is expected to have declined by about 3% in 1979/80 as a result
of the drought-induced decrease in agricultural production and input con-
straints in other sectors, bringing recent trends back in line with the long-
term picture. Industrial production stagnated in 1979/80, largely due to
shortfalls in the production of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement,
as well as constraints in the provision of infrastructure, notably power and
transportation. As a consequence of these developments, the remarkable price
stability that characterized the Indian economy after 1975 came to an abrupt
end at the close of fiscal year 1978/79. During the Spring and Summer of
1979 the price index rose sharply, so that by September it stood at 18.4%
above that of the previous September. Foodgrain prices rose over the Summer
and Fall of 1979 but in most markets still prevailed close to the Government's
ration prices. Low income groups in urban areas were assured adequate sup-
plies of grain at stable prices through the public distribution system. The
substantial stocks of foodgrains also provided resources for a large-scale
drought relief employment program for low income groups in rural areas.
7.         In agriculture the positive results of large investments and appro-
priate policies over the past few years are becoming increasingly evident and
have withstood the test of a severe drought. Agricultural production, which
had increased by 14.5% in 1977/78 and 3.4% in 1978/79 to record levels each
year, fell about 8-9% in 1979/80. Foodgrain production is estimated to have



declined from 131.4 million tons in 1978/79 to 118-120 million tons in 1979/80.
Considering that 1979/80 was a year of acute drought, coming after two succes-
sive years of record output, the foodgrain production achieved--still the
fourth highest in Indian history--provides a measure of the contribution that
expanded irrigation, extension and other inputs have made to Indian agriculture.
Furthermore, the capacity of India's irrigation potential to counteract drought
conditions was not adequately tested because of the diesel shortages which
inhibited the utilization of groundwater resources. Rapid growth in the use
of basic inputs for agricultural production has continued. Additions to the
area under irrigation have almost doubled from 1.3 million hectares during the
five-year period ending in 1973/74 to about 2.5 million additional hectares a
year during the most recent three-year period. Fertilizer consumption in
1979/80 exceeded five million nutrient tons, a level almost 80% higher than
in 1975/76.
8.        As the new decade begins, the Indian economy is shifting from a
situation of resource surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the
late 1970s, to one of resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken
domestic savings, and the scope for further increases in the latter appears
limited. Marginal savings rates have recently been well above 30% in the
household sector. Future increases in savings will depend largely on enhanced
profitability of public sector enterprises. Impending resource scarcity is
even more apparent in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and 1978/79 India's
current account deficit had remained comfortably small in relation both to GDP
and to a growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was primarily due to
favorable terms of trade movements and rapidly growing net invisibles which
masked adverse underlying trends in the volume of exports, which has barely
grown since 1976/77. Particularly serious is the evident decline in the
quantum of manufactured non-traditional exports which had contributed much to
the export growth of the first half of the decade. A combination of strong
domestic, and slack international demand, exacerbated until recently by
apparent lessened interest in export promotion, have been the major casual
factors.
9.        In contrast, imports have grown rapidly in volume terms and there
have been important changes in composition. As a result of the accumulation
and maintenance of foodgrain stocks, foodgrain imports--which had been a
traditional item in the balance of payments--have declined to insignificant
levels since 1977/78. Reflecting the impact of the liberalized import policy
adopted by the Government, non-foodgrain imports increased sharply, so that
their level in 1978/79 was over 80% higher than in 1975/76. In large part,
the liberalization in import policy and increase in imports were limited to
raw materials, basic commodities and intermediate goods; consumer goods
remained banned and capital goods imports were permitted only on a selective
basis. Strong new pressures on the balance of payments have developed during
1979/80. The terms of trade again deteriorated markedly as a consequence of
unexpectedly large increases in petroleum prices, which caused the oil import
bill to double in 1979/80, accounting for more than 80% of the total estimated
US$2.5 billion increase in imports, and bringing India's total import bill to
about US$11 billion. Petroleum imports as a proportion of exports now exceed
50%.



-4-
Development Prospects
10.       The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless has a
highly diversified structure and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety
of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways,
telecommunications, roads and ports--is extensive compared to many countries,
although there is considerable scope for expansion as well as improvement in
the utilization of existing capacity. India is also well-endowed with human
resources and with institutional infrastructure for development. Finally,
India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of land, water, and
minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good
economic policies and sufficient access to foreign savings, India has the
capability for managing these considerable resources to accelerate its long-
term growth.
11.       The new Indian Government installed in January 1980 is in the process
of formulating its policies and programs. A new Plan for the period 1981-86 is
being prepared to replace the Draft Five-Year Plan for 1978-83. At this stage
it is not possible to comment on the new development strategy; however, it is
unlikely that the priorities accorded to agriculture and power will be lessened.
Furthermore, developments in India as well as in the world economy during
1979/80 have brought to the surface urgent issues which will need the attention
of policy-makers, irrespective of the broader context of development strategy
that the new Government may adopt. Among these issues are the following:
(a) the bottlenecks in infrastructure and related constraints in production
of several basic industrial inputs; (b) the new policy options emerging in
agriculture; (c) the need to substitute less costly energy sources for imported
petroleum; and (d) the anticipated deterioration of the balance of payments in
the near future.
12.       The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that, relative to existing
demands, the past investment program has led to disproportionally low growth
in certain crucial sectors, namely power, coal, transport services, steel and
cement. Potential output growth in sectors which have benefitted from large
investments in the recent past may not materialize unless these input bottle-
necks are alleviated. In the case of coal, steel and cement, domestic produc-
tion appears to be clearly justified on grounds of comparative advantage, and
the aim of policy is self-sufficiency. All these are tradeable commodities.
Although in 1979/80 they were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate
the shortages, increased short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to
alleviate slowdowns and dislocation in using industries. In the case of
sectors in which there is no option to import--power and transportation--
the planning of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial. Although there
is scope for improvement in the shortrun performance of these sectors, major
investments in balancing and modernization programs as well as new capacity
are needed in order to provide adequate and stable growth in the medium term.
The presence of infrastructural constraints and shortages of basic industrial
inputs demonstrates that the expansion of industrial outout leads to competing
claims on scarce resources which must be efficiently allocated among different
industries.



-5-
13.       The substantial increase in the world price of petroleum in 1979,
together with the expectation that this pattern will not be reversed in the
near future, raises several issues concerning energy prospects for India.
India imports the equivalent of about 50% of its petroleum consumption. In
order to implement its policy of minimizing dependence on foreign oil, the
Government intends to rapidly expand its oil exploration program, to increase
the utilization of its vast coal reserves and to increase the development of
India's considerable hydroelectric potential. However, recent shortages of
coal and power are symptomatic of operational problems reflecting, in part,
past planning and investment decisions which are inhibiting the timely imple-
mentation of India's long-term conversion program. The interdependencies in
the economy currently make petroleum demand a residual which is contingent
on the operation of many other sectors and which has significant implications
for the balance of payments.
14.       In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies, devel-
opment programs and secular trends all seem favorable for sustaining a period
of high growth during the 1980s. India should end the 1979/80 rabi season
with grain stocks of about 15 million tons, without having imported foodgrains
during the year. This is partly due to the bumper crop of 1978/79, but also
reflects the trends of the last decade which point to a consistent improvement
in foodgrain availability in the economy. In view of the acceleration in the
use of agricultural inputs and the projected fall in the population growth rate,
the long-run prospects for foodgrain supply and demand balances look favorable.
Persistent shortage seems unlikely, and it is probable that a wide range of
policy options will become much more practical as the overriding emphasis on
foodgrains can be somewhat relaxed. These options include a slowly falling
real price of foodgrains to increase the affordability of foodgrains to low-
income families, further rationalization of domestic markets and prices, and
diversification to the production of other higher value crops. This prospect
will involve only a gradual shift in emphasis rather than a dramatic break
with past policies.
15.       Foreign exchange reserves still provide some cushion that can help
the Government of India in short-term supply management, but this situation
is likely to be short-lived. Rising import prices and uncertainties in the
prospects for exports and invisible receipts have led to a serious and rapid
deterioration in India's balance of payments prospects. Reserves were only
marginally higher in March 1980 than the level of a year earlier and, in terms
of import coverage, fell below the 8-month level for the first time since 1977.
A sharp decline in the reserve level is expected in 1980/81. At best, India's
reserves may provide a cushion for two more years, and even that is conditional
on the maintenance of aid flows and workers' remittances and on moderation in
oil price rises.
16.       India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Progress has
been made and continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the
economy faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Invest-
ments required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with
longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable



-6 -
physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a
difficult burden on the framers of India's next Five-Year Plan. The primary
focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjustment policies,
although the aid community can and should play an important role in ensuring
that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign resources.
17.       The annual population growth rate declined from 2.2% in the late
1960s to below 2% at present and is expected to continue falling to around
1.6% by the latter half of the 1980s. Despite the declining trend in the rate
of population increase, a net reproduction rate of one (replacement level)
will only be achieved around the year 2020. At that time, the population of
India is estimated to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 81% over
the mid 1980 level of 663 million. Family planning has played an important
role in achieving the fertility decline in the past decade, and the extent of
a further decline will be greatly influenced by the continuation of a success-
ful official family planning program. The family planning performance data
for 1978/79 and the first ten months of 1979/80 clearly indicate a come back
from the sharp decline observed in virtually all major contraceptive methods
during 1977/78. Except for male sterilizations, the number of acceptors for
all contraceptive methods surpassed the 1974/75 levels in 1978/79. While the
increase in the total acceptors of IUD and conventional contraceptives was
modest, female sterilizations increased by about 40% between 1977/78 and
1978/79. Data for the first ten months of 1979/80 confirm a secular upward
trend in overall performance. So far, policy makers have not made major
attempts to accelerate the male sterilization program. Instead, they have
opted for policies that would yield relatively modest but sustainable results
with increased emphasis on non-terminal methods.
18.       Beyond the effects of overall economic growth and constrained popula-
tion growth, the reduction of poverty in India requires special attention to
ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
In addition to marginal holdings of physical assets, the poor are ill-endowed
with human resources, being disproportionately represented among the illiterate,
the malnourished and those having otherwise poor health status. Improvements
in the living standards of the poor will depend to a large extent on the over-
all growth of the economy, mainly on productivity increases in agriculture
and non-farm rural employment, but also on the expansion of employment oppor-
tunities in urban areas. These developments will have to stem largely from
market forces which, however, can be greatly facilitated by appropriate gov-
ernment policies and investment priorities. There is also a role for direct
government actions in faster implementation of land reform (though the scope
for significant reduction in poverty through redistribution is quite limited
in India), in increasing the supply of credit available to small farmers and
rural artisans and finally in broadening the provision of those services
which enhance the human capital of the poor and improve living standards.
Many of the latter are elements of the Minimum Needs Program which has been
an integral part of Indian planning for the past decade. Progress has been
slow but steady in the expansion of primary education, the extension of rural



- 7 -
health facilities and the provision of secure village water supplies. Recent
innovations, including the community health volunteer program and the national
adult literacy campaign, are encouraging evidence that well-targetted, rela-
tively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 57 loans and 121 development
credits to India totalling US$2,529 million and US$7,540 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,060 million had
been repaid, and US$3,173 million was still undisbursed as of April 30, 1980.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through April 30,
1980, totalled US$561 million, representing an increase of about 26% over the
same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements
as of April 30, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1959, IFC has made 18 commitments in India totalling US$72.5
million, of which US$18.6 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$38.8 million, US$30.3 mil-
lion represents loans and US$8.5 million equity. A summary statement of
IFC operations as of May 31, 1980, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations
and in providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing,
seed development, agricultural extension, and dairying are other agricultural
activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group has been active
in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector and, through its
sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in a wide range of
geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises. IDA
financing of industrial raw materials and components for selected priority
sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capacity utilization in
industry. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastructure
development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family planning,
water supply development, and urban investments have also received Bank
Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis. Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems



-8-
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program for
the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefit-
ting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fertilizer sector
also assists India in the more efficient provision of another key input in
the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on those subsectors which have
recently emerged as key constraints on India's overall growth, primarily power
and transportation.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid 1970s. However,
the need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even greater deter-
ioration in balance of payments prospects during the 1980s by augmenting
domestic resources and stimulating investment, remains. As in the past, Bank
Group assistance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the
financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in
most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors
as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
24.       India's poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of
India's external capital requirements should be provided on concessionary
terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been,
and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA
funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation
to India's needs for external support, and India should be regarded as credit-
worthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt service
to the level of exports was 12% in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below
20% through 1995/96. As of March 31, 1980, outstanding loans to India held
by the Bank totaled US$1,516 million, of which US$556 million remained to be
disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$960 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1979, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$15.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was US$4.6 billion or 30% (IDA's US$4.0 billion and IBRD's US$0.6 bil-
lion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1978/79,
about 17.5% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-9-
PART III - PUNJAB AND THE KANDI TRACT
The State of Punjab
26.       The State of Punjab, situated in northwest India, has an area
of about 50,000 square kilometers, and a population of some 16 million which
is growing at about 1.9% per year. By almost all economic indicators, Punjab
is the most advanced State in India. Per capita income, at about US$235 in
1977/78 compared to about US$140 for all-India, is the highest in the country;
between 1960/61 and 1977/78 State income in constant terms grew at an annual
rate of 5.2%. Although 75% of the population is rural, the rural areas are
more developed and accessible than in the rest of India. Nearly 80% of
villages are connected by metalled roads and most have electricity and drink-
ing water. Yet, as with most states in India, there are pockets of poverty.
A 1978 study on "Rural Poverty and Agricultural Growth in India", carried out
by the Bank's Development Research Center, showed that 24% of the rural
population of Punjab live below the absolute level of poverty.
27.       Agriculture provides the key to Punjab's impressive growth record.
At current prices, agriculture and related activities account for over 60%
of the State income, and provide employment for about 70% of the work force.
Although Punjab is one of the smallest States in India, it continues to make
a major contribution to meeting the shortfall in India's foodgrain require-
ments. In 1976/77, Punjab provided 3.9 million tons of wheat and rice,
representing nearly 50% of its production, for export to deficit States.
Foodgrain production increased at 7.7% per annum in the sixteen years from
1960/61, a remarkable achievement over so long a period. This has been
brought about by annual increases in yields of some 5% and in cropped area
of 2.7%. The main factors responsible for the impressive agricultural pro-
duction record are:
(a) an increase in the area under high yielding crop varieties
(90% of wheat and rice is sown to such varieties);
(b) an increase in the use of fertilizer and pesticide (consump-
tion of fertilizer is 60 kg/ha in Punjab as compared to
about 20 kg/ha for all-India); and
(c) an increase in the irrigated area (86% of the State's net
area sown is irrigated as compared to about 25% for all-
India).
28.       Unfortunately, production trends over the last few years suggest
that the easy benefits of the green revolution have been reaped. Wheat yields
have been stagnant for the past five or six years; there is little scope for
expanding the area under high yielding or improved varieties, and the cropping
intensity is already high at 144%. Moreover, groundwater and surface supplies
are almost exhausted. It is estimated that 80% of the groundwater potential
is now tapped and that groundwater resources of the State will be fully
exploited within the next ten years. Thus, further expansion of production
from irrigated agriculture will require increased efficiency of water use.



- 10 -
29.       To regain momentum, the thrust of GOP's agricultural development
strategy is now two-fold: firstly, to increase production further by improv-
ing the efficiency of use of existing resources and secondly, to concentrate
efforts on developing backward and neglected areas of the State. The first
objective will be met by improving the efficiency of already existing irriga-
tion systems. This will be achieved by improving the water conveyance system
and land development and irrigation practices at the farm level. IDA is
supporting these efforts through an irrigation project in Punjab (Cr. 889-IN).
Overall efficiency will also be improved by upgrading arrangements for market-
ing and distribution of inputs; to this end, GOP is undertaking an integrated
rural development program. GOP's second objective will be addressed through
the proposed project, which seeks to solve the dual problems of developing a
backward area and repairing the ravages of erosion. A solution to the latter
problem will also enable the rapid development of a considerable area of
high-potential land which lies largely unexploited because of the constant
threat of devastation caused by uncontrolled run-off from adjacent hills.
The Kandi Tract
30.       The largest undeveloped area of Punjab is the Himalayan2submoun-
tainous zone, known as the Kandi Tract. It covers about 4,600 km (9% of
the State) and contains some 6% of Punjab's population. This zone includes
part of the Shiwalik range of hills which extend across the whole of northern
India and Nepal at the foothills of the Himalayas. The Punjab Shiwaliks run
for about 250 km along the northeastern part of the State, bordering Himachal
Pradesh. The Kandi Tract includes all land within the Punjab Shiwalik Hills,
together with a narrow band of largely undeveloped farmland. This band lies
immediately below the hills and to the north of the State's main highway,
which runs from Chandigarh in the southeast to Dasuya in the northwest
(see map).
31.       Prior to the middle of the last century, the Punjab Shiwalik Hills
were strictly preserved and no cultivation, grazing or exploitation of timber
was permitted. At that time the hills were covered with thick forests with an
undercover of shrubs and grasses. Perennial streams flowed from the hills and
supported agriculture in the plains below. However, after the forests were
handed over to villages as additions to their village common lands in the
middle of last century, unrestricted tree felling and overgrazing destroyed
the vegetative cover. Heavy rain eroded the weakly cemented soils of the
upper catchments and the streams became seasonal torrents carrying large
amounts of sand and gravel down to the plains below spreading out in a fan-
like fashion. These torrents are locally know as "choes". Within Punjab,
there are some 21 major and 120 smaller choes that disgorge from steep, rough,
highly erodible catchments in the Shiwaliks and flow through the gently
rolling Kandi Tract into the Rivers Sutlej and Beas.
32.       At first the choes brought fertile silt, whose presence was welcomed
by the farmers, but later the silt was replaced by sand which overlaid the
fields and destroyed them. By 1895, these choes had spread over and ruined
thousands of hectares of valuable agricultural land in the plains. Recogniz-
ing that the basic cause of the problem was loss of vegetative cover in the
hills, the Government passed the Punjab Land Preservation (Choes) Act in 1902.



- 11 -
This allowed areas to be closed to grazing, controlled the type of livestock
permitted within grazing areas and could prohibit tree felling, cultivation
and quarrying. Two categories of land were recognized under Sections 4 and
5 of the Act. In Section 4 areas, farmers were allowed: (a) to keep cattle
and sheep but not goats or camels; and (b) to extract fuelwood, small timber
and fodder for their own needs. Section 5 areas were closed to all livestock,
and extraction of fuelwood and small timber was prohibited; fodder grass cut-
ting, however, was permitted. The Act was not implemented with any vigor
until the late 1930s and even then only for a few years and in a small number
of upper catchments. From the 1950s to mid-1970s, lack of funds for refores-
tation and soil conservation works, together with increases in the livestock
and human populations led to even further degradation, particularly in the
Section 4 areas which were generally situated close to habitations at the
lower end of the upper catchments. The result is severe gully erosion,
devastation of the plain lands below through flooding and sedimentation
deposit and an exceedingly sparse vegetative cover in the hills.
33.       Fortunately, adjacent to the project area is now an excellent example
of successful Shiwalik Hill upper catchment rehabilitation, using exactly the
techniques proposed for this project. In 1965, some 2,500 ha of land in the
Kansil Khol catchment was handed over to the Forestry Department. Livestock
was excluded, trees and grasses were planted and soil conservation structures
were put in wherever needed. The results have been spectacular. Two years
after closure, grasses and shrubs were evident on all but the steepest slopes.
Now some 80% of the area is covered with vegetation and includes well estab-
lished plantations of trees and bhabhar grass. Within 20 years it is expected
that the catchment will be 70% rehabilitated; that is, it will have recovered
70% of its original soil holding and moisture retention properties.
34.       Present Situation.  Year after year, the torrents (choes) continue to
cause heavy flood and sediment damage. Because of this, there has been little
investment in infrastructure in the Kandi area and farmers have not invested
in irrigation and land development. The result is that the majority of people
in the Kandi Tract live below the absolute level of poverty. Yields of wheat
are 700 kg/ha against a State average of 2,500 kg/ha. Less than 10% of the
cropped area is irrigated compared to over 80% for the State as a whole.
Fertilizer consumption per hectare is less than one-third of the State average,
and high-yielding varieties of seed are used in only 17% of the area in wheat
as compared to a 90% State average. These figures relate to cropped area, but
only 58% of the potential agricultural land is cropped; the rest is made
up of natural grasslands, scrub and choe beds. Moreover, social services
(schools, public dispensaries, drinking water supplies and roads) in the
project area are far below the State average. Finally, a factor which cannot
be quantified is that those living below the hills exist in continual fear of
flood damage, including loss of life, livestock and homes.
35.       Scope for Improvement in Agricultural Production.  Considerable
scope exists for improvement of crop yields under rainfed conditions. Since
1971, the Soils Department of the Punjab Agricultural University has been
conducting trials in the Kandi Tract. Results show that, given flood protec-
tion, present yields can be more than doubled by following simple improvements.
These involve the adoption of soil and water conservation practices, requiring
partial land levelling and raising of bunds around fields, creation of a dust



- 12 -
mulch once summer crops are removed, planting of improved crop varieties,
correct seed rates and spacing and use of small amounts of fertilizer (40
kg/ha of a compound fertilizer) drilled with the seed at planting. Produc-
tion of winter crops can be assured if a light irrigation can be given
immediately after planting.
36.       Agricultural Support Services.  The support services in Punjab are
generally very satisfactory and are adequate for the implementation of the
proposed project. Punjab Agricultural University is responsible for the
State's agricultural research, which is comprehensive and practical, being
aimed at solving the problems of the farmers and at achieving better utili-
zation of farm resources. The All-India Coordinated Dryland Farming Research
Project in Hoshiarpur District, supervised by the University, is developing
packages of practices for dryland farming areas. Agricultural extension is
undertaken by the State's Department of Agriculture, assisted by the University,
and is satisfactory. Agricultural credit is well provided in the State except
in the backward areas (including Kandi), where land values are low and farmers
have difficulty in raising sufficient collateral to be eligible for long-term
institutional credit.  In such areas, the State Government provides credit
from budgetary sources. There is a well developed distribution system for
seeds, fertilizers and pesticides. Certified seed of all principal crops is
produced and distributed by the State Seed Corporation, whose development is
assisted by a Bank Loan (1273-IN). Marketing, processing and storage facili-
ties are also adequate in the State to handle any increase in demand that
would be created as a result of the proposed project.
Bank Group Activities in Punjab
37.       The Bank Group has been directly involved in agricultural develop-
ment in Punjab through a number of projects, since 1961. The Punjab Flood
Protection and Drainage Project (Credit 15-IN of November 1961) provided
US$10 million for flood protection and surface drainage, and was fully dis-
bursed by September 1966. The Punjab Agricultural Credit Project (Credit
203-In of June 1970) provided US$27.5 million to help finance a program for
farm mechanization, and it has been fully disbursed. The Integrated Cotton
Development Project (Credit 610-IN of February 1976) and the National Seed
Project (Loan 1273-IN of June 1976), which include Punjab among a number of
other States, are currently being implemented. The Punjab Irrigation Project
(Credit 889-IN of March 1979) has provided US$129 million to help Punjab
implement a five-year time slice of Punjab's irrigation development program,
and the project is currently under implementation. In addition, a US$38
million credit for the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 848-IN
of October 1978) is assisting Punjab to help improve and expand water supply
and sewerage facilities in eight towns in the State.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The project was prepared by the Government of the State of Punjab
(GOP) with assistance from the Bank resident staff in India. It was appraised
in May 1978, and negotiations were held in Washington in October 1978. A
follow up mission visited India in March 1980, to update cost estimates,



- 13 -
review the economic justification and ascertain the status of initial imple-
mentation actions (see paragraph 39). The Indian negotiating delegation
included Mr. K.S. Bains, Development Commissioner and Secretary of Agricul-
ture, Government of Punjab, and Mr. J.K. Sibal, Director, Department of
Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Government of India. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 2174-IN) is being circulated separately. A supple-
mentary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
39.       A major part of the project would encompass technical innovations
to be designed and carried out with the help of an international team of
multi-disciplinary consultants (see paragraphs 45 and 49). Recognizing the
difficulties involved in arranging such a team, it was decided to defer pre-
sentation of this project to the Executive Directors until the recruitment of
the consultants had been finalized. A contract with a suitable consulting
firm has now been signed.
Project Description
40.       The proposed project would be the first integrated attempt to pro-
tect and develop the Sub-Himalayan Shiwalik area. It would be a pilot effort
combining a package of complementary investments, most of which have been
tried at one time or other but have failed to bring expected results because
they were tried on a piecemeal basis. Its primary objective would be to lay
the basis for future investments on a larger scale. Thus, the focus of the
project is on institution building to strengthen local capability to plan,
implement and monitor similar projects. The basic unit of project planning
and implementation would be the watershed. Because watersheds in the
Shilwalik hills differ significantly in size, topography, hydrology and
degree of vegetatative cover, the project would be implemented in five water-
sheds so as to obtain useful lessons for future replication. The five year
project would comprise:
(a) Rehabilitation of upper catchments to control runoff and
erosion from the hills, through soil conservation, revege-
tation (including tree and grass planting) and a compre-
hensive development package for farmers and livestock
owners;
(c) Development of farm land protected from floods through
land development (including land levelling, terracing
and bunding), irrigation, and horticulture, livestock,
poultry and fisheries development; and
(d) Technical assistance, Studies, Research and Staff and
Farmer Training.
41.       Rehabilitation of Upper Catchments.  The key component of the
project is the rehabilitation of the badly denuded and eroded upper catchment
areas of the five watersheds. This would control runoff and erosion, and
would be achieved through a program of soil conservation and revegetation
over about 24,000 hectares of upper catchments in the five watersheds. These
measures would only succeed if the upper catchment areas are closed to live-
stock grazing and unrestricted extraction of fuelwood and timber. GOP would,



- 14 -
therefore, effect the closure (Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement).  To
ensure that the closure is effective, a comprehensive development package
would be offered to livestock owners and other farmers presently living in
the upper catchments (see paragraph 44).
42.       To repair the ravages of erosion and to induce the process of revege-
tation, small conservation structures would be constructed in gullies of the
upper catchment to augment reforestation and grass planting planned for non-
gully areas. Many of the structures would complete the task of gully stabil-
ization after two or three years; thereafter, vegetation would take over
the task of soil protection. Where gullies have been stabilized, vegetative
recolonization would be assisted by planting pioneer species.
43.       The prime purpose of replanting would be to reduce water flows and
the amount of sediment carried by runoff. It would also increase productiv-
ity of the upper catchments. For replanting, the techniques and species that
have proved most successful in the past would be used, until the research to
be provided under the project indicates better alternatives (see paragraph
50). Two types of tree/grass combination would be established to provide
fodder required for stall-fed cattle and to supply raw material for paper pulp
manufacture and rope making. Other varieties that would provide small timber,
fuelwood and resin would also be included where ecology permits. The project
would also provide forest service roads, forest nurseries, land preparation,
planting, weeding, maintenance, fire protection and incremental staff, build-
ings, vehicles and equipment required to carry out the program.
44.       Villagers recognize the need to close the area for grazing and
unrestricted extraction of fuel wood and timber before the land can be pro-
tected and developed. But the closure would affect their livelihood, creating
immediate hardship particularly to the poorest sections of the population
who would have to part with their free-grazing livestock. To alleviate this
hardship, the project provides for a comprehensive package to develop these
hill areas. Firstly, to ensure full public cooperation, several local and
State-level elected representatives would be involved in project implemen-
tation (see paragraph 52). Secondly, GOP would intensify its program of
agricultural extension, marketing and other services in the project area.
Thirdly, the project would provide a livestock exchange program - to exchange
improved cattle and sheep for free-grazing, low-yielding cattle, buffaloes
and goats--and would include demonstrations and training of the farmers in
new enterprises like poultry, fisheries and piggery. The new cattle will be
stall-fed and provision would be made for hay-making equipment, fodder seed,
fodder stores, veterinary services, etc. Finally, GOP would give priority
to improving health and education facilities, water supply and roads in the
project area. GOP would furnish for the Bank's review the details of the com-
prehensive program to be carried for the benefit of the farmers affected by
the closure in the upper catchments. In case of Dholbaha watershed, such
details would be submitted by December 31, 1980 (Section 2.13 of the Project
Agreement).
45.       Flood Control and Irrigation.  The reforestation and soil conser-
vation measures to be undertaken in the upper catchments would considerably
reduce the incidence of flash floods and the amount of sediment carried



- 15 -
by runoff. Total monsoon runoff would not, however, be significantly reduced,
and without flood protection works, agricultural land below the hills would
still be subject to flooding. The proposed project would provide for the
protection and irrigation of the agricultural land lying within the influence
of Dholbaha, the largest watershed in the Kandi Tract, and four other water-
sheds so as to provide useful lessons for future replications. GOP technicians
have been able to formulate a satisfactory development plan for Dholbaha.
But efforts to formulate plans for the other four smaller watersheds, applying
the Dholbaha model, have not yielded satisfactory results. GOP has therefore
finalized consultancy arrangements with an international team of multi-
disciplinary specialists (see paragraph 49).  This team would assist GOP
to prepare plans for about ten watersheds. Four of these watersheds, whose
development would be technically feasible and have at least a 12% economic
rate of return, would be implemented during the project period (Section 2.10
of the Project Agreement). The remaining six watersheds are expected to be
developed by GOP outside this project. Bank's approval of the detailed imple-
mentation plan would be a condition of disbursement against expenditures on
each of the four watersheds (paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agree-
ment).
46.       The flood protection and irrigation works in Dholbaha would include:
construction of an earthfill dam with a 25.6 million cubic meters storage
reservoir to provide an assured source of irrigation and to moderate floods; a
distribution system to irrigate an average of 3,000 hectares in winter season
out of a cultivable command area of 3,750 hectares, and levees and protective
works to convey flood runoff and sediment to the Beas River. The irrigation
distribution system and watercourses would be lined. Design standards of the
works are similar to those being used in the on-going Punjab Irrigation
Project (Credit 889-IN).
47.       Farm Development.  In order to realize the full potential economic
benefit of project works, it would be necessary to undertake land development
in areas to be irrigated and protected from flood. It would also be neces-
sary to undertake soil conservation measures on waste land or land cut up by
gullies to prevent further erosion. The project, therefore, provides for
bench terracing on land with slopes above 2%, land levelling and gully recla-
mation. The objective of these practices would be to reclaim some of the
existing waste land, increase productive potential on existing cultivated
land and reduce soil erosion. The combined effect of the project activities
(flood protection, irrigation and land development) would be to increase the
cultivable area by nearly 60% and to increase substantially the agricultural
potential of these lands.
48.       To augment GOP's horticulture development program in the area, the
project would provide for the establishment, equipping, staffing and opera-
tion of a 25 ha nursery-cum-progeny orchard. In order to ensure an adequate
supply of fish fry for stocking reservoirs to be constructed under the project
and to improve the overall fingerling position in the State as a whole, the
project would provide for the establishment, staffing and operation of a
hatchery to be located on the banks of the Sutlej River.



- 16 -
49.       Technical Assistance, Research and Training.  There is limited
experience in India with the comprehensive and multi-disciplinary analysis
required for development of watersheds of the type found in the Shiwaliks.
The project would, therefore, provide for technical assistance to meet this
need. Internationally recruited consultants are expected to introduce tech-
nical innovations and improved planning techniques and thereby build GOP's
capability to plan and execute projects of a similar nature in the future.
These consultants would assist in designing the four watersheds, other than
Dholbaha, to be implemented under the proposed project, and would also help
GOP in preparing additional six watershed development schemes expected to
be implemented by GOP. The consultancy team would consist of: a watershed
planning specialist, as the team leader (24 man-months); a small watershed
hydrologist (18 man-months); a water resource engineer (24 man-months); a
sedimentationist (4 man-months); a groundwater specialist (6 man-months);
and other specialists (3 man-months). It is expected that some of the con-
sultants' contracts would be extended beyond the specified periods. The
project, therefore, would make provision for a total of 120 man-months of
technical assistance in the form of internationally recruited consultants,
at an estimated cost of US$8,500 per man-month. The project also provides
for a locally recruited project economist to work with the team. The terms
of reference of the consultants have been discussed and agreed with the Bank.
50.       The project would support and strengthen project-related research
being carried out by the GOP Forestry Department and the Punjab Agricultural
University. A new research farm would be established for experimentation in
water harvesting techniques and soil and water conservation practices. Funds
would also be provided for incremental staff, construction of laboratories
and staff quarters, equipment and vehicles. In order to assess the effect of
project works on groundwater replenishment in the area and to find means of
economically increasing groundwater recharge, the project would include a
five-year program of groundwater investigations and trials to strengthen both
GOP's information base for planning future projects and its capacity to
monitor the hydrologic effects of groundwater development.
51.       A major aspect of the proposed project would be the in-service train-
ing to be provided by the team of consultants to the staff of the Directorate
of Water Resources to enable the staff to undertake such works themselves
in the future. The project would also provide for overseas training of seven
specialists of the Directorate of Water Resources. Local training of the
staff is also provided. Provision has also been made for farmers' training
in agriculture, forestry and conservation.
Project Implementation
52.       The project would be implemented by a number of GOP Departments
and the Punjab Agricultural University. Public cooperation, particularly of
the villagers in the project area, is vital as the project would affect their
way of life. Fortunately, there is strong evidence of public support as well
as the interest and capability of the GOP agencies. To ensure coordination at
the highest level a Policy Review Committee, chaired by the Chief Minister of
the State, has been established under the project. This Committee comprises
Secretaries and the heads of participating Departments, Deputy Commissioners
from concerned districts, the Vice Chancellor of the University as well as
elected representatives from the project areas.



- 17 -
53.       Overall responsibility for project implementation, however, lies
with the Financial Commissioner, who is also the Secretary of Agriculture and
Forests. A Project Implementation Committee chaired by the Commissioner has
been set up for project implementation. A Project Coordinator has been
appointed to assist the Commissioner. The Coordinator heads a small Program
Planning and Coordination Unit responsible for day to day operations and
ensuring coordination at the working level of the participating Departments.
At the local level coordination is achieved through District Level Committees.
54.       Monitoring and reporting of physical progress and financial inputs
would be the responsibility of the Director of each concerned Department.
Punjab Agricultural University would assume primary responsibility for evalua-
tion of the effects of project actions. The University, in consultation with
the Project Coordinator and the GOP Department involved, would prepare and
submit to the Bank, by December 31, 1980, a detailed proposal to conduct a
continuous evaluation of the economic and social effects of the project
(Section 2.12 of the Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
55.       The total project cost is estimated at US$60.8 million equivalent
(including taxes and duties, which are insignificant), of which US$5.7 million
is in foreign exchange. The proposed loan of US$30 million would finance
about 50% of the total cost including all foreign exchange; the balance would
be met by GOI and GOP. In accordance with GOP policy for backward areas, farm
development (land levelling and purchase of cross-bred cattle and sheep) would
be financed from budgetary sources and would be recovered by GOP as part of
land revenue. Retroactive financing up to US$1.0 million would be provided
from April 1, 1979 to cover eligible expenditures for soil conservation, land
levelling and revegetation work carried out in Dholbaha and about four other
watersheds; consultant services and overseas training; cattle and sheep to
be used in the livestock exchange program for the upper catchments; and farm
development in the area to be protected by Dholbaha Dam.
56.       Direct cost recovery is not proposed for flood protection works.
Unlike an irrigation scheme, where beneficiaries are easy to identify, it is
difficult to pinpoint which farmers should pay for the cost of flood protec-
tion works. Flood damage varies from year to year, with some land subject
to perennial flooding and some only occasionally inundated. On the other
hand, the flood protection works would benefit large numbers of people not
directly affected by flooding as they would protect roads and bridges, and
would lead to secondary benefits, such as investments in permanent housing
and small-scale industry. Moreover, since most of the people in the Kandi
Tract live below the absolute level of poverty, GOP has declared it a
"backward area" with a resulting policy not to recover flood protection cost
through direct means. The cost would nevertheless be partly recovered through
marketing fees and other indirect taxes. Water and water related charges for
irrigation would be collected in accordance with State practice, and would be
identical to those applied under the Punjab Irrigation Project (Credit 889-IN
of March 1979). Water Charges are different for each crop. They also reflect
operating and maintenance costs and are periodically revised to take into
account the increases in agricultural productivity. Typically, the water
charges now average Rs 35 per ha per crop in Punjab.



- 18 -
Procurement and Disbursements
57.       The main item to be financed under the loan would be civil works.
Dholbaha dam (US$5.4 million) would be constructed by labor intensive methods
in the dry seasons over three years; the irrigation system for Dholbaha dam
(US$1.0 million) would be small and labor-intensive; flood protection works in
Dholbaha (US$2.1 million) and flood control and irrigation works in the other
four watersheds to be selected (US$15.1 million) would be restricted to the
dry seasons over five years and would be labor intensive, individually very
small and scattered over a large area. Such contracts would not be suitable
for ICB procedures, and they would be let on the basis of local competitive
bidding, advertised locally, and in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank. Invitations to tender would be advertised locally in accordance
with general conditions of contract and implementation guidelines agreed with
GOP. Minor works would be awarded under piece work contracts. Force account
would be used only when required by safety or quality considerations and would
be limited to a maximum of 30% of civil works contracts for flood protection,
dams, irrigation works and bridges.
58.       Vehicles and equipment (US$1.6 million) include small off-the-shelf
equipment items, which would be bulked for local competitive bidding wherever
possible, or purchased through normal trade channels if required in small
quantities (less than US$100,000); and field vehicles, which would be pro-
cured locally through standard GOP procedures acceptable to the Bank to
ensure availability of spare parts and services. GOP's standard procurement
procedures for vehicles and equipment are satisfactory. Land development
comprising levelling, bench terracing, gully plugging, etc. (US$2.3 million),
would be carried out by force account by the Soil Conservation Department
at standard Government rates. Reforestation and soil conservation measures
(US$6.6 million) in the upper catchments would be carried out primarily by the
Forestry Department on force account, except for some small works which would
be built through piece work contracts. Purchase of improved cattle and sheep
(US$3.8 million) for farmers in the hills would be by prudent shopping by the
Animal Husbandry Department in accordance with procedures satisfatory to the
Association. International consultants (US$1.6 million) have been recruited
in accordance with the Bank guidelines. The balance of basic project costs,
which would not involve procurement, would be for technical assistance,
research and training (US$1.2 million), land acquisition (US$2.3 million),
staff salaries and operating expenses (US$5.7 million), and price contingen-
cies (US$12.1 million).
59.       Disbursements from the proposed loan would cover:
(a) 100% of the cost of consultancy services and overseas
training;
(b)  soil conservation and revegetation works in the upper catch-
ments at the rate of Rs 2,300 per ha (US$273) against a
certificate stating that soil conservation works have been
completed and that trees and grasses have been planted.



- 19 -
(c) 70% of the cost of civil works expenditures (including land
levelling and other soil conservation measures) but excluding
those in (b) above;
(d) 70% of the cost of well drilling and construction of settling
and recharge basins for groundwater investigations;
(e) 100% of the cost of locally manufactured goods procured
ex-factory, or 70% of the cost of other locally procured
goods;
(f) 70% of the cost of cattle and sheep; and
(g)  50% of the cost of salaries of incremental staff.
60.       Disbursements for force account work and for payments of less
than Rs 300,000 under civil works contracts and Rs 150,000 for equipment and
vehicles would be made against certificates of expenditure. Documentation
for these works would be retained by GOP and made available for inspection
by the Bank during review missions. Full documentation would be required for
all other disbursements. Certificates of expenditures would be audited at
least once every six months and a report submitted to the Bank promptly there-
after.
Project Benefits and Risks
61.       The proposed project would reverse ecological degradation in the
lower foothills of the Himalayas, protect and develop agricultural land that
is presently subject to serious erosion and flooding, and lay a sound basis
for future development of similar areas in Punjab and elsewhere in India. It
would largely be confined to the most backward and neglected area of the State
and, consequently, would primarily benefit those living at or near absolute
poverty. The principal economic benefit of the project would be an increase
in agricultural production and incomes of farmers and livestock owners. This
would be achieved by reforestation and soil conservation measures in the upper
catchments, developing potential agricultural land in the Dholbaha watershed,
and carrying out similar works in four other watersheds.
62.       Because the project would be the first integrated attempt to tackle
the problems of the Himalayan sub-mountainous zone, there is no similar ex-
perience in India on which to base an estimate of project benefits with any
degree of accuracy. Moreover, the long-term benefits from strengthening
GOP's capability to plan, execute, and monitor future projects in the sub-
mountainous zone cannot be quantified. However, there is no doubt that the
quantifiable benefits of the project are adequate to justify the project. The
expected economic rate of return from investments in the Dholbaha watershed
is estimated at 16%. The return in the other four watersheds is likely to be
comparable to that for Dholbaha and, in any case, would exceed 12%, since only
plans for those watersheds that have an acceptable return would be approved by
the Bank. These rates are calculated using direct production benefits only
and are thus conservative. They would be higher were it possible to quantify
flood damage and the substantial environmental and the other indirect benefits
of the project. The project would directly benefit 11,000 farm families in the



- 20 -
upper catchment areas and 12,000 in the areas below the hills. Most of the
beneficiaries live in the Kandi area, which has a particularly high proportion
of families who live below the absolute poverty level in India.
63.       Because of its pilot nature, the project involves a number of risks.
First, the proposed closure of the upper catchments to grazing would imme-
diately affect villagers' way of life. They would have to part with their
free-grazing cattle and goats and get used to stall-feeding cattle and sheep.
There is a risk that the villagers would not accept this change. This ques-
tion has been investigated thoroughly by the appraisal mission's sociologist.
Interviews with local leaders and farmers indicate that farmers are aware
of the benefits and would welcome the change, provided they are compensated
for loss of income in the initial years (see paragraph 44). Secondly, imple-
mentation of the project would involve the effective coordination of the
activities of several GOP agencies. The project includes adequate measures
to ensure coordination and provides for coordinating committees at various
levels. Thirdly, there is a risk that flood control may reduce groundwater
recharge in the plains. The groundwater investigation provided in the project
would study this matter in detail, and would attempt to find alternative
methods to recharge the groundwater. Finally, there is a risk that technical
problems may emerge necessitating additional works. For example, the proposed
flood channel as designed may pick up excessive amounts of sediment in the
upper parts of the channel and deposit it in the lower parts of the channel,
clogging it. If the project monitoring mechanism shows this happening, designs
would be altered involving minor increases (roughly 3%) in costs. The con-
sultants provided in the project are expected to quickly identify the technical
problems as they emerge and recommend appropriate actions. The overall
benefits to be derived from the project far outweigh the possible risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the Project
Agreement between the Bank and the State of Punjab and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii), of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to Executive Directors separately.
65.       The features of the draft agreements of special interest are listed
in Section III of Annex III.
66.       An additional condition of disbursement, specified in paragraph
3(b) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, would be the Bank's prior approval
of the detailed implementation plans for the flood protection and irrigation
works in the lower catchments of the four watersheds other than Dholbaha.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 30, 1980






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         MtST RECENT ESTIMATEJ.2
T0TAL            3287.6
AGRICULTURAL    1824. 0                                  MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   ASIA 6 PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    60.0         90.0     18Q.0               197.9                   894.8
ENERGY CONSUMpTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       108.0/c     141.0/c   176.0/e             166.0                   842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    434.9         547.6      643.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9           19.7      21.7               20.8                     39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POFULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        974. t
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         1645.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        132.0       167.0      196.0              193.2                   376.1
PER SQ. RM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0         308.0      353.0              409.6                  2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           40.0        42.5       41.4               42.0                    40.4
15-64 YRS.                          56.5         54.6       55.6               55.0                    56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.5         2.9        3.0                3.0                     3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Pt.RCENT)
TOTAL                                1.9          2.5       2.0                2.2                      2.4
URBAN                                2.5Ld        3.3       3.3                3.,9                    4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       43.0         40.0      35.0               37.4                     28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       21.0         17.0      14.0               14.6                      7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2          2.9       2.4                2.6                      1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       64.0      3782.0    4714.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           12.0      16.9               15.6                    39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            98.0        102.0     103.0              101.4                    116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
gEOUIREMENTS)                    93.0         92.0       91.0               92.4                   108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            52.0        51.0       50.0               49.8                    60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         17.0        15.0       13.0               12.0                     18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       28.0         22.0      18.0                17.9                     5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.0           48.0      51.0               50.8                     63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..        134.0        *-                 .-                     52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         17.0      33.0               30.2                     42.4
URBAN                                            60.0      83.0               66.0                    62.1
RURAL                                 ..         6.0       20.0               20.0                    29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         18.0      20.0               17.7                     52.8
URBAN                                            85.0      87.0               71.3                     71.1
RURAL                                 ..          1.0       2.0                 ..                     42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            5800.O/e    4890.0    3617.0              6322.7                  4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       9630.0/e    5220.0    5675.0              9459.0                  2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             2149.04f    1629.0    1289.0              1758.4                    819.4
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..              502.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..            10524.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..         ..                 ..                     28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.2           ..       5.2
URBAN                                5.2          ..        4.8
RURAL                                5.2          ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.6          2.8
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7GES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 61.0        72.0      80.0               80.9                  98.6
MALE                 80.0        87.0      95.0               94.3                  99.2
FEMALE               40.0        55.0      64.0               66.7                  97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                20.0        29.0      28.0               26.6                  55.5
MALE                 30.0        39.0      38.0               34.8                  60.7
FEMALE               10.0        17.0      18.0               18.2                  49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (E OF SECONDARY)   8.0         6.0/&       ..               9.9                  13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           29.0        40.0      42.0               41.1                  34.6
SECONDARY                         16.0        17.0        ..               20.5                  28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       28.0        33.0      36.0               40.9                  85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.7         1.0        1.3               1.8                   9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.0        21.0      24.0               25.8                 118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.1       0.5                2.4                  39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 11.0        16.0       16.0              13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0         6.3        3.8                ..                   4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4   220670.5  252235.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  31.3        32.6      32.0               29.4                  36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             74.0        74.0       74.0              70.5                  51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.0        11.0       11.0              11.6                  21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               43.0        40.2       39.2              37.9                  39.1
HALE                                57.1        52.3       51.3              51.3                  48.5
FEMALE                              27.9        27.1      26.2               23.7                  29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.1        1.1               1.2                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7        26.3/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7        48.9/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1         6.f7/h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6        17.2jh
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      88.0              107.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       76.0              86.5                 192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                 ..                 182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      40.7               46.2
RURAL                               *-          *-      47.9               51.7                  33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  Solid fuel conversion factors revised, /d 1951-60;  /e 1962;  /f 1958;  /g 1967;  /h 1964-65.
April, 1980



ANNEX I
DEFTINl'TONS OF 5OCIAL INDICATORS                                                         Page    3   of   5
N-tes:  Aithaugh the data are draca from  sources geterallv judged the meet authoritative and reliable.  it should alto he noted that they nay not be inter-
nationally  toapereble heceust of the lark of neandardited definitiont end concepns ueta  hy diffEcrt countries it collecting th_e dar.  The  data iae, none-
thelest, uneafl to dese-ib  oardert of nagnitude, indicate trends, and oharacterlie  -eltain maiJo  diff erencms het-een  contries.
The rierence groups err 11) thi sane coantry groap of the  -s,iect country and (2l a country group with sone-hat high-er aerage innate thate country group
of the subjec tcourney (extept for "Capital Surplus OiIlExporters" g.onu  chore "Middle Income forth Itrica and Hiddle Eats" is chosen because  of snrotger
socia-ca     rurl affinities).  In the  -efe-ene gacep data the averages ate popula-n eerighted  arithmetic amass far each icltoatno  -nd thoen only char at
leutt half of the c-tntries lns groap hat  data far thst indicator.  oSia  the ceverage nf conttrien  smg thr indicaIn-s depends on the aI afisbiliny  of
data end is eat uniform, oatio- aunt bea exrcised in relating averayes of use indcart-  n aeoeher.  Thee srere  are only usc-cl locompeolog thr value
at one landicato  us a time emnegothreacntryandoreference  irrupt.
LAD Ath (thousand sq.tAm.)                                                                    cap       per E  l.ia2a-?opalamlnc  dtnided ny nuener at prantinueg  thy-
fetal - Tortl  surface area cempoiting laud atea aed itleed taters.                          sicis co quaI.i(ld  roe a ardurbl solo'- A-t uneruito lerl.
fo icraps, paEstimre, morheesad kitrircn gardens or no lie tahloe  1 977 dat.               taile and female graduaie nurses, practical ntusis  end assiataDtns eaes.
f-I Itop., pI -Ad kit-hb. 9-d.-  t i  f                d.t        tocalaIOc--  prr. gsItu9-dcod            - ea,..te.y rrl-_nusin    ttl
lip PER CAP ITA (11$) - CNP per tapirs estipmtes at ccrrent rdariet prices, Cal-             -urban, cod rural) dicided hr timEr renpootto   nueber of hospital htdt
tulated by samle coovettirn method as Wend hark inlet (.9T6-7M  basis); 1960,                available in Vobltr am1  private gererel eec sperializet  bsuptnal and re-
2Y0I, eed 1978 data.                                                                         hibilitatieon cnrers,  ielpita-i   are esteblimbmran i permdehnily t1afted
INERGY COVSUM.PTIONPER CAPITA   I ...                                 ~~~by atIrest ate physiian.   tnbhsmes   roIig priecipally c.utadial1.
licelT COitittPsIil Pie CaPITI - hennal ceesunpalan at nameercial energy (coal  care art nor included.   lnrei thespirale,r. -t   d  hdodnener1,h..pitoludhe-health erd.dmedihud
end lignitr, petroleum, etture  gee and hydra-, n e   ad gr              -   ao-             -etire    rot pieneintly  -fted by h  a physoe  (bus by a mdical aeitent,
trIIity) in kilogrea-  of coal eqai-ale-t par capita: 1960, 1970, sod 1978                   nurse, audeife, etc.) which after in-catiect etcdedttn and rrcidea
data.                                                                                        limited range of medical facilities.  FPr  tatitical purpesee urban hospi-
*oiPUlATION AhD VITAL STATISTICS                                                                  pinclude raOt   rior   P.rrl hospita-s and no-inal and metersitocIendte.
Total Pepulatieo, Mid-rear (millions) - At of July 1; 1960, 1970, afd 1978                 Admissiont per Bosyita1 Mod - Totel  furher ad admissions ta or diachargem
dare.                                                                                      tree hnepineal  divided by sir aumber of heds.
Urbar Peruietire (reeceot of total) - Ritio of urban to total population
ditferent definitiona of urban areas nay affect coeiparablllny of date                scrueniN
among countries; 1960, 1970, and 1978 data.                                              Averaes  lime of Eousehoid (persnse par hosgeelld) - total, urban, end rumsl-
Pepolatian Preiections                                                                       A hon..e.ld cattiest of a group of individ-als ahi  sharo livieg Iuamtert
repnlition in year 2000 - Curcent popalation projections  ate taut) en 1980                and their talc trait.  A hoarder or lodger may or may sat he ininlded in
natal popalation  by age end tea end their mortality end fertility rates,                the household for atatistical paryoses.
Prcoecrten parametera for acretallry rates nceprtee of three levelsoussun--            utrase number of Peerseots  eenactm- tonal, arcen, sod ererl - uveragt num
_g Iife expecta.ny en birth h              wceesing with country's per c.pita income    her of persona per ream  i.. all arise, end carel onccpied conenlineal
intel, and  female life eapectntec  sttbilieingan  77.5 yeers.  Tbe pare-               deellings. reapectively.  ose -lingasexclude ..n-perI ..ntn structurae  and
utters tar ftrnil:ty rate ese ben  three levelt attupine  decline tn                     unoccupied part.
fertility according to i-no     level end pest gamily planning performance,           Access np Electicity (pecent of  durlipgyi- ota,  -rbata  eed rul -
Each country it thtn astigned oee of she-e sine co-btinis of mortalato                   Coentional dEerllags vitb  electricity in lining qaurteos as percertage
ead fertility  trenda far projection purpoes.                                            of total, sties, and rural dyrilimgsrespectively
Statienary I oulation - InastIienary population there it no greeth since
the birth rate is equal to the de-th rate  and alto the  agetcturere-                     TN
mains cotntamt.  Thia is achieved only after fertility rates decline to                lapatted Esroilment Rartis
the ceplei.mem.  le mi ef sits oat rep-odntci-n rste, ahe  eal genetatien              primary schooi - total mule end femelt - Grost total, male end faefla
atmetreplaces itsaIf reeatly.   The stationary population si:e cat                      earalinent vf all aget at the priTmry i-el at percenetaet of respective
estimated tn  the busis cf the pr-jacted charnta-nsnti-m nf the pepalanter                 primary school-age populations; normally includes children aged A-li
is the year 2D0f, end the rate of dicline of fertility este to replece-                    years but adicuted foe digferttt lenIgth  of pimery education; far
c -etieswithl j - snntlda-ticaen-c1,a-etaye-cedll  peroe
Year stati Aarcy .poputiun is reeched - Tht year ahet stationary population                   ince sme  pupils are belceur' abort the afficil echaci ae.
site bt bees reached.                                                                    Ste-Ad-ry school - natal. mae and female - Computed aa abo   secondaey
focalatia Osenvld                                                                              edacatAice requires at i-ets four nears of app.o.ed primlry InenruntieI;
Per ms  bn  - Mid-year population per square kilometer (lIO  hbrtureuf of                    Pretides general,vocationa:, or teacher training itsttuctions for papibs
Per  n.      egricaltural land - Computed as abate for agricultural land                     uee       f 1d   t  17 yes of ae  cepond-
Population Age Structure (percent) - Children (0-14 yeesr)  corking-age (15-                    include technical, indeanriel, ceg et her prg am       hich  opet  isdrpe-
64 years),  nd retired (65 yeats atd acer) as percerneges of mid-year papa-                  dettly or as  departments of secedary ilstitntions.
latIhe; 1960, 1970, and 1978 dune.                                                         Ppul-teechee ratio - primeep. end secondary - Totel students enrolled to
Pauletiln Grawth Rate (percent) - total - AnuasI grouth rates of total mid-                   primary and secondary leeml  divided bytnpbrr  of teachere in the
year populstiene for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-78.                                          torrspcn           e
Population  Crovth Rate (pernent) - nrbaen- Annual growth raeis of urban popu-               Adult litmoacy rats (perceet) - lterate adalt  (able to need and  titne)
letient foe 1950-60, 1960-70, nd 1970-78.                                                    espercensage of sesel adult population aged 15 years and  rerd
Crode ninth mate (cerb ptuhnd) - Annual lice births pee thonsand If nld-year
population; 1960, 1970, and 1978 date.                                                 CONUPTIl
Credo Deeth let. (Per th-ustnd) - Aria Idet   per  hua    of  - ar                             t-Ptengr cart comprise mItor
pepulation; 1960, 1970, and 19P7  datm                                                     cars seating Ir-e than eight person- s  elades abulaancem. hbe.res end
irons Reproduction Rte - Averge  nehber of deughters a ocan a ill hear it                    nilitary vehicles
teeteortil repreldnti-e period it she eaperleeces presett ege-symnitit fer-              tadio Receiveet  (per th-butnd 2ecle-timr( - All types of recefvurs far tadih
nility rates; neaully five-year  vareget ending in 1960, 1970, and 1971.                   broednaststo general public pee thetsand of populatien  excludes umli-
Iteell  Planning-Aceptors., Aeasl (th.a.ende) - Aenual numbec of accepiora                   nessed receivera  in co=tnries and in yeace whbe  regietreniae of radio sen
of birth-caatrel de-ices under auspints of national family plercing prcgcm.                eat  r effect; date fer  eenett yeare may set be camperable since moat
Faully Planenain-le..  (retoe tt uf married _tree) - Percentage of married                   countries abIisbed licensing
monet of nhild-heaeiea age (15-44 ypers) who nut birth-central de-ites to                TV neceivere (rer theousad cernlatiem) - Tt receiters far broadcast te
ell tairried taeme  in name age gronp.                                                     genea yonbits nd per rhuendF  yaptleatirn;= enrl udee cetnaitend TV rerttetve
TiOD ANfO5TlITlION                                                                              iacutrised it yeaem theere.            neai     If T'V sets see in effmt.
Intdo of Fond Prn tee ret Carire (1969-71.1D0) - Idee of pe capita.e..a.                    te of "          g        i         ne      e"   efined    .a.periodical pub-
production of a11 food  -esanditie-   Production eanludre  smed aed fend and               ifoerics denoted primarily no recording general ses.  It is censidered
is en celesluc year bnie.  Coseodition never prla.ry goode (e.g  sugareane                 to he "dgily" if  it  appears em leati fast times acerb.
in-tead af sugar) vhicth are  dible cad certain  utsrients (e g. coffee  sad             cInam   Amo.el Attendance Per Capita yet Year - huted me the number of
tea are excluded)   Aggregene peeduction ef etch country is based 00                       nickeimse,d during tnb  year, tnclding adutisions to drive-it titemts
natimonl earvege producer rice  _tighti  1961-65. 1970, and 1978 dana.                     ad *pbile neits
Penc capite suPPly of calorime  (percent gf ressiresentap  - Compated fro eont
energy equivalent of ne- ftod s-pplies available in  -onery per tapitr              LABOR FORCE
per day.  drailable epplite  cmprise dumettic productionr  imparts lest                Total Labor FPre (thousands) - Ecae-itcally sctite peessne, including
toperts, end changes in snack.  Net muppltem  exclude enimeil feed, teeds,               armed fraresamd uneemplnyed her eerludtcg bentatuive.s tadacts, err.
q lantihiee aced it foed pr-cesinng, and lounts un eatriabtie..  Requint-                Dffinititj_  in verioe c-ntrJies are tat campersble; 1960. 1970 and
tsaunnere.estinated by FAO baend an physiologieal needs ftr motal anti-                 1978 dat.
vity and  health  -onsidering  nvirntuc -tral tmmeraruce  body weight,  get            F_     a(    est         .esle labor farce as peeceartge of total labor fore.
and sea  distribution of pepulation, and alloeing 10 percent far metre at              Agricalture  vlement) L-aborf f          ia erming, forestry, huntng ead
household level; 1961-65, 197, and 1977 data.                                            fishing as pereettse of total labor farce; l60, 1970 atd 197A date
Pet capita supply at protein (grmu  pet day) - Protein content of pet capita             Indussn (certent) - Labor farce in  niting, aaesttutloe  maoafactueimf
tet  supply ef feed per  ey,  Net supply of foad is defined  a above.  Re-               aed elettrinity. cater and gas as pPr,entage at  atal leboe farce; 1960,
uniremnent far all cocntries est-ilinhed by CSDA p-onde fat mtnicm-                      1970 and 1978 data.
alloyance of 6h  grea-  of total prtin pea day sad 20 grams of animal end              Perinieie  Race (percent) - total, tale, end f-nsie - Partinipati-t or
pulse protein,  )f  hich 10 grams should be animal proteir   Thbet  strnd-                ctivity eates are compured em tonal, mole, and female labor forceas
ards are Inter than those of 75 grate of total pro in  and 23 greet of                   percentufta of total, male ard female popylatior of all aims respectively;
animal poatein as am average far the world  prcposed by FAl   - the Third                .90  1970.  and 1971 dat.  Tihet  art ILO's perttnipernetratesrefiectnge
World Food isrep; l -tI, 1971 and 1977 date.                                             ege-s ntrs Pure of the populatin, and long tihe ted.  A few  -tnt
Per nunita pro teia sayply from animal and  clule - Pro taei  supply of food cc-           mart5 aret  Fre v atial.  tn-.
riced from -AInsis aed pfls.s in grat  per ds; 1961-65, 1970 -nd 1977 date.             acan Drm  ependencv Rttio - Ratic of pepulatioe under 15 and 65 and cur
Child (ats 1-k) Mertaliny Rate (per thousand) - Annual deatht per thousand in                 no the itttl lebor frce.
age grocp 1-4 yearn, to children in thin age group; for -ot developing cb_n-
trits data derived fine lift tebias; 1960, 1970 tcd 1977 deo                           IlNCOuE DISTRIBIUTiON
iEALya                                                                                        Peecentage of Private Incoce (bt  in cash and hind) - Receiced by rtcheat
Lift icpettancy it Eirth (react) - Average cumbet mf yeses of life remaining                   f phe.e.t, rinbest 20 percenrt  poorrt 20 percent, snd peorest 40 percent
at birth; 19t60  1970 tad 1978 datau.
Infint Mr..tality lte (pee thousand) - Actual deaths tf unfaon.  rdIer one year   POVERTY  TARGET GROUPS
of age per thousand line birnith.                                                         .stated Ahaolut Panerto Inctme Level ff01 per repite) - -rba- and rural-
icoens to Safe Water (Percent of pupaletiar) - tonal, urban, and rural -                      Absolure poverty income level is that innate level belov vhich a mniimal
Number af p-nple (total,  rib, and rural) wirh re_menhblr across to safe                    nutritionally adequate dimt plus e..   eetial tee-toad requiremrens is 005
water supply Pdr          --ndra tread ssrface eun.ee or untreated hen ubct anitntd         affordabl.
cater such as thut fret proterted harehales, sprit.., ed sneitacy wells) as               fatimated ReLatior Pacerty Incea  Level (USf Per capita) - ceeae sErul -
P.rcntcages of their respective pepulansun   In en ur-an area a public                     narsl rmleiive poverty innate level is one-third a) average per capita
f.n.tun or ttndpast located not mare thee 200 meters frmau h.ue map ha                     perenael uncoe of the countmy   Urban ltvel is derimed fein  the rutal
considered as being cirhin reasoneble ercene of II.. house   In rurai areas                 level cith adiustment for highee  roat  of lining it ur-ba  areas
rasunahbl ac_ _es vuld inply th.. thn  housewife co  ruberu of  tnc housebold             stimaned Penu7atioe Belos Absolute Poverty Inome Level (reecens) -urban
In  not have no spend a discroportionete pert of the day in fetching the                     ed eural - I erceet at pepulation  (urbae and meal) rho axe "absolute pat"
(andly' teater nctds.a
icoarns o Cocreta lisonsab (certent of coculocior - total. ueban sand
rural - luther of perple (total, urban. end rural) serced hy monrete
dlsyntal at ptrertentaes a) thirc  resonctive copulancons.    anratna  its-                                                Eco=omic and mortal late ltvtstsn
potal sap Include the collection abd disposal, tith cr vitioun  treatment,                                           memoniRc dealysis and Projections Departmeet
of husan  xcoretc end easne -waee r  tYatec-inree systems or the ute of                                                                  Apiril. 1s8n
pit prioces and siucler arsteblattons



ANNEX I
Page 4  f
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
a/
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1978: USS 180
b/                                                                                                      c/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978/79                                                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTP. (7. constant prices)
US$ Bln.        %                 1955/56-1959/60   1960/61-1964/65   1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1974/75   1975/76-1977/78
GNP at Market Prices                  117.08      100.0                       3.7                3.6               3.7                2.8                5.6
Gross Do-estic Investment              28.28       24.2
Gross National aSving                  28.11       24.0
Curent Ao.unt Balance  d/               0.50        0.4
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at facttr tost)           Labor Farce             V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln.            %               Mil.         %            US$         7. of Notional Average
Agriculture                          24.5             46.6             130.0       72.1            188               64
Industry                            11.8              22.3              20.2       11.2           582               199
Services                            16.3              31.1              30.2       16.7           542               186
Total/average                       52.6             100.0             180.4      100.0           292               100
GOVERNHENT FINANCE                                               e/
Genaral G-verment                                             Central Gove-nrent
Rn. Bln      .        of GDP                                  Rs Bln.           % of CDP
1978/79     1978/79  1974/75-1978/79                          1 /9        197879   1974/75-1978/79
Current Receipts                    183.65       19.1          18.3                               107.71       11.2          10.6
Corrent Expenditures               177.26        18.4          16.7                               108.99       11.3         10.1
Correct Srplus/Deficit              6.41         0.7           1.6                               - 1.28       -0.1          0.5
Capital Expenditures  f/            78.41         8.1           7.2                                57.34        6.0          5.1
External Ansistance (net) d/         8.15         0.8           1.4                                 8.15        0.8           1.4
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES           1970/71     1973/74      1974/75     1975/76      1976/77     1977/78      1978/79   Seeteober 1978   Seetenber 1979
(R. Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money aod Quasi Money               121.4       198.4        220.3       254.7        308.9        370.4       445.6         398.5          473.7
Bank Credit to Govern-ent (net)    52.6          87.3        95.3        101.1        110.2       134.7        153.9        139.5           161.7
Bank Credit to Cogmer-ial Sector   64.6         107.0        126.7       153.9        185.1       212.2        253.3         225.8          273.8
(Percentage or Index NBabers)                                             January 1979    January 1980
Mosey and Qus-i Mosey as %
if GDP                           30.1         33.5         31.5        34.5         38.8        41.5         46.3
Wholesale Prien Index
(1970/71 - 101)                  100.0        139.7       174.9        173.0        176.6       185.8        185.8        185.3           224.0
Annual perctage change in:
Wholesale Price Index                 7.7        20.2         25.2        - 1.1         2.1          5.2          -            0.4           20.9
Rack Credit to Govareneet (nec)    10.8          12.3          9.2         6.1          9.0        22.2         14.3          16.9           15.9
Bank Credit to Comeercial Sector   19.4          22.6         18.4        21.5         20.3        14.6         19.4          15.6           21.3
a/  The per capita GtiP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used i6  the World Bank Atlas. 1979.
All other conversion- to dollars in thin table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/  Quick Estinates.
C/  Coeputed fran trend line of GNP at facttr toot series, including une observation before first year and one observation
after lost year of listed period.
d/  World Bank eutintaes: not necessarily consistent with official figures.
e/  Transfers between Centre and States have heen netted out.
f/ All loans ond advances to third parties hayo been netted out.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                     1976/77    1977/78    1978/79 h  1979/80  hi           ERCH4NDISE EXPORTS  VERAGE 1975/76 - 1978/79)
US$ Mln.        7
Exports of Goods                         5,753       6,315       6,976       7,800            Engineering Goods              671         11
Imports of Goods                        _5,928      -7,188      -8,488    -11,000            Tea                             420          7
Trade Balance                           -  175      -  873      -1,512      -3,200            Gems                           499          8
NFS (net)                                  379         692         882       1,050            Clothing                       378          6
RsueBac24   1    15Leather and Leather
Resourse Balance                           204       - 181       - 630    -2,133                      Products               319           5
Jute Manufactures              251          4
Interest Payments (net)  if               -182       -  89          130        400            Iron Ore                       270           5
Other Factor Payments (net)                  -           -           -          -             Cotton Textiles                248          4
Net Transfers   J/                         695       1,077       1,000       1,000            Sugar                          224          4
Balance on Current Account                 717          807         500       -750            Others                       2,649         45
Total                        5.929        100
Official Aid
Disbursements                         1,955       1,628       1,695       1,870           EXTERN6L DEBT. HARCH 31. 1979
Amortization                           -560        -645        -702    -   687                                                  US$ billion
Transactions with IMF                     -337        -330        -158         -              Outstanding and Disbursed                  15.5
All Other Items                           -200          616         199    -  -183            Undisbursed                                 5.2
Outstanding, including                     20.7
Increase in Reserves (-)                -1,575      -2,076      -1,534    -   250                 Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)                3,747       5,823       7,357       7,607                                             h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  k/              3,276       5,668       7,357       7,607            DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978/79         15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                    IBRD/IDM LENDING, DECEH8ER 31. 1979
Imports                                  1,581       1,811       2,043       4,050                                                  US$ million
of which: Petroleum                   1,581       1,811       2,043       4,050                                             IBRD             IDA
Exports                                     37          32          24         -              Outstanding and Disbursed        689             4,286
of which: Petroleum                      21          18         U.a.        _             Undisbursed                       614             2,621
Outstanding, including         1,303              6,907
Undisbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971               US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972           US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                          Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978                 US$1.00 - Re 8.188
Rs 1.00 - U050.122
End-December 1979                        :  US$1.00 - Rs 7.907
Rs 1.00 - US$0.126
h/ Estimated.
i/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Kajor payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IHF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
J/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
- included within official aid disbursements.
k/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
1/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1980)
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                             1,163.2
61 Credits fully disbursed                                    3,641.2
312-IN     1972   India    Population                 --        21.2      .18
342-IN     1972   India    Education                  --        12.0    5.31
378-IN     1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                --          8.0    3.03
390-IN     1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --           55.0    5.80
456-IN     1974   India    HP Apple Processing
& Marketing            --         13.0    7.63
481-IN     1974   India    Trombay IV Fertilizer   --           50.0      .07
lOll-IN     1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD 52.0         --      21.77
482-IN     1974   India    Karnataka Dairy            --        30.0   19.76
502-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD        --        83.0   34.20
520-IN     1974   India    Sindri Fertilizer          --        91.0      .14
521-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy            --        27.7   15.60
522-IN     1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --           16.4    6.28
526-IN     1975   India    Drought Prone Areas        --        35.0    9.83
1079-IN     1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer          109.0      --       9.81
1097-IN     1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI            95.6      --       3.56
532-IN     1975   India    Godavari Barrage
Irrigation             --         45.0    9.15
541-IN     1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development            --         34.0   12.22
562-IN     1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD           --         24.0    6.40
572-IN     1975   India    Rural
Electrification I       --         57.0    9.80
585-IN     1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --         40.0   21.97
598-IN     1975   India    Fertilizer Industry        --       105.0   51.94
604-IN     1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --          150.0   77.83



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN      1976   India    Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.          --         4.0      2.22
610-IN     1976   India    Integrated Cotton
Development            --        18.0    13.58
1251-IN    1976   India    Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation           145.0        --    102.35
1260-IN     1976   India    IDBI II                    40.0       --      23.31
1273-IN     1976   India    National Seeds I           25.0       --      23.88
1313-IN     1976   India    Telecommunications VI  80.0            --     23.30
1335-IN      1976   India    Bombay Urban Transport 25.0           --      9.83
680-IN     1977   India    Kerala Agric.
Development            --         30.0   27.13
682-IN     1977   India    Orissa Agric.
Development            --         20.0   16.54
685-IN     1977   India    Singrauli Thermal
Power                  --        150.0   90.60
687-IN     1977   India    Madras Urban
Development            --         24.0   15.11
690-IN     1977   India    WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research        --         12.0   12.00
695-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries           --         4.0      .88
1394-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries           14.0      --      14.00
712-IN     1977   India    Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.            --         10.0    9.08
720-IN     1977   India    Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation             --         23.0   17.01
728-IN     1977   India    Assam Agricultural
Development            --          8.0    7.04
1473-IN     1977   India    Bombay High Offshore
Development           150.0       --      53.50
736-IN     1977   India    Maharashtra
Irrigation             --         70.0   47.78
737-IN     1977   India    Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension        --         13.0   10.54
740-IN     1977   India    Orissa Irrigation           --         58.0   44.83
1475-IN     1977   ICICI    Industry DFC XII            80.0      --      31.64
747-IN     1978   India    Second Foodgrain
Storage                --        107.0   93.84
756-IN     1978   India    Calcutta Urban
Development II         --         87.0   50.80
761-IN     1978   India    Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research               --          8.0    7.39



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN     1978   India    IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                 25.0       --     24.72
1549-IN     1978   TEC       Third Trombay
Thermal Power         105.0       --     90.94
788-IN     1978   India    Karnataka Irrigation    --           117.6   99.74
793-IN     1978   India    Korba Thermal Power        --        200.0  173.40
806-IN     1978   India    Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture          --         14.0   13.91
808-IN     1978   India    Gujarat Irrigation         --         85.0   77.87
815-IN     1978   India    Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries              --         17.5   16.96
816-IN     1978   India    National Seeds II          --         16.0   15.87
1592-IN     1978   India    Telecommunications VII 120.0          --     59.80
824-IN     1978   India    National Dairy             --        150.0  140.94
842-IN     1979   India    Bombay Water
Supply II              --        196.0  193.44
843-IN     1979   India    Haryana Irrigation         --        111.0   79.63
844-IN     1979   India    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance          --        190.0  172.69
848-IN     1979   India    Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage             --         38.0   34.07
855-IN     1979   India    National Agricultural
Research               --         27.0   26.84
862-IN     1979   India    Composite Agricultural
Extension              --         25.0   23.50
871-IN     1979   India    NCDC                       --         30.0   21.58
1648-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  50.0       --     50.00
874-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  --        200.0  182.38
889-IN     1979   India    Punjab Irrigation          --        129.0  120.30
899-IN     1979   India    Maharashtra Water
Supply                 --         48.0   47.73
911-IN     1979   India    Rural Electrification
Corp. II               --        175.0  175.00
925-IN     1979   India    Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry               --         23.0   21.60



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN     1979   India      ARDC III                  --      250.0     230.13
1743-IN*    1979   India      Thal Fertilizer         250.0       --      250.00
963-IN*    1979   India       Inland Fisheries                  20.0      20.00
954-IN*    1979   India      Maharashtra
Irrigation II                   21.0     210.00
961-IN*    1979   India      Gujarat Community
Forestry                        37.0      37.00
981-IN*    1980   India      Population II                      46.0      46.00
Total                                  2,528.8  7,539.6
of which has been repaid               999.6      60.2
Total now outstanding                  1,529.2  7,479.4
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid   116.2        17.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/    1,511.6  7,479.4
Total undisbursed (excluding*)           542.4  2,631.1
*    Not yet effective
_/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of May 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                   Company                         Loan      Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -          1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -          0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4        -          1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -          0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.6        0.4        1.0
1964        Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.                0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.              11.8        1.3       13.1
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0        0.3        1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0        0.1        1.1
1967        Indian Explosives Ltd.                      8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1        3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                             6.6         -         6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                4.0        1.2        5.2
1980        Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.            7.5        1.1        8.6
TOTAL                               61.0        11.5      72.5
Less:  Sold                                  5.9        1.7        7.6
Repaid                               18.6         -       18.6
Cancelled                             6.2        1.3       7.5
Now Held                             30.3        8.5      38.8
Undisbursed                          10.5        1.1      11.6



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding reason-
ably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$538 million in FY79, compared to US$497 million
in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal year through
April 30, 1980 totalled US$561 million, representing an increase of about
26% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,174
million as of April 30, 1980, reflects the lead time which would be expected
given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Lu. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260  Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511  IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting smail- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the
pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The
project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies
and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/
public sector.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Cr. No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date:  January 2, 1980; Closing Date:  June 30,
1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been started under this project
after the completion of the Second ARDC Project towards the end of 1979.
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 1979, satisfactory progress was being made in
the construction of bag storage warehouses, despite problems of land acqui-
sition at some sites. However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and
port silos is not expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays
in the employment of consultants and the longer time required for the prepa-
ration of technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last
two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1980.
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
November 1979, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment and local production of electro-mechanical switching equipment



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced growth rate for the installa-
tion of direct exchange lines. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts
and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1743   Thal Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1980 (expected);
Closing Date: November 30, 1984
The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a
change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphta and delays in completion of
engineering contracts. However, project construction is now proceeding
satisfactorily and commissioning is expected within the next six months.
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-project
preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further, some of the
sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration
by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects
to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the
project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Delays in project implementation were encountered as a result of
frequent changes in management in the early stages, and these have necessi-
tated an extension of the closing date by 18 months to June 30, 1981, to allow
for completion of works and withdrawal of the credit. Progress is improving,
however. As of May, 1979, construction on 36 of the 39 markets envisaged under
the project was underway or completed, and trade had shifted to about half of
these. An additional five markets may be included in the project at the
request of the State government.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 mil-
lion credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily. The water treatment
works were successfully completed on schedule at the end of 1979. Completion
of construction of the project sewerage works is scheduled for mid-1980.
Financial performance of the project entity is satisfactory. Implementation of
Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule.
Preliminary work in connection with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been
made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
the severe floods of September 1978 and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants'
services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff
shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more exten-
sive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and service
areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of the final
sections of these areas. Inadequate attention and staff has been given to
the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that anti-
cipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
and thus replicability is actually achieved. However, there is still ample
time to deal effectively with these problems; technical assistance is being
sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coopera-
tive scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative societies
(DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Karnataka 923,
Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response had been excellent and
project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the
establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS is good and con-
struction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a satisfactory pace.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
Limited milk processing capacity has been the major constraint to DCS formation
in all three projects. Under the National Dairy Project, three subprojects
with an estimated total cost of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been
appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a further eight subprojects are
in various stages of preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy
equipment is well underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a
result in the start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr, No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 12, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)          Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of
March 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954    Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit
of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011   Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project will not
fully disburse by the closing date, and GOI's request for an extension is
expected.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date:  September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
December 14, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These seven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, and Orissa, in particular, significant gains have been made
under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in government brought a
review of the organizational principles underlying the new extension system
and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a recent Cabinet deci-
sion has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the project and
revised implementation plans are under preparation. In Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts,
have hampered project implementation, although progress in areas where
regular extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the
system itself. Finally, in Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered
under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (which is not yet effec-
tive), project implementation is still in the very early stages, although
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken which
should pave the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension
system.
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects in FY80 is expected to meet or even
exceed appraisal estimates, although corresponding disbursements may lag
somewhat behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of the
Project Unit are being recommended to expedite further progress under the
project.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
As of October, 1979, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns had begun in the three participating States of Haryana, Orissa,
and Uttar Pradesh. Consultants were being recruited to assist NCDC and State
Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institutions. Initial project
preparations have been completed on schedule; disbursements are therefore
expected to follow the appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.  The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
Cr. No. 961    Gujarat Commercial Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects were designed to expand the social forestry program
in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages,
and supply raw materials to cottage industries. The projects provide for
large-scale tree plantations on public and village lands, primarily along
roads, rails and canals, and on village common lands and degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:  November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by CR. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the
second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The bus procurement program supported by the project has proceeded
on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies having been ordered and 589
already in service. Total fleet strength has increased from 1,530 buses at
the inception of the project to 1,900 buses in September 1979, in accordance
with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion is lagging somewhat behind
fleet expansion, but should match fleet size by early 1980. However, delays
in construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat
behind schedule, although efforts are being made to speed up the works program.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
rr. N7o.695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, harbor construction at Mangrol and Veraval are under
way, and although some delays have been encountered, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and no major problems are evident. In Andhra Pradesh,
preliminary work on implementation is progressing satisfactorily, and harbor
works at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 963    Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Madhya
Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries, improve-
ments to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the establish-
ment of training centers. The project became effective in May 1980, and the
initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the establishment of State
Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and State project monitoring
units, are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648   Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr.         US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
No. 874         May 22, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is the first of four power stations in the
Government's program for the development of large central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such
station, at Korba, is being financed under Credit 793. The National Thermal
Power Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation
of these power stations. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding
satisfactorily. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. Loan 1648 and Credit 874 sup-
port the construction of the first three 200 MW generating units in Andhra
Pradesh together with related facilities and associated transmission. All
these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$114 million have been ap-
proved to date. Although this project suffered delays in preparation of
technical specifications and evaluation of bids for highly sophisticated
equipment, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 911    Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0
million credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
financed by the Rural Electrification Corporation. There are now thirteen
State Electricity Boards (SEBs) eligible for onlending, compared with six at
the time of appraisal. The project got off to a slow start, due principally
to the need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to interna-
tional competitive bidding, but the position has improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed. Credit 911 provides continued support to
the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program, and is helping to
finance about 1,700 rural electrification schemes in fourteen SEBs, including
the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is at an early stage
of implementation, and procurement is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore were commissioned in June 1978. Most contracts for
Phase III of Bombay High development have been laid, construction should be
completed by mid-1980 and the loan should be fully disbursed by its original
closing date.
Cr. No. 911    Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of mothers
and children and the lowering of fertility. Early implementation works have
started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About one year.
(b) The agency which prepared the project
GOP with assistance from the Bank's New Delhi
Office.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and
date of first mission to consider the project
January 1978                    February 1978
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
May 1978
(e) Date of completion of negotiation
October 1978 1/
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
October 1980
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) GOP to submit for the Bank's approval detailed implemen-
tation plans for protection and development works in four
watersheds (other than Dholbaha), as a condition of
loan disbursement for these works (see paragraph 45).
1/   Board presentation was deferred pending the recruitment of essential
consultants (see paragraph 39).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) GOP to prohibit animal grazing and unrestricted
extraction of fuelwood or timber from the upper
catchments of the project area (paragraph 41).
(c) GOP to furnish for the Bank's review details of a
comprehensive plan to improve the social and economic
conditions of the farmers affected by the closure in
the upper catchments. In the case of Dholbaha,
such details to be submitted by December 31, 1980
(paragraph 44).
(d) GOP to submit a detailed project evaluation proposal
by December 31, 1980 (paragraph 54).



________________________________________IBRDIR 369-
75"30'        )        -            7545'                               7&OO                                    3oro                                                                                   Jul, O9JO
AIGHIbIANJ ,, a / 30  -'< S43 N'                                                  ., . | INDIA
CHIT',A                      -                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KANDI WATERSHED AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  3-0
KandiTrc
-' 2 X l,-> ' ' '                                '3 -32-00  X' v                                                                                            /77/.     Knd, Tract- Shiwlk Hi Is
/                                I                                                                                   N D I A aFeX g (09 \ W '  \hKodi Too-Ar   Be Su - IHI1ed Hoshorp-r.Chonh,.orh Rood
INDIA                                                   K-                                                                                                                    Corch.neo  Ar- Boudaries of DWhclaon  Dom
BUNCO                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Canoh-ren  Area Boudarie  Above Diversio.s
NPropsed Ocea-isaion of Dholboha Cho
Bu .-  ;  ri y  t                                                                                                                                         F-z t\  A  g R  _  oponed D,oersioo Enbook-enr
m  Propose d Dar
(C j                                                                                                              l /XV }  .S$/S//gQ  4     Irrigored Area,
----Area Protetd From Flood
Sec  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~---Gro-drt.ro    lnfl-c  L n
1<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C1
Road
20     30              4~~~~~00
.CN.Nr  .ro.u.r..resu.oounci,-,err.r  cr50'  20            voNot                                  7000             25                  WlS                                                        '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  'can0   2K



