FILE COPY                             RESTRICTED
Report No.TO-589b
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ATLANTICO No. 3
IRRIGATION PROJECT
COLOMBIA
June 13, 1967
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Before March 22, 1967 the exchange rate was 13. 50 pesos to the US dollar.
A new system was introduced on March 22 providing a fixed rate of 16. 30
pesos for capital transactions and a floating rate for imports and exports,
starting at 13. 50 pesos.
13. 50 Rate       16. 30 Rate
US$1.00           =   13.50 Pesos   =   16.30 Pesos
Pesos 1               US$0.074074   =   US$0.061349
Pesos 1, 000, 000  =  US$74,074     =   US$61,349
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 hectare    = 2. 47 acres
1 kilometer  = 0. 62 miles
1 meter      = 39. 37 inches
1 cubic meter = 264. 7 US gallons
1 millimeter = 0. 039 inches



COLOMBIA
ATLANTICO No.3 IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS                     Page No.
SUTMMAY ...........................a......a........a............  i -ii
I. INTRODUCTION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1
II. BACKGROUND. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
III. THE PROJECT AREA.. . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . .   . .     2
Location. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Transportation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2
Climate . * * * * * * * * * * * * .  .  .   * * * * * o .    2
Topography. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        3
Flooding. . . . . . . . . .                                  3 
The Guajaro Reservoir.r..........                   .        3
Soils .     e    '                                           3 
Technicai Sercvices..    .      .. .... . ....      .        4
Agricultural Credit..     4.......... . . . .
Present Land Use, Production and Values . . .     . . . .4
Land Tenure and Farm Size .   e . . .. ..... . .
IV. THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . ..
General ..     ..    .  ..    .   ..    .   ..    .
Proposed Works. ... .. .. .. . .. . . . . . . .              6
Water Supply and Requirements . . o . . . . * . . . .         7
Agricultural Development. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        7
Land Tenure .o. . . . . . . . . . . . .. .... * ..           8
Selection of Settlers   ...... . . .. . ....                 8
Agricultural and Subsistence Credit . . . . . . . . .        9
Farm Machinery. . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . .       10
Training Abroad ... . ..... . .......                       10
Feasibility Studies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       10
Marketing .....a................a......a...a....a........   10
Cost Estimates. . . . . . . . & . . . . . . .. . . .        11
Operation and Maintenance Cost Estimates. . . . . . .       12
Construction and Expenditure Schedule .     .  .  .  . . . .  13
Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      . . .          13
Financing a    vo    9o*   o oo oo o           o   a        14
V. ORGANIZATION AND MAAAGEMEENT .... . . ...a                     i4
VI. OPERATING RESULTS . . . . .     .  . . . . . . . . . . .       15
Farmers, Incomes* . . . . .    . . . . . . .. . . .  .      15
The Project . . . . a . . o & . o . . a . . a . & . o       16
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        16
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . .     . . . . .      18



TABLE OF CONTENTS
MAPS
1.  General Location and Cormunications
2. Project Works and Development Stages
CHARTS
1. Construction Schedule - Stage I
2. Organization Chart - INCORA (Listed as Annex 1, Page 8)
A1RNMES
1.  INCORA
2. Agricultural Credit
3. Pre-Project Land Use and Agricultural Production
4. Size Distribution of Rural Property in Southern Part of
Atlantico Province
5. Engineering Works
6. INCORA's Land Resettlement Program
7. PART I - Crop Yields, Prices, and Costs of Production
8. Cost Estimates
9. Expenditure Schedule
10.  hllocation of' the Proceeds of the Loan
11. Cash Flow
12. PART I - Gross and Net Value of Irrigated Crop Production
13. PART II - Flood Protection Benefits
This report is based on material and project reports prepared and supplied
by INCORA and their consultants, Dr. Alfonso Olarte C. Ingenieria, Construccion
and the Development -and Resources Corporation, and on the findings of two
missions wh-ich-vis=i-ted Colombia in June and September 1966, respectively.  The
members of the first mission were Messrs. D.S. Mitchell, L.W. Bartsch, J.M.
Fransen, R. Harma, R.E. Reed (Consultant), K.E. Snelson (FAO) and E.M. Sicely,
and of the second, Messrs. Harma, Snelson and Sicely.



COLONBIA
ATLANTICO No.3 IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform (INCORA) has requested
a Bank loan of US$9.0 million to finance the settlement and development of
9,900 ha of land in the Department of Atlantico in northern Colombia.   The
Project will provide irrigation to 3,900 ha, flood protection to 6,000 ha of
farmland, auxiliary services, and feasibility studies for future developments.
The total investment would be US$15.7 million. The local currency component
and interest during construction, totalling the equivalent of US$6.7 million,
would be provided by the Government.  The Project would be the first stage of
a program to irrigate a substantially larger area in the same vicinity.
ii.       The Project proposes the introduction of modern agriculture through
a strong centralized project management which would control cropping patterns
and farm practices, and would supply field supervision, machinery services,
technical assistance, agricultural credit, and marketing services. This
management would be provided by consultants who would be employed by INCORA.
iii.      The engineering works include a sprinkler irrigation system, drains,
a flood protection channel, access roads and other civil and on-farm works
necessary for intensive agriculture. The Project includes the purchase and
operation of agricultural machinery, the establishment of perennial crops,
orange packing facilities, technical assistance to farmers and the establishmen
of pilot and field trial farms. Annual farm inputs would be provided under
supervised credit.
iv.       INCORA would acquire most of the land in the project area and settle
farmers on it on small farms.
v.        Crops of medium or high value would be grown, largely for export.
Some low value crops would be produced only as inter-crops during the develop-
ment period of perennial crops or as rotation crops. Marketing and processing
arrangements would be provided.
vi.       INCORA's top management is competent.   At the project level, however,
its capacity to implement the Project is initially inadequate. INCORA would,
therefore, engage a qualified consulting firm or a consortium of qualified
consulting firms to finalize project plans and to implement, operate, maintain
and manage all aspects of the Project for a period of at least 5 years after
the completion of construction in the irrigated area. Under this arrangement
the Project can be executed.
vii.      The net annual benefits resulting from increased agricultural pro-
duction in the irrigation part of the Project are estimated at about US$2.1
million, yielding a rate of return of about 11 percent to the economy. The
flood protection investment would yield a rate of return to the economy of
over 25 percent. There would be a gross contribution to foreign exchange
earnings of about US$3 million per annum at full development in 1982.



- ii -
viii.     Farmers would be able to pay for annual farm operations (including
charges for machinery services and other farm inputs), and for project oper-
ation aid maintenance and replacement costs. INCORA would study farmers'
capacity to repay other project expenditures in relation to the maintenance of
their incentives and within two years would make proposals to the Bank as to
its recovery policy..
ix.       The Project is technically and economically feasible, and is suit-
able for a Bank loan of US$9.0 million for a term of 25 years with a grace
period of six years.  The Borrower would be INCORA and the loan wlould be
guaranteed by the Government of Colombia.



COLOMBIA
ATLANTICO No.3 IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform (INCORA) has requested
a Bank loan to assist in financing irrigation and flood protection works and
agricultural development in the Atlantico No.3 Irrigation Project. As sub-
mitted, the request related to the irrigation of 35,500 ha, 6,000 ha of which
would also be protected from flooding.
1.02      This report is based on material and project reports prepared and
supplied by INCORA and their consultants, Dr. Alfonso Olarte and the Develop-
ment and Resources Corporation, and on the findings of two missions which
visited Colombia in June and September, 1966, respectively. The members of the
first mission were Messrs. D.S. Mitchell, L.W. Bartsch, J.M. Fransen, R. Harma
R.E. Reed (Consultant), K.E. Snelson (FAO) and E.M. Sicely, and of the second
Messrs. Harma, Snelson and Sicely.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Colombia's population of about 18.7 million is growing at the rate
of some 3.2 percent per annum. Of the rural population, which amounts to
about half the total population, an overwhelming majority depends on agri-
culture for its livelihood. Agriculture (excluding forestry and fishing)
accounts for about ~0 percent of the gross national product (1966) and pro-
duces most of the exports (73 percent in 1966 - coffee making up about 63
percent and other agricultural exports 10 percent).
2.02      Agricultural production per capita measured in constant prices
appears to have decreased over the past sixteen years. However, in the non-
agricultural sector production has been increasing at a faster rate, than pop-
ulation, per capita income has increased, and the standard of living has improved
2.03      The growth rate in the output of Colombia's basic food crops - maize,
wheat, rice, beans, potatoes, fresh vegetables and fresh fruits - has been
unsatisfactory. Actual food shortages have been experienced and these, com-
bined with deficient storage and marketing facilities, have been reflected in
widely fluctuating consumer prices.
2.0h      The cultivated area has just been keeping pace i4th the increase in
population. Improved agricultural practices have not been introduced on a
scale wide enough to bring about a general improvement in yields.
2.05      More and more irrigation is being undertaken in Colombia.  Not only
do large areas have a distinct dry season, but rainfall is often insufficient,
or too irregular, for optimum agricultural production, particularly in the
northern provinces. Incomplete figures (1960) show that over 200,000 ha of
land are irrigatid already, much of wThich is private irrigation in the Cauca
Valley.Reconnaissance soil surveys indicate that some 3 million ha of alluvial
land might be suitable for intensive agriculture if irrigated and/or drained.



- 2 -
2.06      INCORA was established in 1961 (see Annex 1), when the Government
adopted a land reform policy to correct what it considered to be an inequitable
land tenure situation. The 1960 census had shown that 765,000 miniature farms
of an average size of 1.7 ha held 5.5 percent of the land, while 14,600 large
estates of an average size of 750 ha held 45 percent of the land, much of it
under-utilized.
2.07      INCORA is empowered to acquire large land holdings, develop the
land and redistribute it in small holdings. While INCORA's main objective is
the redistribution of land, it has another important function - the promotion
of agricultural development. In fact, it has become a major government agency
for agricultural development in Colombia. Amongst other activities, it has
started a large program for irrigation and drainage; works to irrigate 200,000
ha are under construction, and studies for a further 140,000 ha are in progress
III     THE PROJECT AREA
Location
3.01      The Project is located in the southeast of the Department of
Atlantico in the north of Colombia, on the Magdalena River, approximately 70 kn
south and west of the Caribbean port of Barranquilla and 70 km east of the port
of Cartagena (see Maps 1 and 2).
Transportation
3.02      The Project is bordered on the east by the Magdalena River and on
the southwest by the Canal del Dique. The Magdalena River and Canal del Dique
are navigable waterways connecting the area to the major seaports of Barran-
quilla and Cartagena. The principal highway between Barranquilla and Cartagena
passes a few kilometers to the north of the project area and other major roads
run along the dikes constructed adjacent to the Magdalena River and Canal del
Dique (see Map 1). Some secondary roads lead into the project area, providing
a basic road system for early project construction. Maintenance of some of
the roads feeding the Project vwould require improvement after the establish-
ment of the Project. The Government has agreed to maintain these roads to a
standard acceptable to the Bank. There are no railroads in the project area.
Climate
3.03      The climate is tropical and semi-arid, with an average rainfall of
1,000 mm, which occurs predominantly in the eight-month period April through
November as thunderstorms.  Seasonal totals are irregular; in discontinuous
records from 1938, the annual rainfall varied from 1,450 mm to 600 mm.
Distribution through the season is also irregular. Mean daily temperatures
are constant throughout the year at about 270C. Relative humidity is fairly
high and winds are generally light.



-3-
Topography
3.0L      The area to be irrigated is the broad back of a natural levee on the
right bank of the Canal del Dique, with an elevation above mean sea level of
between two and six meters with undulating surface. Slopes are generally less
than one percent and rarely exceed two percent.
3.05      The area to be protected from floods (and which might be irrigated
in later stages) lies to the north. It is an undulating plain, divided into
a series of low ridges by a number of small lake beds or swamps.
Flooding
3.06      In the past, the lover parts of the project area were periodically
flooded by spill from the Magdalena River and Canal del Dique when the river
was at high stage. Inundations from these sources were limited by the con-
struction of levees along both the river and the canal in 1955-57, and finally
brought to an end in 1965 by the closure of a gate from the canal Which had
allowed water to enter and replenish lakes. Flooding from the western end
of the zone has been prevented since INCORA constructed the Guajaro Dam in
1964-66.
3.07      Flooding of the old lake bottoms in the northern part of the project
area, by run-off from high ground further to the north, occurs almost every
year. The area of cultivable land affected is about 6,000 ha, on ahich the
annual loss averages about US $100,000.
The Guajaro Reservoir
3.08      The Guajaro Dam and Dike, which together form the Guajaro Reservoir
(see Maps 1 and 2) were constructed by INCORA in 196b-66 to impound water to
irrigate part of its originally contemplated project of 35,500 ha. They will
not be used as a source of irrigation water for the present projdct,.,but the
reservoir will receive the run-off water to be delivered by the flood protection
works proposed as a part of the Project.
Soils
3.09      The soils of the project area are of alluvial origin, deposited by
the Magdalena River during its periodical inundations. Of the gross area of
some L,300 ha included in the irrigation part of the Project, 2,700 ha (63
percent) are of medium texture and 1.,400 ha (33 percent) are of fine texture.
The majority of the medium textured soils (sandy loams, loams and clay loams)
are on natural levees and the fine textured clays are at the lowest levels.
3.10      Some of the better-drained, medium-textured soils have a moderate
salinity/alkalinity problem, b percent are saline or saline/alkaline from the



surface downwards, and a further 16 percent are saline in the subsoil. How-
ever, since reclamation will be possible by leaching with excess irrigation
water, the problem is only of a minor and temporary nature   The fine-textured
soils are almost free from saline/alkaline problems, but scme of them suffer
at present from temporary waterlogging after rain and they will have to be
drained.
3.11      The soils of the old lake bottoms comprising the flood protection
part of the Project are all fine-textured clays.
3.12      The levels of fertility and productivity are good, but fertilizers
will have to be used to maintain fertility under intensive production.
Technical Services
3.13      Agriculturally, the area is backward and undeveloped.  Extension
services are not generally available, except to the few farmers who grow
tomatoes, guava and papaya for processing companies and receive advice and
some assistance with inputs from them. Adjacent to the project area, trial
tomato farms have been set up within the past two years by two processing
companies.
Agricultural Credit
3.14      Agricultural credit is available to small and medium-sized farms
engaged in crop production from either the government-controlled agricultural
bank (the Caja Agrnria 1/) or INCORA's supervised credit program (see Annex 2).
However, up until the present time there has not been much credit available
in the area. Livestock farms, Which are usually large, are served by the
Banco Ganadero.
Present Land Use, Production and Values
3.15      Although the southern part of the area with its light soils has
been protected from flooding since 1957, it has not yet realized its full
potential for agricultural production because irrigation facilities have not
been available.  To date, some 1,500 ha have been brought under arable culti-
vation, consisting mainly of heavy soils in old lake beds, which have a high
water-retention capacity and on which there is no forest growth (see Annex 3).
Traditional agricultural practices prevail, the crops being mixed cultivations
of yucca, field corn, beans, plantains and vegetables, except in some areas
where INCORA, by introducing grain sorghum grown using fertilizers and insec-
ticides, has commenced the process of modernizing agriculture.
3.16      Most of the rest of the land in the irrigation sector of the Project
is at present under natural pastures carrying beef and dairy cattle under
extensive systems of management. The remainder is under natural forest or
1/ The Caja Agraria was appraised recently by the Bank for the Livestock
Development Project, Loan No. 448-CO.



- 5 -
second-growth of insignificant commercial value, providing only some poor.
grazing for cattle. The flood protection sector of the project area is
growing traditional mixed crops almost exclusively (see Annex 3).
Land Tenure and Farm Size
3.17      At the beginning of project investigations, all the land in the
project area was in private occupation. Approximately 4 percent was in
holdings of less than 10 ha, 39 percent in holdings of 10 to 100 ha, and 57
percent in holdings larger than 100 ha (see Annex 4). Since 1965, INCORA has
been purchasing land from the occupiers by negotiation. INCORA claims that
very few, if any, of the landholders possess valid title to the land they
occupy. Nevertheless, INCORA is treating them in the matter of land purchase
as if they were registered title holders in order to expedite the acquisition
and preserve good relations. Valuations are made by outside professional
land valuation officers and in cases of disagreement the occupier has a right
of appeal to the courts.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The Project, which it is proposed the Bank w,ould help finance, would
be Stage I of a proposed total development of about 35,500 ha. This Project
which produces high value export crops raises difficult managerial and marketing
problems which are intensified by the limited resources of experienced personnel
for operation and management available to INCORA. INCORA proposes to develop
the Repelon area of 3,300 ha simultaneously with this Project. Assurances have
been obtained at the time of negotiations that in allocating its resources
INCORA would give priority to the Project. INCORA has also agreed that should
it appear to the Bank during the implementation of the Project that development
were being hindered by a lack of resources, it would review the deployment of its
resources and in particular would reschedule the development of the Repelon
area if the Bank should consider this to be necessary in order not to delay the
prompt and efficient execution of the Bank-financed project.
4.02      The Project (Stage I) would comprise two parts:   Part I - the
development of 3,900 ha for irrigation; and Part II - flood protection wvorks
for an area of 6,000 ha (see Map 2).
4.03      Part I would include constructing a complete irrigation and drainage
system and carrying out the on-farm works needed for intensive cropping;
purchasing agricultural equipment; establishing perennial crops; setting up
marketing facilities, including an orange packing plant; creating field trial
farms; providing agricultural management, including technical assistance to
farmers accompanied by credit facilities; acquiring most of the land and
establishing settlers; preparing feasibility studies for future stages of the
Project; and training personnel abroad.



- 6 -
4.04      Part II of the Project would consist of the construction of an
interceptor channel to protect from flooding an area of 6,000 ha of culti-
vable land, of which 3,200 ha are presently under traditional cultivation;
auxiliary civil works and the introduction of improved cropping practices
under rain-fed agriculture.
PIOosed Works
4.05      The works to be constructed under Part I would be pumping stations,
canals, sprinkler irrigation facilities, drains, roads and an electrical
generating and distribution system which are described in Annex 5.
4.06      In Part I, 3,410 ha net would be irrigated by raising water on the
average about 3 meters from the Magdalena River at a pump station near San
Pedrito by electrically-driven pumps into a 19 kan canal. Water would be
pumped from the canal at 21 pumping stations into 60 laa of asbestos cement
pressure pipe and thence distributed to the land through 125 km of aluminum
pipe laterals and 33,000 sprinkler heads. A system of farm, secondary and
main drains would lead to the proposed San Cristobal Pumping Station, wvhere
drainage water would be evacuated into the Canal Del Dique. About 130 lak of
farm access roads would be provided, as well as about 40 km of gravel-surfaced
roads along the project canal banks. IlNCORA has undertaken to maintain these
roads to a standard acceptable to the Bank. San Pedrito and San Cristobal
pumping stations would be designed to accommodate additional pumps which may
be installed later to serve a larger area. The main project drain would be
constructed to a size sufficient to serve also the subsequent stages of
development. Since grid electric power is not presently available, power
for the pumps would be provided initially from diesel generators located at
San Pedrito, which would be sold when, as is expected, in the mid-1970's,
power would become available from the northern grid system projected by the
electricity authorities (Electraguas). In the economic analysis of the Project
it is assumed that the changeover would take place in 1975.
4.07      A pilot farm and two trial farms would be constructed.  Water for
the Santa Lucia pilot farm (300 ha under sprinkler irrigation) and the two
nearby field trial farms of 100 ha each (one under sprinkler irrigation and
the other under surface irrigation), would be pumped from the Canal Del Dique.
The surface irrigation trials would be initiated in order to provide experi-
ence for later stages.
4.08      The Project would include the construction of repair shops, stores,
construction camps, houses for senior staff, offices, visitor accommodations
and a recreation hall. Utilities such as electricity and water would be pro-
vided, as would operation and maintenance equipment, agricultural machinery,
a communications system and spare parts for all equipment. Items mentioned
in this paragraph would also service Part II of the Project, as necessary.
4.09      In Part II, protection against flooding for 6,000 ha would be pro-
vided by the construction of a 35 han interceptor channeL, which would direct
run-off into Guajaro Reservoir. Access roads and local surface drainage
would also be constructed.



-7-
4.10      Preliminary planning, investigations, designs and estimates were
done by the Colombian consulting engineering firm Alfonso Olarte C. Ingenieria,
Construccion for INCORA. Assistance in preparing a feasibility report for
the original proposal for 35,500 ha was rendered by Development and Resources
Corporation of New York. Sufficient investigations have been conducted to
determine feasibility. Preliminary engineering designs have been made in
sufficient detail to calculate work quantities for the Project with reason-
able accuracy.
Water Supply and Requirements
4.11      During recent years, the Magdalena River, from which water supplies
for the Project would be drawn, has had a minimum discharge at the project
site of 2,000 m3/sec., over 600 times greater than the peak requirements of
the Project. Water quality is excellent. Annual water requirements cal-
culated by the Blaney-Criddle method, are estimated to average 48 MmJ with a
peak discharge of 3.0 m3/sec. (0.9 liter/sec/ha).
4.12      The use of sprinkler irrigation for Stage I of the Project is pro-
posed by INCORA's consultants on the basis of more efficient water application
and lower annual costs than for gravity irrigation. This reasoning has been
accepted by INCORA, which also considers the sprinkler method to be more
readily taught to farmers with little or no irrigation experience. Although
sprinkler irrigation is more efficient under certain conditions of light soils
with rolling topography, such as are found in part of Stage I, neither ade-
quate information nor experience exists in Colombia to judge whether a
sprinkler or gravity system would be the best design for the project area.
However, since Stage I would be of a pilot nature, sprinkler irrigation would
be acceptable for the first stage of development. With sound management, the
benefits from the output would be sufficiently high to warrant this investment.
The alternative of using surface irrigation for subsequent stages of the
Project would be investigated more fully in the field trial farms.
Agricultural Development
4.13      In Part I, modern agricultural techniques would be used to produce
high-value crops, mainly fruits and vegetables.  Wherever possible, the land
would grow more than one crop a year. Areas devoted to orchard crops would
be cropped between the tree rows with high-value crops for several years
after planting the trees, until the latter mature. Although the land would
be divided into individual holdings, the management would direct the settler
as to the types of crops to grow and the cultivation practices to use, and
would supply technical assistance, field supervision, machinery services,
supervised credit for the supply of tools, fertilizers, herbicides and in-
secticides and marketing and processing services.
4.14      The main crops proposed for Part I would be oranges, pineapples,
tomatoes, guavas, papaya, tobacco, peanuts, dried beans and grain sorghum.
The selection of the crops would be made in relation to their marketing
prospects and adaptation to soil and climatic conditions. The land would be



-8-
ready for the planting of crops in 1970 and the total area would be planted
in 1971.   Full production would be reached in 1982.
4.15      The farming would be planned, to the extent possible, to facil-
itate mechanized cultivation, weed and pest control and harvesting.   The
layout of irrigation, drainage and road systems would be coordinated with
reqairements for the use of agricultural machinery.   Each farm would be a
"family farm unit" (see Annex 6) devoted exclusively to the cultivation of
one main crop, together with its possible rotation crops.   Actual "unit"
size would be determined by INCORA so as to give a target minimum net
annual income at full development of approximately the peso equivalent of
US$ 900 at the relevant export exchange rate, inclusive of the value of
family laborl/.   Three ha is indicated as the size for orange, pineapple,
papaya, tobacoo/bean and tomato/sorghui farms; four ha for guava farms;
and five ha for peanuts/sorghum farms2 .
4.16      In Part II, the cultivation of traditional crops would continue,
but improved practices would he introduced through supervised credit. The
presently cultivated area would be brought to full development in about ten
years, and an additional 2,800 ha of land not at present cultivated would
reach full production in five years.   Farm sizes would average about five
ha, to give the US$ 900 target income from the lower-value crops which will
be grown.
Land Tenure
4.17      INCORA expects to complete the acquisition of farms larger than
100 ha before the end of 1967.   Very few existing landowners are expected
to retain boldings of 100 ha or below in the project area; those who do
would be required to conform to the cropping pattern and agricultural
practices established for the Project (see Annex 6).   Assurances have
been obtained from INCORA during negotiations that it would take all
necessary steps to induce private landowners who might stain land in the
Project to conform to the proposed cropping pattern and farming practices.
Selection of Settlers
4.18      INCORA would select settlers from amongst the local farmers.  They
would be settled in the Project initially as operators and eventually as
owners of their farms.   The number of potential local candidates is more
than adequate for the needs of the Project.   The selection process employed
1/ This minimum income level is also the starting point for determining
the amounts of subsistence loans and for calculating debt charge pay-
ment schedules (see paras. 6.01 to 6.0h).
2/ The legal minimum farm size in INCORA's projects is three ha (see
Annex 6).



- 9 -
at present in other INCORA projects2! would be improved upon in its relation
to this project, so as to find men who would be capable, when trained, of
farming under irrigation and successfully growing intensive crops under
supervision. INCORA has agreed to revise its system of selection to include
in the selection process consideration of a candidatets farming and business
ability, physical fitness, willingness to work, adaptability, intelligence,
discipline and mechanical knowledge.
Agricultural and Subsistence Credit
4.19      INCORA's current supervised credit program (see Annex 2) would be
extended to Parts I and II of the project area. It would supply all necessary
inputs and would also be used to supplement the settler's net income in Part
I, before the perennial crops reach full development, so as to reach the
US$900 minimum. This would probably be necessary only during four of the
early development years for orange farms, and for the first year for pine-
apple farms. INCORA plans and supervises the farming aspects through farm
budgets and frequent field visits, and the Caja Agraria handles banking trans-
actions. The credit program would not be financed by the Bank loan. The
present interest rate is eight percent per annum; in addition, one percent is
charged as a premium on an insurance policy on the life of the borrower as
security for the loan. The loan term depends on the repayment capacity deter-
mined in terms of farm budgets. The supervised credit financing the annual
farming inputs would be repaid at the end of the crop season, but the sub-
sistence credit would require a longer repayment term to be determined when
the policies for the recovery of project investment are finalized. Assurances
have been obtained from INCORA that it would supply farms of up to 20 ha in
both Parts I and II of the Project with adequate credit under its supervised
credit program and would also accept responsibility for the provision of
credit to farms larger than 20 ha from appropriate sources.
1/   The Colombian Agricultural Reform Law (Public Law No.135 of December 13,
1961) does not specify the procedures to be applied in the selection
of farmers. Its provisions are limited to a statement that public land
being colonized by INCORA shall be donated to poor or impoverished
working farmers as family farm units (Articles 43-45), while land ac-
quired by purchase or expropriation is, with some stated exceptions,
to be sold only as family farm units to poor people or to those with
very small means, with preference accorded to renters, sharecroppers
or wage earners of the same area (Articles 80 and 81). All holders of
family farm units are under obligation to conform to certain specified
regulations governing water usage, roads and the transference of land
titles.
The procedures for selection of settlers and allocation of parcels to
them, as well as for the granting of land titles, are governed by
general regulations issued by INCORA (Resolution No.23 of 1966).



Farm Machinery
4.20      The project management would purchase all farm machinery and ini-
tially would manage it until it would be sold on credit to experienced
machinery operators to be hired and/or trained, as is INCORA's preference.
4,21      Initially, this farm machinery would be maintained and repaired in
the project's workshops for O&M equipment, but this work would be diverted
to private firms as soon as they were capable of doingit.
Training Abroad
4.22      Arrangements would be made to train members of INCORA's Project
staff and a limited number of selected farmers in California, Israel or
other suitable places in the technical and management aspects of modern in-
tensive agricultural production.   The Project would also include training
other INCORA professional staff abroad in administrative or technical matters
of value to INCORA's overall development.
Feasibility Studies
4.23      The Project would include provision for feasibility studies for
future stages of development to be made by consultants.
Marketing
4.24      Demand is promising for the crops to be produced.   Tomatoes, pine-
apples, guavas, papaya and tobacco would be exported (mainly as processed
products).   Oranges would be marketed in Europe during the European summer,
which is off-season for Mediterranean region oranges.   Supplies of these
crops surplus to, or sub-standard for, the need of overseas markets would
find an expanding consumer market in Colombia.   Moreover, because the climate
is favorable for year-round production, and because the wage rate in Colombia
is relatively low, the current outlook for competitive production of fruits
and vegetables for export is very good.   Furthermore, it should be noted in
relation to the long term outlook, that the United States market will be sup-
plied to an increasing extent in the future by imported fruits and vegetables
as wage rates of farm labor continue to rise sharply there.   The Project
would be well placed to respond also to this demand.
4.25      The Project would be located favorably in relation to markets,
particularly because of its good communications by land and water with
Barranquilla and Cartagena.   These cities are not only important seaports,
but also rapidly-growing centers for agricultural processing and trade ,with
adequate market outlets for theinitial output of all the products of the
Project, except export oranges.
4.26      The qualified management firm(s) operating the Project during its
initial years would provide an experienced marketing manager with adequate
knowledge of and connections with key markets and marketing channels, espe-
cially for oranges, but also for other products to be exported.   The market-
ing manager would be in charge of sales promotion, negotiating sales contracts



-11-
and supervising that their conditions are met.   The same management firm(s)
would also supply a packing house manager.   Under the guidance of these
two experts, the project management would establish and operate assembly and
packing facilities for oranges, as well as carry out grading and quality
control.   The same services would be provided also for other products to the
extent necessary.   For perishable crops other than oranges, the marketing
manager would make marketing arrangements on behalf of all the growers with
the local processing industry, including the scheduling of planting, harvest-
ing, field assembly and transportation to the processor.   He would also be
responsible for the establishment and maintenance of adequate quality
standards.
4.27      The most encouraging feature of the current marketing prospects is
that the Colombian subsidiaries of two large U.S. companies, with substantial
investments in food processing and marketing, are interested in expansion of
fruit and vegetable production in the project region for their canning oper-
ations, both for exports from Colombia and for her internal markets.   One of
them - Conservas California S.A. (a subsidiary of Grace & Co. Ltd) has con-
tracted to buy tomatoes from IWiCORA for its processing plant in Barranquilla,
and is ready to expand its plant as necessary.   A second company - Frutera
Colombiana S.A. (a subsidiary of Corn Products Co. Ltd.) has no facilities
in the area, but has been conducting field trials there to ascertain the
potential supply of produce.   The Colombian processing operations of both
finms are presently being held back by the absence of an assured supply of
fruits and vegetables, rather than by a lack of markets.
4.28      The existing market outlets for tobacco going for export and for
beans, corn and sorghum are satisfactory.
Cost Estimates
4.29      The cost estimatesl/ for the various features of the Project (in-
duding pumping plants, on-farm distribution and drainage systems, access
roads and land clearance), are based upon preliminary designs prepared by
the consultants.   Layouts and designs for buildings and utilities have not
yet been prepared, but cost estimates based on local experience are adequate.
Equipment prices are based on recent price lists or quotations from overseas
manufacturers.   The cost estimates for the agricultural investment have been
1/ Costs and prices are stated in this report in terms of U.S. dollars,
the exchange rate used for conversion purposes being the "inter-
mediate rate" of 13.50 pesos per US$ prevailing in 1966.



- 12 -
derived by using recent quotations from suppliers or from INCORA's recent
experience. The costs of project services and general administration have
been based partly on INCORA's own experience and partly on outside experience.
To the costs have been added adequate provision for overheals, engineering,
supervision of construction and contingencies. The cost estimates for train-
ing abroad are based on INCORA's experience. Interest during construction
at the rate of 6 percent per annum has been added. A summary of costs is
shoia- below with details given in Annex 8.
Local      Foreign
Currency     Exchange     Total
(US$ Mvillion)
PART I
Irrigation and Related Expenditures        3.3         7.6        10.9
PART II
Flood Protection and Related Expenditures  1.0        0.8          1.8
OTHER EXPENDITURES                         0.3        0.6          0.9
Sub-total                             4.6         9.0        13.6
INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION               1.3         -           1.3
Sub-total                             5.9         9.0         14.9
LAND PURCHASE BY INCORA                   0.5          -           °.5
EXPENDITURE AFTER DISBURSEMENT PERIOD      0.3         _           0.3
Total Project Cost                    6.7         9.0        15.7
Operation and Maintenance Cost Estinates
4.30      In Part I, the operation and maintenance costs 1/ would develop as
follows (US$'000):
Year      I     II     III     IV      V    VI     VII    VIII    IX
21     21      21    121     263    326    326    341    354
(Stabilize
at this level)
1/   $hould grid powier not be available to the Project from 1975 onwiards (see
para. 4.06), and it were necessary therefore to retain diesel generators,
project costs would be higher, but they would not reduce the net return
sufficiently to make the Project uneconomic.



- 13 -
These costs include the replacement costs of sprinkler heads, lateral pipes
and all equipment.
4.31      In Part II, the operation and maintenance costs would develop as
follows (US$1000):
Year     I     II     III     IV     V     VI     VII
10     10     10      10    45     55      60 (Stabilize at this level)
Construction and Expenditure Schedule
4.32      Assuming the loan would become effective by October 1967, all
construction work in Part I of the Project would be completed in 1970
(see Figure 1), and all the land would be planted with either perennial or
annual crops by the end of 1971. By that time, settlers would have been
chosen, agricultural management services established, farm machinery pur-
chased and technical assistance provided for. Construction of Part II
of the Project wculd be completed in 1971, except for the interceptor channel
which would be completed in 1969 (see Figure 1). The Santa Lucia pilot farm and
field trial farms would have been started by 1963, including nurseries for
perennial crops.
4.33      As Part I of the Project would be brought under intensive farming
immediately after the construction of the irrigation works, all of the farm
machinery would have to be available by the beginning of 1971.
4.34      The Bank loan would be disbursed against expenditures on the Project
during a five year period, as shown in the following summarized expenditure
schedule: (For details see Annex 9.)
Year         Preliminary   I   II   III   IV   V    Total    Expenditure after
disbursement period
(US$ Million)
IBRD Loan:
Foreign Exchange  0.2    0.7 1.4  3.1   2.8  0.8   9.0
Colombian Government:
Local Currency    0.3    0.6 1.2 1.7    1.7  0.9   6.4            0.3
Total             0.5    1.3 2.6 4.8    4.5  1.7  15.4           15.7
Procurement
4.35      Colombia is developing its industrial capabilities rapidly and it
is expected that, with moderate protection, some local suppliers of equip-
ment and materials might successfully compete with foreign suppliers. It
has been agreed that, except for such minor items as are usually procured
locally, equipment and materials for the Project would be procured on the



- 14 -
basis of international bidding, in which however Colombian suppliers could
participate with a preference allowance of 15 percent. The evaluation of bids
for such procurement would be made without taking into account customs or other
duties on imports. Civil works construction and installation contracts would
be awarded under international competitive bidding with Colombian contractors
participating without preference. The experience of INCORA in preparing and
supervising international contracts for construction or the supply of equip-
ment is limited. Accordingly, INCORA has agreed to employ qualified con-
sultants acceptable to the Bank to assist with this work. Permanent equipment
and construction equipment (provided the latter is subsequently exported)
would be imported duty free.
4.36      The Government has given an assurance that import licenses for the
goods proposed for Bank financing would be issued promptly upon application
by INCORA.
Financing
4.37      The amount of the proposed Bank loan includes the fees of foreign
consultants, the foreign exchange cost of training Colombian technicians
abroad, the presently estimated foreign exchange cost of the civil works and
the cost of machinery, equipment and materials (see Annex 10)o In the past
machinery, equipment and materials of the type to be used for the Project
have been imported.  However, as noted in paragraph 4.35, some equipment,
materials and spare parts might be procured in Colombia. While the actual
proportion of the loan to be used for local procurement would depend upon
the outcome of international competitive bidding, the percentage of the loan
which would be used for this purpose is expected to be relatively small.
The amount of the loan to be allocated to civil works, construction and in-
stallation has been estimated on the basis of the work being done by foreign
contractors. Some of the work would probably be done by local contractors,
but it is expected that this would not change the estimates appreciably.
The loan funds to be used for civil works, construction and installation
would be disbursed on a percentage basis.
h.38      The amount of the proposed loan would be US$9.0 million.  The re-
mainder of the investment cost, totalling about US$6.7 million, would be met
by Government appropriations to INCORA. The loan would include US$200,000
of retroactive financing, covering the period back to June 30, 1966, for
feasibility studies undertaken by consultants and the construction of the
Santa Lucia pilot farm. The period of disbursement would be five years. The
loan would be for a term of 25 years, including a grace period of six years.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      INCORA would have overall responsibility for the Project.  INCORA
and its consultant, the firm "Alfonso Olarte C. Ingenieria, Construccion",
have sufficient experience to undertake preliminary designs, but insufficient
to prepare final designs and tender documents, supervise construction and
manage the Project.



- 15 -
5.02      In view of the nature of the Project and recognizing the limited
technical resources available in Colombia, and to diminish the risk involved
in such an undertaking, INCORA would employ for the construction period of the
Project and for at least five years thereafter a qualified consulting firm or
a consortium of qualified consulting firms acceptable to the Bank who would
have engineering, agricultural development, management and marketing respon-
sibilities. The consultants would prepare final project designs, prepare
tender and contract documents, supervise construction and make the necessary
procurement of equipment and machinery. They would also plan the agricultural
aspects of the Project in coordination with the engineering planning prior
to construction and would manage the Project for a period of at least five
years after the irrigated land would come under cultivation.
5.03      INCORA would employ a Colombian project manager as administrative
head of the Project. The consultants would be responsible for all technical
aspects of agricultural development, including selection of cropping patterns
and cultural practices, maintenance of quality standards, processing and
marketing, and would be given wide latitude for independent decision and
action in these matters. The consultants would also train other INCORA
counterpart staff in all the major functions of agricultural and marketing
management. As the Project became well established and INCORA gained experi-
ence, INCORA's own staff would progressively take over full responsibility
for project management.
5.04      This project would either succeed or fail, depending on the strength
of administration and management. INCORA has agreed during negotiations
that, as a condition of effectiveness of the loan, it would engage consultants
acceptable to the Bank to carry out the functions outlined above.
VI. OPERATING RESULTS
Farmers' Incomes
6.01      At full development, estimated farmily income in Part I of the Pro-
ject after deducting production costs would range between US$2,000 and
US$3,000. After paying for project operation and maintenance and replacement
costs, family income is expected to be between US$1,700 and US$2,700, which
is well above the proposed minimum income of US$900 per annum (see para. 4.15).
In Part II, the family income will not greatly exceed US$900 (see para. 4.16).
6.02      In Part I of the Project, INCORA has proposed, in order to cover
all its project expenditures other than those for common services and general
administration, to recover from farmers all their income above US$900. While
agreeing with INCORA's objective of recovering project costs from the farmers,
the Bank believes that the system of cost recovery should be such as to leave
the farmer an income sufficient to assure an adequate production incentive.
INCORA has not yet decided upon its recovery policy in detail and proposes
to take the advice of its consultants before making a proposal to the Bank.
Accordingly assurances have been obtained during loan negotiations that,
while INCORA will attempt to recover as much of its expenditures as is feasible
it will relate its recovery policy to the farmers' incentives and capacity to
pay. INCORA has agreed to submit proposals for the Bank's approval within
two years after signing the Loan Agreement.



- 16 -
6.03      In Part II, farmers would benefit by an increase of about US$ 100
per ha in net return. It appears that they would be able to pay all recurrent
costs, presently estimated at about US$ 20 per ha per year, and a portion of
other project expenditures. Assurances have been obtained from INCORA that
this il-l be-done..
The Project
6.o0      A cash flow projection for the Project is given in Annex 11.   It
is based on the assumption that the collection of project charges would be
limited in Part I to operation and maintenance costs, plus 30 percent of net
income over US$ 900, and in Part II to all recurrent costs (including the
cost of technical assistance to farmers), but only a smal:L contribution to
investment costs. The projection shows that this rate of collection would lead
to the recovery of all recurrent project costs, except in the initial years,
when there would be a deficit. After 1980, there would be average annual
surpluses of about US$ 250,000.  However, it also shows that the rate of
collection is not sufficient to cover debt service of the loan, which would
average about US$ 790,000 per annum over the amortization period. Assurances
have been obtained from the Government that they would provide INCORA with
funds sufficient to carry out the Project.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION -
7.01      The quantifiable benefits to the economy arising from the Project
are the increased net value of production in Part I (see Annex 12); and in
Part II the decrease in losses due to flood damage, together with an increase
in production (see Annex 13).
1/ Costs alnd prices are stated in this report in terms of US dollars, the
exchange rate used for convprsioz purposes being the "intermediate rate"
of 13.50 pesos per US$ prevailing in 1966.  This rate applied to imports
and also to exports other than coffee, i.e. the kind of exports to be
realized from the Project. However, in March 1967 a new exchange system
was established under which a floating "certificate rate" applies to
imports and to exports other than coffee. This rate had depreciated to
13.95 pesos by April 1967. The operation of this new exchange system
may eventually produce a significant alteration in the relationship be-
tvween domestic costs and international prices so as to increase the
profits of the Colombian exporter. As this is primarily an export pro-
ject, this would increase the economic return on the Project beyond
the rates of return projected on the basis of an exchange rate of 13.50
pesos. However, the projected returns for the Project have been left
unchanged as originally calculated on the basis of the exchange rate of
13.50 pesos, because of the difficulty of forecasting what the eventual
adjustment may be between domestic costs and international prices.



- 17 -
7.02      At full production in 1982, the gross return per hectare in Part I
would be about US$ 1,100 and the net return about US$ 570, compared with the
present figures of US$ 50 and US$ 35 respectively. After deducting production
costs, including operation and maintenance and technical assistance to farmers,
and taking no credit for income from the field trial farms (200 ha), the
aggregate net increased return would be about US$ 2 million as against
US$ 130,000 prior to the Project (see Annexes 12 andl13 respectively). Although
some parts of the Project would have an expected life of up to 60 years,
the economic analysis of the Project has been made over a period of 40 years,
during which the replacement of short-lived items has been provided for at
appropriate intervals. Allowing for the possibility of the Project's falling
short of scheduled performance in the first three years, the investment
in Part I of the Project would yield a (discounted) rate of return to the
economy of 11 percent.
7.03      Yield projections used in the above calculations are realistic for a
plantation type of operation on several counts. Highly skilled expatriate
management would be provided, as well as other necessary expatriate expertise.
The management would be fully centralized, with authority to manage the farming
operations using up-to-date farming practices. The soils are good and the
climate extremely favorable. The yield projections have been checked against
results attained with good practices under comparable natural conditions in
Colombia and in other countries. Prices have been projected to be in a
reasonable relationship to likely developments of world market prices, as
reflected by CIF prices for domestically consumed products and to FOB prices
for export products.
7.04      Flood protection for the 3,200 ha now under cultivation in Part II
of the Project would be available in 1969, with an annual average saving of
US$ 100,000 from that date on (see Annex 13).
7.05      Flood protection would allow the traditional agriculture on this
3,200 ha to be intensified, and it has been assumed that this will take 10
years. A very moderate rise in net return of US$ 34 per ha for each of two
crops per annum at full development has been assumed, leading to an aggregate
net increase of US$ 200,000 per annum.
7.o6      The sane works would give flood protection to a further 2,800 ha
presently uncultivated. These lands, when brought under cultivation, should
at full development (estimated to require about 5 years) yield about the same
net return as lands in the other area being afforded flood protection. The
aggregate net increase in crop production would be about US$ 500,000 per annum.
7.07      The above calculation for these flood protected areas is based on
growing two crops of grain sorghum each year with currently prevailing
prices adjusted doawnards in a reasonable relationship to international prices.
Moreover, crops such as plantains and vegetables would be grown to a limited
extent, and these have a higher net return per ha. Net benefits from this
part of the Project (some US$ 800,000 per annum in aggregate) compare favorably
with the capital investment of US$ 1.8 million. Discounted over 40 years, they
give a rate of return to the economy on the investment of over 25 percent.



- 18 -
7.08      Part I of t1E Project would export about 75 percent-of its orange,
pineapple and tomato production, and all of its tobacco production. At full
production, the gross value of these exports, based on conservative estimates,
would be about US$ 3 million annually and the net value about US$ 1.5 million
until the Bank loan has been amortized, after which it would be about US$ 2.3
million a year.
7.09      The Project would create a significant number of employment
opportunities in field work, as well as in handling, packaging and shipping of
fruit and vegetables. A major intangible benefit would be the accumulation
of experience in the producing and export of fruits and vegetables and in the
management of the enterprises concerned. It is hoped that this experience will
be applied on a larger scale in the subsequent phases of development planned
for the future.
7.10      The Project is economically justified.
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The Project as proposed is economically and technically feasible.
INCORA would be responsible for project management. It is a well established
organization under sound and competent leadership, but its experience in im-
plementation and operation of irrigated agriculture is limited. With the aid
of the consulting and management firms who would implement the Project and be
retained for 5 years after the completion of construction for its initial
operation, INCORA would be capable of executing the Project effectively. The
cost estimates are realistic.
8.02      The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 9.0 million at the
standard rate of interest, with a term of 25 years, including 6 years of grace.
The Borrower would be INCORA.
June 13, 1967



MAP I
CO LOMB IA 
ATLANTICO N' 3
IRRIGATION PROJECT
GENERAL LOCATION AND
COMMU N ICATIONS
PtoColonb.   B A R R A N ( U I LLA7-
I   5    0        10      20 KnX
,                 Judo  Aco-t   / /   0
0
i      X                                   to.o.oo  5 b n,a j; 00~~~~~Jon 4 At.t
26. de Aw. ~ ~ Soeoornd
St_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t To X     X
0 Polo;uevo
/11                 11'      Pr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Peen tprojet rearw e   \  ' >¢
St.RR- R9e7                      developmen
APRIL 1967                                                                 lORD 109491.i,  1.



COLOMBIA
ATLANTICO N° 3 IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT WORKS AND DEVELOPMENT STAGES
Ag,uodo de Poblo
Le o
:\\X\Xm    - b/                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Puert .o
,\\ <  Repelon   .  ,/                                w               /  lX o  Solom,no
GUAJARO RESERVOIR
p  P lor1a~~~~~~~        ...    Codlor
V. 11. Ros.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AR -RRGTO
'\&\\\\ ~~~~~.,        j,stob ,                                              PoAono *-......./.
S-  P'.p-g sfof'o'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                -O
Vdlo  Roso   _ _   ds   .......................P...,p,.g .             ________   FUTURE  EUT,NSI.
STA   ZUCIA fIL-ID (Svrfo'e-/rr/soted \.o/ / /
TRIAZ FAf!MS  |p/Ae-r/oe   x >   g/   7   w 
Soo z uc/o  _  J i  //  ///     ~~~~~~~PART I - IRRi GATI ON
PUot Fom\/fPre.s:nt Pr:oject A-ea
PART 11 FLOOD PROTECTION
_v -, =.. - Flood Protectuos Area
Coloeror_9/                     INCORA IRRIGATED DEVELOPMENT
I                              Repelon Area
AP'RIL IYo7                                                                                             -        IBRDI 1885R3



COLOMBIA: ATLANTICO NO. 3 IRRIGATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
STAGE I
WORK ITEM                  1966     1967      1968      1969     1970      1971      1972     1973
PART I
FIELD TRIAL FARMS AND
SANTA LUCIA PILOT DEVELOPMENT              -
PROJECT READY FOR AGRICULTURE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT  AND
SAN PEDRITO PUMPING STATION
MAIN DRAIN AND SAN CRISTOBAL
PUMPING STATION                                                 m
PART 3I
INTERCEPTOR CHANNEL, DRAINAGE
AND ACCESS ROADS
Development includes irrigation, drainage and electrical systems, roads and land clearance.           IBRD-3286 rI



ANNE 1
Page 1
I N C 0 R A
Background
Colombia's Law No. 135 of December 13, 1961 outlined the country's
land reform policy and created the Colombian Institute of Agrarian Reform
(INCORa) as the institution to implement it. The law established INCORA not
only as a land reform organization, but also as an important agency for
agricultural development. Its main objectives are : (i) to redistribute
large land holdings, prevent excessive sub-division of land and consolidate
miniature holdings; (ii) to develop unused lands and those not being used to
their full potential; (iii) to increase both agricultural productivity and
total agricultural production; (iv) to improve security of land tenure for
small farmers and to make it easier for them to acquire land; (v) to improve
the standards of living of farmers by providing them with technical assistance:
credit, and various social services; and (vi) to ensure better conservation
and use of natural resources.
Activities
INCORA commenced its work by granting land titles to the occupants
of existing holdings and later began to redistribute lcand. These operations
were soon followed by agricultural development programs. At the end of
1965 INCORA had some 200,000 ha of irrigation and flood protection projects
under implementation and a further 140,000 ha under investigation. As yet
none of these projects has been completed. Another major activity has been
a supervised credit program.
Organization and Management at Top Level
INCORA is a public agency with administrative autonomy.   It is
administered by a board of directors and a general manager appointed by the
President of the Republic. The law requires that the board of directors
should have an equal representation of both major political parties. It con-
sists of the Minister of Agriculture as chairman, the Minister of Public
Works, and one representative (chosen by the President of the Republic for
a term of two years) from various government agencies and economic and social
interest groups dealing with agriculture. The board is authorized to estab-
lish internal committees and delegate authority.
Currently the general manager of INCORA enjoys the full confidence
of, and a close working relationship with, the President. The general manager
has broad powers for independent action and management of INCORA under the law.
INCORA has authority, with the approval of the Government, to con-
tract foreign loans for its operations.
Staff and Operational Organization
INCORA has assembled a sizeable agricultural and engineering staff
comprising 275 professionals and 711 sub-professionals as of August 30, 1966



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(see Table on page 7). However, there is a critical shortage of competent
senior men for executive and administrative work below the level of its top
management.  INCORA recognizes the existence of this shortage and relies
heavily on expatriate consultants, both individuals and firms. The principal
operational arms of INCORA are the divisions responsible for : (i) legal;
(ii) operations; (iii) agricultural development; and (iv) projects. With in-
creased emphasis on irrigation, flood protection, drainage and development of
new land, a substantial engineering organization has been created in the newly
formed Operations Division. Details of the operational organization are givei
in the attached organization chart (page 8).
Finarce
INCORA is decisively dependent on government contributions in one
form or another for its income. The main items of budgeted income are
government appropriations, income from government bonds, repayment of super-
vised credit by farmers, and borrowing by INCORA. Its operations have not
been limited by financial shortages.
The Government has assured INCORA of a certain stable basic income:
(1) According to the law establishing INCORA (Law 135 of December 13, 1961),
"annually an amount of not less than 100 million pesos (US$ 7.4 million)
shall be appropriated which the Government must include in its budget bill,
and without which the bill will not be accepted by the budget committee of
the House of Representatives". However, the budgeted appropriation to INCORA
is 283 million pesos (US$ 21.0 million) for 1967. (2) The Government granted
INCORA its basic capital as Government bonds (initially 1.2 billion pesos -
US$ 88.9 million), The debt service on these bonds is considered public debt
and has a priority claim on government expenditures. The bonds thus provide
INCORA with a stable income (budgeted at about 100 million pesos in 1966 and
1967).
Repayments of credit granted to farmers were estimated at about
100 million pesos for 1967. The repayment record appears reasonable so far
but the supervised credit program is still too new to yield a conclusive
assessment of performance.
INCORA is aiming to increase its stabdized income.   It is attempting
at present to persuade the Government to amend the law to increase the minimLm
appropriation mentioned above to 300 million pesos (US$ 22.2 million) a year.
INCORA is also discussing with the Government a proposal that its basic capital
be raised by another one billion pesos which would yield an additional
stablized income of about 100 million pesos per year. If these proposals are
approved by the Government, INCORA's stabilized income would be 500 million
pesos (US$ 39 million) per year.
INCORA's expenditures reflect a very rapid rate of expansion. The
three principal items of expenditure are engineering works, land allocation,
and "agricultural development" (mainly loans under the supervised credit pro-
gram, the repayments of which appear in due course on the income side of the
budget). The development of the major budget items of expenditure and income
is shown in the condensed budgets for 1965-1967 on page 4 of this Annex.



ANNE 1
Page 3
Expenditures have grown from 60 million pesos (US$ 4h4 million) in
1963 to 260 million pesos (US$ 19.3 million) in 1965 when less money was spent
than was budgeted. In 1966 INCORA spent more than the initially budgeted
amount of 320 million pesos (US$ 23.7 million). The expenditures for 1967
have been projected at 720 million pesos (Us$ 53.3 million).
For its supervised credit program, INCORA has received two loans
from United States Government funds at low rates of interest. In 1963 a
loan of US$ 10 million was obtained (with a 40-year term including a grace
period of 10 years). This was followed in 1966 by a loan to INCORA and the
Government jointly of US$ 8.5 million (9½z-year grace period after the first
interest payment, after which the principal is paid in 21 semi-annual instal-
ments). The balance of INCORA's lone-term debts comprise domestic borrowing,
part of which are debts incurred in buying land. These latter debts are in
terms of five and eight years with interest rates of 6 percent and 4 percent
respectively. INCORA also has some long-term Government loans.
INCORA also has a loan of US$ 9.7 million from the Inter-American
Development Bank for irrigation and farm settlement in its Bolivar No.1 and
Roldanillo Projects, which are estimated to cost US$2205 million. The loan
was granted in 1966 at 2.25 percent interest, with a term of 26 years, in-
cluding a grace period of 32-½ years.
Debt service is a minor item of expenditure. The amount budgeted
for this purpose was 5 percent of total expenditures in 1966 and 3 percent in
1967.
A condensed version of INCORAMs annual budgets for 1956-67 is given
on page 4 of this Annex and Balance Sheets for 1965 and 1966 on pages 5 and 6.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
I N C O R A
ANNUAL BUDGETS 1965 - 1967 (CONDENSED)
1965            1966            1967
(us$'ooo)       (us$'ooo)       (us$'ooo)
INCOIM
1.   Loan collections and various
income                            781           3,498          8,793
2.   Government appropriations      12,433          7,407          20,970
3.   Amortization of bonds and
interest on bonds               6,087           7,690          8,091
4.   Capital contributions (loans)  11,111         h4963           15,719
Total                          30,412          23,558          53,573
EXPENSES
Administrative expenses         1,152           1,731           2,561
Debt service                      529           1,126           1,496
Transfers                       6,109
Sub-total                  7,790           2,857           4,057
INIIVESTMENTS
Land Distribution               8,877           7,459          10,514
Agricultural Development        5,018           7,603          20,424
Engineering works               8,727           5,406          18,578
Construction                        -             233               -
Sub-total                 22,622          20,701          49,516
TOTAL                          30,412          23,558          53,573



ANNEX 1
Page 5
INC ORA
BALANCE SHEETS
Dec. 31, 1965      Oct. 31, 1966
(US$'000)          (US$'000)
ASSETS
1.   Availabilities
Cash in hand/Banks                         6,431             6,674
Agrarian bonds                            55,066            67,534
Contributions to receive                     617                309
62,114             74,517
2.   Other Current Assets
Accounts Receivable                          406                  3
Various debtors                              288                209
Documents to Cash                            325                318
Inventory                                    352               458
Material Equipment in Transit                 62                510
Livestock                                     35                 32
Advances                                     909                819
Loans                                      7O,104           11,347
Guarantee Deposits                           201               221
Active exp. of other entities              __-_28
9,682             13,974
3.   Fixed Assets
Land and Buildings                             4                 18
Mlachinery Implements                        780              1,035
Office Furniture                             573                537
Vehicles                                     378                371
1,735              1,961
4.   Deferred Assets
Exp. Paid in Advance                         328                310
5.   Other Assets
Colonization and Allotments               11,451             21,260
Agricultural enterprises                     462                654
Contribution to Development funds            202                327
Works in Progress                              -                 27
Project Studies                            1,055              1,269
"Agent" Entities                             282                333
Contingent Assets                              9                 42
13,461             23,912



ANNEX 1
Pa-ge 6
I N C O R A
BALANCE SHEETS
Dec. 31, 1965     Oct. 31, 1966
(US$1000)         (US$'000)
ASSETS (Continued)
6.   Expenses
Administrative exp.                           -             2,595
87,320           117,2h0
LIABILITIES
7.   Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                         1,439              1,155
8.   Long-Term
Payable                                     35                 30
Long-Term Loans                          8,579             14,614
Others Payable                           3,15               3,oo5
11,768            17,649
9.   Deferred Liabilities
IIiscellaneous                                8                66
10. National
Agricultural Fund                        73,515            87,925
11.   Reserves                                     590               773
12.   Income                                         -             9,672
87,320           117,240



ANNEX 1
Page 7
STAFF OF INCORA AS AT AUGUST 30, 1966
Type of Staff                                          Numbers of Staff
Total         Bogota
Professional Staff:
Lawyers                                           61              30
Agriculturalists                                   94             18
Civil Engineers                                   61              36
Economists                                         26             19
Veterinarians                                     14               2
Other                                             19               7
Sub-total                                        275             112
Sub-Professional Staff:                             711              82
TOTAL Professional and Sub-Professional Staff        986            194
Administration and Auxiliary Personnel               607            239
GRANTD TOTAL                                       1,593            433
Source: INCORA
April 10, 1967



COLOMBIA: ATLANTICO NO. 3 IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART - INCORA
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
I
GENERAL MANAGER
EXECUTIVE                                                                           NOMTO
CO-ORDINATIONINOMT                                                                             N
MANAGER-AG    U          |          | MANAGER-LEGAL AFFAIRS                                 [    OPERATIONS MANAGER                     ..............MANAGER-ADMINISTRATION
DEVELOPMENT                  [IAND CONTRACTS
PROJECT MANAGERS (2)|
q  TECHNICAL STUDIES  l       j        LEGAL ADVICE                                     [ r    LAND RECLAMATION           ADMINISTRATIVE ZONES (5S          TREASURER
AGRICULTURAL  EVELOPMENT                 LAND ACOUISITION                                       ENGINEERING SURVEYS     I                                       SUPPLIES
LAND TENANCYIITIRRIGATION DISTRICTS LJ                                                                               PERSONNEL
-F     LAND SETTLEMENT     1                                                                                         t    GENERAL SERVICES
EXISTING
PROPOSED                                                                                                                                                                    -|
March 20, 1967                                                                                                                                                             (4R)18RD-3147 2



ANN\]EX 2
Page 1
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
A. Caja Agraria
1.        The Caja Agraria was recently appraised by the Bark in connec-
tion with loan No. b48-cO (Livestock Development Project); details of its
operations are to be found in Report NO. TO-523A of April 4, 1966. In
Atlantico Province the Caja Agraria's six offices granted loans totaling
26 million pesos in 1965 and had about 18 million pesos of loans outstan-
ding in the middle of that year. The collection record is reasonably good.
B. INCORA's Supervised Credit Program
2.        INCORA has operated a supervised credit program since February
1964, in association with the Caja Agraria. The program covers annual
production loans as well as medium and long term loans, and may also cover
consumption credit during the development period of a farm enterprise.
INCORA finds the funds, carries the financial risk and retains all
decision-making authority - it decides on the granting of credit (based
on INCORA farm plans), supervises its use and gives technical assistance
to farmers. The Caja Agraria handles the financial transactions, keeps
records and takes care of collection, including any in which legal measures
are invoked. INCORA's field supervisors are used, however, for the serving
of notices about maturity dates of credit. INCORA is in the process of
making arrangements to disburse the credit in kind so as to avoid
handing cash to farmers.
3.        Credit carries an interest rate of eight percent per annum,
except for perennial crops where the interest rate is one percent per
annum during the development period and eight percent per annum after
reaching full commercial production. In each case the borrower pays an
additional one percent per annum for life insurance.
4.        Annual production credit is repaid at the end of the cropping
season. Iledium and long term credit repayments are not standardized,
but repayments are made according to reasonable ability to pay.
5.        As of July 31, 1966, the cumulative total of loans granted
was 160 million pesos, of which approximately 40 million had been
repaid. These loans benefitted 175,000 ha farmed by 9,162 families.
The program has been initiated also in Atlantico Province, with lending
amounting to only 3.4 million pesos, to 228 farm families up to July
31, 1966. The national repayment record has been satisfactory, but within
Atlantico Province it has been slightly below national average.
6.        For this Project INCORA plans to provide credit as needed by
the project management. To the extent possible, the credit would be
charged to the settler's account and collected following the pattern



ANNEX 2
Page 2
of the present supervised credit system and applying the same interest
rates and other terms (see paras. 4.18 and 4.19 and Annex 2, paras. 2
and 4).   However, since the Project will be operated under the strict
control and direction of the management, the credit will be more
firmly under its control than is usual in a supervised credit system.
April 10, 1967



ANNEX 3
PRE-PROJECT LAND USE AND AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
PART I - IRRIGATION
Area
(Hectares)
A. LAND USE
Forest and Pasture       2,500
Cultivated Area          1,500
Total                    4°,00
B. ESTIMATED VALUE OF
PRE-PROJECT PRODUCTION                   GROSS OUTPUT        NET RETURN
Per ha         Total    Per ha   Total
(US$)        (us$'ooo)   (Us$)  (us$,Too
Cultivated Land          1,500       105             160       75     110
Livestock Production                  -               30       -       20
Total                                                190              130
PART II - FLOOD PROTECTION
Area
(Hectares)
A. LAND USE
Cultivated Area          3,200
Flooded Area             2,800
Total                    6,000
B.  ESTIMATED VALUE OF
PRE-PROJECT PRODUCTION                    GROSS OUTPUT       NET RETURN
Per ha         Total     Per ha Total
(US$)        (US$1000)   (US$}. (US$'D00
Cultivated Area          3,200       125             hoo       95     300
April 10, 1967



SIZE DISTRFIUTIOM OF R(JRAL PROPERTY INJ S)UTHER.N PART OF ATLANTICO PROVINCE
SIZE OF PROPERTY                    PROPERTIES               OWNERS                     AREA
NO. OF PROPERTIES      %       NO. OF OWNERS     %       HA          %
Less than 10 ha                 267             31.3         290        35.8     1,150        3.8
10 - 100 ha                     462             54.3         426        52.6    11,773       39.0
Larger than 100 ha              123            14.4           94        11.6    17,253       57.2
TOTAL                           852           100.0          810       100.0    30,176      100l0
of which included in
the project area                ___             ---           ---        ---     4,500
AVERAGE FARM SIZE
SIZE CLASS                      AREA PER PROPERTY                     AREA PER OWNER
(Hectares)
Less than 10 ha                       4.3                                  3.9
10 - 100 ha                          25.5                                 27.6
Larger than 100 ha.                 140.2                                183.5
Source:  Feasibility report on Atlantico No. 3 Project (dated November 1965) prepared for INCORA
bY Alfonso Olarte C. Ingenieria y Construccion (Bogota); and Development and Resources
Corporation (i'Yew York).



ANTE  5
Page 1
ENGINEERING WORKS
PART I - IRRIGATION
Main Project of 3,410 ha (net)                            Unit
Main Pumping Station Near San Pedrito
Pumping Lift                                          3 meters
Pump Emplacements                                     6
Pumps, 1.33 m3/sec. each (variable pitch, axial
f£1ow)                                                3
Electric Motors, 100 hp each                          3
Main Canal
Length                                                18.9 km
Design Discharge:
At Pumping Station                                  4 mi3/sec.
At tail of canal                                    1 m /sec.
Control structures for:
Main Canal Serving Stage I                          5
Future Distributary Canals of Subsequent Stages     6
Lateral System
Pump Houses Operating Sprinkler Systems               21
Electric Motors, average t0 hp each                   63
Asbestos Cement Pressure Pipe, diameter ranging
from 6" to 12"                                        60 km
Aluminum Pipe Lateral of 2", 3" and 4" diameters      125 km
Sprinkler Heads                                       13,000
Surface Drainage
Main Drain:
Length                                              22 P
capacity at Pumping Station                         3 m /sec.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Surface Drainage (continued)                       Unit
Secondary Drains                                     50 km
Farm Drains                                          180 km
Pumping Station near San Cristobal:
Average p_mping left                               7 m
Pumps 1 m /sec.                                    3
Electric Motors, 125 hp each                       3
Total Capacity                                     3 m3/sec.
Total pump emplacements (of which one for future
stages)                                           4
Levee strengthening                                  5 km
Roads
Canal Bank Roads                                     h1 km
Access Roads to Farms                                130 km
Power System
Demand for Pumping                                   2,800 kw
Generating Stations (near San Pedrito)               1
"Package" Diesel Generators, 1,000 kw, 4,160 volt
each                                               3
Substation 4,160/33,000 v, 4,160/460 v               1
Transmission line, 33,000 v                          26 km
Transformers, 33,000/460 v, one at each pump plant   22
Pilot and Field Trial Farms
Santa Lucia Pilot Farm, 300 ha (Net) and Adjoining Field Trial Farm-/,
100 ha (Net)
Pumps, turbine, 115 liters/sec. each                 4
Diesel Engine, 105 hp                                1
Pressure pipe, Asbestos Cement, from 4" to 16"
diameter                                           23 km
a/ Planning and design yet to be made.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Pilot and Field Trial Farms (continued)                     Unit
Aluminum Pipe Laterals, 2", 3", and 4" diameters       13 km
Sprinkler Heads                                        1,900
PART II - FLOOD PROTECTION
Interceptor Channel:
Length                                                35 k
Discharge Capacity at Outfall                         35 m /sec.
Creek Inlets                                          7
PARTS I AND II
Buildings and Utilities                                     Sq. Meters
First Class Construction
16 Family houses each 130 sq.m                         2,080
4 Communal houses each 150 sq.m                        600
3 Offices each 200 sq.m                                600
1 Recreation/dining hall 200 sq.m                      200
1 Guest house 150 sq.m                                 150
Total                                             3,630
Second Class Construction
Construction camps - 300 sq.m                          300
Repair shop and store - 800 sq.m                       800
Total                                             1,100



ANDEX 5
Page 4
Utilities                                           Unit
Electricity supply - 150 kW
Water supply - 3,000 US g.p.d.
Roads - 1 km
Estimated Cost of Buildings and Utilities             (us$'000)
Buildings
First class construction 3,630 sq.m at $60           220
Second class construction 1,100 sq.m at $45         50
Furniture, etc                                       20
Sub-total                                        290
Utilities                                         (Uss0ooo)
Electricity supply facilities                        30
Water supply facilities                              25
Roads                                                20
Sub-total                                        75
Total                                        365
Contingency 15
percent           55
TOTAL             420
of which, foreign exchange 50
April 10, 19)07



Ai;T.'3EX 6
INCORA'S LAND RESETTLEMENT PROGRAM
The Land Reform Law requires INCORA to establish "family
farm units" wherever possible in its land settlement work. A
"unit" is defined as the area of land sufficient, when cultivated
in a reasonably efficient manner, to provide a normal family with
an income adequate for its maintenance, for paying off debts
incurred in acquiring or improving the land, and for the applica-
tion of a progressive improvement in housing, farm equipment and
general living standards. It is accepted that the area of the
unit will vary in relation to the soil, climate, location, relief
and type of crops to be produced on it. Subdivisions of land
smaller than-3 ha are forbidden by law.
The Land Reform Law permits INCORA to acquire farms
larger than 100 ha in irrigation projects by compulsory purchase
at valuation. In the project area more than 50 percent of the land
is occupied by such farms. INCORA has begun buying them and
expects to complete the process of acquisition before the end of
1967.
However, INCORA has no legal right to compel the owners
of farms smaller than 100 lha to sell their land. Neither is it
able to acquire by compulsory purchase all the land owqned in
holdings larger than 100 ha since under the law the owners of such
holdings may elect to retain 100 ha for their own use. In these
cases INCORA is attempting to buy up the land by negotiation. It
reports that it is being very successful in doing so. Nevertheless,
it can be expected that some substantial private farmers would have
the intention to remain in the project area.
There are a number of farms smaller than 3 ha in the
project area, some tenant-operated and some in individual owner-
ship. These are also outside INCORA's legal jurisdiction but it
is attempting to acquire as many as possible in order to consoli-
date them within the Project. It would also attempt to realign
the boundaries of holdings by exchanging land with awners, so as
to bring them into conformity with the regular shape of tlhe project's
parcels.
INCORA would insist that all private farmers in the
project area must conform to its irrigation and cropping programs.
It would be able, if necessary, to enforce its will by applying
sanctions to farmers who do not cooperate. It could exercise its
legal right to withhold water deliveries from them and could exclude
them from its programs of technical assistance and credit. It would
also be able to recover the irrigation investment relative to their
farms and could levy water charges on them whether or not they used
the water. The private landowner wiho elected to remain in the
project area would, therefore, be forced in practice to adopt the
cropping plan and agricultural practices established for the Project.
April 10, 1967



ANNEX 7
PART I -_IRRIGATION
CROP YIELDS, PRICES AND COSTS OF PRODUCTION
Final
Cropping           Price     Gross   Cost of   Net Re-
Pattern   Yield      to      Return  Product-   turn
in 1977   per ha   Farmer    per ha  ion per   Per ha
Crop            (ha)     (tons)  (US$/ton)   (US$)  ha (US$)  (US$)
Oranges          940       25       50       1,250    255       995
Tomatoes       1,810       35       25         875    400       475
Tobacco          140        3      260         780    250       530
Pineapplesa/     550       27       30         800    212       588
Papayab/         140       27       48       1,300    190     1,110
Guava            130       20       37         740    270        470
Dried Beans      140        2      110         220    110       110
Sorghum        1,845      4.5       57         260    100       160
Peanuts           c/        2-/    220         440    150       290
Main Crops     3,710
Second Crops   1,985
Total Crops    5,695
a/ Averaged over the three year growing cycle.
b/ Averaged over the three year yielding period of the four year grow-
ing cycle; in the fourth year a rotation crop can be grown.
c/ The peanut acreage (1,610 ha in the first year) would be transferred
to tomatoes by the seventh year of cropping.   The initially smaller
tomato acreage is necessitated by marketing and processing consider-
ations.
d/ Unshelled.
NOTE: Figures for gross return/ha have been rounded.
April 25, 1967



A ANNEX 8
COST ESTIMATES  /                    Page 1
Part I - Irrigation                             Local     Foreign     Total
(U-S$O-100)
1. Engineering Works
a) Main Pumping Stations                     150        440        590
b) Canals and Structures                     115        230        345
c) Sprinlcler System                         100      1,510      1,610
d) Drainage and Levee Strengthening          540        350        890
e) Roads and Structures                      115        230        345
f) Electrical Generation and Distribution     60        660        720
g) Land Preparation                           70        130        200
h) Pilot Farms                               275        465        740
i) Engineering and Supervision
(including 25% contingency)             1,075        285      1,360
Sub-total                             2,500      4,300      6,800
2. Operation and Maintenance Equipment
and Spare Parts                                -        210        210
3.  Spare Parts for Permanent Equipment            -        160        160
Sub-total                                 -        370        370
Agricultural Investment and Supporting
Services
4. Agricultural Machinery and Spare Parts          -        820        820
5. Establishment of Perennial Crops and
Tobacco Drying Facilities                    220          -        220
6. Orange Packing-house and Equipment
(including 25% contingency)                  170        200        370
7.  Establishment of Field Trial Farms and
Nurseries                                     90        220        310
Sub-total                               480      1,240      1,720
Common Services and General Administration
8. Consulting Services                           120      1,520      1,640
9. Vehicles                                        -        150        150
10.  Buildings and Utilities                      220         30        250
Sub-total                               340      1,700      2,040
TOTAL Part I                          3,320      7,610     10,930
1/ Contingencies of 15% are included in all items except where otherwise
specified.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Part II - Flood Protection                    Local     Foreign      Total
(U-$'000)
11. Engineering Works
a) Interceptor Channel and Structures       390         310        700
b) Access Roads to Farms and Drainage        370        250        620
c) Contingency 15%                          115          85        200
d) Engineering and Supervision
(including 25% Contingency)                          65         180
Sub-total                             990         710      1,700
12. Operation and Maintenance Equipment            -         50         50
13. Buildings and Utilities                       30         10         hO
Sub-total                              30          60         90
TOTAL Part II                        1,020        770      1,790
Other Expenditures
14. Buildings and Utilities Allocable to
Future Stages                                110         20        130
15. Feasibility Studies for Future
Stages of Irrigation (nil Contingency)       200        100        300
16. Training Abroad (nil Contingency)
a) Atlantico Project Personnel                 -        160        160
b) General Strengthening of INCORA Staff       -        340        340
17. Interest during Construction (6% per
annum on IBRD loan)                        1,290          -      1,290
18. Future Additions to Orange Packing-
house Equipment to complete the
Project (including 25% Contingency)          300          -        300
19. Land Purchases by INCORA                     500          -        500
Total Other Expenditures             2,400        620      3,020
TOTAL Project Costs                  6,740      9,000     15,740
April 21, 1967



Z X P E N D I T U R I S C H E D U LE 
(US$ '000)                                                                                                 Additional Ireet-t
PreUtdary                        Diebors,olt Period                                                                                                            f         Itqoired to Couplet.
(1966)                  (1967)                   (1968)                   (1969)                   (1970)                   (1971)                    Total                 the ProJect
Local For ign    Total  Local   Foreign   Total  Local   Forign    Total  local   Forign    Total  Local   Foreign   Total  Looal   Foreign   Total   Lcal   Foreign   Total   Local  Foredgn   Total
PART I - IRRIDATION
Irri1atloo 1 stem  nd R.I.ted &pondituree
k=.Includg 5>A coot   0e1)
1. Construction of Irrigation Syet,s and
On-fare Work, nd Enoerino-                    250    100      350     190     390      580     370     750    1,120     870    1,700   2,530     820    1,hOO    2,220                           2,500    h,3h0    6,840
2. Operation acd Maintenc    Equip_sntv                                                                                             100      100             110      110                                       210     no
3. Span Parta for Perenet EquipountY                                                                                                100      100              60       60                                       16o     160
h.    Sub-total                                   250    100      350     190     390      580     370     750    1,120     870    1,900   2,730     820    1,570   2,390                            2,500    4,710    7,110
griculinral In-eetocnt ad Supoorttng
Service. (including cootinoecote)ifa
5. Agricultural Machinonof                                                        100      100                                      300      300              h20     120                                       8So      820
6. Eatabliehnet of Perennial Crepe
nd Tobacco Drying facilitie-                                           60               60                               10               10     150              150                              220               220
7. Orange Packing Facilities and
Equipcsnt (including 25%
cootingencios 0/  w                                                                                                                                                       170      200      37*    170      200      370    100      200      300
8. E.tabltht of Field Trial FPres nd
Nur-eriee                                     10    100      lhO      10      30       10      10      50       60                                                                                 60      180      400
9.    Sob-total                                    10    100      11o      70     130      200      10      50       61      10     300      310     150      h20     570     170      200      370   h1o     1Zo00    1,650
COn    Srcicee nd General Adnietration
(including 15% Coctinrenclce)
10. Consulting Services                                                     10     150      160      20     330      350      30      290     320      30      380     hio      30      370     1oo     120    1,520   1I0.O
U. VebiclesW                                                                        20       20              0o       ho              ho       10               50      50                                      iSo      150
12. Buildings ad Utilitiee YV                                               10      10       50     180      20      200                                                                                t'lo   i  30o   -,h
13.    Sob-total                                                            50     180      230     200     390      590      30     330      360      30      h30     h60      30      370     100     3bo    1,700    2,0.0
1l. Total Part I - Irrigation                      290    200      190     310     700    1,010     5o    1,190    1.770     910    2,530   3,0oo   1,000    2,W10   3,h20     200      570     770   3,29     7,610   10,900
PART II - FLOOD PROTECTION (macl.ding iSS
6ontingmci.ej
15. Interceptor Channl, Drange ad Rads                                                               30      20       50     500      360     860     260      180     hho     200      150     350     990      710    1,70D
16. Operation  nd laintonance Bq.ip3ent                                                                                               50       50                                                                 50       50
17. Buildings   nd Utilitie  f                                                                       30      10       ho                                                                                 30       10       io
18.    Sob-total                                                                                     60       30      90     500      lO      91n0    260      180    b1o      200      150      350  1,020      770    1,790
OTHER EUPENMTURS
20. Buildings ad.tilitiee Allocable for
Future Stages/(including 15% contingencies)                                                    110       20     130                                                                                110       20      130
21. Feaibility Studies for Future Stagee of
Irrigation                                                                                      50       20      TO     100       50     150      50       30       80                              200     100      300
Tralning Abrd (1o Contingencie)
22. Training for Atloitico No. 3 Project                                            16       16              2b       2b              18       h8               48      hO               2b       21             160      160
23. Oseer-l Strengtheinig of INODRA Stoff                                           26       26              50       50              72       72               96      96               96      96              3bO      3bo
Sub-total - Trening                                                          42       42              7h       7h              120     120              l1h     lbb              120      120             500      500
2h.    Sob-tota  - Othe Eapenditer-s                                                 s2     h2      160     111.     27h     100      170     270      50      17h     22h              120      120    310      620      930
25. TOTAL - Bffore Intaroct During Con truction    290    200      190     310     712    1,052     BGo    1,33h   2,131   1,510    3,070   1,580   1,310    2,77h    h,08h    hoo      8ho    1,2ho   4,620   9,0oo   1161d     100      2U0      300
26. lIterest D-ring Con.trectlon                                            30               30     100              100     230              230     h1o              1o      520               520  1,290             1,290
27. Total DLevelop  t Coet                         290po/  200     490     312    '712    1,082     900   1,334    2,231   1,71o    3,070   1,810   1,720    2,77h    h,b9h    920      SbO    1,760   5,910   9000    b,5910   6,210    9,200   15;a4M
28. L-nd P-rchace.                                                         250                      250                                                                                                 50O               500
29. Total ProJect Cost                             290    200      490     s90     712    1,332   1,150   1,331    2,18h   1,7ho    3,070    1,810  1,720    2,77h  h1,91      920      8ho    1,760  6,hlo    9,000   15,hD0/  6,5bO    9,2oo   15,710
I.cl.d. $60 thuoeend of foreign e.chahge not disbherable eader the I3RD loan.                           e/ The coot of the Bohk financed preJect.
Dtlil are given it An-e 30. 
0/ Cont-ngencies are 15  on all iteno  eccept Orange Paching Facilities and Eqipament (255) and opatriates (Nil).                                                                                                                              e
Allocation of Buildings nd Utilities trrigaticn 60%; flood protectioc uS, and foture etogno 30%



ANNEX 10
ALLOCATION OF THE PROCEEDS OF THRE LAN1
Total Cost
Cross -scference                                including
to Cost Estimates     Number    UJnit Price    Contingencies
(Annex 8)                    (US$'OO°)       (US$'000)
1.   Civil Engineering Contracts                                                                  2,960
(of which contingency)                 lb, ld, le, lg,                                      (6110)
lh, li, lj, 6,
10, 11, 13 and 14
Equipment and Spare Parts for Works
2.   Generators                               if                                                    580
3.   pumps                  )                                                                       290
h.   Line equipment         )                                                                       190
5.   Valves and accessories )                 la and lc                                             100
6.   Sprinkler equipment    )                                                                       610
7.   Asbestos cement pipes  )                                                                       520
8.   Sub-total                                                                                    2,290
(Of which contingency)                                                                      (300)
Agricultural Machinery                    4
9.   Agricultural tractors                                                                          350
10.   Implements                                                                                     220
11.   Spare parts                                                                                    140
12.   Contingency                                                                                    110
13.   Sub-total                                                                                      820
1b. Orange Packin -house dquipment             6                                                     200
(O whih contingency)                                                                          (50)
15.   Fielcl Trial Farm Equipment and
Plantirg Material                        7                                                     220
Of which contingency)                                                                       (30)
Operation ancl Maintenance
Equipment and .Sare Parts                2 and 12
1S.   Grader                                                            1          33                 33
l7.   Dragline                                                          1          55                 55
13.   Low-boy trailer                                                   1          25                 25
19.   Road roller                                                       1          19                 19
20.   Tractor (D4)                                                      1          28                 28
21.   Dump truck                                                        1           5                  5
2?.   Trucks                                                            3           3.5               10
P*.   Lrne repair truck                                                1           5                 5
2h.   Worlcshop equipment                                                                            40
25.   Aadio communications equipment                                                                  go
26.   Contingency                                                                                     20
27.   Sub-total                                                                                      260
Vehicles                                 9
28.   Jeeps                                                            34           2.5               85
29.   Picklups                                                          9           2.5              23
30.   Motor cycles                                                     40           0.5               20
31.   Buses                                                             1           3.5                3
32.   Spare parts                                                       -            -                19
33.   Sub-total                                                                                      160
(Of which contingency)                                                                       (20)
Tecimical Assistanc r and rainipa        8, i5 anc 16
31.   Consulting services                                                                          1,600
(Of ihich contingency)                                                                      (200)
35.   Feasibility studies for future stages                                                          100
38.   Training5
37.   Sub-total.                                                                                  2,100
..    TOTAIL                                                                                       9,0
I/    The amounts sjioin reloseent the amounts under the relevant item, Or tell Cost astimites (Annex 6) or
approprlate nor-tions thereot.



PROJECT CASH FLOW - RHCUIHtEN7 EXPENDITURES AN) INODME
Y E A R
Prelim,nary       I       II      III        IV        V                   VI     VII      VIII       IX         X       XI        XII     XIII      XIV       XV
T R 0 U S A H D S    0 F   U.S.    D 0 L L A R I )
PART I - IRIAIO-IOI
CASH OUTFLOW
R Operatos and Maintenance                                      -           21        21       21       121      221                 221     221       321       344      23!       234      234       334      344       23t       23h
Replacemet:
2     CiovL Works
0. On-farnWorks                                                                             -             -         -                                58       55        58        58       58        58       58        56       08
Tccnmisal AssotLance to Farm                                            10        10       40       160      16o                 160      160      16o       160      16o       160      160       16o      16o       163       160
S   Coe.-.. Scrolces and General Admisstration
'6i    of total for such purpo.e.)                        34           60       80       120      120      120                  120     120       120      120       120      120       120      120       120       120      12f.
CcE-tr-ate Managemenit                                                 (Included is Capital Expenditures)                        270     270       270      270        95       95        95       52        52        -        -
7   lul-to:al                                                   34          91       1lL      181      460       501                 771      771      929       952      667       667      667       724       734      572       572
*' ibs-ta-ce Credit Granted                                  _8_                   _      _           86       218                  27      68       223      133        13      -         -        -          _         _        -
['"'2  - Recurrent Expendltures for PART I                 34.          91      ill       181      487       719                 798     839      1152     1085       680      667       667      724       734       572      572
ASII [IFLDW
1,'  R,1 cy,ent for Farm Machinery by Operators                  -            -                           75      180                 205      205      205       130       25        -         -        -         -         -        -
Operation and Maintenamee Cnarge                            -                                        -       263                 263      263      263       276      276       276      276       276       276      276       276
KepI acenet Charge:
L'   -elwrehn                                                                             -                                             -       -        15       215       15        15       15        15        15       15        15
1'.  O-farm Works                                                -                                                                      63      63        63       63       63        63        63       63        63       63        63
1'.  Project Charge (for Technical Assistance,
G-neral Adimtistration and Coomon ServIces,
and Debt Sexie(N)                              g                       87        85       40        -       169                 199      234      277       290      301       321      352       386       413      427       435
H'' Ne  P,-,f,t on Yarketing Orange. (Not including            --3                                                                            3         3       2          2       6          2       a         2         2         3
cs--a:r.tes i costs)                                      _            -         -        _         -        _                    3       3         3        23       !2        63       82       110      122       126      135
t 3m- l.1 - Cash Inflow for PART I                         -            87       85        40       75      6t2                  730     768       826      997       722      738       788      86o       883       908      92!
11  VecI-c or Deficit for PAR.
(:'In.. sign for D.eficit)t-T I-34                                             -26     -114      -112      -107                 -68     -71      -326      -88        42       71       121      136       149       336      352
'ART II - FLOOD PROTECTION
CASH OUTFLOW
IC    Jperat,on and Maintenanc e                                 10           10       10       10       145       55                   6o      6o        6o       6o        6o       60        60       60        6o        6o       6o
'    T-chnical Assistance to Faeners                             -            -        -         10       20       30                   45      45       !.5       !.5      4.5       4.5       45       45        45        45       1.5
20.  Cfmncc  Srcic-s and General Adhminstration                  6           10       15        20       20       20                   20      20        20       20        20       20        20        20       20        20       20
't.  Total                                                       16          2o        25       40        85      105                  125     125      125       125       125      125       125      125       125       125      125
CASH INFLOW
22.   Project Charge                                             _--                                                80                 125     150       150       150      150       150      150       150      150       150       150
2 *-  Surpls or Deficit for PART II
(Minus sign for Deficit)                                 -16          -20       -25      -4o      -85       -25                  -        25       25        25       25        25       25        25        25       25        25
21,   ThtIa SurluI      Deficit before
2 ebt Servic-e  MInu 'Sign for Deficit)                   -50         -24       -51     -181      -497     -132                 -68      -46     -301       -63       67        96       146      161       174       311      327
25.   IBRD Loan Charges                                          -            30      100       230      410       520                 540     810       810       810      810       810      810       810       810      810       810
26.   Recurrcnt Deficit after Debt Service                      -50          -54      -151     -41t     -907      -652                -608     -856    -1111     -873      -743     -71!      -664      -649     -636      -499      -483
27.   Commns Services and General hfl±.ttUot en
not allocable to Stae I                                   16          28        59       60       60        60                  60       60       60        60       60        60       60        60        60       60        60
28.   Pr_jeit Deficit                                            -66         -82      -210     -.71     -967      -712               -668      -916      -71      -933     -803      -77!     -724      -709      -696      -559     -543



PART I
G.HOSS AND NET VALUE OF IRRIGATED CROP PRODUCTION
MTS ' 000)
1.  Year                              I        II      III       IV        V        VI      VII     VIII       Ix        X        XI      XII     XII       XIV        XV      XIV
2.  Gross Production                31h      254       186       45    2,635    2,926     3,002    2,980    3,260    3,483    3,633     3,735    3,9o4    3,968     4,032    4,064
3.  Rroduction C    ast;!           198      1h6       120       42    1,28     1 1,25    1,252    1,161    1,223    1,276     1,325    1,336    1,342    1,350     1,369    1,375
h.  Net Return-/(2-3)               116      108        66        3    1,354    1,673     1,750    1,810    2,037    2,207     2,308    2,399    2,562     2,618    2,663    2,689
5. Het Farm Income
(Available for the
paynent of O&M and     b/
other project charges)-         127      122        80       13    1,495    1,841    1,939     2,016    2,244    2,419    2,528     2,628    2,777    2,832    2,880     2,905
a/ The cost of production includes imputed wages for family labor.
b/  Derived from line (4) by adding the value of family labor and deducting the interest on cost of production (9% per annum)
financed by annual production credit.



PART II
FLOOD   PRCTCZTTON  PER.ITS
A. ,tDUCTIOC TE FLnO(D DAHAOE IT: PRESENTLY CULTIVATED AREA
Total Grosa Return               Present Estimated              Total Gross Return               Post-Project Esti-ated          CAlter 'ed.,tl opn
Cropped Area          oss Return         (Before Deducting Flood Dosage)           Flood fOraeg            (After Deducting Flood Dmage)              Flood E9ue                   flood la-a,e
_  Xhk)           (US$ per ha)                   (   .S oCO)                                                     CuR  O  (n'OO)                 S            US$, 000              Sooo)
F%rzt :rop                  3,200                  89                           285                     20             57                        228                        5             lb                     271
ic-ond Crop                 3,200                  89                           285                     40            I]                         in                        10             28                     2Ca
Increase in annual total grus return - UB$12,3099                                                                                        5_
F.  .C.R.EASE IN NET PRODUCTION AFTER FLOOD PROTUTION KNASURES PUT INTO EFFECT (AT FULL DEVFIPIIRT - 10-lEiR DEVEWPL T PErIOD)
Cropped      Present        Present Cost     Present Ret    Full Devolopment      FoIl Oovelopient     Poll Dereloprent    Incremntal      Inocraental Nut      flood       (After aeductieg fIood
Area       roas Return     of Production      Returr          Gross Return      Cost of Production      NRt Return        Net Return        Produ tion           nag               Da-ape)
(ha)       fU35sezap er bl)                 (US8 per h)       (CUS per ha?        (CS pertrA)           CUS$( nr ha)      (W4 Ur ha)         (W8 000)        £     oo             (isooo)
First Crop           3.200          89               19               7T               171                   67                  id4                3k              109            5       5              lob
scood Crop           3,200          89               19               70               1n                    67                 1lo                 34              109           10      1                9R
202
Increase in total not production at full dselopent - t83$20jEG
C. NET PRODUCTION IN AREA PROUOPT WDER CULTIVATION (AT FOII IEVflO   T - 5-TER MD   OMET PYRIOD)
Total Not Prodoctios
Cropped Are              Gross Returt             Cost of Production             lit Retor'             Setal Net ProductIo               Flod Do ne                (After oeducting lood floape)
(ha)                 (Us$i per ha)              (USS rwer ha)       (Ja         r,et C ba)          _   (US   ' ODO)                 £                                     uo o  csS$'ooo)
First Crop              2,800                     171                         67                        104                          291                      5         15                           276
Second Crop             2,800                     171                         67                        lfb                          291                     10         29                           262
538
Total set production at full development -US$,8OO
SMOUHY OF ARUAL NRE EB'TS (ROUNDED)
loediatoly on
(Before deducting Project coste)                                 Cooplotten of          At Foll
Flood Control Works    Daelopmnt
($%,ODD)            (USSioOw)
A. Reduction in Flood dasage                                            128                 128
B. Increase in net romdotion in preoently esitteatod area                 -                 202
C. Net production in additional area brcught under cultivation                              538
Total                  128                 868



