RESTRICTED
FtILE     C0Oy                         Report No. P-552
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE LA-REFORMA AGRARIA
COLOMBIA
FOR THE ATLANTICO NO. 3 IRRIGATION PROJECT
June 15, 1967



INrERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
'REPORT AID RYCO?MIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE INSTTTUTO COLOMBIANO
DE IS RF2ORMA AGRARIA FOR THE ATLANTICO NO. 3 IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$9 million to the
Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma Agraria (INCORA).
PART I: HISTORICAL
2.        At the end of 1965, INCORA presented to the Bank a study entitled
"Report on Atlantico Project No. 3, Irrigated Agricultural Development"
and requested financing for the foreign exchange cost of irrigating an
area of about 35,500 hectares. Appraisal missions visited Colombia in
June and September 1966. Given the technical problems of placing sp large
an area under intensive cultivation at one time, agreement was reached to
formulate a smaller project for approximately 10,000 hectares of land in
the southern sector of the Atlantico zone.
3.        Negotiations on the proposed loan began in lWashington on May 26,
1967. IMCORA was represented by Dr. Enrique Penalosa, General Manager of
ITCORA, Mr. Carlos Villamil and Mr. Hernan Ramirez of the INCORA staff;
the Government was represented by Ambassador Hernan Echavarria.
The proposed Bank Loan would be for US$9 million.  This would
bring the Bank's total lending to Colombia to US$455 million, in addition
to an IDA Credit of $19.5 million made in 1961. The status of previous
Bank loans and of the single IDA Credit, as of May 31', 1967, is surnmarized
below:
Loan                                               Credit (US$ Million)
Year   No.  Borrower              Purpose    Bank IDA      No.  Undisbursed
1949-60     Loans fully disbursed           178.6
1961   295 Republic of Colombia   Roads      19.5                    3.0
1961        Republic of Colombia  Roads           19.5      5        5.0
1961   282  Emp. de Medellin      Power      22.0                    0.5
1962   313  Emp. Electrica de
Bogota             Power      50.0                    1.4
1963   339  CVC and CHIDRAL       Power       8.8
1963   347  Electribol            Power       5.0                    0.5
1963   343 Ferrocarriles
Nacionales         Railways   30.0                    2.0
1963   345  Paz del Rio           Steel      30.0                   12.0



-2 -
Amount
Loan                                           Credit   (US$ Million)
Year   No.  Borrower             Purpose   Bank  IDA   No.     Undisbursed
1964   369  Emp. de Medellin     Power     45.0                  3h.7
1966   451  Banco de la
Republica         Industry  25.0                  23.9
1966   h48  Rep. of Colombia     Agricul-
ture    16.7                  16.6
Total (less cancellations)                [30.6 19.5
of which has been repaid                 88.h
Total now outstanding                     3L2.2
Amount sold                    16.3
of which has been repaid     13.6         2.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA            339.5 19.5
Total undisbursed                          94.6  5.0              99.6
In addition, a loan to Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (TELECOM)
equivalent to US$16.0 million, was signed on June 15.
5.         Delays in disbursements have been experienced with Loan/Credit
295-CO/5-CO for highways which resulted in the Closing Date being twice
extended.  The final Closing Date of the loan is June 30, 1967.   It is
expected that an amount of up to $3.0 million will be cancelled from the
loan and credit, about two-thirds of which will be from the credit account.
The delays have largely been due to poor organization and to cumbersome legal
and administrative procedures in the awarding and paying of contracts.
The project was also adversely affected by delays in the provision of
adequate local funds. However, in the past few monthis certain steps have
been taken which are resulting in an improved administration and execution
of the project. The Ministry of Public Works is undergoing reorganization
and new senior personnel have been appointed; management consultants are
being contracted to advise on organizational matters; a semi-autonomous
National Highway Fund has also been established which has made possible
the reduction in administrative delays, and which assures availability of
local funds for highway construction and maintenance.
6.         It is expected that in the near future a proposed loan of
US$1.h million to the Republic of Colombia for highway studies will be
presented to the Executive Directors for approval.
7.         IFC has made 18 investments and underwriting commitments in
Colombia totalling US$15.3 million.



- 3 -
PART II:  DESCRIPTION OF THF PROPOSED LOAN
8.        Borrower:              Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma Agraria
(INCORA).
Guarantor:            Republic of Colombia.
Amount:               The equivalent in various currencies of
US$9 million.
Purpose:              To assist in financing the settlement
and development of 9,900 hectares
of land in the Department of
Atlantico in northern Colombia.
Amortization:          25 years (including 6 years of grace);
39 semi-annual repayments beginning on
October 15, 1973 and ending on October 15,
1992.
Interest Rate:         6 percent.
Commitment Charge:    3/8 of 1 percent.
PART III: THE PROJECT
9.        An Appraisal of the project (No. TO-589) is attached.
10.       Colombia's population of about 18.7 million is growing at the
rate of some 3.2 percent per annum. Half of Colombia's population lives
in rural areas and depends almost entirely on agriculture for its l-veli-
hood. Agriculture (excluding forestry and fishing) accounts for almost
30 percent of GNP and produces 73 percent of exports. Yet, the growth
rate in the output of Colombia's basic food crops - maize, wheat, rice,
beans, potatoes, fresh vegetables and fresh fruits - has been unsatis-
factory. The cultivated area has just been keeping pace with the increase
in population. Improved agricultural practices have not been introduced
on a scale wide enough to bring about a general improvement in yields.
11.       INCORA is a public agency writh administrative autonomy established
in 1961 to implement the agrarian reform law enacted that year. It has
become a major Government agency for agricultural development. Besides
its mandate with respect to land distribution, it has complementary objec-
tives such as developing unused and underutilized land and increasing
agricultural production and productivity. INCORA has a number of other
irrigation projects under investigation or under construction. INCORA
would have overall responsibility for the project. Since the project is
technically complicated and requires a high degree of experience and skill,
and recognizing the limited technical resources available in Colombia,
INCORA would engage consultants in the planning, operation and management of
the project until and for at least five years beyond the completion of
construction.



12.       The project is the first stage of intensive agricultural
development in the southern part of the Department of Atlantico near the
Caribbean Coast. It would comprise two parts: Part I - the development
of 3,900 hectares for irrigation; and Part II - flood protection works
for an area of 6,000 hectares. The irrigated area would grow primarily
high value crops for export.
13.       Part I would include a complete irrigation and drainage system
and the on-farm works needed for intensive cropping; purchasing agricultural
equipment; establishing perennial crops; setting up marketing facilities,
including an orange packing plant; creating field trial farms; providing
agricultural management, including technical assistance to farmers accom-
panied by credit facilities; preparing feasibility studies for future
stages of the project; and training personnel abroad.
14.       Part II would consist of the construction of an interceptor
channel to protect from flooding an area of 6,000 hectares of cultivable
land, of which 3,200 hectares are presently under traditional cultivation;
auxiliary civil works and the introduction of improved cropping practices
under rain-fed agriculture.
15.       INCORA would acquire most of the land in the project area and
settle farmers on it in small holdings.
16.       The proposed Bank loan of US$9 million would provide 57 percent
of the estimated investment cost of the project. The remainder, totalling
about US$6.7 million, would be met by Government budgetary contributions
to INCORA.
17.       The proposed loan includes the fees of foreign consultants, the
foreign cost of training Colombian technicians abroad, the presently
estimated foreign exchange cost of the civil works and the cost of ma-
chinery, equipment and materials. The machinery, equipment and materials
would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding with
Colombian suppliers participating with a preference of 15 percent in lieu
of customs duties. Colombian civil workcs contractors will be permitted
to submit bids for civil works construction and installation without
preference. Disbursements for civil works will be on a percentage basis.
Because of the extensive studies required to prepare the loan and the
importance of cormencing experimentation on the types of crops to be grown
in the project area, some financing of past expenditures would be permitted
for part of the studies and for the Santa Lucia pilot farm. Reimburse-
ments for these purposes would be limited to payments made after June 30,
1966. It is not expected that such reimbursements would exceed US$200,000.
18.       Crops grown would be primarily of high value, and would be
largely for export.  Some low value crops would be produced as inter-crops
during the development period of perennial crops or as rotation crops.
Marketing and processing arrangements would be provided. At full pro-
duction, the aggregate net increased return resulting from expanded agri-
cultural production in the irrigation part of the project is estimated at



about US$2 million annually, yielding a rate of return of about 11 percent
to the economy. The flood protection investment would yield a rate of
return to the economy of over 25 percent. There would be a gross contri-
bution to foreign exchange earnings of about US$3 million per annum at
full development in 1982. Diversification of agriculture, to increase
export earnings and decrease the high degree of dependence upon coffee, is
a primary goal of Colombian economic policy.
19.       Farmers would be able to pay for annual farm operations (in-
cluding charges for machinery services and other farm inputs), and for
project operation and maintenance and replacement costs. So as not to
reduce the farmers' incentives, however, it is proposed that the recovery
of the investment cost be collected only to the extent practicab].e.
INCORA would have a study completed in two years from the date of a loan
to assess the capacity of farmers to repay investment costs and establish
criteria for such repayments in consultation with the Bank.
20.       The Government has assured INCORA of a certain stable basic
income in several ways. One is a legal requirement that the budget
committee of the lower house of Congress cannot accept a national budget
bill unless such bill contains an appropriation request for INCORA of
not less than 100 million pesos. In addition, INCORA receives the income
from a series of Government bonds issued to it as basic capital. INCORA
is attempting to increase its funds, and if current proposals are adopted,
its stabilized income would reach the equivalent of about US$39 million a
year. INCORA has received two loans from U.S. Government funds for its
supervised credit program, together with a loan for irrigation and farm
settlement from the Inter-American Development Bank.  These projects have
been implemented satisfactorily. Besides being Guarantor of the proposed
loan, the Government has undertaken to provide INCORA with funds sufficient
to carry out the project.
PART IV:  LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
21.       The draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as well as the report
of the Committee Drovided for in Article III, Section b(iii), of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
22.       These draft Agreements conform to the general pattern of recent
agreements for irrigation projects.
PART V: THE ECONOMY
23.       An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Colombia" (WH-172a) was circulated to the Executive Directors
on May 29, 1967.



24.       The report notes that since September 1965, and particularly
since the assumption of office by the new Government in August 1966,
economic policy improved appreciably. Persistent fiscal deficits were
changed to surpluses in 1966, and the rate of expansion of money supply
in 1966 was reduced considerably in comparison to that of the two previous
years. After a long period in which the Government had been slow to
adjust public utility tariffs, a more flexible policy in this respect was
adopted in 1966. In the coffee sector, where the Government had previously
been reluctant to reduce the domestic support price for coffee in line
with the declining international price, a more realistic price policy was
initiated in 1966. The new Government has given clear evidence of its
intention to continue these policies and also to establish the sector
policies required for the successful execution of the development program
and the realization of its econcmic benefits. Noteworthy in this respect
are the incentives for the production of basic foodstuffs already in
operation; the eight-fold increase in the gasoline tax, which will, in
addition to its fiscal impact, have the effect of permitting a more
rational distribution of traffic among different modes of transportation;
and the taking of the initial steps towards the interconnection of the
major power producers.
25.       The financial policies outlined above provide a basis for im-
proving the management of the balance of payments, and in addition the
Government has recently adopted measures of exchange rate and import
policy directed towards this objective. Colombia's most critical eco-
nomic problem has been and still is to reconcile her aspirations for
accelerated economic development with the existence of a structural dis-
equilibrium in the balance of payments, arising from a large dependence
upon coffee exports. In the past, with the international price of coffee
declining, export earnings could not finance the imports required to sus-
tain a satisfactory rate of growth. Difficulties in managing the balance
of payments have been chronic because of a tendency to maintain exchange
rates that were overvalued in relation to the need to provide incentives
for non-coffee exports, for petroleum investment, and to restrain the
demand for imports. On March 22, 1967, the new Government has undertaken
a reorientation of its balance of payments policy by means of Decree-
Law )44. This Decree-Law created two principal exchange markets; one of
them, the certificate market, has a fluctuating exchange rate to be deter-
mined by market forces with only limited intervention by the authorities.
Although in the first weeks of operation of the new system, exchange rate
flexibility has been less than expected, a flexible exchange rate policy
is something new in Colombia, and if managed properly, would for the first
time provide a basis for encouraging the development of non-coffee sources
of foreign exchange.
26.       The service ratio on existing debt is estimated at 17 percent
in 1967. If, as is now expected, the new balance of payments policies
are successful in stimulating the development of non-coffee exports and
taking account of the new borrowing planned for the 1967-70 period, this
ratio would remain at about 17 percent through 1970.



- 7 -
27.       The Government has submitted to the Bank for distribution to
the Consultative Group a project list requiring from US$300 to 350 mil-
lion of new external commitments from the Bank and other members of the
Group during the period from July 1967 to June 1968. The projects in-
cluded in the list will become the heart of the development program that
the Government is preparing. On the basis of the policy measures which
have already been taken and in the expectation that the new exchange
system will be managed so as to achieve the objective of making the ex-
ternal sector's prospects consistent with the development effort, Colombia
merits full support in its external financing plans.  Both external lenders
and the Government will, however, wish to observe closely the degree of
success in the critical effort to enlarge and diversify Colombia's sources
of exchange earnings on which her long-term growth prospects rest.
PART VI: COMPLIANCE WITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREEIVENT
28.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII: RECOMMENDATION
29.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to the Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform,
in the amount of the equivalent of US$9,000,000 to be guaranteed
by the Republic of Colombia.
RESOLVEE:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Colombian Institute for
Agrarian Reform, to be guaranteed by the Republic of Colombia, in an amount
in various currencies equivalent to nine million United States dollars
(US$9,000,000), to mature on and prior to October 15, 1992, to bear interest
at the rate of six percent ( 6%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms
and conditions as shall be substentially in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Atlantico No. 3 Irri-
gation Project) between the Bank and the Colombian Institute for Agrarian
Reform and the form of Guarantee Agreement (Atlantico No. 3 Irrigation
Project) between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank, which have been
presented to this meeting.
George D. Wloods
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
Date: June 15, 1967



