ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
E693
January 10, 2003
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Addis Ababa
January 10, 2003
Environmental Assessment Management
Frameworkfor the Pastoral Community
Development Project
' 2  rk   i   '-\,,;+.i > r X   - , ' 
Washington, DC 20036 
Telephone +1 202 466 9090          %
httP://www.erm.comn






Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Addis Ababa
January 10th, 2003
Environmental Assessment Management
Frameworkfor the Pastoral Community
Development Project
For and on behalf of
Environmental Resources Management
Approved by: Kurt Lonsway
Signed:
Position: Technical Director
Date: December 20, 2002
Environmental Resources Management
1001 Connecticut Ave, NW, Suite 1115
Washington, DC 20036
Telephone +1 202 466 9090
Facsimile +1 202 466 9191
http://vww.erm.com






CONTENTS
1          INTRODUCTION                                                I
1.1        ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK               2
1.1        LAYOUT OF THIS REPORT                                       2
2          DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT                         4
2.1        BACKGROUND TO THE PROJECT                                   4
2.2        THE PROPOSED PROJECT AND PROGRAM                            4
2.3        SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOODS COMPONENT                           8
2.4        PASTORAL RISK MANAGEMENT COMPONENT                          9
2.5        PROJECT SUPPORT AND POLiCy REFORM COMPONENT                10
2.6        BUDGET                                                     11
2.7        PROJECT COORDINATION AND IMPLEMENTATION                    11
3          METHODOLOGYAND CONSULTATION                                13
3.1        INTRODUCTION                                               13
3.2        APPLICATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES                    13
3.3        METHODOLOGY                                                15
4          POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT                                   18
4.1        INTRODUCTION                                               18
4.2        POLICY AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT    18
4.3        RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION           19
4.4        ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT      20
4.5        TRADITIONAL GOVERNANCE                                     23
5          BASELINE INFORMATION                                       25
5.1        BASIC DATA                                                 25
5.2        PASTORALISM                                                35
5.3        OTHER LIVELIHOOD -ENVIRONMENT LINKAGES                     38
6          IMPACTS                                                    40
6.1        OVERALL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT                               40
6.2        LOCALISED NEGATIVE IMPACTS                                 45
6.3        CUMULATIVE IMPACTS                                         45
6.4        STRATEGIC IMPACTS                                          45
7          ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES                                   51



7.1        PCDP WITHOUT ESSENTIAL ACTIVITIES                            51
7.2         TOP-DOWN APPROACH TO SERVICE DELIVERY                       51
7.3        NO ADHERENCE TO SCREENING AND ASSESSMENT                     51
7.4        'No PROJECT' SITUATION                                       52
8           ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN                               53
8.1         KEY PRINCIPLES                                              53
8.2         RECOMMENDATIONS FOR MAINSTREAMING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
MANAGEMENT INTO THE PCDP                                     54
8.3         SENSITISATION AND TRAINING ON ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES          57
8.4         ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM                             64
8.5        MONITORING AND EVALUATION                                    64
8.6         COSTS                                                       64
8.7         NExT STEPS TO TAKE IN IMPLEMETING THE EMP                   65



Executive Summary
This is the report of a study to produce an environmental assessment management
frameworkfor the proposed Pastoral Community Development Project (PCDP) for which
the Government of Ethiopia has requested IDA financing. The objectives of this study are:
* To assess the potential environmental impacts of the proposed Project, whether positive
or negative, and propose mitigation measures which will effectively address these
impacts;
* To inform the project preparation process of the potential impact of different
alternatives, and relevant mitigation measures;
* To establish clear directives and methodologies for the environmental screening of sub-
projects to befinanced under the proposed Project.
The study was carried outfrom October-December 2002: two consultancy team missions
to Ethiopia from 20-30 October 2002 and 18 November - 6 December 2002, the second of
which coincided with a World Bank pre-appraisal mission, and subsequently the
preparation of this draft EA report.
The project
The Project will consist of three components:
* Sustainable Livelihoods component (indicative cost USD 20 million). This
componentfocuses on community driven development. It will establish decentralized
and participatory planning at zvoreda and community levels, and finance communihy
development projects through a Communihy Investment Fund (CIF), identified by
communities with the support of woreda administrations, regional government, and
NGOs.
* Pastoral Risk Management component (indicative cost USD 30 million). This
component will support drought contingency planning, community-based early
warning systems and strategic infrastructure, and a drought preparedness and
contingency fund.
* Project Support and Policy Reform component (indicative cost USD 10 million).
This component includes (i) project coordination, field services, financial
management, communication and monitoring and evaluation, and (ii) policy and
institutional reforms.
The PCDP will focus on a selected set of woredas in Afar and Somali regions, and the
Borana area of Oromiya region (all pastoral areas of Ethiopia), with a view to gradual
scaling up as the project progresses.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                WORLD BANK



Major EAfindings
Environmental sustainabilihj is fundamental to sustainable pastoral livelihoods, and
107lered vulnerability to drought. Therefore environmental sustainability isfundamental
to the success or failure of the PCDP. There is a precarious balance between two veny
different scenarios:
*   On the one hand, under a scenario of a successful PCDP which works in accordance
with the vision and approach set out in project documents, the PCDP would make a
significantly positive contribution to environmental sustainability in pastoral areas;
*   On the other hand, under a scenario of a failing project, the PCDP would contribute
to markedfurther decline in environmental sustainability in pastoral areas.
Discussions with the World Bank pre-appraisal mission indicates that they are fully
appreciative of this conclusion. Indeed, the institutional, social, land reform and other
analyses that are being carried out during preparation will lay the ground for the first,
successful, scenario.
This conclusion emphasizes the importance of the Environmental Assessment
Management Framework, set out in this report, to ensure that environmental
sustainability isfully mainstreamed into PCDP design, appraisal, and implementation.
Mitigation of Potential Negative Impacts
The potential of the PCDP to deliver positive improvements in reduced land degradation
should far outweigh any localized environmental impacts of activities to be supported by
the project. But in spite of the overall positive impact, certain of the project activities could
have localized negative impacts.
Most of the developments under the Sustainable Livelihoods component and Pastoral Risk
Management components will be small in scale, and the significance of the direct negative
environmental impacts is likely to be small. However, there is a risk of cumulative impacts
of numerous small projects, for instance a cumulative impact of building construction on
forest resources, or of wells on groundwater.
Learning on Environmental Impact
There is an opportunity to build a learning approach on environmental sustainabilitij into
the strategic management and direction of the PCDP. This report sets out an
environmental management plan (EMP), with an associated environmental management
system (EMS), that are intended to be fully integrated into the project implementation
manual. This integration will ensure that environmental sustainability is not considered
in isolation of social, economic and institutional sustainability in the rural space.
The EMS is based on a number offocal points at thefederal, regional, zvoreda and kebele
levels. However the bulk of inputs to the EMS are required at woreda and community
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                 WORLD BANK
II



levels. In addition, at the community level, there is an opportunihy to reinvigorate
traditional environmental governance, through its use in training and sensitization and
the application of the EMS.
Capacihy-building and training are central to the EMP. This report proposes that this
should include: sensitisation among regional and woreda staff concerning pastoral
livelihoods and pastoralists' coping strategies towards drought; sensitisation among
communities and kebele leaders on how to integrate local traditional knowledge with
modern administration, particularly as it relates to the protection and management of
natural resources and drought contingency planning; training for community leaders,
woreda and regional officers on the use of the environmental screening and reporting
system; training for regional bureau officials, on environmental impact assessment, its
application to small-scale activities, and the use of environmental guidelines in
identifijing and costing mitigation measures; bringing together groups of officers from
woreda levels, to encourage inter-woreda and inter-regional learning.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                    WORLD BANK
III






INTRODUCTION
The Government of Ethiopia (GoE) has requested IDA financing for the Pastoral
Community Development Project (PCDP) [hereafter referred to as "the Project"]
which will be the first phase of a proposed Pastoral Community Development
Program. This program corresponds with the central features of the GoE's
strategy for pastoral areas, and Ethiopia's poverty reduction strategy paper
(PRSP).(0)
This is the report of a study to produce an environmental assessment
management framework [hereafter referred to as the 'EA study'] for the proposed
PCDP.
The objectives of this study are:
* To assess the potential environmental impacts of the proposed Project,
whether positive or negative and propose mitigation measures which will
effectively address these impacts;
* To inform the project preparation process of the potential impact of different
alternatives, and relevant mitigation measures;
* To establish clear directives and methodologies for the environmental
screening of sub-projects to be financed under the proposed Project.
This study was carried out by consultants through a PHRD grant, working closely
with a World Bank pre-appraisal mission and additional preparation studies as
far as possible.(2) The authors of this report are listed in Annex 1.
The EA study included two consultancy team missions to Ethiopia from 20-30
October 2002 and 18 November - 6 December 2002. The second of these missions
coincided with a World Bank pre-appraisal mission, and the consultants assisting
the preparation of the project. The itinerary for the EA study is given in Annex 2.
(1) World Bank 2001 Pastoral Community Development in Ethiopia: Issues Paper
(2) Additional studies include a social assessment (community empowerment and capacity building study), institutional
assessment, design of monitoring and evaluation, and design of the project implementation manual.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                   WORLD BANK
1



ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
This study has been charged with the development of an Environmental
Assessment Management Framework because the precise details of the sub-projects
to be financed are not yet known. This is particularly the case for the community
investment fund (part of the Sustainable Livelihoods component) and the disaster
preparedness fund (part of the Pastoral Risk Management component), which are
described in more detail in Chapter 2 - Description of the Proposed Project. It is not
possible to ascertain impacts at this stage. Therefore an Environmental
Management System is required, that ensures the screening of specific
developments as they are identified. This will be managed and budgeted under
an Environmental Management Plan.
However, the Environmental Assessment Management Framework is also required to
screen and manage the environmental impact of other parts of the PCDP, and to
strategically manage its overall environmental impact. In Box 1.1, we cite a
number of issues that are central to the Environmental Assessment Management
Framework of the PCDP.
LAYOUT OF THIS REPORT
This report is structured as follows.
Part I - Introduction and context
* Chapter 1 - Introduction (this section)
* Chapter 2 - Description of the proposed project
* Chapter 3 - Methodology and consultation
Part II - Baseline data
* Chapter 4 - Policy, legal and administrative framework
* Chapter 5 - Baseline data
Part III - Impacts
* Chapter 6 - Potential significant impacts
* Chapter 7- Analysis of alternatives
Part IV - Environmental Management Plan and System
* Chapter 8 - Environmental management plan
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                           WORLD BANK
2



Box 1.1        Key issues in the environmental assessment of the PCDP
Positive and negative impacts
Long-term poverty reduction in pastoral areas of Ethiopia is closely associated with
sustainability, including environmental sustainability, and with minimizing potentially
negative environmental impacts of development and humanitarian aid. Disaster preparedness
and sustainable livelihoods among Ethiopian pastoralists depend directly on environmental
resources: water, forage resources, and their interaction with livestock. This environmental
assessment therefore considers both the positive (beneficial) and negative (adverse)
environmental impacts of the project.
Indirect, cumulative, and unpredictable impacts
The approach of the PCDP has a number of implications for its environmental assessment, and
environmental management system:
Induced environmental impact. To predict the environmental impact of the project (and indeed
the developmental impact), it is necessary to understand pastoralists' livelihood strategies.
There may be induced environmental impacts that occur as a result of the project impact on
local economies and society. These indirect, induced impacts are not predictable.
Cumulative impacts. Individual developments supported by the project, such as community
infrastructure, are not likely to have a significant environmental impact. But cumulatively, the
effects of a large number of small developments may have significant environmental impacts.
Environmental Management System. The precise details of sub-projects to be financed under the
community investment fund and disaster preparedness component, or their precise location,
are not yet known. Therefore it is not possible to ascertain impacts at this stage, necessitating
an environmental management system that can screen specific developments as they are
identified.
'Environment'
In conducting this environmental assessment, the authors have been conscious of the
inadequacy of 'environment' as a single word to describe the various aspects of the
environment that the PCDP has potential positive or negative impacts on. 'Environment'
includes issues of, for example, land degradation, human health, water resources, water quality,
people's access to the benefits of natural resource use, gender differentiation in use of the
environment, natural habitats, protected areas, and biological diversity. In conducting this
environmental assessment, we have recognized that a particular activity or development can
have positive impacts on one aspect of 'environment' while having negative impacts on another
aspect.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                     WORLD BANK
3






2           DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
2.1         BACKGROUND TO THE PROJECT
Ethiopia is composed of many types and groups of communities which inhabit
the diverse regions of the country. In the lowlands of Ethiopia, pastoralism is the
mode of production best suited to this type of arid and unstable environment.
Most of Ethiopia's pastoral people live in the Somali and Afar regions, in the
Borana zone of the Oromia region, and in the South Omo zone of the Southern
Nations, Nationalities and Peoples (SNNP) region.
However, population pressure, and ill-conceived development projects in recent
decades have significantly affected the ability of traditional pastoral strategies to
cope with drought. This results in increasing animal deaths, food insecurity,
conflict, and poverty. The severity of their plight in recent years has prompted
new interest on part of the Government of Ethiopia (GoE) and its development
partners to search for solutions.
This has resulted in several initiatives including the Governments Pastoral
Development Policy, and the Federal Food Security Strategy. Pastoralism is also
addressed in the country's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. Each initiative
identifies the requirement for development funding, technical assistance, capacity
building and extension support services to ensure the sustainable livelihoods of
pastoral communities.
2.2         THE PROPOSED PROJECT AND PROGRAM
The Pastoral Community Development Program is targeted at the growing needs of
pastoralists in Ethiopia. The initiative is a USD 240 million program planned for
operation between 2003 and 2016. The program is envisaged for financing over
three overlapping five-year projects. The Pastoral Community Development Project
(PCDP) is the first five-year phase (USD 60 million, 2003-2008). The financing
plan indicates that an IDA adaptable program loan will provide USD 30million,
IFAD will provide USD 20 million, the Government of Ethiopia USD 5 million,
and local communities will contribute USD 5 million.
The development objective of the project is, for a selected set of woredas in
pastoral areas, to establish effective and functional models of local governance
and investment in pastoral areas that address communities' priority needs and
reduce their vulnerability.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                         WORLD BANK
4



If this development objective is achieved according to performance indicators,
this will trigger subsequent project phases within a programmatic approach.
These phases will expand the program geographically to a larger set of woredas
(see below) to provide access of all pastoral communities to the
program's benefits.
2.2.1        Project target areas
In Ethiopia, pastoralism is extensively practiced in the Somali and Afar national
regional states, in the Borana zone of the Oromia national regional state, and in
the South Omo zone of the SNNP regional state. Pastoralists are also found in
areas of Tigray, Benshangule and Gambella regions. These regions are illustrated
in the Figure 2.1.
For the first year, the PCDP will target up to 30% of woredas in pastoral zones, in
the regions of Afar, Somali, and Oromia. Subsequent phases of the Project would
expand to include other regions. The Project would target these regions first for
the following reasons:
o These regions contain the greatest numbers of pastoral woredas and people;
and
o Implementing the Project through all regions with pastoralists would initially
overstretch the capacity of the project.
The first phase of the Project will target (a) 15 woredas in Somali, (b) 10 woredas
in Afar, and (c) 5 woredas in Oromia. However, the choice of woredas is yet to be
determined and will be discussed amongst the GoE and Regions and concluded
at appraisal.
2.2.2        Project Components
The Project will consist of three components:
Sustainable Livelihoods component (indicative cost USD 20 million).
This component focuses on community driven development. It will establish
decentralized and participatory planning at woreda and community levels, and
finance community development projects through a Community Investment
Fund (CIF), identified by communities with the support of 7woreda
administrations, regional government, and NGOs.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                          WORLD BANK
5



Pastoral Risk Management component (indicative cost USD 30 million).
This component will support drought contingency planning, community-based
early warning systems and strategic infrastructure, and a drought preparedness
and contingency fund.
Project Support and Policy Reform component (indicative cost USD 10 million).
This component includes (i) project coordination, field services, financial
management, communication and monitoring and evaluation, and (ii) policy and
institutional reforms.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsOuRcEs MANAGEMENT                         WORLD BANK
6



Figure 2.1: Administrative Map of Ethiopia
Administrative Regions and Zones of
/ <' _ /= -                    Z^of".e2 Ethiopia
N Gonder      Weg 
Afor                   Bna Af
t  Metek.1       ode W  WCIIO           1             6bdo
(A!.              S  Wello   Af or
Tango  A_tne        )&J.Gojhii     C N. Shewro< HA d >hoI Direntn ,
2g     KOonooh4>  Welle     he
W. Well.g_a.           Add,,  /G      WiE
~~~~~.J            WShewo   B< \ herdr
onmbell  .BnhMl!>NOo       /SdmN           Bk    s   __N;        \ Korehe o 
ho Sh ki-1                                         wd k                      /
hl Bench Mouji  N                                                             Z 3d 2 22  Bole  K
U   no   Aon                                      NX/
Sooth O   ,   Bonji                 1       Afde/
(   +   t:~onso   BarnanakLbn           >    z
0       150       300
v_   /              ~~~~~~~~All b-ud-r,  ioprlceo  ufK
Kilometers I
Source: UNDP, March 2000. Please note thtat there have been some recent chanages in woreda boundaries and names that are not reflected in this map.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                                                                GOVERNMENT OF ETIilOPIA
7



2.3         SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOODS COMPONENT
This component will establish decentralized and participatory planning
procedures at the community and woreda levels, enabling men and women in
pastoral communities to identify, prioritize, design, and implement micro-
projects and programs.
Communities will be supported by project-financed Mobile Support Teams
(MSTs) who will work together with zvoreda administrations. The MSTs will use
participatory rural appraisal (PRA) techniques and tools to conduct needs
assessments and help communities develop modest local development plans.
Proposed community investments will be approved by kebele committees,
including representatives of local community groups, business, NGOs and
administration, and successful proposals will be forwarded to woredas for funding
through the Community Investment Fund (CIF).
Investments covered under the CIF would not be limited to specific sectors, in
order to preserve the community-driven multi-sectoral nature of the Project and
respect the priorities of the poor. However, recent experience of development
projects in pastoral areas in Ethiopia indicates that micro-projects in the areas of
livestock support, agriculture extension services, water supply, small-scale
irrigation, health care, social infrastructure (education facilities, sanitation
services, etc) and rangeland management will be chosen by beneficiaries.
Assessment of micro-projects would be carried out against transparent criteria
known in advance to all stakeholders, possibly including a 'negative list' of types
of micro-projects that are not eligible for funding. Local development plans,
which would require a significant community cash or in-kind contribution to
demonstrate commitment, would be implemented directly by communities to
build capacity, ensure correspondence of investments to needs, and guarantee
accountability to the community. Community-level investments would be
complemented by strengthened agricultural extension and social services.
The Project would support the comprehensive development of a community-
based animal health service in pastoral areas, including related support to public
and private veterinary centers. Agricultural services would also be strengthened
through integrated participatory research and technology transfer programs and
contracted studies for more holistic technology and resource constraints.
2.3.1       Proposed activities
Activities are likely to include:
* Financing of community-driven micro-projects;
* Piloting of savings-based credit and village banking to finance income-
generating activities;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                  GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
8



* Capacity-building in participatory methods, financial and administrative
management at woreda levels;
* Community development boards (CDBs);
* Training of community leaders and government administrators in rural
leadership and participatory development;
*  A pastoral community-driven development forum, to allow interested NGOs
and donors to meet to share methods and experience;
* Community-based animal health services;
* Participatory research and technology transfer programs;
* Policy, institutional and training support for the development of community-
based health and education services;
* Radio networks to enhance technology transfer and education services;
*  Basic office, communications and transportation requirements at woreda and
kebele levels.
2.4         PASTORAL RISK MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
The Pastoral Risk Management component will support disaster preparedness
planning, disaster early warning systems and strategic infrastructure, primarily
designed to mitigate against drought.
This component will build upon ongoing efforts by the Disaster Preparedness and
Prevention Committee (DPPC) and NGOs to establish, at the woreda level, the
collection and analysis of basic household welfare data. The system would rely on
community -provided and monitored indicators which would then feed into
improved contingency plans and response mechanisms at the regional level. The
component would begin in the thirty project ivoredas but would scale up to all
pastoral woredas in the three regions, thus improving the broader existing
system.
In Drought Contingenciy Planning, the Project would invest in capacity building at
woreda and regional levels to prepare drought contingency plans, monitor local
indicators, and manage funds made available for preparedness and initial
drought response.
The Drought Preparedness and Contingenciy Fund would provide the thirty woredas
with development grants to finance activities identified in their contingency
plans. The majority of fund resources would be dedicated to the long-term
preparedness interventions. A small amount (USD 2 million) would be
earmarked to jump-start initial mitigation activities in the likely event of severe
drought during project implementation.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                 GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
9



2.4.1       Proposed activities
Activities are likely to include:
*  Community Development Boards and woreda administrations, working with
the Disaster Preparedness and Prevention Committee (DPPC), preparing
disaster mitigation plans, monitoring local disaster indicators, and managing
quick response disaster mitigation reserves;
* Capacity building in disaster preparedness and relief management at Woreda
and regional levels, and in community organization and household disaster
management strategies at the local level;
*  Social mapping of communities, identification of traditional and emergency
movement patterns;
* Community managed grain storage facilities and stocks;
* Strengthening of capacity for remote monitoring of drought early warning
indicators, linked to community based monitoring systems;
* Woreda infrastructure including roads, livestock water points, flood control
structures, grain stores and electronic communication systems.
2.5         PROJECT SUPPORTAND POLICYREFORM COMPONENT
This Project Support and Policy Reform component will provide operational support
and training resources to the PCU and Regional Support Teams. Monitoring and
evaluation would finance the information management system and project liaison
activities. The policy analyses and reform sub-component would address policy
and institutional reforms that would strengthen pastoral livelihoods and reduce
risk.
2.5.1       Proposed activities
Activities are likely to include:
* Project coordination: meetings with extemal and internal partners and
exchange of experience at national fora;
* Field services: training, personnel, equipment and operating costs associated
with project implementation;
* Financial management: operation, planning and monitoring of the physical
and financial execution of the project, procurement, accounting, internal audit
and personnel management;
* Communication: development and dissemination of information concerning
project activities, using a variety of media;
* A participatory monitoring and evaluation program.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                  GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
10



Areas for policy and institutional reforms include the following, although it is not
yet clear how these issues will be addressed:
* Privatization of veterinary and clinical services;
* Recognition of sustainable pastoral land use as a land management practice
analogous to sustainable cultivation, and a move to ensure pastoral tenure
rights, if necessary through specific zoning, and integration of these into new
and innovative strategies for peaceful, efficient and sustainable use of
rangeland;
* Government and community strategies for sustainable bush control strategies,
in particular related to the ban on unlicensed transportation of charcoal from
rural to urban areas;
* Reform of policies governing cross-border trade, particularly in livestock
products;
* Riparian rights agreements to govern water use in the southern and eastern
rangelands;
* Partnership with NGOs in pastoral development.
2.6           BUDGET
A project costing is under preparation, but will be revised during appraisal. Table
2.1 provides indicative figures available during the preparation of this report.
Table 2.1     Components of the PCDP
Componient (US$NM);          IndicatiVe  % of Total  Banik    %"o of Batnk
Costs     (US $M)      Finanicinig  Financing
Sustainable Livelihoods      20.00      33.3%       8.00       26.7%
Pastoral Risk Management     30.00      50%         18.00      60%
Project Support and Policy Reform  10.00  16.7%     4.0        13.3%
Total project costs          60.00      100%        30.00      100%
Total financing required     60.00      100%        30.00      100%
2.7          PROJECT COORDINATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
The PCDP will be co-ordinated at the federal level, through the establishment of a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU), and Project activities will be implemented at the
regional level, through the establishment of Regional Support Teams (RSTs) in
each region. During pre-appraisal, options for the location of a coordination unit
to manage the PCDP were carefully assessed by the pre-appraisal mission and
GoE, reached a conclusion that the Project Coordination Unit be established
within the Ministry of Federal Affairs. This is considered to provide the unit a
greater multi-sectoral flavor, as well as institutional clout.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                        GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
11



2.7.1        Project Coordination Unit
Discussions during pre-appraisal indicated that the PCU will be responsible for
performing the following functions:
o Fiduciary obligations;
o Policy analysis and liaison with stakeholder groups;
o  Multi-sectoral coordination at the federal level;
o  Project communication;
o  Aggregate project monitoring;
o Mobilization of technical backstopping.
The PCU will be composed of a (a) Project Coordinator, (b) Monitoring and
Evaluation Specialist, (c) Financial Management Specialist, (d) Procurement
Specialist, and (e) support staff.
The coordination unit will be overseen by a steering conmmittee, including
representation from a multi-sectoral range of government ministries, interested
donors, and NGOs. The PCU will liaise with political bodies representing
pastoral interests, including the cabinet-level, inter-ministerial Pastoral
Development Board, and the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Pastoral
Affairs.
2.7.2       Decentralized implementation
In keeping with Ethiopia's new decentralised administrative structure,
implementation of the PCDP will reside at regional and woreda levels. To the
extent possible, no new institutions will be created to implement the Project.
Rather, the focus will be on strengthening the existing structures, particularly
through the Pastoral Development Co-ordination Offices and/or Committees in
each region.
At regional levels, the Afar Pastoral and Agro-pastoral Development Bureau, the
Oromia Pastoral Development Commission, and the Somali Bureau for Pastoral
and Rural Development will house RSTs, with chief responsibility for PCDP
management. RSTs will be overseen by Regional Pastoral Management Boards.
At woreda levels, Community Development Boards will coordinate PCDP
activities.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                   GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
12






3              METHODOLOGY AND CONSULTATION
3.1           INTRODUCTION
The approach used to carry out the study was two-fold.
1. Extensive public consultation with relevant stakeholders, non-governmental
organisations, and selected community members to ensure that a
participatory approach to developing the Enviromnental Management Plan
has been taken.
Thorough review of the project preparation documents, and all relevant
guidelines, reports, and documentation related to the project components. This
ensures that the proposed Environmental Management Plan has been prepared in
compliance with required donor standards, and has taken into account all the
relevant issues related to environment and pastoral livelihoods in Ethiopia. (3)
This chapter outlines (a) the environmental guidelines that were reviewed, and
(b) the methodology and consultations carried out to prepare the Environmental
Assessment Management Framework.
3.2            APPLICATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES
In order to ensure that the EA Management Framework complies with relevant
environmental policies and regulations, a review was carried out of the key
environmental guidelines and requirements of the World Bank, the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), and the Government of Ethiopia
(GoE).
3.2.1          World Bank Safeguard Policies
The PCDP has triggered the safeguard OP 4.01 for Environmental Assessment.
The proposed PCDP has been rated Category Fl under the World Bank safeguard
policy on environmental assessment (OP (4) 4.01). This category is intended for
programmatic lending, requiring an environmental management framework for
sub-project screening. Within this, the Sustainable Livelihoods component has
been rated a category B (intended for projects or programs that may result in
(3) As discussed earlier, there are several studies currently being carried out which feed into the finahzation of the EMP and
EMS. Some of these studies are not complete, and input from them could not be included in the preparation of the EA study and
EMP.
(4) Operational Policies (OPs) are short focused statements that follow from the Bank's Articles of Agreement, the general
conditions, and policies approved by the Board. OPs establish the parameters for the conduct of operations; they also describe
the circumstances under which exceptions to policy are admissible and spell out who authonzes exceptions.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
13



environmental impacts which can be easily mitigated and managed) owing to the
Community Investment Fund.
Since this project is still at pre-appraisal, there is the possibility that the project
may also trigger other World Bank safeguards. It is the opinion of the EA
consultants that based on a review of this EA study the Task Manager and Task
Team should consider whether the Project triggers the following safeguards:
o OP 4.36 for Forestry Management
o OP 4.04 for Conservation of Natural Habitats
o OP 4.09 for Pest Management
o OP 4.12 for Involuntary Resettlement
Implications of these safeguards have been incorporated in the Environmental
Management Plan (refer to Table 8.2). The main policy objectives of the OPs
relevant to the PCDP are summarised in Box 3.1 (5).
Box 3.1        Summary of World Bank OPs Relevant to the PCDP
OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment: Requires environmental assessment of projects proposed
to help ensure that they are environmentally sound and sustainable, and thus to improve
decision making. This policy elaborates further on screening, special types of projects,
consultation and disclosure and other aspects of Bank EAs.
OP 4.36 Forestry Management: To assist borrowers to harness the potential of forests to reduce
poverty in a sustainable manner, integrate forests effectively into sustainable economic
development, and protect the vital local and global environmental services and values of
forests.
OP 4.04 Conservation of Natural Habitats: Supports the protection, maintenance, and
rehabilitation of natural habitats and their functions in its economic and sector work, project
financing, and policy dialogue. The Bank supports, and expects borrowers to apply, a
precautionary approach to natural resource management to ensure opportunities for
environmentally sustainable development.
OP 4.09 Pest Management: In assisting to manage pests that affect agriculture or public health,
a strategy that promotes the use of biological or environmental control methods and reduces
reliance on synthetic chemical pesticides is promoted. In appraising a project that involves pest
management, the capacity of the country's regulatory framework and institutions to promote
and support safe, effective, and environmentally sound pest management need to be assessed.
OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement: Involuntary resettlement should be avoided where feasible,
or minimized. Where unavoidable, resettlement activities should be conceived and executed as
sustainable development programs. Displaced persons should be consulted and have
opportunities to participate in planning and implementing resettlement programs. Displaced
persons should be assisted in improving their livelihoods and standards of living to pre-
displacement levels or to levels prevailing prior to the project (whichever is higher).
(5) More detail on these and other OPs can be found on the internet at
http / /wblnOOI8 worldbank.ore/iuLstitutional/ manuals/opmanual.nsf/
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                              GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
14



3.2.2       IFAD Environmental Guidelines
IFAD also screens projects/programs to be financed by the Fund and classifies
them as A, B, or C, similar to that of the World Bank. Hence, for the purpose of
this EA study, both guidelines will be used in parallel.
3.2.3        Ethiopian Legislationfor Environmental Assessment
The Government of Ethiopia does not currently enforce requirements for the
environmental assessment of proposed projects or programs in the country. At
present, there is a draft proclamation for Environmental Impact Assessment,
likely to enter into law in early 2003.
3.3         METHODOLOGY
The first stage in the study involved a desk-based analysis of the draft project
appraisal document (PAD) and associated papers. This was carried out during
October 2002. The list of reports and documents reviewed is provided in Annex 2.
3.3.1        Stakeholder interviews in Addis Ababa and Project Target Areas
The second stage involved carrying out stakeholder interviews in country and
making field trips to the Regions targeted for financing of PCDP micro-projects.
Over two visits to Ethiopia in October and November 2002, the EA team
conducted a series of interviews and workshops with stakeholders and key
informants in Addis Ababa, and pastoral areas of Ethiopia (ie Afar, Borana, and
Somali). The first trip in October included meetings with stakeholders and key
informants in Addis Ababa, and a field trip to Afar. The itineraries for the visits to
Ethiopia are provided in Annex 3.
During the second visit to Ethiopia in November, the EA team worked in close
cooperation with the World Bank pre-appraisal mission, and with consultants
working on the preparation of the project implementation manual. Limited
meetings than were felt necessary were held with the consultants working on the
institutional assessment, and monitoring and evaluation, due to their later
appointment.
Stakeholder consultation
Stakeholder consultation was one of the key tools to achieve the EA objectives. An
intensive schedule of interviews with key stakeholders and informants, as well as
joint meetings/workshops with groups of stakeholders was followed. A typical
agenda of a meeting would include an introduction of participants, a brief
overview of the project, views and comments of the consultees, and specific
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                   GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
15



questions from the EA team regarding the details of environmental and social
sensitivities, people's interaction with the environment, and potential impacts of
the project.
Key stakeholders consulted on the project included:
*  Ministry of Agriculture Pastoral Extension Team, and other relevant federal
government agencies;
* Regional bureaus;
*  Woreda and kebele adminisrations;
* Pastoralists in Afar, Oromia (Borana zone), and Somali regions;
* Environmental NGOs;
* Research institutes;
* International development agencies, and staff of agency-funded projects.
A detailed table of those consulted and key issues discussed is attached in Annex
5. Box 3.1 lists a selection of the content of meetings with key stakeholders.
3.3.2        Field visits
Three field visits to Afar, Borana zone in Oromia and Somali regions were carried
out between October-November 2002. The objective of the visits was to meet and
consult with local governments, as well as with pastoralists, and verify our initial
analysis of rural livelihoods and potential environmental impacts of the Project.
3.3.3        Wrap-up and completion
The final phase scheduled for January 2003 was to incorporate the comments
received from stakeholders and ASPEN on a draft of this report.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                    GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
16



Box 3.1        Examples of consultation meetings
Workshop at Afar Pastoral and Agricultural Development Bureau
The workshop served as an opportunity to engage Afar Bureau staff and the Afar Pastoralist
Development Association in a discussion on issues of mobiles services, appropriate provision of
water resources, the differing needs of agropastoralists and pastoralists and issues of access to
floodplains around the River Awash.
Action Contre le Faim, Dubti
Issues discussed included Afar pastoralists livelihood strategies and recovery strategies
following drought, agropastoralists' links to pastoralist society, the effectiveness of disaster
prevention in the area, pastoralists' priorities, control of Prosopzs encroachment, pastoralist
access to the River Awash.
Oromiya Pastoral Development Commission
Topics of discussion included the establishment of the OPDC, its mandate, staff numbers and
capacity, and expected roles.
GTZ Borana Pastoralist Lowland Development Project, Liben Woreda, Oromiya
Issues discussed included the experience of this project with respect to pastoralists' demands
for microprojects, unforeseen environmental impacts, traditional systems of governance, and
differentiation between poverty groups.
Focus group of traditional Borana leadership and elders
Issues discussed included the leadership's perceptions of a project of this nature, traditional
environmental governance systems, and their willingness to partner with a project of this
nature.
Pastoral Communication Initiative (PCI)
PCI is a donor-funded mechanism for improving communication amongst all actors engaged in
pastoralism in East Africa. Issues discussed included expected pastoralist micro-projects,
pastoralist attitudes towards the environment, pastoralist livelihoods, and sources of
information on pastoralist resource management regimes.
Environmental Protection Agency, and the Natural Resources and Regulatory Department of
the Ministry of Agriculture
Interviews with these governmental organisations were held to ascertain Ethiopian regulations
and policies concerning environment, and to gather baseline information.
Oxfam, Farm Africa, SOS Sahel, Save the Children US, USAID (Addis Ababa)
Issues discussed included their experience of pastoralists' livelihoods and demands for micro-
projects, and experience of unforeseen environmental impacts. Their willingness to partner
with the PCDP was also discussed.
PANOS
Issues discussed included the Ethiopian Government's moves towards improved policies for
pastoralism, and areas of proposed policy reform under the PCDP.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                               GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
17






4           POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
4.1         INTRODUCTION
There are a number of policies that relate to environmental protection and
management in Ethiopia, and there are various institutions, organization and line
agencies, at the national and regional levels, which have a role in administering
and implementing these policies.
There are also a number of recent developments in environmental policy reform,
including the introduction of a law on Environmental Impact Assessment, a
pollution control law and institutional arrangements for environmental
protection.
This section will describes the following:
*  Formal policy and legal frameworkfor environmental management
* Recent developments in environmental legislation
*  Formal administrativeframework,for environmental management
*  Traditional governancefor environmental management.
4.2          POLICYAND LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
The Constitution of Ethiopia
The 1994 Constitution of Ethiopia includes a significant environmental scope and
has defined the environmental values to be preserved and protected. The
Constitution under Articles 44 and 92 proclaims that "all citizens shall have a right
to live in a clean and healthy environment" and that the "Government and citizens shall
have a duty to protect the environment."
With a view to further amplifying the Constitutional provisions on environmental
protection, the Environmental Policy and the Conservation Strategy of Ethiopia
was prepared and adopted in 1997.
Conservation Strategy of Ethiopia
The Conservation Strategy of Ethiopia (CSE) was produced by the Environmental
Protection Authority (EPA) in collaboration with the Ministry of Economic
Development and Cooperation and is regarded as the first comprehensive
statement on the need for sustainable development policies and strategies for the
country. The purpose of the strategy to assess the status and trends in the use
and management of natural resources, formulate a policy and strategy
framework, and develop an action plan and investment programs including
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                   GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
18



legislative measures to promote sustainable development in various sectoral and
cross-sectoral areas.
Environmental Policy of Ethiiopia
The Environmental Policy of Ethiopia (EPE), also produced by the EPA, evolved
from the Conservation Strategy. The overall objective of the EPE is to enhance
the health and quality of life of aU Ethiopians and to promote sustainable social
and economic development through sound management and use of natural, man-
made, cultural resources, and the environment as a whole.
4.2.2       International Conventions
Over the last decades, Ethiopia has ratified a number of major international
conventions and agreements as a basis for state obligations with regard to
sustainable development. These include:
o  The Convention on Biological Diversity
o  The Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of
Hazardous Wastes
o The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
o  The United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in those Countries
Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa
o  The Vienna Convention and the Montreal Protocol for the Protection the
Ozone Layer
o The Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Informed Consent Procedure for
Certain Hazardous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade
o  The Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants
4.3          RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION
There are a number of laws that have been introduced in the last two years
related to environmental management. These are discussed in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1    Recent Legislation Related to Environment Management
Legislation                 Description
Proclamation on the Establishment of The main aim of this law is to establish a system
Environmental Protection Organs  that fosters coordinated but differentiated
responsibilities among environmental protection
agencies at federal and regional levels. It gives
the EPA the legal powers required for enforcing as
well to spearhead the enforcement of and ensure
compliance with environmental laws and
standards.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                    GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
19



Legislation                   Description
Environmental Impact Assessment  The aim of this law is to ensure that all proposed
Proclamation                  public and private sector projects and programs
are assessed for their potential impacts.
Environmental Pollution Control  This law recognizes the fact that some social and
Proclamation                  economic development endeavours may inflict
environmental harm that could make the
endeavours counter-productive. To this end law
aims to eliminate or, when not possible, to
mitigate pollution as an undesirable consequence
of social and economic development activities.
4.4          ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
4.4.1        National Level Administration
National Environmental Protection Authority
The main agency responsible for environmental protection at the national level is
the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The EPA was established as an
autonomous institution of the Federal Government in 1995. Its mandate includes
the following tasks:
* Prepare and implement environmental policy and laws;
* Institute a system for Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA);
* Set environmental standards;
* Combat desertification;
* Take regulatory action to protect the environment;
* Enhance environmental awareness;
* Implement international treaties;
* Provide support to the Regions.
The EPA has a staff of about 35 organized into four teams: (i) Environmental
Assessment, (ii) Environmental Pollution, (iii) Drought and Desertification, and
(iv) Ecosystems. A Environmental Protection Council, comprising of eight
members, mainly ministers, provides oversight of the EPA.
The EPA is supported by various ministerial line agencies and institutions
involved in sectoral and cross-sectoral policies (water, health, mining and energy,
agriculture, public works and development) and within the regional
governments.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                       GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
20



4.4.2        Other organizations
Ministry of Agriculture's Natural Resources and Regulatony Departzment
This department in the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for policy
development and project formulation in the areas of natural resources
management and regulations for natural resources management. Policies for
which the department is responsible, as cited in discussions with officers of this
department, are rural land use policies, forest policy and soil and water
conservation policies. The department also proposes and develops legislation in
these areas. In addition the department manages international-funded projects in
natural resources management and regulation.
Institute of Biodiversihy Conservation and Research
The Institute of Biodiversity Conservation and Research (IBCR) was established
in 1976 as an independent government institution with a mandate to undertake
conservation and sustainable utilization of biological resources. Since the
ratification of the Convention of Biological Diversity in 1998, the Institute has
constituted itself as the national center to mobilize and enhance conservation and
use of biodiversity. One of its major roles is assisting in research by providing raw
material for crop improvement and in various areas of biodiversity management.
4.4.3        Regional level administration
Regional bureaus of (i) agriculture, (ii) water development, and (iii) planning and
economic development administer environmental protection and natural resource
management, overseen by regional environmental coordinating committees. The
division of responsibilities varies from region to region, but technically their
mandates are the same. Bureaus have branch offices at zonal and woreda levels, to
varying degrees of coverage and staffing. Development Agents (DAs) at the kebele
levels are responsible for all sectoral activities. A more detailed description of
these bureaus is provided in Table 4.2.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                      GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
21



Table 4.2     Regional Level Administrative Structures
Bureau of Agriculture   These bureaus are responsible for agricultural extension services, soil and water conservation activities, and
administration of game reserves and protective forests located within each region. Bureaux have branch offices at
zonal and woreda levels representing each development activity. Development Agents (DAs) at the kebele levels are
responsible for all sectoral activities.
Bureau of Mines, Energy  These bureaux are responsible for undertaking studies for the establishment of small scale hydropower stations,
and Water               traditional mineral exploitation, licensing for exploitation of construction materials, supervising the region's water
resources for various types of services and use, and supervising water and sewerage sanitation standards.
Bureau of Planning and  These Bureaux are concerned with monitoring the overall implementation of the regional strategy action plan and
Economic Development    investment programme for natural resources and the environment, and in cooperation with concerned bureaus with
reviewing programmes and projects based on the regional strategy.
Regional Environmental  Regional Environmental Coordinating Committees (RECC) were established in 1997 with the mandate to deliberate
Coordinating Committees  on matters concerning environmental protection in the respective regions. Each committee's chairman is the head of
the Economic Sector of the Regional Council, and its Secretary is the head of the Planning and Economic Development
Bureau. These bureaus are generally responsible for coordinating the planning, implementation and monitoring of
economic and social development programs in each region. Each Regional Bureau acts as secretariat for the RECC and
there is a focal person assigned to carry out tasks on environmental matters and to assist the Bureau Head in RECC's
activities.
Administrative or Council  The administration or council offices at different levels of the government structure (regional to kebele levels) are
Offices                 responsible for administrative affairs including the administration of land and other natural resources in accordance
with the government's laws and regulations. These council offices are also authorized to resolve conflicts over
resources such as land and water.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                                           GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
22



4.5           TRADITIONAL GOVERNANCE
In the Project target areas, pastoralist households are largely organised according
to patri-lineal kinship and descent/lineage, while land tenure is under the
stewardship of clans. The major ethnic groups have traditional community
institutions based upon the clan system which are divided as such:
o madda and arada clan system in Borana
o finna and ido in Afar
o heera and degan in Somali
These clans serve their own societies and govern their own production system.6
Superimposed on traditional organisation is the kebele (Peasant Association or
PA), which prior to 1994 comprised one clan in the case of the Somali and Afar
areas, and a vague territorial unit (madda) in the case of Borana. The PAs were
formed under the Land Reform Proclamation in March 1975 enacted by the Derg
Regime that would be responsible for the implementation and enforcement of the
land reform measures, and represent the lowest level of rural administration.
However, under the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, the structure has
changed so that a PA now covers a number of clans.
4.5.1         Traditional environmental governance
Ethiopia has a strong history of environmental governance which is inherent in
the traditional cultures, including that of pastoralists. Because natural resources
are fundamental to the sustainable livelihoods of pastoralists, traditional
environmental governance plays a large role in ensuring that natural resources
are managed in a sustainable manner.
The pastoral lowlands of Ethiopia are characterized by high temperatures and
low sporadic rainfall that falls randomly over vast areas of land. This trend is
capable of supporting large amounts of grass and tree vegetation. Rainfall,
however, occurs in different places on different occasions so it is never certain
which areas will have abundant grass coverage and where water will accumulate
in natural storage areas sufficiently for migratory livestock herders to raise their
livestock. As several studies indicate, pastoralists have, over centuries,
successfully taken advantage of the different vegetative stages and areas, by
managing their herds in the right balance of numbers, species and breeds, and
deciding how to split their herds and graze them in different directions. 7
6 IFAD. May 2002. Etluopia PCDP Joint IDA/IFAD Pre-Preparation/Formulataon Report. Working Paper 2: Improved Pastoral
Livelihoods and Household Food Secunty.
7 World Bank. 2001. Pastoral Area Development in Ethiopia Issues Paper. Washington DC.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRcEs MANAGEMENT                         GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
23



Moreover, pastoralists have learnt how to cope with periodic droughts and how
to come back together again when the condition of their communal grazing lands
is suitable.
However, during the Derg regime, new ideological administrative structures
were placed on lowland pastoralist society without taking into account well tried
and adapted traditional systems. These new structures, supported by strict
regulations on rangeland management, weakened social ties and conmmitments,
undermined environmental awareness and tended to countermand traditional
decisions regarding range management. The harmonization of these two systems
will be a challenge for the PCDP, which, if successfully addressed, would provide
a lasting legacy for sustainable pastoral resources management in Ethiopia.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                   GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
24






5             BASELINE INFORMATION
This chapter describes the environmental resources base of the three regions
(Somali, Afar, and Oromia-Borana zone), including specific data, as well as
analysis of livelihood-environment linkages, recent trends in pastoralism, and
pastoral degradation.
At this stage it is not possible to provide detailed baseline data for the 7voreda in
which the PCDP will work because they are not yet identified. It is also not
possible to provide specific baseline information in relation to sub-projects,
because the nature and location of micro-projects will be determined as the
project progresses. The proposed Environmental Management System set out in
Chapter 8 and Annex 5 will provide opportunities to assess baseline conditions in
relation to micro-projects.
5.1           BASIC DATA
5.1.1         Geography
Ethiopia is the ninth largest country in Africa, occupying the interior of the Horn
of Africa. To the north and north-east, Ethiopia borders Eritrea and Djibouti. To
the east, Ethiopia borders Somalia, while the southern part borders Kenya.
Ethiopia is commonly described in terms of its physiography, ie through the
recognition of highlands (above 1500m ASL) and lowlands. The lowlands are
located mainly in the north-east, east, and south in the Afar and Somali regions
and the Borana area of Oromiya. The lowlands make up just over half of
Ethiopia's land area, and have poor and shallow soil, low rainfall and high evapo-
transpiration rates. The lowlands are arid or semni-arid and are sparsely
populated by pastoral communities pursuing a mnigratory or semi-migratory
lifestyle.
5.1.2         Population
Ethiopia has a population of about 60 million people with a population growth of
3%. Pastoral and 'agropastoralist' commrunities include more than 30 ethnic
groups. Forty-three percent live in semi-arid areas and 6% live in arid areas.8
Table 5.1 provides key demographic data on population distribution in pastoral
areas.
I IFAD. May 2002. Ethiopia PCDP joint IDA/ IFAD Pre-Preparation/Formulation Report. Working Paper 2: Improved Pastoral
Livelihoods and Household Food Security.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                         GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
25



Table 5.1     Populations of the PCDP regions
Pastoral Area      Area   Rural Population        Rural Households
Km2     million    %      Pastoralist  Agro-pastoralist
Somali NRS           271 970    2.89     53      1 814 000       1 076 000
Afar NRS              85 410    1.22     29       992 000         228 000
Oromia - Borana       69 373    0.54     10       339 000         201 000
Source: IFAD 2002.
5.1.3         Livestock
A national census has not been conducted to establish accurate livestock
populations. Numbers fluctuate widely as a result of (i) accelerated off-take in
response to drought preparedness, (ii) massive losses from recurrent drought,
and (iii) herd growth during drought recovery. Table 5.2 provides data on
estimated livestock numbers.
Table 5.2     Estimated livestock numbers (millions)
Cattle  Sheep      Goats     Equines    Camels  Livestock (tropical
livestock units)
Somali NRS   5.2     6.6        3.3       0.36       1.1     6.99
Afar NRS     3.6     2          3         0.2        0.9     1.66
Oromiya -    1.4     1          0.5       0.06       0.53    2.6
Borana zone
Source: Sandford and Johannes (2000) cited in IFAD 2002.
5.1.4         Ecological regions
A review and survey carried out by the Natural Resources Management and
Regulatory Department of the Ministry of Agriculture identified 18 agro-
ecological zones in Ethiopia.9 Those in Afar and Somali regions and the Borana
area are set out in Table 5.3.
9 Natural Resources Management and Regulatory Department 1998 Agroecologzcal Zones of Ethiopia
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                            GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
26



Table 5.3     Agroecological zones in the project areas
Area, altitude      Temperature and    Crops and livestock  Wildlife and
rainfall                               vegetation
Hot to warm arid plains, of Afar Region, and the Ogaden area of Somali region.
33,848,000 ha, from  Mean annual       Cropping is possible Wild ass, zebra,
126m below sea     temperature greater only adjacent to    ostrich. Bushed
level to 1200m ASL  than 27C, annual   rivers: maize, cotton grassland of Prosopis
rainfall ranging    and sorghum are    juliflora, Tamarix
from 100 to 400 mm  the most common    aphylla, Calotropis
annual crops.       procera, Parkinsonia
Pastoralism is the  aculeate, Balanites
main land use       aegyptica, Dodonea
activity.           anguistifolia, Rumex
nervosus, Acacia spp.
Hot to warm arid valleys and escarpments, in Afar region
440,000 ha, below   Mean annual        Sparsely cultivated. Duiker, lion and
1200m ASL          temperature greater Pastoralism is the  leopard are
than 28C, annual    main land use      reported. Wooded
rainfall ranging    activity.          grassland. Tree and
from 100 to 600 mm                     bush species include
Balanites aegyptica,
Salix subserrata,
Carissa edulis, Rumex
nervosus, Tamerindus
indica, Uuclea
schimperi and Acacia
spp.
Hot to warm arid mountains, east of the Dire Dawa - Aysha Dewelle Road in Somali region
600,000 ha, 1000-   Mean annual        Wholly pastoral     Major wildlife
1400 m ASL          temperature 16-21C,                    species are warthog
mean annual                            and mongoose.
rainfall ranging 300-                  Grassland,
600 mm                                 woodland and bush
mainly of Acacia
spp. and Balanites
aegyptica.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                           GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
27



Tepid to cool arid plains, between Kebri Beyah and Artshek in Somali region
240,000 ha, 1200 to  Mean annual      Mainly pastoral,   Sommering's
1600 m ASL         temperature 16-21C, though sorghum is  gazelle, Aard Wolf,
mean annual        cultivated to some  Cheetah, lion,
rainfall ranging 500- extent          Duiker, Dikdik,
600 mm                                Jackal, Greater
Kudu, Lesser Gudu,
Gerenuk. Grassland
and bushland
dominated by Acacia
spp. and Balanites
aegyptica.
Tepid to cool arid mountains, between Jijiga and Kebri Beyah in Somali region
380,000 ha, 1400 to  Mean annual      Mainly pastoral, but Similar wildlife and
2200 m ASL         temperature 16-21C, sorghum and chat  vegetation to the
mean annual        are cultivated     tepid and cool
rainfall ranging 350-                 plains
800 mm
Tepid to cool humid mountains in Bale and Borena zones of Oromiya region
2,704,000 ha, 2000-  Mean annual      Cereal cultivation  Wildlife includes
3200m ASL          temperature 18C in  and pastoralism.  Elephant,
the lower areas,                      Waterbuck, Baboon,
mean annual                           Leopard and
rainfall ranges from                  Warthog.
1200mm to 1700                        Vegetation is
mm                                    diverse including
including Acacia
spp., Albizia spp.,
Podocarpus gracilior,
Cordia africanus,
Ficus spp., Juniperus
procera, Olea spp.,
and Euphorbia
candelabrum.
5.1.5         Water resources and quality
Water security is a widespread problem in pastoral areas of Ethiopia, and is
worsened by drought. Pastoralists rely heavily on water sources for livestock and
domestic consumption.
ENVIRONMlENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                        GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
28



Water resources and quality are as follows:
*   In the drier areas of Borana and eastern Afar region, there are localized and
moderately large quantities of groundwater, especially along valleys, and
most streams are intermittent, while a few are perennial; the groundwater is
fair to poor in quality;
* In the southeast, ie the Ogaden area of Somali region, there is localized
groundwater, with limited yields of fair-to-poor quality, and all surface water
is intermittent.
Groundwater
Groundwater exploitation in the project areas is almost exclusively restricted to
livestock watering, and water yields are low due to limited aquifer capacity and
recharge. Pastoralists rely heavily on springs, stock ponds, and traditional wells.
Table 5.4 provides some basic data.10
Table 5.4     Groundwater characteristics
Static water level      Quality         Comment
Afar and Borana  Normally above 50m below  Total dissolved  Static water level is
the surface, but varies from  solids range from shallower in valleys and
immediately below surface  1000 to 3000 ppm  depressions. Moderate
to 150 m in semi-arid areas,            to large volumes are
or 270 m in arid areas                  present in localities.
Ogaden         Can be as low as 300m                   Quantities are far more
below surface                          limited than in Afar or
Borana.
Traditional birkas
Traditional birkas or small water holes are plentiful in Somali, the region which
receives the least amount of rainfall in the country. These many birkas have been
referred to as the "birka belt" that stretches across the Gashamo and Aware
districts of the region. Birkas are used by pastoralists and are considered
communal watering holes, usually owned by a family or community, and are
typically fenced using bush to claim ownership (see Figure 5.1).
10 Information on groundwater and surface water from IFAD, 2002
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                           GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
29



Figure 5.1: Bush used as fencing for traditional birkas
Surface water
Most surface waters are seasonal, although some rivers are perrenial:
* River Awash, flowing north through Afar region, to deposit waters into Lake
Dabe on the Djibouti frontier;
* Major tributaries of the Awash are Tellalak, Mile, Wama, Awra, Tullino,
Borekena, and Mashugala;
* Rivers Wabi Shebelle, Weyib, and Genale flow southeast through Somali region,
and onto Somalia and the Indian Ocean;
* River Dawa, flowing through the Borana region, through deep gorges, into
Kenya.
5.1.6         Biodiversity
Ethiopia is rich in flora and fauna, and there is a high degree of endernism.
Biological diversity and endermism are as much a feature of the pastoral lowlands
as of the highlands.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                        GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
30



*  Ethiopia has an estimated 7000 species of flora, of which 12% are endemic
(about 800 species), most of which are found in the Ogaden;
*  277 species of mammal, including 31 endemic to Ethiopia;
*  861 bird species, including 23 endemic to Ethiopia
*  324 species of butterfly, 7 of which are endemic.
The Institute for Biodiversity Conservation and Research has recently prepared a
national biodiversity strategy and action plan, which sets out further details of
Ethiopia's flora and fauna.
This study has not found any formal assessment of the economic and social
importance of biodiversity in pastoral areas, though consultations indicate a
number of possible links, as set out in Table 5.5.
Table 5.5    Economic and social importance of biodiversity
Economic importance                  Social importance
*  Biodiversity among pastoral grass and *  Herders are reliant on biodiversity to
bush species may make a contribution  maintain pasture, and therefore
to the ecological resilience of pastoral  livestock productivity;
resources                         *  Natural habitats provide traditional
*  Beneficial predators of pest species;  medicines for both people and
*  Natural habitats of pastures provide  livestock, used where modern
medicinal and food plants that are   medicines are not available or
gathered from the wild.              affordable;
*  Some species can provide 'safety net'
income, following the loss of livestock
due to drought, for example sale of
fuelwood.
Forests
In many areas of Ethiopia, the present consumption of wood is in excess of
unaided natural sustainable production. The last twenty-five years has witnessed
heavy deforestation activities, which led to the clearing of about three-quarter of
the country's tree cover. According to a UN report, the forest cover of the country
during 2000 was just about 4.5 million hectares.
In some pastoral areas, such as Somali, the influx of refugees and internally
displaced people has resulted in massive deforestation. Population pressures are
also caused by the attractiveness of large scale ponds, birkas and other
infrastructure development. Forest resources are used unsustainably to build
shelters and for fuelwood in refugee camps. Figures 5.2 and 5.3 illustrate the
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                        GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
31



significant deforestation near Haret El Sheik, and the impacts of refugees from
Somalia on the land.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                  GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
32



Figure 5.2: Signs of deforestation in Aware region, on the road to Robasa
..
_                *.  - ,-  ; -  .,
Figure 5.3: Impacts of refugees on land (waste dumping and deforestation)
5.1.7         Protected areas and endangered species
Six national parks, two wildlife sanctuaries and two wildlife reserves covering
250,000 sq.km have been established to preserve the flora and fauna of the
lowlands (Table 5.6).
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                         GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
33



However, most of these reserves are not functioning effectively. The
Environmental Protection Authority advised the study team that the current
borders of protected areas, and laws governing protected areas require revising,
particularly in the context of decentralization and the strengthening of regional
government.
Table 5.6     Protected areas in the project area
Area (sq. km)  Value
Awash National Park      756           Established for a range of large
(Afar)                                 mammals, including greater and lesser
kudus, Soemmerring's gazelles, Beisa
oryx, Swayne's hartebeests and kori
bustards.
Yangudi Rasa National    4731          Particularly important for the
Park (Afar)                            conservation of the wild ass. This
species is Ethiopia's second most
endangered species, is endemic to
Ethiopia, and is reduced to only approx.
800 individuals.
Yabello Wildlife Sanctuary  2496       Established to protect the Swayne's
(Borana)                               hartebeest, but also important for
endemic bird species.
Babille Wildlife Sanctuary  6982       Established to protect an indigenous
(Somali)                               elephant subspecies Loxodonta Africana
oreleansi, although elephants are very
rare. Disrupted considerably by refugees
and pastoralists.
Agrobiodiversity
Breeds of cattle, sheep, goats, camels and donkeys form a significant part of the
basis for pastoral livelihoods, and there are several breeds that are endemic to
pastoral areas:
Thirteen cattle breeds including Boran, Jijiga and Raya Sanga (11);
* Sheep breeds including the Black Head Ogaden and Afar;
* Goat breeds include the Barba, Warrie and long-eared Somali.
(11) also known as Adal in certain areas
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                         GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
34



There has been significant cross-breeding, formally through government
programmes, and informally by pastoralists, so that commonly seen livestock are
often cross breeds, for example a Borana-Guji cross.
However, the above breed names are based mainly on the areas or clans with
which the livestock are associated. The genetic characterization of Ethiopia's
domestic animal resources and subsequent classification and description of
breeds has not been carried out.'2
5.2          PASTORALISM
Sustainable livestock management is closely associated with sustainable pastoral
management - hence the key livelihoods-environment linkage in pastoral areas of
Ethiopia is that between livestock and the natural habitat of grassland and bushland
pastures.
Pastoralists manage their herds and pastoral resources by movement between wet
season and dry season grazing areas, changing the balance of species from
grazers to browsers in order to utilize drought resistant species, movement to
avoid diseased areas or to avoid floods (eg Afar) and de-stocking in preparation
and for drought for example. To control livestock disease, diseased anirnals are
isolated, or herds are 'vaccinated' by the deliberate introduction of certain
diseases.
5.2.1         The impact of environmental stress on pastoralist livelihoods
Despite indigenous sustainable rangeland management to safeguard the
environment, population pressure, drought, changes in population distribution
and natural resource use, and the introduction of modern administrative
regulations have had a significant impact on the quality and availability of
pastoral resources.
Quantitative data on rangeland degradation is not easily available, but experts
and pastoralists' understanding is one of increasing pastoral degradation, soil
erosion, bush encroachment, reduced biodiversity, and deforestation. Pastoral
degradation can occur as a result of under-utilisation as well as over-utilisation,
depending on location. The key features are as follows.
Drought
Drought in pastoral areas is highly recurrent in arid and semi-arid agro-ecological
zones and is a significant threat to pastoralists. The frequency of drought has
resulted in food insecurity and famine, forced migration and social instability of
12 Institute of Biodiversity Conservation and Research, 2001
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                       GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
35



pastoral communities. Moreover, inadequate and erratic rainfall has led to lower
productivity of pastoral resources.
Poorly-located water facilities
Construction of large-scale ponds in wet season pastoral areas in Somali and
Borana has led to overgrazing and resulted in land degradation. (For example,
Figure 5.4 illustrates a water reservoir built for the refugee camp near Haret El
Sheik).
Figure 5.4: Water reservoir built by UNHCR for refugee camps in Haret El Sheik
rT ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;
Agropastoralism, government services andfood aid
Earlier polcies to encourage pastorahsts to sedentarise, the continuing failure of
goverrnment (except in a few locations) to provide mobile services, and the
provision of food aid in static locations has led to sedentarisation of pastoralists in
some areas, associated with localized over-utihisation of pastoral resources and
increased dependency on food aid.
Land use patterns
Land use patterns have been influenced by state sector land development, which
in the past have been undertaken with little or no consideration for or
participation of existing peasant or pastoral sector users and their land use
systems. Examples of these include:
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                         GOVERNMENTO0F'ETHIOPIA
36



* Statefarmns. Large-scale irrigation schemes associated with state farms in vital
pastoralist dry season grazing areas;
* National Parks and plantations. Restrictions on pastoralists in areas
established as National Parks or plantations;
* Establishment of resettlement schemes in areas unsuitable for rainfed
agriculture.
Another significant impact on land use patterns has been the expansion of
smallholder agriculture into areas used either by pastoralists for wet season
grazing or by the state for the conservation of natural forest or wildlife. This has
been the case in a number of areas in Somali, Afar and Ororia. According to the
EPA (1997), state sector land development has induced expansion of rainfed
agriculture into the grazing areas of the Afar in the South and North Wollo zones
and into those of the Somali pastoralists in westem and southern areas of the
Jijiga zone.
Conflict also results in large-scale movements of pastoralists, beyond their
normal range, resulting in further conflict, refugees, and internally displaced
people.
Bush encroachment
Bush encroachment refers to the development of grassland and bushland
resources into thorny bushland of lower nutritive value to livestock. It is a widely
discussed problem in pastoral Ethiopia. Problems include invasion of an exotic
species Prosopis juliflora (introduced to control soil erosion in the 1970's) in Afar,
development of grassland into thickets of Acacia spp in Borana, and prickly pear
cactus Opuntia spp. in Somali.
However the causes of encroachment vary:
* According to informants, encroachment of Prosopis in Afar is a simple matter
of an invasive species, and is not a symptom of pastoral degradation;
* In Borana, restrictions on traditional burning of bushland and grassland are
widely cited as the cause.
Soil erosion and gully erosion
Occurring as a result of intense rainfall and wind, soil erosion is one of the most
visible consequences of pastoral degradation. In extreme cases, gully formations
result, especially in parts of the Somali region. In some areas of Somali such as the
Aware woreda (near Haret el Sheik and Robasa), communities have indicated
that heavy vehicles that transport food aid and provisions to refugee camps have
left large tracks in the ground, which developed into gullies in later rains. Figure
5.5 illustrates a gully formation near Robasa.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                      GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
37



Figure 5.5: Gully formation near Haret El Sheik
5. 3          OTHER LIVELIHOOD -ENVIRONMENT LINKAGES
Despite the dominance of livestock-pastoral management mn pastoral livelihoods,
several other aspects of the enviroinment are of imnportance to pastoralists'
livelihoods and coping strategies. Examples based on our field observations and
consultation are:
*   Groundwater. Traditional shallow wels, and deeper boreholes constructed
under development projects. In the Somah region, for example, birkas or small
ponds are built for livestock use. Water is essential for livestock health and
productivity as wel as human health and sanitation;
. Surface water resources, including rivers, streams, and springs as wel as
traditional rainwater harvesting cisterns, and larger-scale ponds constructed
under development projects;
* Malaria. In certain areas, pastoralists complain of the prevalence of malaria.
The abundance of insect vectors can be increased by the extent of standing
water available for as breeding sites.
* Livestock parasites. In some areas, pastorahists complain that restrictions on
burning of grassland and bushland has led to an increased prevalence of
parasitic ticks. This indicates the influence of local environments on the
prevalence of livestock pests and diseases;
l   Fuelwood. Collection of fuelwood for domestic consumption or sale, and
conversion to charcoal for sale;
* Timber and poles, for construction of homes and small-scale buildings, and
construction of equipment such as smal donrkey-drawn trailers;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                         GOVERNMENTO0F'ETHIOPIA
38



*  Leaves and herbs. People use herbs in cooking, and in times of coping with
drought reliance wild resources for nourishment;
*  Medicinal plants. There is a significant traditional practice of the use of wild
grassland and bushland species for the treatment of livestock as well as
people. For example Balanites aegiyptica is used to treat anthrax in livestock;
*  Gums and incense, produced from Acacia spp and Commiphora spp. for sale;
*  Apiculture and sale of honey is practiced in some areas;
* Waste. The disposal of solid waste especially on the outskirts of urban centers;
*  Hunting. It is unclear whether hunting of bushmeat for domestic consumption
and sale is significant among pastoralists in Ethiopia.
5.3.1        Gender-differentiated use of environmental resources
Discussions with stakeholders and non-governmental representatives indicate
that responsibilities for environmental and pastoral resource management, and
dependence on wild resources are differentiated according to gender in
pastoralist cultures. It will be key to ensure consultation and targeting of women
during micro-project appraisal. This is taken into account in the Environmental
Management System described in Chapter 8.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                      GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
39






6           IMPACTS
This chapter presents our conclusions on the potential environmental impacts of
the PCDP. The chapter discusses both the positive impacts and the negative
impacts of the project, and begins with the assessments' conclusions on the
overall impacts of the project. Specific impacts are described in more detail for
anticipated community micro-projects.
6.1          OVERALL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
As described in Chapter 5, environmental sustainability is fundamental to
sustainable pastoral livelihoods, and lowered vulnerability to drought. Therefore
environmental sustainability is fundamental to the success or failure of the PCDP.
There is a precarious balance between two very different scenarios:
* On the one hand, under a scenario of a successful PCDP which works in
accordance with the vision and approach set out in project documents, the
PCDP would make a significantly positive contribution to environmental
sustainability in pastoral areas;
* On the other hand, under a scenario of a failing project, the PCDP would
contribute to marked further decline in environmental sustainability in
pastoral areas.
Discussions with the World Bank pre-appraisal mission indicates that they are
fully appreciative of this conclusion. Indeed, the institutional, social, land reform
and other analyses that are being carried out during preparation will lay the
ground for the first, successful, scenario.
This conclusion emphasizes the importance of the Environmental Assessment
Framework, set out in Chapter 8, to ensure that environmental sustainability is
fully mainstreamed into PCDP design, appraisal, and implementation.
6.1.1        Potential positive impact
The overall positive environmental impact predicted under the first scenario is
based on the following reasoning:
* The PCDP will strengthen traditional systems of environmental governance;
* Reduced vulnerability to drought will lower the dependence of pastoralists on
wild resources in times of drought, and environmental degradation during
disasters;
*  In particular, the Pastoral Risk Management Component will reduce
vulnerability to drought through the early warning system and drought
contingency and preparedness fund and emergency response;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                   GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
40



* Improving wellbeing due to improved education and health services, and
alternative income generating opportunities may lead to a reduced number of
livestock;
* Strategically placed rural roads, and associated mobile services, may enable a
more sustainable distribution of people and livestock;
* An increased number of strategically-located small-scale water points wiLl
lead to a more diffuse distribution of grazing pressure;
*  Reinvigorated traditional systems of governing range management will le ad
to a more sustainable distribution of livestock between wet season and dry
season grazing;
*  Effective reversal of bush encroachment offers a positive impact on
conservation of natural habitats and biodiversity in some areas.
Therefore the PCDP has the potential to make a significant contribution to
Ethiopian policy including the Conservation Strategy of Ethiopia, the National
Biodiversity Conservation Strategy, and the National Environmental Action I'lan.
6.1.2       Potential negative impact
The overall negative environmental impact predicted under the second scenario
is based on the following reasoning:
* Pastoralists' livelihoods and environment are complex and unpredictable;
*  Differential impacts of the PCDP (according to gender, wealth status, or
livelihood strategy) may result in some groups relying to a greater extent than
others on unsustainable use of natural resources;
* Alternative livelihoods and improved marketing of livestock products,
resulting in improving wellbeing, may lead to increased numbers of livestock
or tropical livestock units, and increased demand on pastoral resources;
*  Traditional systems of governance may be too fragmented and insufficiently
effective to resurrect traditional sustainable range management practices;
*  Even where traditional environmental governance is effective, incentives for
communities to sustainably manage pastoral resources may be weak in
comparison to incentives for unsustainable use, particularly as they seek to
prepare for, cope with and recover from drought;
*  Rapid institutional change in the formal federal and regional systems for
governing pastoral areas may create competing or ineffective institutions
within government;
*  There is a significant number of NGO and development agency-financed
projects in pastoral areas, with considerable experience, that may be
undermined by the financial and political weight of the PCDP;
* The proposed policy reform measures are politically sensitive, which may
result in partial or poorly timed introduction of policy reform measures, with
damaging results on pastoral resources.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                  GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
41



However the GoE and World Bank are addressing these risks carefully in the
preparation and design of the PCDP. Table 6.1 sets out the factors contributing to
these risks, as observed by the environmental assessment team, and the features
of the PCDP design that mitigate against these risks.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                           GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
42



Table 6.1     Risks requiring mitigation
Risk:                      Explanation                                                 PCDP approacht
Pastoralists' livelihoods and  A significant body of experience from research and development  PCDP rests on a participatory demand-led approach.
environment are complex and  projects consistently point to the localised, diverse and complex nature
unpredictable;             of pastoralist livelihoods. Often it is only the people living in a
particular local area who fully understand the local environment,
interactions within their society, and their economy.
Differential impacts of the  The relation between poverty and environment is not always  Poverty-targeting will be required as part of the
PCDP resulting in         straightforward.                                             community investment fund and disaster
unsustainable use of natural                                                           preparedness fund.
resources;
Improving wellbeing leads to  For example, improved access to markets may increase incentives to  As part of the project's approach to monitoring and
increased numbers of livestock raise cattle. In the absence of reinvigorated traditional systems for range  evaluation, provide opportunities for unforeseen
or tropical livestock units;  management, this may lead to overexploitation of pastoral resources in  impacts to be observed and understood.
some areas. This is unpredictable.
Traditional systems of     Interviews with stakeholders consistently pointed to the breakdown of  PCDP should seek to clarify decision-making
governance too weak to ensure traditional systems of pastoral management.              responsibilities between traditional and modern
sustainable range                                                                      systems
management;
Incentives for communities to  A common assumption of development projects is that communal  PCDP will carry out problem analysis as part of
sustainably manage pastoral  management regimes necessarily lead to sustainable resource  participatory planning with communities. This
resources are weak;        management. Whether or not it actually does depends on the communal approach offers the opportunity to ascertain
decisions and effectiveness of the communal management regime.  pastoralists' expectations on the effectiveness of
traditional pastoral management regimes.
Rapid institutional change in  Recent changes include decentralisation, new regional pastoral  PCDP support to institutional change should be
the formal federal and    commissions, and the emergence of pastoralist advocacy groups at a  considered carefully, in full view of political
regional pastoral governance;  Federal level, including a parliamentary standing committee on  sensitivities, and be carried out with regular
pastoralism                                                 consultation.
Undermining of existing NGO  The financial size of the PCDP is significant in comparison to the smaller PCDP will work to build capacity within regional,
and development agency-    scale NGO and bilaterally funded development projects in pastoral  and woreda administrations, but will take a
financed projects in pastoral  areas. This may have implications for the relation between government  collaborative approach, making use of NGOs as
areas;                     administrations and NGOs, between existing projects and pastoralists,  service providers where appropriate. Selection of the
and for staff of government and NGOs.                       initial woredas should be carried out in consultation
______________ __ __ ____  with other agencies.
43



Risk:                      Explanation                                                   PCDP approach
Partial or poorly timed    The effects of partial policies, or mis-interpreted policy can be  PCDP will work carefully with government and
introduction of policy reform  unpredictable, as experienced in Ethiopia with policies on charcoal  stakeholders on proposed policy reform measures.
measures.                  production and restriction of burning in the past.            There already is a significant body of consensus in
Ethiopia on policy reform measures required for
pastoralist livelihoods.
44



6.2          LOCALISED NEGATIVE IMPACTS
Most of the developments under the sustainable livelihoods and disaster
preparedness components will be small in scale: therefore the significance of the
direct negative environmental impacts is likely to be small. This is especially the
case in comparison to larger scale developments in Ethiopia, for instance large-
scale roads. Tables 6.2 and 6.3 set out the predicted impacts of the sustainable
livelihoods component, and of likely micro-projects to be financed by the
community investment fund and disaster preparedness fund.
6.3          CUMULATIVE IMPACTS
However, there are likely to be many community micro-projects, which may in
some areas create cumulative impacts on environmental resources. Cumulative
impacts are impacts which may result from individually small-scale activities
with minimal impacts but which over time can combine to have a significant
impact.
Examples are:
* Deforestation due to the exploitation of timber resources, owing to the use of
poles and timber in small-scale construction;
* Potential impacts on groundwater, owing to the construction of numerous
shallow wells and to the introduction of numerous small scale irrigation
works and potential cumulative impacts on water users (especially
downstream users of potential river and streams);
* Large scale resettlement (or more than 200 people, as defined by the World
Bank's Operational Policy OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement) due to the
acquisition of land for the construction of schools, health centers, storage
banks, hand pumps, etc;
* Waste and dumping sites due to the inappropriate disposal of waste materials
during construction.
Consideration of these impacts will provide the PCDP with an opportunity to
learn how to avoid or mitigate localized impacts from initial micro-projects, so
that measures can be integrated into subsequent activities.
6.4          STRATEGIC IMPACTS
The location of certain small-scale activities such as roads, reservoirs and dams
might also have strategic impacts, which requires a more detailed assessment.
Unlike schools, health centers, or fodder banks, infrastructure such as a road
requires an assessment of the location and design to take into account the
potential impacts that the road may have on the natural resources (soil erosion,
encroachment on protected areas, changes to surface run-off, dust, etc) and on the
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                    GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
45



social environment (mobility of communities, migration of people, introduction
of diseases, etc).
Water resources developments in particular must also be assessed for their
strategic impacts particularly in terms of their location in relation to wet season
grazing areas, customary land tenure, surface water resources, and groundwater
levels.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                           GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
46



Table 6.2 Environ1mental impacts of activities under the Sustainable Livelihoods compottent
NOTE: this table based on budget lines in the draft COSTAB available during the preappraisal mnission. It will require updating with the
revised COSTAB
Key: 1     vital to positive impact, "' significant positive impact, I limited positive impact, xlimited negative impact, xx significant negative impact
Activity                                       Positive   Negative  Comment
impact     impacts
Woreda Development Office Strengthening
Civil works (office construction / renovation)               x      Negative impacts associated with construction of buildings
Equipment, goods and materials including camping  v'I        x      Location of pasture for pack animals when not is use may have localized
equipment and pack animals                                          implications. However the use of animals to transport mobile extension workers
will be essential to a successful, environmentally sustainable project
Vehicles                                                     x      Localized negative impacts of discarded broken down vehicles
Training linkages, courses, study tours         /I/                 Sensitization of woreda and regional on the unpredictable and environmentally
sensitive nature of pastoralist livelihoods will be essential to a positive
environmental impact
Revolving funds (restocking, buffer animal drugs)            x      If restocking is carried out in isolation of reinvigorated traditional systems of
sustainable pastoral management, there are significant risks of pastoral degradation
and the creation of dependency on restocking following droughts
Recurrent costs (staff, operation costs including            x       Localized solid waste in associated with the use of vaccines
vaccination campaign)
Field Extension Services
Civil works (Development Resource Centres)                   x      See above
Equipment, goods and materials (including animal             x      Localized impact of abandoned disused equipment. It is unclear how this
husbandry equipment, crop husbandry equipment                       equipment has any relation to the project strategy.
etc)
Vehicles                                                     x      See above
Recurrent costs (staff, operation)                                   No impact
47



Table 6.2 Environmental impacts of activities under the Sustainable Livelihoods Component (continued)
Key: 1/v vital to positive impact, /1 significant positive impact, V limited positive impact, xlimited negative impact, xxsignificant negative impact
Activity                                       Positive    Negative   Comment
impact      impacts
Community-based services
Equipment, goods and materials (for livestock and             x       It is not yet clear what this equipement and materials refers to, but there mat be
for crops, for rangeland)                                             localized negative impacts of abandoned disused equipment.
Training                                         VI                   Awareness-raising among beneficiary communities on the approach of the PCDP to
addressing their needs and demands is essential
Recurrent costs                                                       No impact
Research support
Equipment, goods and materials for regional                   x       Localized negative impacts associated with construction, location of research
research centers in Jijiga, Dubti, Yavello and Jinka                  activities, disuse of equipment, storage and use of pesticides etc. It is not clear how
these activities relate to the project strategy.
Vehicles                                                      x       As above
48



Table 6.3 Potential localized negative impacts of PCDP-financed mnicro-projects
Micro-project               ECO    LAND     H20     WAST     HUNT     HEAL    STOR   Comment
Mobile health services                        x       x                 x            There may be localized impacts due to solid waste and medical
from packaging of drugs, syringes, used swabs etc. Open access to
Mble education ser-vices                ....   ..................Nongtieeviometlimpacts ..........
Mobile animal health                                                    x            Similar impacts to human health services
services
Support and training to                                                              No negative envirornmental impacts
community workers (eg in
Construction of school                                                  x            Localized impacts may be due to appropriation of land for
buildings                                                                            buildings, transport and storage of construction materials, and use
of timber or poles collected from forests. School buildings will
require water and sanitation facilities if induced health problems
are to be avoided, with implications for location in relation to
water and pastoral resources.
Construction of small-scale  x       x                                               Localized impacts on habitat destruction.
roads
Construction of strategic    x       x                         x                     Induced impacts on natural resources, depending on the location
roads                                                                                of roads in relation to pastoral resources.
Restocking                                                                           If carried out in isolation of reinvigorated traditional resource
management systems, restocking is likely to result in pastoral
.-                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~degradation, andheightened vulnerability.........
Control of bush              xLocalized impacts on biodiversity and ecological services,
encroachment    .        ..                          ...                               pending on exact location
Constr-uction of small-scale         x                                               Localized pastoral degradation if carried out in isolation of
water resources                                                p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.astoral resource management, or if of.an  appropriate scale
Key
ECO = Indiscriminate ecological impact, LAND = Land degradation, H20 = Pollution of watercourses or streams, WAST  Solid waste disposal, HUNT=
Increased hunting, to unsustainable levels, HEAL = Human health risks in handling, storage etc, STOR = Land or water contamination during transport or
storage.
49



6.4.1        Impact on ecological resources and land degradation
There may be localized impacts on biological diversity, ecological services and
land degradation due to rnicroprojects that involve construction, bush
encroachment control, induced impacts associated with small or larger scale
roads, or any development that induces concentration of livestock in particular
areas.
6.4.2        Pollution of watercourses
Watercourses may be vulnerable to pollution due to increased solid waste, and
disposal of wastewater, in association with pharmaceuticals, animal drugs and
medical waste, or construction of buildings without adequate sanitation facilities.
6.4.3        Solid waste disposal
Packaging associated with pharmaceuticals, drugs or medical waste of any kind
carries disposal risks. Indiscriminate disposal carried risks for human and animal
health, pollution of watercourses, and land or water resource contamination in
localized areas.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                       GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
50






7           ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
There are few conceivable alternatives to the activities planned under the PCDP
that will deliver reduced vulnerability of pastoralists. Indeed, the approach of the
PCDP to the community investment fund and disaster preparedness is similar to
smaller-scale initiatives financed and managed by NGOs or intemational
development agencies.
In this chapter we consider four alternatives: (i) that the PCDP is implemented
without the essential activities cited in Table 6.1, (ii) a top-down approach to the
delivery of services in pastoral areas, without a participatory approach; (iii) that
the Community Investment Fund and Disaster Preparedness Fund are carried out
without adherence to environmental screening and assessment; and (iv) the 'no-
project' situation.
7.1         PCDP WITHOUT ESSENTIAL ACTIVITIES
In the alternative that the PCDP is implemented without several of the activities
that we conclude are vital to ensuring pastoral sustainability, the potential of the
project to deliver reduced pastoral degradation is significantly reduced, and the
risks of negative environmental impacts are significantly increased.
Implementation of the PCDP without these activities poses the risk that the
project will fail to meet its development objective, due to the centrality of pastoral
sustainability to pastoralists livelihoods.
7.2         ToP-DOWN APPROACH TO SERVICE DELIVERY
In the past, government services in pastoral areas of Ethiopia have often been
'blueprint' solutions, offered to encourage pastoralists to sedentarise. These have
often created difficulties for the maintenance of traditional pastoral management
practices that depend on mobility (see Chapter 5). Understanding of pastoralist
livelihood strategies indicates that these approaches would fail to address the
driving forces of pastoral degradation and the increasing vulnerability of herders:
indeed they would be likely to further disenfranchise the poorest herders from
decision-making on pasture management, potentially lead to increased poverty
and increased conflict over degrading pastures, and offer little prospect for
reducing pasture degradation.
7.3         NO ADHERENCE TO SCREENING AND ASSESSMENT
In the alternative that the Community Investment Fund and Disaster
Preparedness Fund proceed without effective environmental screening and
assessment, it is possible that there will be localized negative environmental
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                   GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
51



impacts of micro-projects, depending on the nature of the projects. As set out in
Chapter 8, it is necessary for screening and assessment to be integrated into the
project implementation manual.
7.4           'No PROJECT' SITUATION
In the 'no-project' scenario, poverty and conflict over pastoral resources are likely
to increase in extent and severity over most of the pastoral areas of Ethiopia. This
will result in greater pastoral degradation than the 'with-project' situation.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsoURCES MANAGEMENT                          GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
52



8            ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
This chapter describes the proposed environmental management plan (EMP) for
the PCDP. Table 8.2 details the EMP actions, responsibilities, training
requirements and costs. In addition Annex 5 provides the details of the
environmental management framework (including draft screening forms,
guidance and checklists) for integration into the project implementation manual.
8.1          KEY PRINCIPLES
This EMP has been prepared on the basis of the following principles.
Firstly, we have sought to avoid considering environmental sustainability of the
PCDP in isolation. Instead we have considered:
(i) How can sustainabilihy (i.e. environmental, social, economic and institutional
sustainability) be ensured at community, kebele, woreda and wider levels?
(ii)  How can the PCDP's contribution to this sustainabilitj be maximized?
For example, it would be counterproductive if the PCDP was to focus solely on
the environmental implications of PCDP-financed micro-projects alone, without
also creating partnerships with NGOs and other woreda administration activities
that also have environmental implications.
Secondly, in accordance with progressive decentralisation in Ethiopia, we
consider that the bulk of environmental inputs to this project are required at
woreda and community levels. At these levels, there is an opportunity to build on
the close working relationship of agricultural, environmental, social and health
officers, and improve awareness of the complexity of sustainable pastoral
livelihoods among all officers.
Thirdly, the EMP does not propose an elaborate system of screening and
assessment for activities or sub-projects within the PCDP components. Instead, it
is proposes that environmental considerations are fully mainstreamed into the
participatory process for identifying, planning, implementing and monitoring
activities or sub-projects.
The forms and checklists in Annex 5 are intended to be merged fully with the
Project Implementation Manual, and the overall system of project management.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                    GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
53



8.2         RECOMMENDATIONS FOR MAINSTREAMING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
MANAGEMENT INTO THE PCDP
Environmental protection and management, as discussed in Chapter 4, is clearly
on the agenda of the federal government in Ethiopia. The Environmental Policy
and Conservation Strategy are the basis for sectoral and cross-sectoral
coordination amongst ministries and line agencies in addressing the
environmental concerns of the country.
There is also a clear indication in the review of the institutional structure for
environmental protection and management that there are several focal points at
the federal, regional, woreda and kebele levels for environmental and natural
resource management.
A important step in ensuring that projects financed by the World Bank meet the
environmental standards set out by the institution is that environmental
standards and mitigation measures are clearly mainstreamed into the project
design and build on the existing capacity within Ethiopia to manage
environmental protection. Where there are weaknesses in environmental
capacity, the project should aim to provide the appropriate measures to
strengthen this capacity and to provide the necessary tools and training to
support these measures.
8.2.1        Capacity Building
The first step in building capacity for environmental management under the
PCDP is to identify the key focal points involved in the coordination and
implementation of the Project.
As discussed in Chapter 4, there are four levels of admninistration: national,
regional, district (woreda) and community (kebele). The PCDP will be coordinated
by the PCU under the Ministry of Federal Affairs and implementation of the
project will be the responsibility of the regions.
As illustrated in Figure 8.1, environmental inputs will mainstreamed at every
level of administration, hence focal points will be necessary at each level. A
program for capacity building is presented below.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                  GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
54



Comunittees
"T   Administration
Environmental inputs
Figure 8.1    Mainst reaming Environmental Management into the Project Management Cycle
I1edera---------l------------                 ....---------------.........-----------------------                               -----------
Pastoral Stanidifng  __         -Em'erging Regionisi   ___       Technical Steeing-
Committee            ~~~~Development Board                Committeei
Environena
Protecti6ia  toMinistry of Federal Affairs'
(wider Miis.to                                                                                                           Environmental Inputs
Ec~~onomic [i~~~~veIopment               P~~rojc Coodiniation Unit
and Cdoopr o)(di                                                  bb)Liaison with Coordinating
Ministry and EPA on EMP
----- -----------  .... OROMIYA       -----.----------  SOMALI        .......     .-    AFAR      ----~-.------------....
R"evions 
~-ePAti~lDO                                                      atoAekFnent,  Pai'oral D'evelop'ment-.,  Patoral andRuia  Technical guidance on
Commiiission               -C&oclina tion Off ice      ..Development B~ureau -environmental issues
l-X'or('da            D~~~~Mistict Development       District Development           District Developmient -Technical guidance on
-.omlittee                     Committee                      Commuittee'                   implementing EMP
Kebele                        Ke1iele Di4omeKeeeDeeopetKebele Develo'pment -                                                   Training in use of
* ~,Commte                         omiteConunittee                                  4-       environmental screening
system and guidelines
- -  -  Commurnities     .-..
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                                                                           GoVERNMVENTOF ETHIOPIA
55



Table 8.1 Identifying Focal Points for Capacity Building
Focal point          Recommendation                     Administration                   Action                                        Cost
Project Co-ordination  Appoint an Environmental          This individual will be positioned  *  To supervise the implementation of the EMS  To be priced as a
Unit                 Coordinator in the Unit to manage the  as a team member in the Project   and to monitor the reporting of project  Local Consultant
environmental issues under the EAMF.  Coordination Unit at the Ministry  outputs                                  under a Fixed term
of Federal Affairs.              *   To liaise with the relevant agencies at the  Contract
regional, woreda and kebele levels and with
EPA and other environmental bodies and
institutions
*   To provide support to the regions, woredas,
and kebeles through information
dissemination, organizing trainings and
workshops, and identifying institutional needs
Regional level       Ensure that in each region (Somali,  This focal point can either be an  *  To assist the Regional Support Teams in  New staff will be
Afar, Oromia), there is a focal point to  existing staff (from a regional  implementing the sub-projects          hired under the
support the kebeles in implementing the  bureau see Table 4.2) with a  *  To provide technical guidance in        Government's civil
EMS, and in screening and approving  background in environment (ie soil  environmental issues as it relates to sub-project  service pool and
sub-projects.                       and water conservation,             location and design                       paid as a civil
biodiversity, environmental      *  To liaise with kebeles and NGOs           servant
engineering, etc) or if one is not
present, then an individual with
skills in environmental
management should be appointed.
Kebele level         Ensure that in each region, there is a  This focal point can either be an  *  To support kebele leaders and communities in  New staff will be
focal point to support kebeles in   existing staff with a background in  using the screening forms to assess the impacts  hired under the
screening and approving sub-projects.  environment or if one does not   of proposed sub-projects                  Government's civil
exist, then an individual with the  *  To liaise with the Regional Bureaus for  service pool and
appropriate skills should be        guidance and technical assistance on      paid as a civil
appointed.                          environmental issues                      servant
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
56



8.3         SENSITISATION AND TRAINING ON ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
In line with capacity building is the need for training and awareness. The training
program proposed under the EMP should address the following:
* Sensitisation among regional and woreda staff concerning pastoral livelihoods
and their coping strategies towards drought. Understanding of the
unpredictable, complex and dynamic nature of pastoralists' livelihoods and
environment is currently weak within government, despite a significant
willingness to embrace needs. There is a relictual tendency towards
sedentarisation or at least to technical solutions. Sensitisation will be required
in advance of the commencement of project activities on the ground.
* Sensitisation among communities and kebele leaders on how to integrate local
traditional knowledge with modem administration, particularly as it relates to
the protection and management of natural resources (rangeland, forests,
protected areas, water resources, etc) and drought contingency planning.
* Training for community leaders, woreda and regional officers on the use of the
screening and reporting system proposed for the project, as set out in Annex 5.
This should be mainstreamed into the training that will be required for the
smooth operation of the entire project management system, and in demand-
driven approaches. Currently, it is proposed that a Training of Trainers (ToT)
and Training of Communities (ToC) will be the approach used under the
Capacity Buildingfor Communihy Empowerment sub-component of the Project.
* Training for regional bureau officials, particularly those involved in early
warning systems, drought contingency planning, and natural resource
management, on environmental impact assessment, its application to small-
scale activities, and the use of environmental guidelines in identifying and
costing mitigation measures.
* Bringing together groups of officers from woreda levels, to encourage inter-
woreda and inter-regional learning, for example on experience in mitigating
negative impacts. This invitation can be extended out to NGOs working in
each region to ensure that through possible partnerships, there is
harmonisation in terms of screening and mitigating impacts.
Table 8.2 recommends the types of training and sensitisation that should be
carried out under the EMP.
A key focus in the training and sensitisation programs, however, should be on
integrating traditional knowledge in environmental management. This is
discussed further below.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                   GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
57



8.3.1        Integrating Traditional Knowledge in Environmental Management
Knowledge as it relates to the following topics will be taken into consideration
when developing training workshops:
* Dry season and wet season grazing patterns. This is integral to assessing the
location of water sources;
*  Traditional land tenure system. Understanding of traditional land tenure
systems is fundamental to evaluating the locations of small-scale activities;
* Traditional land rehabilitation. Pastoralists have over the centuries been able
to manage rangeland using various rehabilitation techniques (e.g. burning,
creating protected areas for rehabilitation, etc).
*  Use of certain plant species for medicinal purposes;
* Experience in tackling bush encroachment.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                       GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
58



Table 8.2 Environmental management plan: key issues and actions
Issue                    Action                         Responsibility        By When           Training                  Cost
Project appraisal and launch
Environmental            * Provide sensitization to these  GoE                During            There is an opportunity to  Included in Project Support
management as it relates    issues through awareness                          preparation for   provide training in issues of  and Policy Reform Component
to pastoralism is not       programs and by                                   project launch    environmental management
widely understood by        disseminating information at                      workshops in      as it relates to pastoralism to
stakeholders and the        project launch workshop                           June 2003         MoFA and the Regional
issues need to be clarified  * Invite representatives from                                      Pastoral Development
EPA, MoFA, other                                                    Boards/Commissions in
governmental agencies, and                                          advance of the launch
NGOs                                                                workshops
Lack of capacity at      Identify key focal points at each  GoE and MoFA      By the middle of  Provide training through  Included in Capacity Building
Regional and kebele levels  level of administration to address                the first year of  Training of Trainers (ToT)  for Commumnty Empozverment
to implement             environment                                          implementation    and workshops to build    sub-component
recommendations in EMP                                                        (2003)            capacity in environmental  (Total base cost over 3 years
management                is USD 100 000)
Sustainable Livelihoods Component
Potential impacts of micro-  Use the screening forms under the  Kebele leaders and  At identification  Communities will be trained  Included in Capacity Building
projects to be financed  EMS to assess the potential    communities           of every micro-   through the Training of   for Community Empowerment
under the CIF            impacts of projects and to                           project           Communities (ToC) to use  sub-component
evaluate whether further study is                                      the screening forms and to  Total base cost for:
needed                                                                 be able to carry out primary  FY 03/04: USD 60 000
impact evaluations        FY 04/05: USD 25 000
FY 05/06: USD 55 000
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
59



Mitigating impacts of    Identify feasible mitigation    Kebele leaders and     At identification  Communities will be trained  Costs of mitigation
micro-projects under the  measures to address the potential  communities       of every micro-   through the ToC to identify  measures will be
CIF                      impacts                                                project          feasible mitigation measures  incorporated into the overall
and to assess the potential  micro-project cost before it
costs of implementing these  gets approved
measures
Potential resettlement or  *  If resettlement is anticipated  World Bank, MoFA  Once World Bank  If a Resettlement Action   To be resourced by GoE
land acquisition as a result  to be of a scale which triggers                   (ASPEN) agrees   Plan/Framework is          (Appx. USD 35 000)
of micro-projects financed   the World Bank's Involuntary                       that such a Plan  prepared, training in
under the CIF                Resettlement policy OP 4.12,                       should be        resettlement planning
then a Resettlement Action                         developed        should be included as a
Plan/Framework must be                                              component
undertaken                                        During screening
*   Resettlement will be taken                        of every micro-
into consideration in the                         project
screening forms
Mobile Service Teams and  Train these teams on how to use  MoFA                 By end of the first  The Training of Trainers  Included in Capacity Building
Regional Support Teams   the screening forms and on how                         quarter of       (ToT) will provide the    for Community Empowerment
lack knowledge in        to assess impacts of proposed                          implementation   necessary training for these  sub-component
environmental assessment  micro-projects                                                         teams                      (refer to base costs quoted
techniques                                                                                                                  above)
Agricultural extension   Prepare a Integrated Pest       World Bank, MoFA       Once World Bank                             To be resourced by GoE
services under this      Management Plan to comply with                        (ASPEN) agree                                (Appx. USD 35 000)
Component may induce     the World Bank's Operational                          that such a Plan
use of pesticides        Policy 4.09                                            should be
developed
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                                                                            GOVERNMENTOFETH(OP(A
60



Table 8.2 Environmental management plan: key issues and actions (continued)
Issue                    Action                         Responsibility        By When           Training                  Cost
Pastoral risk managerenent eomponentt
Woreda infrastructure to be  *  All micro-projects to be  Kebele leaders and  At identification  Communities will be trained  Included in Capacity Building
financed under the           financed under this        communities           of every micro-  through the ToC to use the  for Community Empowerment
Drought Preparedness and     component will be screened                       project           screening forms and to carry  sub-component
Contingency Fund (DPCF)      using the screening forms                                          out impact evaluations    Total base cost for:
*   Micro-projects under this                                          For micro-projects which  FY 03/04: USD 60 000
Fund which are anticipated                                         require more detailed study,  FY 04/05: USD 25 000
to result in significant                                           NGOs or Consultants will be  FY 05/06: USD 55 000
environmental impacts will                                         hired to carry out the
require more detailed study                                        assessment
Mitigating impacts of    *   Identify feasible mitigation  Kebele leaders and  At identification  Communities will be trained  Costs of mitigation
micro-projects under the     measures to address the    communities           of every micro-  through the ToC to identify  measures will be
DPCF                         potential impacts                                project          feasible mitigation measures  incorporated into the overall
and to assess the potential  micro-project cost before it
costs of implementing these  gets approved
measures
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                                                                          GOVERNMENTOFETHIOPIA
61



Table 8.2 Environmental management plan: key issues and actions (continued)
Issue                    Action                         Responsibility        By When          Training                  Cost
Project Support and Policy Reform
Government and           Carry out a strategic          GoE and MoFA          Once policy has  To be determined once     Cost of carrying out
community strategies to be  environmental assessment (EA) of                  been identified,  policies have been identified  Strategic EAs -
assessed for bush control,  these policies and policy options                 strategic EA     by Government
in particular related to the                                                  should be carried
ban on unlicensed                                                             out
transportation of charcoal
Sharing of experience and  MoFA and PCU will jointly    MoFA and PCU          Continuous       None required             Included in Project Support
lessons learned with other  organize meetings with external                                                              and Policy Reform Component
initiatives in pasture   and internal partners for exchange
management &             of experience
environmental capacity
FNVIRONMENIAL RFSOURCES MANAGEMENT                                                                                         GOVERNMENToFETHIOPIA
62



Table 8.2 Environmental management plan: key issues and actions (continued)
Issue                    Action                         Responsibility        By When                     Training             Cost
Potential to encourage   * PCU draws up list, based on  PCU                   By project start in June 2002  Can be one of the  Negligible cost in
environmentally positive    draft (based on draft included                                                sensitization issues to  man-hours
projects                   in annex)                                                                      be administered
* Proactively raise awareness  Regional Support      Continuous throughout the   under the ToT and    Included within
among kebele and woreda     Teams and Mobile      project                     ToC programs         Capacity Buildingfor
beneficiaries of the eligibility  Support Teams                                                    Community
of environmental projects /                                                                        Empowerment sub-
activities                                                                                         component
National and international project monitbring and evaluation
Requirement for concise  * Pilot woredas and kebeles agree  Pilots woredas and  * amend and agree draft   Limited training in  To be costed under
analysis of environmental   with PCU and World Bank on  kebeles, in liaison with  format [to be annexed] by  the use of reporting  Monitoring and
impact, based on            a concise format for annual  PCU                     project launch           formats adopted for  Evaluation
information from pilot      reporting on environmental                        * complete annual reports in  the project
woredas and kebeles         impact (using indicators), and                       September of each year;                       Total base costs over
on synthesis reports in                              complete synthesis reports                    three years:
preparation for project mid-                         in advance of MTR and                         At regional level USD
term review and ex-post                              evaluation                                    75 000
evaluation                                                                                         At federal level USD
* Regional bureau focal points                                                                        75 000
complete annual and synthesis
reports using this format
Requirement for          World Bank appoint local or    World Bank            In advance of MTR and ex-   None required        To be resourced by
environmental evaluation  international environmental                         post evaluation                                  World Bank
& lesson learning in MTR  specialist, with approval of MoFA,
and ex-post evaluation   to provide inputs to MTR and ex-
post evaluation
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
63



8.4         ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
The Environmental Management System (EMS) is a compilation of the methods that
will be used in screening and evaluating micro-projects for environmental
impacts.
The main components of the EMS are:
* A basic environmental screening form for communities to fill out when
completing an application for micro-project financing.
*  Basic 'environmental review' form if the need for a more detailed
environmental appraisal of the project is required.
*  Content to be included in the PIM forms for community evaluation of projects
following completion.
*  Formats for periodic lesson-learning review of environmental impact at a
higher spatial planning level led by traditional leadership.
8.5         MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Monitoring and evaluation of the EMP and of the impacts and mitigation for
micro-projects could not be prepared at this stage of the draft EA. This is a result
of two reasons:
* There is a larger study being carried out for monitoring and evaluation of
the PCDP. The EA consultants were awaiting input from this study in
November 2002 to begin preparing a monitoring and evaluation
subcomponent for the environment issues. However, at the time this EA
report was being prepared, this larger study had not yet started.
* Environmental indicators could not be identified for the Project since there
has not been a clear identification of the type of sub-projects to be
financed. To facilitate in identifying appropriate environmental indicators,
the EA consultants recommend further discussions with the consultants
currently developing the M&E system.
8.6         COSTS
Further discussions are required to precisely ascertain costs of ensuring that
environmental sustainability is mainstreamed into the project. Costs are likely to
be limited since they may be easily incorporated into the design of the Project:
* The costs of the environmental training and sensitisation program should
be addressed under the budget allocated for training in the Capacity
Buildingfor Communihy Empowerment subcomponent of the Project.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                  GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
64



*  Costs associated with sensitisation on environmental management as it
relates to pastoralism targeted at stakeholders should be covered by the
budget allocated for training and awareness under the Policy Reforn and
Project Support component.
*  Costs related to the mitigating of impacts associated with micro-projects
financed under the CIF and DPCF should be assessed and internalised as
part of the overall sub-project cost. This is subject to approval by woredas
when the sub-project is submitted for appraisal.
The main additional costs to the Project from the EMP are potential studies and
plans that may need to be carried out if the Project is believed to trigger other
World Bank safeguards (ie pest management or involuntary resettlement). If that
is the case, then the World Bank and MoFA will determine the resources and
budget needed to produce these studies or plans.
Another additional cost will be the resourcing of staff for the PCU in the MoFA,
and in the regional bureaus and kebele bureaus.
8.7         NEXT STEPS TO TAKE IN IMPLEMETING THE EMP
Once the Project has been appraised, it is recommended that the next steps for FY
2003-05 be as follows:
FY 2003/04
* Begin sensitisation and training programs at national, regional and kebele
levels. This will be carried out in parallel with the implementation of the
Capacity Buildingfor Community Empowerment subcomponent.
* Training will include workshops in environmental assessment, use of the
screening and environmental review forms, and the forms for reporting.
FY 2004/05
* Refine the screening and environmental review forms to better fit the
types of micro-projects financed under the PCDP. These are based on the
first year micro-projects. This will also be a way to incorporate lessons
learned.
* Develop Impact Guidelines for various types of subprojects (eg small scale
irrigation, social infrastructure, education, agricultural extension services,
etc). These should be developed in the second year once there is a clear
idea of the types of subprojects which are being demanded for by
communities.
* Report on the monitoring and evaluation system used and make
refinements to the system as deemed necessary.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                   GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
65






Annex 1
Authors of EA Study



Kurt Lonsway
Project Director and Environmental Specialist - ERM Washington
Doug Smith
Pastoral Development Specialist - ERM London
Tania Mansour
Safeguard/Environmental Specialist - ERM Washington



Graham, D.J., Green, K. & McEvoy, K. 1998 Environmental Guidelinesfor Social
Funds
2001 Mainstreaming Safeguard Policiy Compliance within Communihy-Drive
Development Inititatives (CDDs) in World Bank-Funded Operations, Anl Exploratony
Study Focusing on Africa
Green, K. & Graham, D. 1999 Environmental Assessment Sourcebook update:
Environmental Assessment of Social Fund Projects
World Bank Technical Paper Nol39: Environmental Assessment Sourcebook, Vol
I Policies, Procedures and Cross-Sectoral Issues
Pastoralist Forum Ethiopia (PFE), 2002 Proposed Pastoral Development Policy
Recommendations
Egziabher, T.G. 2001 The Experience of Selected Donors / NGOs in Rural Service
Delivery
Institute of Biodiversity Conservation and Research (IBCR), 2001 Twenhy-five
years of Biodiversihy Conservation and Utilisation and Future plan of action
Natural Resources Management and Regulatory Department, Ministry of
Agriculture, 2000 Agro-ecological Zones of Ethiopia
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, 1999 Regional Conservation Strategy
Volume III, Action Planfor the Regional Strategies on the Environment
Kamar, A. B., Properhj Rights, Risk, Livestock Development in Africa Ethiopian
Case Study. 396-426
Hailu B., 2001 Land Evaluationfor the proposed Regional Land Use Plan (Thematic
Report) Bureau of Agriculture Afar Regional State
Bonger, G., 2001 Vegetation Surveyfor the proposed Regional Land Use Plan
Bureau of Agriculture Afar Regional State
Coppock, D.L., 1993 The Borana Plateau of southern Ethiopia: Synthesis of pastoral
research, development and change, 1980-91 Intemtational Livestock Centre for
Africa
Jemal, A., & Menzel, F., 2000 Bush Encroachment in the Boorana Rangelands and
how to turn Harmful Bush into Useful Bush Boorana Lowland Pastorak
Development Programme
2000 Proceedings of the National Conference on Pastoralist Development in Ethiopia
Panos Ethiopia and Pastoral Forum Ethiopia, various papers.



World Bank 2002 Aide Memoire of IDA/IFAD/FAO pre-appraisal mission,
November 25 - December 6 2000.
World Bank 2002 Project Appraisal Document for the Pastoral Community
Development Project, 7 November 2002.
IDA/IFAD 2002 Capacity Buildingfor Community Empowerment. Pastoral
Community Development Programme Working Paper 1.
IDA/IFAD 2002 Improved Livelihoods ands Household Food Security. Pastoral
Community Development Programme Working Paper 2.
World Bank 2002 Pastoral Area Development in Ethiopia: Issues Paper
Oxfam 2002 Natural Resource Management in Pastoral Areas of Ethiopia.
Mokku, J., Walker, R. 2002 Short term technical assistance to identifij appropriate
pastoral intervention areasfor EC support. Report to the Delegation of the
European Commission, Addis Ababa.



Itinerary
Visit 1: Kurt Lonsway, Douglas Smith
Saturday 19 October 2002      Arrival in Addis Ababa
Sunday 20 October 2002        Preparation
Monday 21 October 2002        Meetings in Addis Ababa
Tuesday 22 October 2002       Meetings in Addis Ababa / Travel to Awash
Wednesday 23 October 2002     Travel to Aseita / Initial meetings in Aseita
Thursday 24 October 2002      Field visits including Afambo and Galifagi woredas
Meetings in Aseita
Friday 25 October 2002        Travel to Dubti / Meetings in Dubti / Yangu Dirasan
National Park
Saturday 26 October 2002
Sunday 27 October 2002        Meetings in Addis Ababa
Monday 28 October 2002        Meetings in Addis Ababa
Tuesday 29 October 2002       Meetings in Addis Ababa
Wednesday 30 October 2002     Depart Addis Ababa
Visit 2: Kurt Lonsway (2-6 December), Douglas Smith (18-29 November), Tania
Mansour
Monday 18 November 2002        Arrival in Addis Ababa
Tuesday 19 November 2002       Meetings in Addis Ababa
Wednesday 20 November 2002    Meetings in Addis Ababa
Thursday 21 November 2002     Travel to Negelle
Friday 22 November 2002       Meetings in Negelle
Saturday 23 November 2002     Travel to Yabello / Meetings along Negelle-Yabello
road / Meetings in Yabello
Sunday 24 November 2002       Meetings in Yabello / Travel to Addis Ababa
Monday 25 November 2002       Meetings in Addis Ababa
Tuesday 26 November 2002       Meetings in Addis Ababa
Wednesday 27 November 2002     Meetings in Addis Ababa
Thursday 28 November 2002      Travel to Jijiga
Friday 29 November 2002        XXXX
Saturday 30 November 2002      XXXX
Sunday 1 December 2002        Travel to Addis Ababa
Monday 2 December 2002         Writing
Tuesday 3 December 2002        Consultation meeting / Writing
Wednesday 4 December 2002     Writing / Further meetings in Addis Ababa
Thursday 5 December 2002      Writing / Further meetings in Addis Ababa
Friday 6 December 2002         Depart Addis Ababa
18 December 2002              Completion and distribution of draft EA report
31 December 2002               Completion of final EA report






Annex B
Stakeholders consulted



Bi ADDIS ABABA
B1.1 GOVERNMENT
Edmealem Shittaye, Pastoral Extension Team, Ministry of Agriculture
Masfin Berhanu, Pastoral Extension Team (travelled with the EA team on a field trip to
Afar Region)
Desalegn Mesfin, Deputy General Manager, Environmental Protection Authority
Ato Tamiru, Forestry, Wildlife and Land Use Research, Natural Resources and
Regulatory Department, Ministry of Agriculture
Parliamentary Pastoralist Affairs Standing Committee
B1.2 NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATIONS
Ato Biruk, Oxfam
Tafesse Mesfine, Farm Africa
Dr Fesseh Meketa (Veterinarian), Watgari Alemu (Animal husbandry and range
programme), Save the Children U.S.
Ato Fueria, Ben Irwin, SOS Sahel
Ato Melaku (Country Director), Etalem Mengistu (Programme Officer), Panos
B1.3 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES
Assaye Legesse, World Bank
Danial Sellen, Christine Cornelius, D'Arcy Gibbs, John Fox, Ann Waters-Bayer, John
Gicharu, Joint World Bank and IFAD pre-appraisal team
Adbi Omar, Doaud Tari Abrula, Jarsu Mokku, Alastair Scott-Villiers, Pastoral
Communication Initiative
Ato Sora Abdi, GTZ
Darlene Cutshall, USAID
Ato Girma Hailu, Munini Tafera, Matteo Marchisio, Jean-Baptiste Lafayette, UNDP



B2 AFAR REGION
B2.1 PRIMARY STAKEHOLDERS
Hasan Akadi (elder) and group of elders and onlookers, Huma Doyta, Afambo Woreda.
Beneficiaries of an Afar PADB pilot project 15 km from Aseita
Ali Hamfari (chair of pastoral association) and elders, with Mohammed Abira
(translator), Galifagi
B2.2 GOVERNMENT
Mohammed Hussein Ahmed (Regulatory Department Head), Wase Gubena (Natural
resources and protection team), Mohammed Mahmud (Land evaluation expert), Afar
Pastoral and Agropastoral Development Bureau (APADB).
Sherif Jiline Hameza (Administrative and financial head), Afambo Woreda, and Haifara
Dowt (Pastoralist Association leader), Huma Doyta.
Workshop at APADB, including Mohammed Hussein Ahmed, Wase Gubena,
Mohammed Mahmud, Bogale Tessem, Megusse Belayhun, Legess Zewdie, Endris
Hussein (all APADB), Tafesse Zorfu (Water Bureau), Wendessa Guwat (Bureau of
Planning and Economic Development), Ismail Aligard (Afar Pastoralists' Development
Association.
Dange Misgana, Engineering Department, Dubti State Farm
Tasti Eshetu, Yangu Dirasan National Park
B2.3 NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATIONS
Ismail and Valeria Aligard, Afar Pastoralist Development Association (APDA)
John Davies, M. Herve, Action Contre de la Faim
B2.4 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES



B3    BORANA ZONE (OROMIYA REGION)
B3.1  PRIMARY STAKEHOLDERS
Meeting with Borana leadership and elders: Liben Jeldesa (Abageda - President), Jarso
Boru (Deputy Abageda), Kerarsa Guracha, Nura Dida, Kampicha Kuno (elders)
B3.2  GOVERNMENT
Dr Habtanu Teka (Commissioner), Dadhi Amosha (Deputy Director), Oromiya
Pastoralist Development Commission
Fikado Abata (Livestock breeding and marketing, OPDC) accompanied the EA team on
a field visit to Borana
Talew Deressa, NR and Regulatory Department, Negelle Woreda (formerly NR head for
Guji Zone)
Nitlalem Kumera, Disaster Preparedness and Prevention Department Desk, Guji Zone
Hussein Galgal, Head of Urban and Industrial Development Office (Yavello), former
Deputy Chief Administrator of Borana Zone
Workshop of SORDU (Southern Rangeland Development Unit) and CARE: Alem Adere
(manager), Atlaw Belayreh (range expert), Tilahun Negussie (veterinary assistant),
Tesfaye Abebe (planning section), Kadiim Kumicho (planning section) (all SORDU),
Deressa Bedada (CARE-Borana, project administrator)
B3.3 NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATIONS
Alemayehu Boka, Liben Impact Area Manager, Save the Children US, Negelle
Worku Chibissa (M&E adviser), Hussen Miyo (Liben Woreda Officer), SOS Sahel,
Negelle
B3.4 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES
Reinhold Swoboda, GTZ



Graham, D.J., Green, K. & McEvoy, K. 1998 Environmental Guidelinesfor Social
Funds
2001 Mainstreamiiig Safeguard Policy Compliance within Community-Drive
Development Inititatives (CDDs) in World Bank-Funded Operations, An Exploratony
Study Focusing on Africa
Green, K. & Graham, D. 1999 Environmental Assessment Sourcebook update:
Environmental Assessment of Social Fund Projects
World Bank Technical Paper No139: Environmental Assessment Sourcebook, Vol
I Policies, Procedures and Cross-Sectoral Issues
Pastoralist Forum Ethiopia (PFE), 2002 Proposed Pastoral Development Policy
Recommendations
Egziabher, T.G. 2001 The Experience of Selected Donors/NGOs in Rural Service
Deliveny
Institute of Biodiversity Conservation and Research (IBCR), 2001 Twenty-five
years of Biodiversity Conservation and Utilisation and Future plan of action
Natural Resources Management and Regulatory Department, Ministry of
Agriculture, 2000 Agro-ecological Zones of Ethiopia
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, 1999 Regional Conservation Strategy
Volume III, Action Planfor the Regional Strategies on the Environment
Kamar, A. B., Property Rights, Risk, Livestock Development in Africa Ethiopian
Case Study. 396-426
Hailu B., 2001 Land Evaluationfor the proposed Regional Land Use Plan (Tleina tic
Report) Bureau of Agriculture Afar Regional State
Bonger, G., 2001 Vegetation Surveyfor the proposed Regional Land Use Plan
Bureau of Agriculture Afar Regional State
Coppock, D.L., 1993 The Borana Plateau of southern Ethiopia: Synthesis of pastoral
research, development and change, 1980-91 Interntational Livestock Centre for
Africa
Jemal, A., & Menzel, F., 2000 Bush Encroachment in the Boorana Rangelands and
how to turn Harmful Bush into Useful Bush Boorana Lowland Pastorak
Development Programme
2000 Proceedings of the National Conference on Pastoralist Development in Ethiopia
Panos Ethiopia and Pastoral Forum Ethiopia, various papers.



World Bank 2002 Aide Memoire of IDA/IFAD/FAO pre-appraisal mission,
November 25 - December 6 2000.
World Bank 2002 Project Appraisal Document for the Pastoral Community
Development Project, 7 November 2002.
IDA/IFAD 2002 Capacity Buildingfor Community Empowerment. Pastoral
Community Development Programme Working Paper 1.
IDA/IFAD 2002 Improved Livelihoods ands Household Food Security. Pastoral
Community Development Programme Working Paper 2.
World Bank 2002 Pastoral Area Development in Ethiopia: Issues Paper
Oxfam 2002 Natural Resource Management in Pastoral Areas of Ethiopia.
Mokku, J., Walker, R. 2002 Short term technical assistance to identify appropriate
pastoral intervention areasfor EC support. Report to the Delegation of the
European Commission, Addis Ababa.



Itinerary
Visit 1: Kurt Lonsway, Douglas Smith
Saturday 19 October 2002      Arrival in Addis Ababa
Sunday 20 October 2002        Preparation
Monday 21 October 2002        Meetings in Addis Ababa
Tuesday 22 October 2002       Meetings in Addis Ababa / Travel to Awash
Wednesday 23 October 2002     Travel to Aseita / Initial meetings in Aseita
Thursday 24 October 2002      Field visits including Afambo and Galifagi woredas
Meetings in Aseita
Friday 25 October 2002        Travel to Dubti / Meetings in Dubti / Yangu Dirasan
National Park
Saturday 26 October 2002
Sunday 27 October 2002        Meetings in Addis Ababa
Monday 28 October 2002        Meetings in Addis Ababa
Tuesday 29 October 2002       Meetings in Addis Ababa
Wednesday 30 October 2002     Depart Addis Ababa
Visit 2: Kurt Lonsway (2-6 December), Douglas Smith (18-29 November), Tania
Mansour
Monday 18 November 2002       Arrival in Addis Ababa
Tuesday 19 November 2002      Meetings in Addis Ababa
Wednesday 20 November 2002    Meetings in Addis Ababa
Thursday 21 November 2002      Travel to Negelle
Friday 22 November 2002       Meetings in Negelle
Saturday 23 November 2002     Travel to Yabello / Meetings along Negelle-Yabello
road / Meetings in Yabello
Sunday 24 November 2002       Meetings in Yabello / Travel to Addis Ababa
Monday 25 November 2002       Meetings in Addis Ababa
Tuesday 26 November 2002      Meetings in Addis Ababa
Wednesday 27 November 2002    Meetings in Addis Ababa
Thursday 28 November 2002      Travel to Jijiga
Friday 29 November 2002        XXXX
Saturday 30 November 2002     XXXX
Sunday 1 December 2002         Travel to Addis Ababa
Monday 2 December 2002         Writing
Tuesday 3 December 2002        Consultation meeting / Writing
Wednesday 4 December 2002      Writing / Further meetings in Addis Ababa
Thursday 5 December 2002       Writing / Further meetings in Addis Ababa
Friday 6 December 2002         Depart Addis Ababa
18 December 2002              Completion and distribution of draft EA report
31 December 2002               Completion of final EA report






ANNEX 5 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
The following pages set out a proposed system of screening and assessment for the
activities to be funded under the PCDP. Figure 1 below illustrates the system in a decision
tree.
The screening system is sufficiently flexible to be used for screening and assessing micro-
projects to be financed under the Community Investment Fund and the Drought
Preparedness and Contingency Fund.
Figure 2 sets out lines of reporting and advice in the system proposed here. The reporting
system covers the whole project. We propose that this system should be merged with the
mainstream project reporting system to be used for each of the components.
Since Ethiopia has not adopted a formal method of environmental impact assessment for
projects, the proposed EMS should be used.
Both diagrams refer to the report or checklist formats that are proposed and set out in this
annex.
Figure 1. Decision tree.
|    No ~action 
/      _     s w    ~~~~~necessarny
xaragned    ,e f                            a (b Screening  *  A      eth       M    o     
idntificatioii                                                 0 l,o  action
, <        ,   _     E~~~~nvironnmental 
Seeformat (a)             Review      _
Sefra     ,b                ssssoetnitoring &
Review
Seeformat (c)
Following identification (in which kebele representatives and regional bureau focal points are involved),
each proposed sub-project is checked against the screening checklist to decide whether nofurther
assessment or whether a brief environmental review is required. This decision is based on the type of sub-
project. In the case where an environmental review is required, the responsible officer draws conclusions
on whether nofiirther action is necessary, or an assessment is required.
Note: It is also recommended that Impact Guidelines be developed after thefirst year of the project to
facilitate in assessing and recommending mitigation measures to address potential impacts. By the end of
thefirst year, it will be clear what types of activities are beingfinanced under the Project, and thus project-
specific impact guidelines can be developed.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                               GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA



Figure 2. Lines of reporting and advice on environmental impacts
Kebele                                Woreda                              National
Pilot communities selected  Advice +                                                              .a  +  Tec..ical Steering  . Advice +  World Bank
under pilot wvoredas    support   and Mobile Support Teams     support        Committee            support
Reportfonnat (d)                       Reportfornat (e)                    Reportfonnat (f)
(d)                                (e)
Kebele environmental focal            Environmental Officer or                     MoFA                         PCDP Mid-term Review
point                 .      Regional environmental     Advice +                                       and ex-post evaluation
su.pdpioret    focal point           support                              support
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                                                                       GOVERNMENTOr ETHIOPIA
2



Format (a) - Screening checklist
Which of the following screening categories is this sub-project in? [Tick one only]
Types of projects requirintg environlmenital review  Projects not requiring enviromniiienital review
Categories
1 Roads or bridges                           (specific types to be determined after pilot phase)
2 Construction of new buildings or centres   Social Infrastructure
D Water supply systems                       LI
LI Sanitation systems                        Rural health services
E] Rainwater harvesting                      LI
a Charcoal production/Fuel collection        Education
Dams                                        LI
L Reservoirs                                 Agricultural extension services
L Small scale irrigation systems             F
L Mobile veterinary activities               Research and technology transfer
LI Restocking                                L
L Range rehabilitation                       Livestock Support
L Heavy vehicle/equipment (large trucks,     El
construction equipment)                   Early warning systems - rapid response
activities
L
Capacity building
LI
Other.
LI Please describe: [type here]
LI Other. Please describe: [type here]       Type of activity in this category:
[type here]
Completed by: [type here]
Name: [type here]
Position: [type here]
Date: [type here]
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
3



Checklist (b) - Environmental Review
Sub-project name                        [type here]
Estimated cost (Birr)                  [type here]
What is the project objective and      [type here]
activities?
Describe the site for the proposed     [type here]
subproject:
(For example, where is it relative to other
infrastructure or buildings, who owns
it, who is now using it, what will the
consequences be for current owners
and users.)
Location
Yes No
Does the project comply with the local development plan?           D     F
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Is the project sited within a strictly protected area, national park, nature
reserve or natural/ historical monument?                            E[ Z
If 'Yes', give details (e.g. names and location): [type here]
Does the project involve any land acquisition?
If 'Yes', give details (eg how much land, by plot and size?): [type here]
Does the project reduce people's access (via roads, location etc) to the
pasture, water, public services or other resources that they depend on?  E  C
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Will the project involve rehabilitation of land, forest, or water
resources?                                                         E     R
If 'Yes', give details:[type here]
Impacts
Yes No
Does the sub-project require construction materials to be taken from local  2  ]
sources (eg gravel, stones, water, timber, firewood)?
If 'Yes', describe the construction materials to be used and what sources
will they will come from (local or exported): [type here]
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRcEs MANAGEMENT                           GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
4



Does the sub-project require, or lead to, the disposal of wastewater, solid  D  F
waste or any other solids or liquids into streams, rivers or lakes?
If 'Yes', give details (specify types, and location): [type here]
Does the sub-project involve the use of pesticides?                    D     2
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Does the sub-project have human health and safety risks, during        D     0
construction or later?
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Will the sub-project produce solid waste (including packaging, oils, or  C]  n
discarded medical equipment or machinery parts)?
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Will the project result in conflict or disputes among communities or   D      ]
pastoralists?
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Will the project lead to changes in the distribution of people or of   F     F
livestock?
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Will the project lead to migration into the area?                      F-I   0
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Will the project adversely affect any ethnic minorities living in the area?  D  E
If 'Yes', give details (describe these minorities): [type here]
Will the project adversely affect the livelihoods and rights of women?  E   El
If 'Yes', give details: [type here]
Alternatives
Is it possible to achieve the objectives above in a different way, with fewer environmental
impacts? If yes, describe these alternatives.
[type here]
Conclusion
Summarise the above:                Guidance
2 All the above answers are 'No'   . If all the above answers are 'No', there is no
need for further action;
L There is at least one 'Yes'      * If there is at least one 'Yes', an assessment is
required;
* If the project requires relocation of people,
then the PCU should be informed.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                              GOVERNMENTOFETHIOPIA
5



Which course(s) of action do you recommend?
[]No further action
D Assessment
If your recommendation differs from the above guidance, please explain why.
[type here]
Completed by: [type here]
Name: [type here]
Position: [type here]
Date: [type here]
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                          GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
6



Assessment - Fornat (c)
Please use short descriptions to respond to the following:
General Description of Sub-project
Sub-project objective
[type here]
Sub-project phases, components, and budget
[type here]
Alternatives rejected by Sub-project Presenters
[type herel
Baseline Description
Could the sub-project have a negative impact on any of the following features?
Physical-chemical environment      Biological Environment                  Socio-economic environment
El Groundwater                     LI Pasture resources                    [ Women's livelihoods
[]Rivers, streams and springs     FL Wildlife                              E Human health
aSoil                              L Herbs and grasses                     L People's access to land they are currently using
Forest                                  L Ethnic communities
L Protected areas or national parks
Please give a short description of the baseline for each tick above.
[type here]



Negative Environimental Impacts
For each you have ticked above, please describe the type of impact, risk, significance, and proposed mitigation and monitoring.
Type of impact   Description of impact  Risk of impact (low,  Significance of impact  Mitigation and monitoring requirements
mediunt, or high)   (low medium, or high)
[type here]      [type here]            [type here]         [type here]            [type here]
[type here]      [type here]            [type here]         [type here]            [type here]
[type here]      [type here]            [type here]         [type here]            [type here]
[type here]      [type here]            [type here]         [type here]            [type here]
[type here]      [type here]            [type here]         [type herej            [type here]
[type here]      [type here]            [type here]         [type here]            [type here]
[type here]      [type here]            [type here]         [type here]            [type here]
[type here]      [type here]            [type here]         [type here]            [type here]
[type here]      [type here]            [type here]         [type here]            [type here]
[type here]      [type here]            [type here]         [type here]            [type here]
(expand as necessary)
Environmental Management Plan
Please insert the actions you propose to ensure that negative impacts are mitigated, or any required monitoring.
Action                          Who by                           By when                         Cost
[type here]                     [type here]                     [type here]                     [type here]
[type here]                     [type here]                      [type here]                     [type here]
[type here]                     [type here]                     [type here]                      [type here]
[type here]                     [type here]                    I [type here]                     [type here]
[type here]                     [type here]                     [type here]                      [type here]
[type here]                     [type here]                     [type here]                      [type here]
(expand as necessary)
Completed by: [type here]
Name: [type here]
Position: [type here]
Date: [type here]



Fornat (d) - Environmental Officer - Kebele Annual Report
Kebele: [type here]
Reporting year: [type here]
Enter numbers of sub-projects screened in the diagram:
No actiont necessary
Screening                                                No fuNrth1er action
i_ _ ~~~~~~Environmentald
Review_
Assessment
Were you personally involved in the targeting or identification of any sub-projects under
the PCDP component?
II Yes J No
If 'Yes', please describe:
[type here]
Were any of the sub-projects environmentally beneficial projects such as for example
concerning water resource provisions and land rehabilitation?
R Yes [- No
If 'Yes', please describe:
[type here]
Results of assessments
Type of projects that have  Impacts identified     How successful was the
been subject to assessment: included:              assessment in ensuring
that mitigation or
monitoring proposals were
carried out? If not, why
not?
[type here]               [type here]              [type here]



Is the sub-project contributing to improved livelihoods in this kebele?
E Yes, it's contributing to an overall improvement
E No, it's worsening pasture degradation/ it's having a negative impact on the
environment
C Too early to say
Please explain:
[type here]
Have any other environmental reviews been carried out by the regional bureau in your
kebele? If 'yes', please descr be. If 'No' tick here C]
Review or study          Summary of key           Was the review successful?
conclusions              eg were its
recommendations carried
out? If not, why not?
[type here]              [type here]              [type here]
Were there any unforeseen environmenital problems associated with the sub-project?
Problem                  Actions taken            Actions to be taken
[type here]              [type here]              [type here]
Training
Please list the training you have received  List TWO key areas of training you need
under the PCDP                        in order to carry out your role in the
PCDP
[type here]                           1) [type here]
2) [type here]
Completed by: [type here]
Name: [type here]
Position: [type here]
Date: [type here]



Format (e) - Environmental Officer- Regional Annual Report
Region/ Woreda: [type here]
Reporting year: [type here]
Enter numbers of sub-projects screened in the decision tree diagram:
No action necessary
Screening                                                No further action
Assessment
Summarise, from kebele level reports, the ways in which environmental officers have been
involved in the targeting or identification of any sub-projects under the PCDP.
[type here]
Summarise from kebele level reports the types of environmentally beneficial sub-projects,
concerning land rehabilitation for example, under the Project?
[type here]
Results of assessments
Summarise the results of Assessments, from your knowledge and from the kebele reports:
Type of projects that have  Typical impacts identified  How successful was
been subject to assessment: included:              the assessment in ensuring
that mitigation or
monitoring proposals were
carried out? If not, why
[type__here]_[type__here]_[not?
[type here]              [type here]               [type here]



Is the PCDP contributing to improved pasture management/pastoral livelihoods in your
woreda?
[ Yes, it's contributing to an overall improvement
E No, it's worsening pasture degradation/it's having a negative impact on the
environment
El Too early to say
Please explain:
[type here]
Summarise any other environmental reviews carried out under the Project at kebele and
woreda levels.
Kebele of    Review or      Summary of key        Was the review
woreda level study          conclusions           successful? eg were its
recommendations
carried out? If not, why
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ n o t?
[type here]  [type here]    [type here]           [type here]
Summarise any unforeseen environmental or social problems associated with the
subproject in your woreda.
Problem                 Actions taken           Actions to be taken
[type here]             [type here]             [type here]
Based on feedback from sums, what are the 3 priority training requirements under the
PCDP?
Training requirement                Who for
1) [type here]                       [type here]
2) [type here]
3) [type here]
Completed by: [type here]
Name: [type here]
Position: [type here]
Date: [type here]



