Report No. PID11110
Project Name             ETHIOPIA-Pastoral Community Development
Project
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   General agriculture; fishing and
forestry sector (70%); Other social
services (30%)
Project ID               P075915
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF FEDERAL AFFAIRS
Address: Ministry of Federal Affairs
Contact Person: Ato Lulseged Abate,
Head, Pastoral Development Department
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        December 30, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      January 30, 2003
Bank Approval Date       May 22, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Sector issues and government strategy were the focus of sector work
carried out in FY01 (Pastoral Community Development in Ethiopia: Issues
paper, June 2001). This section summarizes portions of this document.
Main Sector Issues
In Ethiopia, pastoralism is extensively practiced in the Somali and Afar
national regional states (Regions), in the Borana zone of the Oromia
national regional state, and in the South Omo zone of the Southern
Nations, Nationalities and Peoples (SNNP) national regional state.
Pastoralists are also found in areas of Tigray, Benshangule and Gambella
regions. These lowlands encompass almost seven million people, in excess
of 500,000 km2 (61 percent of the area of Ethiopia) and over eleven
million animals -- the largest livestock population in Africa. People
living in the pastoral lowland areas of Ethiopia comprise both the
comparatively wealthy who hold substantial assets in the form of
livestock, a larger number of poor people who have small herds and flocks,
and those who, to a greater or lesser extent, depend upon cropping or sale
of their labour ("agropastoralists"). Although the climatic conditions and
hardships are similar for most pastoral areas, the people inhabiting these
areas differ in their social structure, herd composition, coping
strategies and in the extent of their integration in the market economy.
The following sector issues dominate:
(a) Good governance and community participation are preconditions for
sustainable development anywhere, and pastoral areas are no exception. The
establishment of the National Regional States with their underlying woreda
(district) and local kebele (sub-district) administrations has improved
the opportunity for more participatory development. However, civil



society, in its broader sense beyond clan loyalties, is embryonic in
lowland Ethiopia. The governance process, despite its devolvement, lacks
transparency, suffers from heavily bureaucratic administrative procedures,
is dominated by local elites where women's rights are poorly
representated, and lacks an enabling environment for private investment.
(b) Periodic drought has always been central to the livelihoods of people
living in Ethiopia's lowland pastoral production systems. However, as a
result of increasing human and livestock population pressure and an
apparent increasing frequency of drought, the capacity to cope with
drought has declined to the point where there is a growing threat to the
survival of viable pastoral production systems. Government has established
a disaster prevention and preparedness system through its Disaster
Preparedness and Prevention Commission (DPPC). However, its primary focus
is on upland agricultural systems, with lowland administration lacking
both the resources and knowledge to effectively protect pastoralist
livelihoods;
(c) Rangeland degradation, driven by rising human and livestock
populations, is increasing in Ethiopia as evidenced by soil loss, bush
encroachment, reduced bio-diversity, and deforestation close to urban and
refugee concentrations. Traditional range management systems, based on
indigenous knowledge, mobility, reciprocity agreements, fluid boundaries
and traditional law are facing new pressures, which require different
institutions, technologies and systems for their redress;
(d) Support services in pastoral areas are weak and often completely
absent. Animal health services rarely extend beyond woreda town boundaries
and livestock marketing infrastructure and information systems are
inadequate. Pastoral research and extension services barely exist, despite
the efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture to implement a "pastoral
extension strategy". Health services in pastoral zones are often limited
to trained birth attendants and education services reach less than a fifth
of the population. Banking and other financial services are unavailable to
the vast majority of pastoralists, and government lacks capacity to extend
these services to remote areas. However, recent experience in community
managed services has opened a new window of opportunity for isolated,
mobile pastoral communities;
(e) Rural infrastructure in Ethiopia's pastoral areas is notoriously
inadequate. While roads in rangelands are difficult to justify according
to normal assessments of economic viability, often the most tangible
economic and social benefit these areas have experienced has resulted from
road development. Stock routes and watering points for livestock off-take
are either nonexistent or poorly planned with resultant weak ownership and
maintenance. Voice communication systems are equally weak, isolating
pastoralists, traders and the supporting government agencies from the
national mainstream.
(f) Non-livestock sources of income: The emergence of dryland agriculture
and some irrigated agriculture has produced increasing numbers of
"agropastoralists". While rainfed farming is equally at the mercy of
drought as is livestock, it has provided some diversity of income sources
and synergies with livestock systems. The PCDP will promote crop
production and non-farm sources of income in response to demands from
- 2 -



communities.
Government Strategy
The PRSP states that "the problem of food security and agricultural growth
in the nomadic areas is being conceived in terms of the development of the
pastoral economy in its entirety." The PCDP corresponds with the central
features of the Government's new strategy for pastoral areas by promoting
an integrated and holistic approach that focuses on people, not merely
their animals or the rangeland which they inhabit. The project will also
pursue several of the recommendations proposed in the Food Security
Strategy, such as those pertaining to animal health, marketing, water
supply, agropastoralism, and early warning systems.
The PCDP would also supports the PRSP's emphasis on community empowerment,
by enabling communities to identify their own priorities, propose modest
development, and gain access to the financial resources and training
necessary for their implementation. The government also proposes to
decentralize service delivery and channel more resources directly to
woreda administrations and to strengthen the chain of technical and
regulatory authority from national to regional and woreda level offices.
These reforms provide an opportunity for building pastoral advocacy at the
national level, strengthening technical service delivery, and improving
community participation in resource allocations at the local (woreda)
level.
Land tenure and settlement policy is are politically-charged issues in
Ethiopia. Grazing lands have, since the early 1900s, been regarded as
property of the State. Government does not, however, provide the by-laws
for the protection of the rangeland or for compensation for alienated land
and remains underpinned by a strong State sentiment for voluntary
pastoralist settlement; the new 1994 Constitution provides for
pastoralists "not to be displaced without their wish". The Minister of
Federal Affairs, which has a mandate for emerging regions, promotes
settlement of pastoralists, but recognizes that this must be voluntary and
implemented over a very long time period. This debate will remain until
such time as the State recognizes efficient use of range resources by
pastoralists as a sustainable land use strategy.
Government has recently revised its institutional framework for rural
development. This has involved the appointment of a Minister of Rural
Development, who is also the Deputy Prime Minister. The Minister has
overarching responsibility for agriculture and rural development. In
addition, the Ministry of Federal Affairs (MoFA) has been delegated to
address the governance and administrative needs of emerging regions which
comprise the larger pastoral areas of Afar and Somali Regions. MoFA also
chairs a new multi-ministerial "Emerging Regions Development Board" which
has as a mandate development in pastoral areas. In addition, a Standing
Committee on Pastoral Development has been created, composed of nine
Parliamentarians from pastoral regions, which is now highly vocal in
promoting pastoral interests.
2. Objectives
The development objective Pastoral Community Development Project (PCDP),
which is the first phase of the program is, for a selected set of woredas,
-3 -



to establish effective and functional models of local governance and
investment in pastoral areas that address communities' priority needs and
reduce their vulnerability.
If this development objective is achieved according to performance
indicators, this will trigger subsequent project phases within a
programmatic approach. These phases will expand the program geographically
to a larger set of woredas (see below) to provide access of all pastoral
communities to the program's benefits.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Dialogue on poverty reduction policy: With support to the PRSP, IDA is
well positioned to push forward discussion on how to coordinate and
strengthen Government's commitment to poverty reduction. However, this
will have to involve all other major development partners. IDA
collaboration is expected to make a significant contribution to the goals
of the PRSP, including the development of community-driven initiatives and
the decentralization of service delivery to the woreda. The close
collaboration between the IDA specialists and the senior Government
officials responsible for project implementation has already paved the way
for a strong consensus on project design and approach.
Scaling up CDD efforts: IDA has the ability to mobilize sufficient funding
to undertake such an ambitious national program. With the wide range and
large scale of many of its operations, IDA is well positioned to link the
PCDP goals with the national reforms and financing mechanisms required to
support them. The involvement of IDA in the project also provides a
framework, as evidenced by IFAD's involvement, within which other donors
and NGOs can complement IDA's support, ensuring the linkages between and
within on-going and planned programs.
International experience: IDA brings international experience in the areas
of social funds, decentralization, and demand-driven rural investment
funds. Aside from experience in Ethiopia listed above, IDA now has many
similar operations ongoing in the region, and the PCDP may draw from the
positive and negative lessons of this experience. Examples include the
many West African CDD projects, the Mongolia Sustainable Livelihoods
project, and the many examples of social funds. In addition, the growing
focus and debate in the World Bank on community-driven development will
help to consolidate lessons and experience which the PCDP can use to its
advantage.
Sectoral experience: IDA has projects in every sector, which can
contribute technical solutions and facilitate institutional linkages with
line ministries. The PCDP will benefit from the experience of the ESRDF in
terms of community participation and implementation of micro-projects. The
sector investment programs in health, education, and transport will help
in coordinating and ensure technical standards when pastoral communities
choose micro-projects in these sectors.
Limitations: While recognizing IDA's comparative advantage, it is equally
important to acknowledge that we are relatively weak in several areas,
particularly concerning on-the-ground experience in community-driven
approaches in pastoral areas and in working with NGOs. In this respect,
it will be vitally important for the PCDP to collaborate with development
partners who possess diverse strengths and considerable operational
experience.
4. Description
-4-



Component 1. Sustainable Livelihoods
This component would establish decentralized and participatory planning
procedures at the community and woreda levels, enabling men and women in
pastoral communities to identify, prioritize, design, and implement
micro-projects and programs. Communities would be supported by
project-financed Mobile Support Teams (MSTs) who would work together with
woreda administrations. The MSTs would use participatory rural appraisal
(PRA) techniques and tools to conduct needs assessments and help
communities develop modest local development plans. Proposed community
investments would be approved by kebele committees, including
representatives of local community groups, business, NGOs and
administration, and successful proposals would be forwarded to woredas for
funding through the Community Investment Fund (CIF). Investments covered
under the CIF would not be limited to specific sectors, in order to
preserve the multi-sectoral nature of the project and respect the
priorities of the poor. As such, this component could finance
micro-projects in livestock, agriculture, water supply, small-scale
irrigation, health care, education, rangeland management, etc., (subject
to a short negative list). Investment assessment would be against
transparent criteria known in advance to all stakeholders. The development
plans, which would require a significant community cash or in-kind
contribution to demonstrate committment, would be implemented directly by
communities to build capacity, ensure correspondence of investments to
needs, and guarantee accountability to the community.
Community level investments would be complemented by strengthened
agricultural and social services. The project would support the
comprehensive development of a community-based animal health service in
pastoral areas, including related support to public and private veterinary
centers. Agricultural services would also be strengthened through
integrated participatory research and technology transfer programs and
contracted studies for more holistic technology and resource constraints.
The project would also provide policy, institutional and training support
for the development of community-based health and education services.
However, given the weak capacity currently present in most woredas,
project support in these areas would begin in more capable woredas and
phased in gradually.
This component would finance basic office, communications and
transportation requirements for MSTs at woreda and kebele levels, training
of community leaders and government administrators in rural leadership and
participatory development, the CIF, agricultural research and technology
transfer, training and equipment for veterinary services and the
institutional and training requirements for a sustainable community-based
pastoral education and health service.
Component 2. Pastoral Risk Management
This component includes a community-based early warning system which will
build upon ongoing efforts by DPPC and NGOs to establish, at the woreda
level the collection and analysis of basic household welfare data using a
survey instrument designed for the primarily pastoral production system.
Using part-time data monitors at the kebele/community level, woredas
would be able to compile and analyze trends in household and environmental
- 5 -



conditions in discrete areas. Regions would then receive these reports,
which would assist in planning and ultimately the implementation of a
better system of targeting early reaction to declines in the welfare of
pastoralist communities. The component would begin in year one in the
focus project woredas, but as the early warning system should be region
wide as soon as possible, it should scale up to all pastoral woredas in
the three Regions. In the Drought Contingency Planning subcomponent, the
project will invest in capacity building in at woreda and regional levels
to prepare drought contingency plans, monitor local disaster indicators,
and manage funds made available for drought response, primarily from other
donors and government, but also with small amounts made available under
the project. This should result in improved response as a result of the
implementation of appropriate disaster and drought mitigation, management,
and recovery activities. As this process is intensive in terms of human
capacity, the project would only aim to produce functioning drought
contingency plans for the initial focus woredas. Finally, the Drought
Preparedness and Contingency Fund would provide the initial thirty woredas
with development grants to finance activities identified in their
contingency plans. It is expected that woreda level drought contingency
plans would include both investments to better mitigate drought, such as
small feeder roads, improved water management, fodder banks, and range
improvement, as well as funds set aside for rapid response, such as
destocking, water tankering, response to human and animal disease
outbreaks, and the like. An acceptable contingency plan, including
documentation of the participatory process and environmental assessment,
if applicable, would be a condition for release of fund resources. A
relatively small portion of this Fund would be earmarked to jump-start
investments in critical infrastructure identified in the regional
inventory, however it is expected that other government and donor
resources would be the prime source of funds for major infrastructure
investments. Investments could include roads, livestock water points
(based on catchment management plans), flood control structures, grain
stores and electronic communication systems. Local labor would be employed
and paid, providing an injection of cash into the local economy.
Component 3. Project support and policy reform
This component will provide operational support and training resources to
the project coordination unit (PCU) in Addis Ababa and implementation
units in the three Regions. The project support and coordination
subcomponent would ensure that the (PCU) would effectively perform the
following functions: (i) fiduciary obligations; (ii) policy analysis and
liaison with stakeholder groups; (iii) multisectoral coordination at the
federal level; (iv) project communication; (v) aggregate project
monitoring; and (vi) mobilization of technical backstopping. The
monitoring and evaluation subcomponent would finance the information
management system and project liaison activities. The would comprise (i) a
Management Information System; and (ii) a system that combines community
derived impact assessment of micro-projects with a system that tracks
pastoral livelihoods at the woreda and regional level. The M&E would be
able to provide timely feedback to program management on how well
interventions are reaching the intended beneficiaries and how effectively
the project resources are being used, in order that rapid corrective
action can be taken if necessary. The communication program includes
development and dissemination of information concerning program
- 6 -



activities, approaches and results, using a variety of media. The policy
analyses and reform sub-component would address policy and institutional
reforms that would strengthen pastoral livelihoods and reduce risk (see
the following section), and would consist mainly on targetted studies,
training, and outreach activities.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $4.50
IBRD
IDA
LOCAL COMMUNITIES $1.50
IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE $30.00
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT $20.00
Total Project Cost $56.00
6. Implementation
Communities
Community-driven development is central to the proposed program and as
such communities themselves constitute the true implementing agencies for
the PCDP. Successful introduction of CDD principles would require a
substantive change in attitude and structure within government service,
including much greater vertical integration of information flow and
decision-making within government agencies, and at the interface with the
community, a multi-disciplinary team (the Mobile Support Team) able to
share responsibility with communities and facilitate technical
backstopping as required. The success of the project's core programs
depends on strong community-based organizations. The project would pay
particular attention to existing social-territorial organization, so that
this knowledge can be applied to the identification of groupings and forms
of organization to draw into the development process. No community-based
interventions would proceed without a thorough, participatory analysis of
local and overlapping socio-economic structures in a project area. Those
community development structures would vary considerably by location and
time. It is intended, however, that a coalition of community groups,
including traditional organizations and groups representing specific
interests (women, youth, environment, culture) will work together to set
community development priorities and, together with interested NGOs, to
manage their implementation. A community's commitment to this process and
its subsequent management of project resources would be closely monitored
with persistently delinquent communities forfeiting their rights to
project participation.
Regional and local administration
The project would support increased fiscal and administrative
decentralization. Most rural development activities in Ethiopia are now
implemented by National Regional State administrations. Throughout
preparation, broad consensus was achieved in establishing that the PCDP
would be implemented at the regional level. However, even Regions are too
distant from most pastoral communities to effectively management
implementation. The PRSP views the woreda (district) as "a suitable point
of merger between political empowerment and economic development at the
grass root level." A process of establishing multi-disciplinary teams at
- 7 -



the woreda office has already been initiated in all rangeland zones and
would be expanded and strengthened by the project. Sufficient numbers of
staff are already assigned to most of these agencies, however, a
substantial investment in capacity building and equipment is required
before these entities could become effective program management units. It
is anticipated that experienced national consultants employed on
fixed-term contracts would be required to strengthen these agencies in the
initial years of the project.
The following guiding principles and operational modalities were
established:
To the extent possible, no new institutions would be created to implement
the project. Instead, the focus would be on strengthening existing
structures. Each Region has already established a Pastoral Development
Coordination Office or Commission in order to bring a greater level of
coordination between Line Bureaus and to strengthen inter-sectoral
coordination and collaboration.
Each Region will establish a Regional Support Team (RST) for the project
within its regional coordination office or commission. The role of the
RSTs will be to (i) manage Project fund flows, report and liaise with
relevant Bureaux and the Federal level, and coordinate Project annual
planning; (ii) be the focal point for introducing an interactive learning
process between government institutions and civil society; (iii) promote
the development of the Pastoral Risk Management Component; and (iv)
facilitate capacity-building activities at the community, kebele, and
woreda levels to improve planning and provision of support services.
The RSTs will be supported by Mobile Support Teams (MSTs) operating within
selected woredas. The role of the MSTs will be to (i) provide initial
orientation and training using a "learning-by-doing" approach and to
introduce woredas, kebeles, and communities to the Project; (ii) be the
interface between communities and formal government structures and (iii)
assist woredas/kebeles to develop criteria for analysing and approving
community micro-projects; and (iv) assist with woreda funding mechanisms.
Project Coordination
A small project coordination unit (PCU) would be maintained in Addis to
perform the following functions: (i) fiduciary obligations; (ii) policy
analysis and liaison with stakeholder groups; (iii) multisectoral
coordination at the federal level; (iv) project communication; (v)
aggregate project monitoring; and (vi) mobilization of technical
backstopping. The PCU will be composed of (a) a project coordinator; (b) a
Monitoring and Evaluation specialist; (c) a Financial Management
Specialist; and (d) a Procurement Specialist, and (e) appropriate support
staff. Substantial project management experience would be required for
professional staff. Terms of reference for these posts would be appended
to the Project Implementation Manual.
Project Oversight
The Coordinator of the PCU would be report to the Minister of Federal
Affairs and, through him, to the national Emerging Regions Development
Board, which is chaired by the Minister of Federal Affairs.
Links with other IDA-financed projects
- 8-



As a multi-sectoral project, coordination with other operations is
critical, even though the Bank's presence in pastoral areas is limited.
The preparation of this project fortunately coincides with other
initiatives -- the Food Security Project (FSP) and the Public Service
Delivery Capacity Building Program (PSCAP). The FSP, which is aimed at
drought-prone woredas in the highlands, provided many of the design
elements for the PCDP, in that the both aim at channelling fungible
resources to communities via block grants at the woreda level. Geographic
coverage of the two projects will be mutually exclusive, even though both
will work in Oromia region. The PSCAP's emphasis on decentralized service
delivery performance through capacity building directly complements the
PCDP (and FSP) although it will not probably work in lowland woredas. The
PSCAP would focus on reforms, policy, and administrative and financial
management at the woreda level, while the PCDP concentrates on
micro-projects, participation, and community-local government linkages. In
addition, the present social fund (ESRDF) has considerable experience in
pastoral areas can provide the PCDP with lessons on infrastructure
development, cross-sectoral coordination, and technical issues.
Links with other donors
Current donor activity in pastoral area development is very low but this
will soon change (many NGOs are present but covering a limited
geographical area). The PCDP proposes a phased national approach to
pastoral area development that invites participation of a range of donors
funding integrated or geographically distinct components of the project.
The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) is co-financing
the project with the Bank and has participated fully from identification
through to appraisal. FAO has also played an important role in throughout
preparation using FAO/CP resources. The project also supports the FAO-led
"Horn of Africa" initiative in the region and FAO Technical Cooperation
Program funding will support parallel woreda investment programs in Afar
(Chifra) and in Somali (Harshin). The DFID-financed "Pastoral
Communication Initiative", which is implemented by the University of
Sussex, is co-financing pilot operations and has proved to be an important
partner during preparation, particularly in its ability to promote and
facilitate dialogue among pastoral Parliamentarians. The African
Development Bank (ADB) has committed grant funds for a major pastoral area
study and the preparation of two pastoralist development projects for
2004. ADB has been closely consulted during preparation and their findings
are expected to provide a valuable information base upon which the PCDP
and other operations can build. USAID is planning investment in pastoral
areas under its "Souther Tier Initiative". Finally, the European Union
completed in 2002 their own assessment of opportunities for pastoral area
development and are expected to development project proposals that share
the PCDP's approach.
7. Sustainability
First, institutional sustainability of the PCDP will depend primarily on
capacity-building and community ownership. While PCDP development plans
will be implemented with technical and financial assistance from some
external sources, decisions on the content of plans would rest ultimately
with communities who would be responsible for managing implementation.
Once communities acquire the knowledge, awareness, and necessary skills to
design and implement local development plans and micro-projects,
sustainability of institutional objectives will be assured, provided that
financing is available. It is also anticipated that government
-9-



administration at all levels would become adherents to the participatory
approach, although this is expected to take time and require considerable
capacity building and experiential learning. Government ownership of this
approach, if linked to better vertical integration in administrative
decision making, would appreciably improve its overall effectiveness and
sustainability.
Second, the fiscal sustainability will depend on whether revenues continue
to flow through channels established via the PCDP. Financing for community
development in Ethiopia, for the foreseeable future, will continue to rely
on central and donor sources, since the level of poverty is such that
substantial local revenue generation is impossible in the majority of
communities. The PCDP's financing flows are intended to "prime the pump"
of fiscal decentralization through woredas. The potential for cost
recovery will be exploited when possible to minimize dependence on
intergovernmental transfers. In addition, effective early warning systems
(EWS) and contingency plans would be expected to offset the monetary costs
of providing relief to drought-stricken areas.
Third is the issue of environmental sustainability. The development of a
comprehensive EWS, including remote sensed and community-sourced
information would significantly improve knowledge of the state of the
range environment. The EWS would be linked to a drought preparedness plans
that would facilitate early and appropriate disaster responses,
particularly de-stocking to relieve rangeland pressure. Integration of the
implications of the ecological status of the Ethiopian rangeland into
resource planning and research programs will provide range users and
administrators with a better toolbox for the sustainable management of
Ethiopia's range resources. The project will also develop environmentally
safe and sustainable strategies for managing bush encroachment and
reducing noxious plant invasion.
Finally is the issue of operations and maintenance and financial
sustainability of micro-projects. Capital investments would be identified
by stakeholders and are likely to address high priority needs. While that
alone should ensure their maintenance, this would be reinforced by
conditions in the CIF contracts committing communities to identify funding
mechanisms and set aside funds for the future repair and maintenance of
project financed resources. Technical innovation, both existing and
anticipated under the participatory research and extension program would
be relevant, low cost and, to the extent possible, dependent on locally
available resources and skills. Community-based health, veterinary and
education services would all be supported by community financed and
managed revolving funds. In sharp contrast to past livestock and rangeland
focused investments, the PCDP would take a holistic approach to pastoral
area development, including education and health services, dryland
cropping, income diversification, risk identification and mitigation and
disaster early warning and preparedness. This approach, underpinned by
community participation, is expected to dramatically improve the financial
and social impact of the investment and to appreciably enhance its
sustainability.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A series of rangeland or livestock projects since the 1960s - most of them
involving the World Bank - have received widespread criticism. Some of
- 10 -



this criticism is justified. Past interventions were indeed top-down and
largely failed to provide sustainable technical, institutional and
financial support. On the other hand, these projects made considerable
progress in water development and disease control and in accumulating a
wealth of knowledge on pastoral society and economy. Nor did the projects
attempt the folly of introducing large-scale ranches, ill-suited exotic
breeds, or untenable efforts to change pastoralist institutions. Success
or failure of past investments must also be viewed in the context of
several constraints, including the almost total lack of social and
economic infrastructure in the rangelands, massive shifts in the political
climate, the absence of NGO support and insecurity from civil conflict and
war.
While perhaps more positive in their impact then they are credited for,
the past interventions in Ethiopia's rangelands nonetheless had a number
of serious shortcomings. These included:
A primary focus on the development and delivery of infrastructure and
services with too little and too late consideration of their maintenance
or sustainability;
Insufficient consultation with pastoralist communities or organizations,
with little attempt to (i) specifically address the needs of women or the
disadvantaged, (ii) to shift the culture of the implementing agency from
top-down to participatory or (iii) to engage local administrations or
Ministry of Agriculture staff in program planning or implementation;
No attention paid to the emergence of agro-pastoralism and agriculture as
major activities in the project areas;
Weak engineering services, particularly soil testing, leading to a high
failure rate in project-funded surface water storage and persistence with
programs (ranching, livestock marketing and some forage introductions)
when their technical, social and financial underpinning was known to be
erroneous;
Insufficient attention to drought early warning systems, risk
identification and disaster mitigation strategies;
Insufficient attention to the role of the private sector in general,
particularly with respect to infrastructure development, livestock
marketing and lowland-highland agricultural linkages;
Failure to recognize the adverse impact of local and regional conflict and
to propose ways for its mitigation.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
Significant environmental issues will be identified by the PHRD financed
environmental assessment study to be undertaken during the preparation
phase of the project.
Of the three proposed components, the Local Development component will
finance capacity building amongst communities and local government
officials most of which will help to improve resource management at the
local level and carry positive environmental impacts. Similarly, research
and extension provided under the support services sub-component would
target some of the environmental problems faced by pastoral communities in
the project area. The community investment fund will finance small
sub-projects and will be demand-driven. It is therefore not possible to
establish environmental impacts ex-ante. However, as sub-project will be
small (less than USD 10,000 per community), it is not expected that any
- 11 -



will classify as category A or B. The EA study will establish EIA
guidelines for sub-project assessment, monitoring and eventual mitigation
measures.
The Disaster Management component will mainly finance capacity building
for disaster contingency planning and the establishment of early warning
systems. Both sub-components are likely to have beneficial environmental
impacts as they would contribute to avert environmental catastrophes as
far as these can be controlled by means of human intervention. The
financing of strategic infrastructure also included in the component could
create negative environmental impacts associated, for instance, with road
and water development. However, no large-scale investments are envisaged
and infrastructure would be designed to avoid heavy impact on the resource
base on which pastoral communities depend. Any water development will be
linked to participatory watershed management plans. The estimated impacts
will be analyzed in the EA and mitigation measures will be proposed.
The project will also finance policy analysis and reform. Some of the
issues to be addressed in this component, such as the system of land
tenure as well as policies to control bush encroachment, should lead to
improvements in natural resource management in pastoral areas. The EA
will analyze the impacts of likely policy reforms to be supported by the
project in more detail.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Daniel M. Sellen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2174
Fax:   (202) 473-5147
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
January 10, 2003.
- 12 -



