Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6800
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
CREDIT 761-IN
May 29, 1987
Project; Department
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMYLETION REPOR'
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 761-IN)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADA          -        Additional Director of Agriculture
AEO          -        Agricultural Extension Officer
AO           -        Agricultural Officer
ARF          -        Adaptive Research Farm (DOA)
BAERP        -        Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project
BAU          -        Birsa Agricultural University
DA           -        Director of Agriculture
DAO          -        District Agricultural Officer
Dy. DAO      -        Deputy DAO
DDA          -        Deputy Director of Agriculture
FTS          -        Field Trial Stations
GDk'         -        Gross Domestic Product
GOB          -        Government of Bihar
GOI          -        Government of India
IDA          -        International Development Association
JDA          -        Joint Director of Agriculture
X            -        Million(s)
il&E         -        Monitoring and Evaluation
NAN?         -        National Agricultural Extension Project
NARJ?        -        National Agricultural Research Project
NDO          -        World Bank New Delhi Office
NEC          -        North-Eastern Council
k'CR         -        Project Completion Report
FWD          -        Public Works Department
RAU          -        Rajendra Agricultural University
SARC         -        State Adaptive Research Committee
SAU          -        State Agricultural University
SMS          -        Subject Matter Specialists
'T&V         -        Training and Visit System of Extension
VLEW         -        Village Level Extension Worker
WE           -        World Bank



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offike ot SctwrtvC.wai
Operatic"s IValuuamuni
May 29, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India:
Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Credit 761-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of the report entitled
'Project Completion Report:    India  Bihar Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Credit 761-IN)" prepared by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program in collaboration with the Department of Agriculture, Bihar,
and submitted to OED by the South Asia Regional Office. Further
evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has
not been made.
Rem K. Chopra
for Yves Rovani
Attachment
This document has* restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorintion.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 761-IN)
Table of Contents
Pa&e No.
Preface  ..............................  ..........................                      i
Basic Data Sheet  ................   ....i
Evaluation Summary  ...................................                                  v
I.   INTRODUCTION * ........ ewe. *.. *.o.*o.......0.00......000000...1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR                     .................. ........ ..,0       1
Agriculture in India   .....  oo000000 .0......0                                1
Agriculture in Bihar   00009000000 *.........000..............                  2
III.   PROJECT FORMULATION ...*.........................                                 3
Origin          ...           0                                                3
Project Appraisal .. 0.0....................                                   3
Goals and Targets  000.0...000000000000000.00000....@O                         4
General Description of the Project .....               .................       4
Project Components  00.......  000000 00000000000     000000000....            4
IV.   IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE   ..................                     6
Start-up                                       .06000000000000.. .             6
Revisions   .................    .                                             6
Overall Performance  ..0000 ***                                      .         6
Physical Implementation            ...................     0.0.00.0            7
Procurement ....7........................... .......00                         7
Institutiornl Improvement and Operating Performance .**..                      8
Input Supply and Marketing  .....................e.....                       14
Routine Project Reporting ...............................                     14
V.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .........                                             15
Project Costs . ....0..0.*...........*......                          0       15
Credit Allocation and Disbursements .....               ................      15
Financial Management  *00000000000000000000. 0              ....0    ..       16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties, Its coitents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



VI. ASSESSMAENT OF IMPACT ... ............                             16
Impact on Production ...... *..   ................ ... ..  .....  16
Institutional Impact .................   ,                      19
VII.  BANK PERFORMANCE                                                   19...................................... ...  19
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED ..o ..........      .......O..     19
Project Justification and Objectives ....       ................  19
Project Content and Scheduling         ..........................  20
Project Formulation and Operating Outcomes        ..............  20
Evaluation of Implementation and Outcomes        ...............  20
TABLES
1.     Key Indicators
2.     Progress of Ci-.il Works Activities, Units Completed
3.     List of Vehicles and E-uipment Procured
4.     Staffing Progress
5.     Number of Persons Trained Per Year - Extension
6.     Equipment Procured:  Adaptive Research Component
7.     Staffing of Adaptive Research
8.     Project Reporting
9.     List of Publications of the Monitoring and Evaluation Cell
10.     Estimate of Annual Workload of Monitoring and Evaluation Staff
in Staffdays
11.     1894-85 Work Plan for Monitoring and Monitoring-cum-Evaluation
Surveys and Special Studies
12.     Results of M&E Surveys:  Farmer Awareness of T&V System
13.     Results of M&E Surveys:  Rate of Adoption of Recovaendations
14.     Monitoring Surveys:  Reasons for Partial or Non-Adoption of
Recommendations
15.     Relationship between Yield Rate and Visits
16.     Expenditure Statement Under World Bank Agricultural Extension Project
17.     Project Costs:  Comparative Analysis
18.     Schedule of Disbursement (as of March 15. 1985)
19.     Yields of Major Crops:  Annual. Five-year Moving Average of Index
20.     Change of Cropping Pattern  Under Extension in Bihar (from 2 to 5 crops)
21.     List of Technologies Generated and Recommended for Adoption of Farmers
22.     Crop Production
ANNEX I - Comments of the Government of India on the Final Draft Project
Completion Report for the Bihar Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Credit 761-IN)
MAP: IBRD No. 12926R



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND  WM=ARC  PROJEC
(CREDIT 761-IN)
Preface
This to the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Bihar Agricultural
Extension and Research Project, for which Credit 761-IN was approved on
December 27, 1977 in the amount of US$8.0 million. The Credit was closed on
March 31, 1985, 2 years and 5 months behind schedule; an unused balance of
US$3.83 million equivalent was cancelled. The date of final disbursement
was August 23, 1985.
The PCR was prepared by E%.^T,BRD Cooperative Program in collaboration
with the Department of Agriculture, Bihar, following a mission to that state
in March 1985. and is based on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (No.
1754a-IN of December 14. 1977), the Credit Agreement of January 6, 1978,
correspondence with the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda on project issues
as contained in relevant Bank files, as well as interviews with officials
both in the Bank and in India who have been associated with the project.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower on March 6, 1987
for comments. Comments received from the Borrower have been incorporated and
are attached as Annex 1.
This project has not been subjected to an audit by OED.



- Li -
PROWECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL iXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJ(CT
tC"EDIT 761-IN)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Actual as %
Appraisal                   of Appraisal
Estimate       Actual       Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)           16.0          32.7           204
Credit Amount (US$ million)                 8.0          4.17            52
Amount Cancelled (US$ million)               -           3.83
Date of Board Approval                    12/77       12/27/77
Date of Effectiveness                    3/31/78       5/2/71           134 La
Closing Date                           10/31/83        3/21,'85        12.4 L
Institutional Performance                               Fair
Number of Beneficiaries                     7.6           3.8            50
(million farm families)
STAFF INPUT Lb
- Y77  FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  Total
Negotiations        -    4.8    -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -     4.8
Identification/
Preparation   1.2    2.1    -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -     3.3
Appraisal           -    4.7    -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      4.7
Supervision        -    1.6  11.4   5.8   4.1   1.0   8.4  16.3   6.3  15.6   79.5
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86
Appraisal Estimate (US$ Million)    0.3   1.6   2.8   4.5   6.8   8.0        -     -
Actual (US$ Million)                  -    0.61  0.89  1.33  2.19  2.78  3.93  4.17
Actual as X of Estimate               -      38    32    30    32    35    49    52
Date of Final Disbursement           August 23, 1985



- iii -
MISSION DATA
Date    No. of   Specialization  Performance
Mission              (mo/yr)  Persons    Represented       Rating     Trend  Problems
Identification /c      9/76                  /e              /f         /A      /h
Preparation /
Appraisal              4/77      4      Ecn/Res/Ext(2)
Supervision    I       6/78      2      Ecn/Ext              3          2        P
Supervision   II      12/78      2      Ecn/Ext              3          1        P
Supervision  III       6/79      2      kcn/Sxt              3          2        P
Supervision   IV      10/79      2      Ecn/Ext              3          2        P
Supervision    V       5/81      2      Ecn/Ext              3          2        P
Supervision   VI      11/81             Agr/Ext/Res          3          2        P
Supervision  VII       5/82             Ext (2)              3          1       M.P
Supervision VIII       1/83             Ext (2)              3          2       M.T
Supervision   IX       9/83      3      Ext/Agr (2)          3          1       MT
Supervision    X       3/84      3      Agr/Ext (2)          3          2       M,T
Supervision   XI       9/84      3     Agr(2)/Ext/(Fin)    3            2       MT
Supervision  XII       2/85      2      Agr/Ext              3          2       M.T
Completion             3/85      2
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrc. r:   Government of India
Executing Agency: Government of Bihar
Follow-on Project: Special Sub-Project under National Agricultural Extension Proj. III
Credit No. 1754-IN
Amount (US$ million: 9.00 out of total credit of 85.00 million
Approval Date: 11-20-86
Fiscal Year: April 1 - March 31
Name of Currency (abbreviation): Indian Rupees (Rs)
Currency Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Year Average:      1977     US$1.00 - Rs 9.00
Intervening Years Ave.:      1977-84  US$1.00 - Rs 8.80
Completion Year Average:    1985      US$1.00 - Rsl2.00
/a  Calculated in .erms of months from oate of Board approval.
/b  Input as staff weeks.  Source:  World Bank Planning and Budgeting Department.
Ic As a result of Agricultural Sector Survey of Eastern Region States of India
(Report No. 1440-IN).
/d Prepared by Government of Bihar assisted by NDO.
/e Ecn = Economist; Res = Research Expert; Ext = Extension Specialist;
Fin = financial Analyst.
/f 1 = Problem-free or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems.
LR  =. Improving; 2 = Stationary: 3 = Deteriorating.
/h L = Political; M = Managerial; T = Technical.



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 761-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMAJY
Introduction
The Eastern Region, comprising the States of Assam, West Bengal,
Bihar, Orissa and Eastern Uttar Pradesh, is India's major rice growing area.
Most of the region has moderate to heavy monsoon rains and large areas of
relatively alluvial soils. Yet foodgrain yields are generally lower than
elsewhere in India and production has barely kept pace with population. With
a view to accelerating foodgrain production, the Government of India and the
World Bank agreed to undertake a joint review of the Eastern Region to assess
agricultural potential and identify critical constraints. This resulted in
the Eastern States Foodgrain Review of 1976 and it was agreed to give special
emphasis to the development of agricultural projects. The Bihar Agricultural
Extension and Research Project was the fourth in the region. following
similar projects in Assam, Orissa and West Bengal.
Objectives
The principal goal of the project was to provide a sound foundation
for the long-term development of extension services and adaptive research
activities in order to increase agricultural production especially among
small scale farmers. The objective was appropriate at that time and remains
relevant today. Over a period of five years, the project was to extend the
training and visit methodology of extension in the entire state, improve
extension training facilities, develop and strengthen adaptive agricultural
research, and establish a Monitoring and Evaluation Cell to monitor the
progress of the project.
Implementation Experience
The project was designed to bring the benefits of improved extension
and research to the entire state.  lhe envisaged institutional transformation
has been only partly met. The project achieved little progress during its
initial years. There was delay in sanctioning funds and also the total
budget provided was inadequate for full implementation of the program.
However. project implementation improved from late 1982 following recognition
by Government of Bihar of the advantages of effective agricultural extension
service, and its commitment to the project's success. However, implementa-
tion never caught up with the planned schedule. The project formulation



-v -
seriously underestimated the magnitude of administrative problems related to
changes within the civil service.  The project did not recognize the time it
would take to introduce and consolidate a major reorganization within the
existing institutions, with the result that many planned posts of VEW. AEO
and SMS remained unfilled through the project period.
The project objective of institutional development was achieved only
in 16 districts of the State. Project implementation suffered from poor
internal supervision which was largely due to staffing shortfalls. Substan-
tial delays occurred in respect of civil works; there was considerable short-
fall in the number of houses, offices and stores constructed. The shortfall
was partly because no advance action was taken to select sites and partly
because of delayed and inadequate funding. The routine training activities
of T&V system were properly followed. However, the quality of training
suffered from lack of adequately trained SMSso. Apart from the routine train-
ing, other special training of SMS, AEO and VEW was not planned systemati-
cally. However, the State Department of Agriculture has lately recognized
that the quality of training should be improved and the follow-on project
would pay particular attention to training. Implementution of agricultural
research program proceeded satisfactorily. Research has been stepped up in
the Department of Agriculture, with emphasis on adapting technologies to
farming situations. Final project costs are above appraisal estimates, Rs.
279 million against estimate of Rs. 144 million, which were mainly due to
increased salaries. As only 10 of salaries were reimbursable, the total
project costs situation was very different from the reimbursement situation.
Results
No economic rate of return calculation was prepared for these
projects at appraisal or at completion. It is still too early in the course
of project implementation to expect a fully reliable measure of project
impact. The comparison of yield data for cereals, pulses and oilseeds col-
lected by GOB of pre-project and project years did not indicate a clearly
significant impact of the project. An apparent impact of the project has
been the change in cropping pattern. which has been observed to follow the
lines of extension recommendations., The main trends noted were: increase in
cash crop area (mainly potatoes), sad emphasis on rabi crops (black and green
gram and wheat). However it is difficult to measure the impact of extension
on yields as the causality cannot be clearly established in view of the many
non-project factors. The M&E surveys, however, indicated a positive response
of farmers to extension advice and the yield obtained by such farmers was
higher than those who did not receive extension advice.
Sustainability
The training and visit system has proved as an appropriate vehicle
for technology transfer; as a result of its introduction, new agronomic



- vi -
practices are found to spread more quickly than before. The greatest con-
straint to sustainability is in respect of administrative and operational
problems which have been clearly identified, and for which solutions are
generally known. Strong commitment by the state government is essential to
ensure that those problems are effectively tackled and sufficient funding is
provided by the state. The state government has indicated its full commit-
ment to the T&V system, and qualitative improvements would be made in the
follow-on project (special subproject under the National Agriculture Exten-
sion Project III).
Findings and Lessons
The project objectives of institutional development in terms of
developing a framework of extension were achieved only in part of the state.
The build-up of operational capability was much slower than planned. The
time it would take to introduce and consolidate major reorganization in the
existing and already strong institutions was, in retrospect, too optimisti-
cally assessed. Extension alone is only one of the contributing factors to
increased production, and the project would have a significant impact on
agricultural productivity only after considerable further institutional
improvement and manpower development have occurred under the follow-on
project, and with simultaneous improvements in other support services, such
as input supplies, water management and irrigation.



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 761-IN)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1     The Eastern Region, comprising the States of Assam, Bihar, Orissa,
West Bengal and Eastern Uttar Pradesh, is India's major rice growing area.
Most of the region has moderate to heavy monsoon rains and large areas of
relatively fertile alluvial soils, and tuiere is a large unexploited surface
and ground water resource. Yet, foodgrain yields are generally lower than
elsewhere in India; production has barely kept pace with population growth
and most indicators of social and economic development are lower than for the
rest of India. Around 1974, special emphasis was given to the development of
agricultural projects in the Eastern Region States, aimed at achieving quick
increases in foodgrain production while paying particular attention to
problems faced by small farmers.
1.2     One such project was the Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research
Project (BAERP). The core of the project was to reorganize and strengthen
the agricultural extension service and related adaptive research throughout
the state.
1.3     The estimated total project cost was US$16.01 M of which US$8.0 M
would be an IDA Credit.
1.4     Information sources used for the PCR include:  the BAERP Appraisal
Report (No. 1754a-IN of December 14, 1977) and all BAERP supervision mission
reports; related World Bank (WB) reports for Bihar and other states; cor-
respondence and information files of the World Bank New Delhi Office (NDO);
and discussions with farmers, local government officials, NDO staff and
project staff during a field visit in August 1985.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in India
2.1     India has a population of about 750 N (198i), growing at 2.1%
annually. The total land surface is some 3.7 M km , of which 49Z is cultiv-
able and 11X irrigated. National income has grown at nearly 4% per annum
since 1950. Agriculture is the dceinant sector and engages about 70X of the
labor force, contributes 40% of GNP and accounts for 60% of total exports.



-2-
During the past 15 yeats, GOI development plans gave priority to agriculture
and sought to raise food grain production by increasing the use of irriga-
tion, fertilizers, plant protection chemicals, and seeds of improved
varieties.  In support of this objective, the agricul&ural credit institu-
tionts were strengthened and irrigation development eas accelerated. From the
mid-seventies, increasing attention was given to establishing improved exten-
sion services and upgrading the related research capabilities.
2.2     Since 1960, per capita income has risen at an annual rate of 1.5%
reaching US$270 in 1985. Foodgrain production has grown at about 2.3%
annually, sightly exceeding the rate of growth of population. Living condi-
tions in the cities and among landowners have improved considerably.
However, for the rural and urban poor, which comprise around 50% of total
population, there has been little change in living conditions. Consequently,
GOI is emphasizing the need to raise the growth rate of agricultural output
from 2.3 to 3% per annum, in an effort to cope with the growing population
and to improve the lot of the poorest. Much of this increases will have to
come from rainfed agriculture, and an effective agricultural extension serv-
ice is considered to be a necessary vehicle to achieve this.
Agriculture in Bihar 1/
2.3     Bihar in 1985, has about 73 M inhabitants, having risen from the last
census of 69.8 M in 1981; it has a total land surface area of 174,000 km2.
Population growth is some 2.4% annually (1971-81); about 13% of the popula-
tion are scheduled tribes and castes. The net cultivated area is about
8.5 M ha, or 49% of the total surface area. Agriculture is the predominant
industry.  The state has just over 8 M farm families with an average farm
size of 1.1 ha. Some 73% of the farms are less than 1 ha. The cropping
intensity of paddy areas is about 130%; 34% of the net cultivated area is
irrigated. The per capita income in 1980/81 to 1982/83 was Rs 1,986 compared
to the all-India average of Rs 1,724. In terms of agricultural income gener-
ated per unit area, Bihar is about average among all states, with Rs 2,500
per ha (1982).
2.4     From May to September the climate of Bihar is humid--tropical in the
plains but cooler in the hills. Mean daily temperatures vary from 10 degrees
Centigrade in January to over 38 degrees Centigrade in May. The rainfall is
1,200 to 1,600 mm/year, (average 1,272 mm) with 75% concentrated between May
to September.. However, supplementary irrigation can contribute to higher
yields. Floods in the river valleys are frequent.
1/ Data Sources: Center for Monitoring Indian Economy, Economic Intel-
ligence Unit, Bombay: "Agricultural production in India" 1985.



-3-
2.5     Paddy is the main cereal crop with some 7 M ha (44% of gross cropped
area) followed by wheat with 0.8 M ha (201) and maize with 9%. Of other food
crops, oilseeds (rape, mustard, linseed), are important. Sugarcane, jute
and potatoes cover 4% of total area and may be considered major cash crops.
III. PROJECT FORMULATION
Origin
3.1     Soon after independence, GOI began sponsoring a number of programs
designed to meet the need for more effective agricultural development: the
Community Development Programs in 1952, National Extension Service Blocks in
1953, Intensive Agricultural District Programs in 1960, Intensive Agricul-
tural Area Programs in 1963-64, Small and Marginal Farmers Development
Program in 1969-70. Despite their proliferation, these programs covered only
a small proportion of the farms, generally the wealthier.
3.2     Fifth Plan agricultural production targets looked to the Eastern
Region to provide around half of India's increased foodgrain production
during the plan period, although it was recognized that, because of the
unusually severe constraints to development in the region, a concentrated
effort would be needed to realize the full potential.
3.3     In November 1974, GOI and WB agreed to undertake a joint review of
the Eastern Region comprising Assam, Bihar, Orissa, West Bengal and eastern
Uttar Pradesh, to assess agricultural potential, identify critical con-
straints and ascertain the opportunities to accelerate foodgrain production.
This resulted in the Eastern States Foodgrain Review of 1976 and it was
agreed to give special emphasis to.the development of agricultural projects.
3.4     The BAERP was the fourth such project to be formulated in the region,
following similar projects in Assam, Orissa and West Bengal and was the sixth
IDA-supported agricultural extension and research project in India. 'The
project was intended to achieve quick increases in foodgrain production. The
extension component was designed to address particularly the problems of
small farmers. Experience of the training and visit system (T&V) had been
obtained in India through pilot projects in the Rajasthan Canal Command Area
Development Project" and the "Chambal Command Area Development Project" in
1974/75.
Project Appraisal
3.5     The project was prepared by the Government on Bihar (GOB).  A World
Bank mission visited Bihar in April 1977, resulting in Appraisal Report
No. 1754a-IN dated December 14, 1977.



-4-
Goals and Targets
3.6     The immediate target was to achieve early and sustained improvements
in crop production by revitalizing, reorganizing and intensifying agricul-
tural extension activities in the T&V pattern. The project was to be phased
over five years and cover the whole state. The short-term strategy was to
close the gap between the technology already practiced by better farmers and
that of the majority of farmers.
3.7     Improvement in production was to be attained by the introduction of
new technologies to be developed through the adaptive research component
which aimed to evaluate, test and modify technologies developed by Rajendra
Agricultural University (RAU) and its substations.
3.8     Overall, the primary aim of the project was to achieve a long-term,
statewide, integrated development of institutions and practices dealing with
agricultural extension and leading to increase agricultural production.
General Description of the Project
3.9     The five-year project provided for:
-   Reorganization and strengthening of the agricultural extension
service by provision of additional staff, housing, equipment,
vehicles and staff training*
-   Development and strengthening of adaptive research by provision of
additional staff, vehicles, simple farm buildings and equipment, and
-   Project monitoring and evaluation by provision of staff, equipment,
transport and funds for studies.
Project Components
3.10    Extension.  By the introduction of T&V system throughout the state,
farmers were to be provided, on a regular and systematic basis, with
up-to-date advice on farming practices best suited to their specific condi-
tions, especially proven practices having immediate impact on production.
Preconditions for introducing T&V were the establishment of single line of
command from the Director of Agriculture (DA) to the Village Level Extension
Workers (VLEWS) and the transfer to the Directorate of Agriculture (DOA) of
most existing village level multipurpose workers and merging them with other
redeployed DOA staff into a unified extension service employed exclusively
for agricultural extension.
3.11    Additional staff were to be provided to achieve staffing patterns
in accordance with T&V norms (based on one VLEW for every 850 farm families),
enabling the extension service to interact closely with selected contact



-5-
farmers, who woulc comprise about one-tenth of all crop farmers. Additional
staff appointments were to be made to achieve these norms. Extension mes-
sages communicated to farmers were to be simple and relevant to seasonal
aspects of the area's crops and initially they were to emphasize low-cost
improved cultural practices. Introduction of higher cost inputs and prac-
tices were to be followed at a later stage. Visit programs of VLEWs, super-
visory staff patterns, and training and technical support of all extension
staff, were to be in accordance with T&V methodology. 1/
3.12    To assist extension staff to maintain the required regular and fre-
quent farm visits, field staff were to be encouraged to rent housing within
their work areas; also suitably sited houses were to be constructed for 25%
of field-level staff. Loans for motorcycle and bicycle purchases were to be
made available for appropriate levels of field staff and additional vehicles
provided at headquarters, district and sub-divisional levels. Incremental
vehicle operating costs were to be provided, along with staff travelling
allowances, with sufficient incentives for purchase and utilization of cycles
and motorcycles.
3.13    In order to strengthen field supervision and technical support, and
to further decentralize extension activities, all sub-divisions were to be
provided with additional staff.
3.14    The project was to support training of both new and existing staff,
by providing attendance costs for orientation, seasonal, foundation and
special short courses, and scholarships for advanced training of selected
staff.
3.15    Research.  The project was to improve the adaptive research program
in order to provide practical answers to farmers' problems and to evolve
technological packages of practices adapted to local conditions. It was to
focus on main crops, especially those grown under rainfed conditions, and to
concentrate on developing low-cost practices. Particular attention was to be
paid to soil and water management (including conservation), cvltural prac-
tices, use of good quality seeds and also to cropping patterns.
3.16    The Field Experiments Service, to be renamed the Adaptive Research
Service (ARS) of the DOA, was to assume responsibility for the adaptive
research program; it was to be strengthened and headed by a suitably
qualified senior officer of the Department of Agriculture. In addition, 36
government-owned seed farms, to be known as Adaptive Research Farms (ARF),
located throughout all 31 districts, were to be provided with additional
facilities for field experimentation.
1/ Agricultural Extension: Training and Visit System (World Bank, 1977,
revised 1983).



-6-
3.17    The project was to construct a small office/field laboratory at each
of the 36 farms. A small quantity of farm equipment specifically for use of
the adaptive research program and transport for supervisors of the field
trials program was to be provided. Field staff were also to be eligible for
motorcycle and bicycle loans. In addition, incremental staff salaries,
allowances and field operating expenses were to be provided. Professional
staff of ARS was to be increased and additional support staff assigned at
ARFs.
3.18    Monitoring and Evaluation.  An M&E unit was to be created in the DOA
to carry out sample surveys and special studies which were to provide infor-
mation needed for day-to-day project management and longer term policy
planning.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE
Start-up
4.1     The Credit was approved by the Board on December 17, 1977 and signed
on June 1, 1978. It was declared effective on May 2, 1978, although GOB's
sanction for its first phase of implementation in five districts was formally
accorded only in September 1978. However, the project only started fully in
early 1979, due to an apparent lack of commitment among senior officials.
The start of the M&E component was delayed until 1983, due to difficulties in
posting key personnel and other supporting staff.
Revision
4.2     No formal change was made in the project design.  However, up until
1984, only 16 out of the total of 31 districts were covered under the
project. This resulted in a revision of targets relating to VLEWs, AEOs,
SAOs, etc., and also to civil works and vehicles. The revision was agreed on
between GOB and NDO, although no change was made in the Credit Agreement.
The original project closing date was October 1983, however it was extended
twice, first by one year to October 1984, and later by six months to
March 31, 1985.
Overall Performance
4.3     Extension anid Research.  The project achieved little progress during
its initial years. There was a delay in sanctioning funds for the first
phase. Also, the budget provided was inadequate for full implementation of
the program. This situation, however, eased from 1982-83 onwards following
recognition by Government of Bihar of the advantage of an effective agricul-
tural extension service and its commitment to the project success. Govern-
ment of Bihar took a number of actions including sanctioning and filling of



-7-
vacant staff positions, initiating efforts to organize and improve field
extension and training activities. However, implementation never caught up
with the planned schedule.
4.4     Although most of the physical targets were eventually revised, par-
ticularly due to the delay resulting from inadequate provision of budget,
project progress remained slow because of administrative and procedural
delays. However, at the time of project completion, a structural and
institutional framework for future development is in place and there are
indications that impact targets could be achieved in the future.
Physical Implementation
4.5     Civil Works.  Originally, the responsibility for civil works was
proposed to be vested with the Public Works Department of COB. The initial
amount released was Rs 0.54 M for 1979/80. However, the PWD was not
enthusiastic to take up the construction of small civil works in remote
areas.
4.6     In rural areas, construction was also delayed because no advance
action was taken to select sites. Delays were also caused by late sanction-
ing of funds and cement shortages. DOA, however, took special action by
allocating sites for staff houses on their own farms and this step generally
helped, so that the non-availability of proper sites, experienced during the
earlier years, was to some extent resolved. Later, GOB agreed that construc-
tion could be undertaken up by the Rural Engineering Organization (REO), the
Bihar State Cooperative Marketing Union and the Bihar Agricultural Marketing
Board. During 1983/84 a sum of Rs 11.6 M was distributed for civil works
among the three agencies, which improved project progress significantly.
4.7     Construction was carried out by these agencies in accordance with GOB
approved tendering procedures and relevant regulations. No major defects in
building have been observed or reported but some of the buildings require
more funds for further roof curing and minor reinforcement work.
Procurement
4.8     All vehicles (Table 3) and equipment (Table 6) were procured more
or less as planned. Vehicles were manufactured locally and purchased as per
existing Government procedural methods. Equipment was purchased locally
through prudent shopping and no delay was experienced.
4.9     The availability of personal loans for the purchase of motorcycles by
AEOs was about 80Z of the number planned; in the case of bicycles for VLEWs,
it was only about 33%. The demand for bicycles was low. Motorcycle loans
were restricted to Rs 6,500 in the beginning and later raised to Rs 7,600.



-8-
4.10    Staffing Structure.  The structural reorganization of staff proceeded
slowly. Transfer of VLEWs from the Block Development Officers to the exten-
sion service in the first phase of five districts was authorized, but only
partially implemented. The schedule for expanding T&V throughout the state
was cut back so that at the end of the extended project period, T&V was
operating in only 16 of the 31 districts, with only 3,340 VLEWs (67X) in
position. The key post of ADA (Extension) was unfilled until 1982. Middle
management personnel were primarily engaged in general administrative work
and practically never carried out vital supervision in the field. The spe-
cial project allowance proposed in the appraisal report was not granted and
staff of all grades resisted transfer to the extension service.
Institutional Improvement and Operating Performance
4.11    Extension.   The m4in constraint to implementation has been in the
provision of field extension staff.  According to Government proce(ure, the
appointment of VLEWs is made by District Magistrates for their respective
Districts. Action by the Magistrates has been tardy. For instance, posts
which were sanctioned one year earlier have not yet been filled. Extension
supervisors have little say on such appointments and the criteria for selec-
tion are often questionable. The basic qualification of VLEWs is matricula-
tion, however, without any basic sciences. Although candidates with inter-
mediate science are available (which would facilitate later admission to
further studies and promotion), additional qualification above the matricula-
tion level is seldom a major factor in selection.
4.12    By and large, project implementation has suffered from poor internal
supervision, partly due to staffing shortfalls. More time will be needed to
improve extension services and to change attitudes of individuals within and
outside the service away from the traditional approach to extension estab-
lished previously and prior to the introduction of the T&V system.
4.13    The posts of SMSs have so far failed to attract even those qualified
persons already in the Directorate of Agriculture. The SAO who controls the
SMSs is of the same rank, or, on occasions, even junior. Housing facilities
or housing allowance are not available. There is a monthly incentive
allowance of Rs 75 for SMS, but this compares with Rs 150 given to officers
of the same rank in the Area Development Program. This discrepancy deters
experienced staff from accepting SMS posts. Consequently, those drafted as
SMSs are usually agricultural graduates without specialized technical com-
petence.
4.14    The post of Deputy DAO was created with the objective that the DAO
would be free to look after the work of extension and the Deputy DAO would
assist him in his day to day office work. But this did not work satisfac-
torily. The Deputy DAOs have remained in the office as planned, but the DAOs
have not been able to devote themselves to extension activities because of
the many statutory duties and meetings.



-9-
4.15    The ADA (Extension) was to have received technical support from a
team of senior SMSs in Agronomy, Plant Protection, Soil and Water Management,
Training, and Farming Systems. These posts were practically unfilled and the
ADA remained without technical support. A single post of JDA (Extension) has
been created only recently to assist in technical matters. The experience of
the first phase has revealed a need to create a post of DDA to assist the ADA
(Extension) in his day to day administration and control of the extension
program, particularly in recruiting staff, monitoring of budget affairs and
financial accounts, preparing service manuals and job charts, and getting
feedback from the field on administrative problems.
4.16    During the first phase of the project the scientists of the SAUs
could not visit the field or make joint visits with extension staff owing to
lack of vehicles. Motor vehicles were provided at various levels in the
project. However, of the total of 105 vehicles so far provided, about 85%
are utilized for extension work. About 15% are utilized for exclusively
non-extension work. The deployment of vehicles for purposes other than
extension has been due to the fact that the District authorities used
vehicles during periods of civil emergency.
4.17    Another transportation problem was the availability of loans for
purchase of motorcycles and cycles for AEOs and VLEWs, respectively. For
bicycles, the TA provision is only the same per kilometer as is given for
travelling on foot and is inadequate to cover maintenance. Therefore, few
loans were requested by the staff.
4.18    For historical reasons and because other branches of government do
not have village level staff, VLEWs are still considered by farmers to be
general as well as technical representatives of Government, to whom all
problems should be addressed; to deny farmers such assistance could jeopard-
ize the credibility of VLEWs and it is inevitable that this conflict of
interest will continue until other supporting services become stronger and
division of responsibility can be defined and operated in practice.
Recently, some more field staff have been appointed under IRDP and this
action will reduce the pressure on VLEWs for non-extension work. A further
problem concerns the amount of time taken in program administration, fulfill-
ing reporting requirements and attending meetings. This is a problem par-
ticularly at middle management levels.
4.19    Research.  Research has been stepped up in DOA with the support of
the project, with emphasis on adapting technologies to farming situations.
Research has also been consolidated in the SAUs (which have zonal outsta-
tions) where many new technologies have been developed. In 1982 the Birsa
Agricultural University (BAO) with its main campus at Ranchi in southern
Bihar, was divorced from the old established Rajendra Agricultural University
(RAU). BAU is situated in an area with 60X tribal people and is oriented



-10-
particularly to that area, with its basically different agricultural and
agriculture-related problems.
4.20    The formal division of research responsibilities between the DOA and
the SAUs is the traditional one. DOA confines its activities to adaptive
research which is carried out first on 36 Agricultural Research Farms (ARF),
averaging about 10 ha each. The proven technologies are further tested on
farmers' fields (about ten trials of between a quarter and a half hectare
each are conducted in the area served by each ARF) before their release for
large scale adoption.
4.21    Extension-Research Coordination.  The decisions about which tech-
nologies should be investigated in the SAUs and the zonal out-stations and
which should then be subjected to adaptive trials, are made in the
twice-yearly pre-season meetings of the State Adaptive Research Committee
(SARC), which includes representatives of both DOA and SAUs. The SAU program
is subject to further confirmation by the University's own Agricultural
Research Committee. The deliberations of SARC are influenced by feedback
from field-level extension staff and researchers, which is generated in the
monthly workshops held regularly ct zonal level, and consolidated by the
District Adaptive Research Committees. The rather imprecise division of
responsibility between DOA and SAUs for adaptive and applied research is well
understood by the participants and does not cause major problems.  However,
there is a tendency for DOA to encroach into some aspects of zonal applied
research which the SAUs have not been able to cover due to lack of resources.
Whereas BAU accepts this situation, not having had time to develop strong
research programs, RAU researchers feel some resentment that their statutory
responsibility for the full range of basic and applied research is being
eroded by strengthening of DOA's research program under the project. There-
fore, although RAU cooperates well in general, there is an atmosphere of
potential confrontation, which is fueled somewhat by the fact that no project
funds have been available to assist the SAUs iv their extension-related
activities (e.g., for transportation of SAU staff to monthly workshops and
field visits, and preparation of extension pamphlets). The SAUs are being
assisted by NARP, but there are lacunae at the research-extension interface
which are not addressed by either of the related WB projects, NAEP and NARP.
4.22    The trials programs of the ARPs and on their satellite farmers'
fields have been well planned and executed on the whole, though they tend to
become stereotyped state-wise, without much targetting on specific local
problems. Also, the ARF program, which is directed from state-level with its
own ADA and staff cadre, has not yet been sufficiently integrated into field
extension activities (for instance VLEWs and AEOs do not regularly use the
farmers' field trials or the ARFs for their reference or demonstration to
farmers).



-11-
4.23    The overall impression is that the ARF program has improved over the
years in the right direction, and has already contributed to the proper
transfer of technology messages to producers. An indicative and encouraging
sample of technologies which have been developed is given in Table 21.
4.24    Training.  The routine training required by the T&V system has been
followed, i.e., fortnightly trAining of VLEWs and AEOs by SMSs and SAOs; and
monthly workshops for SMSs, SAOs, DAOs and zonal DOA together with SAU staff.
However, identification and elaboration of topical impact points has been
weak; also practical skill training has been absent. The fact that posts of
district level SMS have only recently been approved (and there are still no
SMSs at state level) has contributed to the problem. Not only have staff,
especially SMSs, been less in number than required, but they have in general
been insufficiently qualified to give specialized instruction. The fringe
benefit attractions of non-extension agricultural activities have caused the
better qualified staff to resist transfer to T&V duties and so regular train-
ing quality has suffered.
4.25    As regards non-routine training, very little has been achieved, see
Table of Key Indicators (Table 1). The state level officer of DOA respon-
sible for education and training, the JDA (Education), is directly respon-
sible to the DA and has no special relationship to the ADA (Extension).
Therefore, the appraisal stipulation that the ADA (Extension) would be
responsible for training did not take account of the actual situation. There
has been no master training program and all non-routine training has been on
an ad-hoc basis. Proposals for upgrading training for T&V staff (i.e. degree
courses) have experienced problems of clearance, as each application has had
to receive approval from the APC, Ministry concerned and Cabinet. Of about
50 staff of VLEW rank in MOA who have been selected annually for degree
courses, only about 20% have been T&V staff.
4.26    It has been recognized by DOA that a more specialized approach to
manpower development is required with the accent on quality rather than
quantity. Attention has to be directed to identifying and correcting
weaknesses within the training structure as well as gearing course content
and participation more closely to personal skill levels. A particular area
of weakness has been in the routine training of extension staff, where course
content has lacked novelty and specific relevance, mainly because of under-
qualified and inexperienced trainers and also limitations in the technical
recommendations coming from research. Greater understanding of these
problems by trainers and researchers is to be addressed through the follow-on
project (NAEP).
4.27    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).  Staffing as per the appraisal
report at headquarters consisted of one post of Senior Agricultural
Economist, one of Farm Management Specialist, two of Research Officer, two of
Senior Statistical Assistant and two of Investigator. In August 1985 the
staff position was that the post of Senior Agricultural Economist had been



-12-
upgraded and redesignated as JDA (Monitoring and Evaluation) and filled by a
senior officer having experience only in agricultural extension. The post
of Farm Management Specialist had been redesignated as DDA (Training) and,
likewise, a specialist in agricultural extension had been appointed. The two
posts of Research Officer redesignated as DDA (Research); one is being manned
by an officer having sufficient background in statistics and the other is
lying vacant. There are six Statistical Assistants working as supporting
staff.
4.28    At di3trict level, as per appraisal report, 16 posts of Senior
Statistical Assistant have been created, but six of these are lying vacant,
35 posts of Investigators have been created at the subdivisional level as
against the 76 posts indicated in the appraisal report; of these posts,
presently eight are vacant.
4.29    The M&E Cell was sanctioned in 1978/79, but activities started only
in August 1982. By August 1985, out of 10 studies made, 6 reports have been
published. Main findings were that: (see Tables 12 and 13)
(a) Only around 70% of farmers knew the VLEWs;
Cb) In about 30% of all cases VLEWs did not visit contract farmers at
all during the survey period;
(c) Nearly 60% of non-contact farmers have never been visited by VLEWs;
Id) Adoption of HYV seed rate and recommended varieties showed a
difference of 20% in the case of non-contact farmers compared with
55% for contract farmers;
(e) In fertilizer application, 30%, 20% and 15% of farmers fully adopted
the recommendation for nitrogen, phosphate and potash fertilizers
application, respectively;
(f) In plant protection the fully-adopted rate was lower than for
fertilizer, averaging between 10% and 20%; and
(g) Recommended agronomic practices have beeni adopted by a large
proportion of farmers.
4.30    Some impact of the T&V program was evidenced in the surveys.  There
has been increase in yield and income on farms under T&V. There has been
nearly 100% increase in the use of HYV seeds and fertilizer. Lack of supervi-
sion has been found at all levels.
4.31    The methodology of surveys was kept as outlined in the M&E guide but
because of manpower constraints, crop cutting samples were left to the DOA's
statistical service and the Directorate of Economics and Statistics.



-13-
4.32    The work-load of the monitoring and evaluation unit (Table 10) shows
the desired concentration on survey work and the unit's supervision of the
appropriate categories. Evaluation work still represents only a small por-
tion of the work-load (not differentiated in the table) and is limited to
first attempts. A work plan is shown in Table 11.
4.33    A special report prepared in November 1983 provided an assessment of
general performance which was supported by the impression of the mission,
that the M&E work has progressed well, especially considering the late start.
Also, however, that there is inadequate staff for both supervision and
compilation.
4.34    The M&E surveys may be broadly divided into:
-   those monitoring the operational implementation of the project, and
-   those concerned with the adoption of technology.
4.35    The aim of the first group of surveys was tG obtain knowledge on the
process and status of the introduction and institutionalization of the T&V
system. Analysis of farmeris reactions showed that awareness of the T&V
program is low (46-99%) among contact farmers, but lower (31-70%) among
non-contact farmers. Frequency and regularity of VLEW's visits and other
connected criteria were monitored. Regularity of visits on a fixed day is
known to 34-95% of contact farmers and 17-55% of non-contact farmers. Still
only 15-61% of contact farmers knew the place of visit of the VLEW. Among
non-contact farmers it was 18-55%. These and other data are contained in
Tables 12 to 14.
4.36    The other group of surveys assessed if farmers were familiar with
recommended practices and whether they had adopted them. If negative they
were asked why they had not complied. In Tables 13 and 14, rates and reasons
for partial or non-adoption of recommendations are given. Lack of capital
(too expensive) or non-availability of inputs rank among the most frequent
replies. Lack of irrigation and a technology not being profitable are less
frequently mentioned. Although these surveys do not answer the ultimate
question of the growth rate in production, they do nevertheless express
measurements of the appeal of the technologies being introduced (as a feed-
back to research) and the effectiveness of the extension service in trans-
ference of messages to farmers. There were limitations in the surveys
related to data gaps and over-simplification of the technology content;
therefore, the results should be seen merely as indicative. Some correla-
tions with yields are given in Table 15.
4.37    One special study was carried out by the M&E cell (Table 10) to
supplement the routine seasonal monitoring and evaluation studies. The



-14-
guidelines for the studies were that they should be "both flexible and ver-
satile, easy to carry out and should focus on well defined topics and small
social and geographic units". Subjects chosen were "Characteristics of
Contact Farmers in Bihar" and "Socio-Economic Conditions of Farmers in
Bihar". Publication of the first special report is under preparation.
Input Supply and Marketing
4.38    Bihar's agricultural technology is not highly developed, compared to
India generally. Bullocks are the main draught animals and there is little
mechanization by tractors. This is partly explained by the rather small size
and extensive fragmentation of holdings. Food crop production is of major
importance in terms of contribution to GDP. Fertilizer consumption in food
crops is some 31 kg/ha (1984) up from 19 kg in 1978/79, compared to an
all-India average of 35 kg/ha.
4,39    Fertilizer is mainly applied to paddy, wheat, maize, potato and
sugarcane, but the rates for paddy and wheat are still too low. Seed as
input needs still more attention. Only some 25% of paddy fields are planted
to HYV. Of the wheat area 90% is already under HYVs. During the project
years planting of improved seeds nearly doubled. Accordingly, short term
credit went up from Rs 78.7 M in 1980/81 to Rs 180 M in 1984/85. Foodgrain
yields are low (paddy 0.9 t/ha). Per capita foodgrain production averaged
135 kg/ha from 1979 to 1982, against the all-India average of 181 kg in 1983.
In the years 1970 to 1981 Bihar had 0.84% annual food production growth,
against all-India 2.2%.
4.40    The situation in agricultural marketing is also still far from satis-
factory, though much ha3 been achieved during the recent years. Out of 672
wholesale markets in the State, 117 regulated markets han been set up by the
end of 1979-80, and four more will have been set up during the Sixth Plan
period. The World Bank helped to finance 47 of these markets. Besides these
wholesale markets, there are some 7,000 public rural 'hats' and a number of
privately owned 'hats', of which some 200 have been developed along modern
lines. Storage and warehousing facilities in rural areas were supported by
commencing construction of 116 rural godowns during the period 1980 to 1984,
7 of which are already completed. However, in remote areas of Bihar outlets
for inputs and facilities for collection of the produce are still poor.
Routine Project Reporting
4.41    Semi-annual project progress reports have been received regularly,
although late at times. Financial reporting was especially weak; some
"icertified statements" for 1978-79 to 1981-82 were received but were returned
by WB to GOB for correction and verification; they have not yet been
re-submitted (see Table 8).



-15-
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs
5.1     Total project costs including contingencies amounted to US$16.01 M
or Rs 144 M. The cost breakdown i& given below.
Functions                          Percent
Extension                            81.2
Staff Training                        3.6
Adaptive Research                     12.1
M&E                                    3.1
Total                 0QO.O
Category of Expenditure
Civil works                          28.4
Equipment and vehicles               24.0
Consultancy & fellowships             0.2
Evaluation/Studies                     0.4
Training costs                         1.8
Establishment                        45.2
Total                  0-0.0
Project Financing
Total project costs was financed as follows:
IDA credit                      US$  8.00
COB/GOI                               8.01
US$ 16.01
Disbursements of the credit were permitted as follows:
-   1001 of the cost of consultants and of foreign costs of imported
vehicles and equipment;
-   80% of cost of civil works and of locally procured equipment and
vehicles and local training, fellowships and evaluation; and
-   101 of total salaries of extension and adaptive research personnel
engaged on the project.
Credit Allocation and Disbursements
5.2     The comparison between the credit allocation under different
categories and the actual disbursements were as follows:



-16-
Credit Allocation    Disbursement
---------(US$ million) ----------
Civil Works                                        2.900               0.542
Local training/follow-up                           0.250               0.199
Equipment and vehicles                             2.400               1.116
Salaries, incremental staff                        1.940               2.313
Consultancies                                      0.001                 -
Unallocated                                        0.500                 -
8.000 /a            4.17
7ia--Light difference in totals due to rounding.
Financial Management
5.3     Funds were initially handled by the Director of Agriculture.  In
December 1983 Government delegated powers of disbursing officer to the ADA
(Extension). Budget provisions for the project were made on an annual basis
by submission of estimates of expenditure from the MOA to the Ministry of
Finance. Provisions were not adequate to meet the project requirements as
proposed in the appraisal report. Particular difficulties arose in budgeting
because the project was not included in the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1974/79).
The project was included in the Sixth Plan; procedures of annual sanction of
the scheme were thereby facilitated. However, the system of annual sanctions
did not permit long-standing planning and had an adverse bearing on the
execution of the project. Even with 18 months extension of the project date,
reimbursable expenditures remained low.
5.4     The original total project costs were estimated at Rs 144 M
(US$16.01 M) with reimbursements from the Credit amounting to Rs 72 M.  The
actual expenditures on the project for the period 1978-79 until March 31,
1985 were Rs 297 M as given in the statement, Table 16. Although this amount
was much higher than the original estimates of proposed costs, the overrun
was caused entirely by expenditures on salaries, due to inflationary
increases and the extended project period. As only 10% of salaries were
reimbursable, the total project cost situation was very different from the
reimbursement situation.
VI. ASSESSMENT OF IMPACT
Impact on Production
6.1     For the assessment of the growth of production, natural conditions
prevailing in recent years as well as levels of inputs have to be taken into
consideration. Besides changing factors (amount and timeliness of rainfall,
utilization of improved seed, fertilizer and agro-chemicat application rates)



-17-
there are those factors which remain constant like soil quality but which
still have varying effects on production according to other related condi-
tions such as flooding and erosion. Average crop yields may decline as areas
of less-favored soils are brought into production. The increased area coming
under irrigation adds another variable. Also the effectiveness of supporting
services like credit, marketing and agricultural extension as well as linked
research are all relevant. Summarizing, in Bihar the following factors are
worth mentioning:
-   in the year 1978/79 there were severe floods;
- weather conditions were not favorable from 1979/80 to 1983 due to
drought; also 1985 has again been too dry;
- much of the land in the river valleys is endangered by frequent
flooding;
- irrigation plays a major role;
- high yielding varieties seeds are not yet widely used particularly
for rice; and
- input supply is still rather poor. In remote areas there is no
supply at all; also, about 25% of farmers do not qualify for loans.
6.2     Although it is still too early to expect a fully realistic and
measurable impact of the project, the official yield data of the pre-project
and project years have been compared and indexed (Table 19). It should be
noted that, given the range of variables affecting production and limitations
on the quality of data available, the information on the pre-project and
project years is only a poor substitute for information on with and without
project conditions. The index figures of rolling five-year averages, taking
the pre-project period 1971/75 as the base line, for major crops are as
follows:
1971/72-1975/76   1972/81    1978/82    1979/83    1980/84
Rice                     100            102          99         92          93
Wheat                    100             92          93         95          97
Pulses                   100             95          97         99          -
Oilseeds                 100            104          93         89          -
Gram                     100             96         101        104          -
Maize                    100            135          -         130          -
6.3     It may be observed that by 1985, average yield trends did not indi-
cate a clearly significant impact of the project. However, as noted above,
there are many problems in assessing or isolating impact of one factor (the
project) alone and factoring out the impact of other variables, such as high



-18-
variation of natural factors like amount and timeliness of rainfall and the
often devastating flooding. Also population pressure leading to expansion
of cultivation into marginal soils plays a role. Besides, the effect of
agricultural extension and research on growth also depends upon physical
infrastructural improvements, like drainage or development of minor
irrigation.
6.4     Lack of uniformity over time of the data bases of official statistics
hamper long-term analysis. Also, the standard error in district level
estimates is often in excess of the normally accepted 5X. The disaggregation
of project and non-project factors, therefore, presents considerable dif-
ficulties. Although a multi-factoral regressional analysis is theoretically
possible, it would only be worthwhile after improving the accuracy and
uniformity of data.
6.5     The absence of significant increase in yields is also due to inade-
quacies in fertilizer and other input supply. Often, farmers do not obtain
fertilizer at times required. For last Rabi season fertilizer was not avail-
able in December when required. More retail outlets are necessary and small
farm short-term credit to all farmers; many farmers are not eligible for such
loans due to failure of repayment of earlier loans.
6.6     The desired coordination between the Input Supply Agency and the
Agricultural Extension Service has not been fully developed. Though exten-
sion functionaries are not directly involved - and should not be involved -
in input supply work, better assessment of the requirements and improvement
in logistic work are necessary.
6.7     It is not useful to apply an economic rate of return calculation for
the extension activities. The yield increase of 1 zo 22 by 1985 which would
generate a rate of return of above 50% (as postulated in the appraisal report
may well have occured, but causality cannot be clearly established in view of
many non-project factors.
6.8     Though the economic results of the project cannot be expressed mathe-
matically, changes of farmers' attitudes about improved farming methods, and
in the rates of adoption were enthusiastically stated by farmers and agricul-
tural officials.
6.9     An apparent impact of the project has been the change in the cropping
pattern, which has been observed to follow the lines of extension recommenda-
tions and indicate the positive effect of T&V. The main trends ares (see
Table 20)
-   Increase in cash crops area (mainly potatoes);
-   New emphasis on Rabi crops (black and green gram); and
-   increase in wheat production.



-19-
Institutional Impact
6.10    The effect of the project on institution building in the DOA has been
disappointing. Considerable follow-up will be necessary to establish T&V as
a viable operational system. The build-up of operational capability was much
slower than planned and had not been fully achieved by the end of the
extended project period. The institutional framework of T&V has been intro-
duced and the mechanics of T&V are accepted and practiced routine, but train-
ing sessions are not well prepared, mainly due to shortage of qualified SMSs.
Farmers' response has been positive to extension advice. Similarly, farmers
who were visited by the extension staff twice or more during the crop season
obtained higher yield than those who have one or no visits (see Table 15).
The gains achieved lack momentum, however, and will easily be lost unless the
effort is sustained.
VII. BANK PERFORMAdCE
7.1     The World Bank, mainly through supervision missions (see Basic Data
Sheet) and other technical back-stopping by NDO staff contributed sig-
nificantly to project achievements and to maintaining some sort of momentum
of T&V at field level. The comprehensive field reports prepared during
supervision appear to have been particularly valuable; going far beyond the
scope of the usual supervision report and having provided specific observa-
tions and recommendations which have given continuity and substance to the
supervision/development process. Continued support for the process is being
formulated for inclusion in a future phase of NAEP.
7.2     Early in the project there were significant delays in civil works
implementation. The inclusion of an architect in an early supervision mis-
sion would have helped identify constraints in construction and promote
viable courses of action to circumvent the problems. Delays in disbursement
might have beea reduced if early supervision missions had devoted more effort
to resolving budgetary constraints faced by the project.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
Project Justification and Objectives
8.1     The main objective of the project was to strengthen and reorganize
the extension service and related applied research activit;es in order to
increase agricultural production especially among small-scale farmers. That
objective was appropriate at the time of project formulation and remains
relevant today.



-20-
Project Content and Scheduling
8.2     The project content was boldly conceived to bring the benefits of
extension and research to the whole cropped area of the state. The results
have not fully justified the original boldness, in that the envisaged
institutional transformation has been only partially achieved. However, the
senior state authorities have eventually become convinced that the T&V sys-
tem, as proposed by the project, will be effective in raising agricultural
production when it reaches the optimum level of performance.
8.3     With regard to scheduling, the project was over-optimistic in assess-
ing the time it would take to implement major reorganizations within the
existing and entrenched institutions. The degree of progress achieved by
the end of the project period was much less than planned.
Project Formulation and Operating Outcomes
8.4     The project design in relation to extension and research was
generally well-conceived and comprehensive. However, project preparation
and appraisal gave insufficient attention to the details of the administra-
tive mechanisms needed for achieving institutional reforms within the civil
service personnel context.
8.5     The aims and objectives of the various types of courses and training
sessions included in the project were insufficiently described in the
appraisal report. As a result, implementation of the training component was
especially poor. An input by a training specialist during formulation could
have given clearer and specific guidance for implementation in the form of a
prospective master plan for training.
8.6     Civil works components were well conceived but all fell behind
schedule. Some of the delays could have been foreseen and perhaps fore-
stalled by involving a professional architect in project formulation.
Evaluation of Implementation and Outcomes
8.7     It is too early for an evaluation to be made of the impact of the
project, which would have to be measured in terms of improvements in yields
and production. The project objectives in institutional development have not
yet been achieved, however. In particular, the generation of an adequate
amount and quality of technical packages of practices for transference to
farmers, has been - and continues to be - slow.
8.8     Compared with similar projects, in other Indian States, achievements
have been disappointing. It seems likely that, during the project formula-
tion period, more attention should have been given to the degree of commit-
ment to the T&V system and its financial implications to all of the



-21-
authorities concerned with its implementation. In the early stages of
implementation, the project was not well supported even within the DOA.
8.9     The State Finance Department was apparently also not committed to the
project; it was reluctant throughout to sanction the appropriate budgetary
provisions. The decision to base the reimbursement of salaries on 10% of the
total extension and research salary bill rather than on a higher proportion
of incremental salaries, was undoubtedly an incentive for the Ministry of
Finance to resist new staff appointments.
8.10    The project can have a major impact on agriculture only after further
institutional improvement has occurred and the system has built up greater
momentum. It is too early to predict with certainty what the eventual impact
will be. However, responses of farmers and DOA staff have been enthusiastic
and new practices are found to spread more quickly than before; the improve-
ment has been noticeable in both irrigated and rainfed areas.



't/Z I 
J l,(   l)8t  lf    C/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 23 -                      Table 1
Page 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CR. 761-IN)
Key Indicators
Target
Original                  Achievement
Appraisal   Revised 1/  As at July 1985       Comments
AGRIC'JLTURAL EXTENSION
Staff
VEW                      8,980        4,997         3,340          4,317 sanctioned
AEO                      1,123          625  2/       366            532 sanctioned
SAO, ASAO                  157           35 (66)       58             66 sanctioned
DAO, Dy. DAO                62           32            29             32 sanctioned
SMS - subdivision          228           70            53             70 sanctioned
- district             155           58             0
- headquarters           4            4             4         Not full-time
Zonal JDA                    7            7             7
ADA                           1           1             1
Civil Works
YEW houses               2,245          800            91 (72) 3/   163 sanctioned
AEO house/office           281           52            30 (12)        42 sanctioned
Vehicles
4WD - headquarters            1           1             1
- district              31           16            16
- subdivision          145           76            69
Motorcycle               1,123           -            281
Bicycle                  6,735           -            864
Training
Snr. staff                 630           -              6
VEW refresher              -             -            770
SMS/AEO refresher        1,500           -              0
SMS special courses        120           -             46
AEO orientation          1,130           -            302
Univ. Deput - BSc.         140           -             80



- 24-
Table 1
Page 2
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Staff
DDA (in lieu Snr.
Ag. Econ.)                1           1                1           Presently JDA
Research Officer (DDA)       2           2                1
Farm Management
Specialist (DDA)          1           1                1          Works as DDA
(Trg.)
Snr. Stat. Asst. (HQ)        2           2                8
Snr. Stat. Asst.
(field)                  31          16               10
Investigator (field)        76          35               27
VEHICLES
4WD - headquarters           2          -                 2
Motorcycle                  31                           10
Bicycle                     76          -                 0
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH STATIONS
Staff
HQ - JDA/DDA                 4           4                2
- Asst. Agron., etc.      3           3                -
- Research Officer        5           5                -
Asst. Agron.                36          18               15
Jnr. R.S.                  108          54               36
Field Asst. -
- on ARS                144          72               72
- in district           288         144              140
VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
4WD                         37          18               15
Poer Tiller (tractor)       36          18               18
Meteorological
equipment                 36          18               18           To oe set up
Weighing, etc.,
equipment                 36          18               18



- 25.-
Table 1
Page 3
CIVIL WORKS
Office/store                36          18               14
Threshing floor             36          18               14
Garage/store                36          18               14
TRAINING AND CONSULTANCY
Fellowships
(ARS staff)               60 mm       -                 0
Consultants                 10 mm       -                 0
1/ Revised target for 16 distr-icts.
w/ A later revision.
-   Completed and (in progress in brackets).



.lENDIA REOIT 761-IN
Il1lAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Progreas in Civil Works Activities. Units Iomuleted
Tarqet as
_ 1       0 -82      D12-03    83-84&        p4-pS    __  rotal per Sanction
Marketing
Board  eicasco. un __     REO   M.  B
V L W  Quarters   Not Comp.       -       3 (REO)       -          -       21       48         72   (3   64  906) a 163
Completed           -               -          -        43      48         91
A* EO              Not Coop.      -       2 (REO)       -          -        4        6         12   (2   16  24) =  42    a
Completed      -          -         -          -        12      18         30
Adaptive Research Not Coop.       -          -          -          -        -        -          -    -   -    _
Complex          Completed      -          -          -         -         -       14         14    -   _   14
Note, 1. Agencies mentionedg they use contractors, do not undertake work themselves.
2. Unit price Marketing Boerd (M) VLW Rs. 49.500  (Base 1985)
AEO Rs. 66.500    0
Siseomaun (B)        VLW Rs. 52.300
AEO Rs. 66.700
ARC Rs.12'.000
Rural Eng.           VLW Rs. 4:.700  (Base 1986)
Organisation (REO)  AEO Rs. 60.900  ( -          ) )



-27 -                                          Table 3
INDIA: CREDIT 761-IN
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
List of Vehicles & Equipment Procured
(Period 1978-79 to 31 March 1985)
Number          Number   1/        Number    2/
Item              purchased         distributed        misallocated
VEHICLES
4 WD Diesel Jeeps           101               100                  1
4 WO Diesel Station           2                 1                  1
Jeep Trailer                  7                 7                  -
Car                           1                 -                  1
Motorcycle                  281               279                  -
Tractor with Trailer
& accessories               7                 7                  _
EQU IPMENT
Typewriters - Hindi          39                35                  4
*-    - English         2                 2                 -
Duplicating Machine          42                42                  -
Photocopier                   1                 1                  -
16 mm Film Projector         36                31                  1
Entertainment Films           2                 2                  -
Dictaphone                    6               Nil                  6
Electric Generator           36                36                  -
Audio Visual System          36                23                  -
Public Address System        30                22                  _
Overhead Projector           35                29                  -
Table Calculator             21                 8                  -
Pocket Calculator            66                31                  -
Canvas Sheet                 38                 -                  -
Ourry Carpet                 41                30                  -
Cash Chest                    1                 1                  -
Steel Almirah                38                34                  4
Steel Chair                 160               140.                20
Steel Table                  21                19                  2
1/ Balance being still in stock.
2/ Items of equipment which have been &',located
to non-extension functions in DOA.



- 28 -
INDIA: CREDIT 761-IN
Table 4
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
STAffING PROGRESS
Extension            Appraisal tarRet                         Achievement as on
Orig.  Rev.   Sane.         78-79   79-80   80-81    81-82    82-03    83-84    84-85
VEW                  8980   4997 , 4317           2240    2240    2240       2474      3131      3389      3340
AEO                  1123    625    532            280      280      280       257       284      377       366
SAO                   157      66     66            34       26       28        29       34        54        58
DAO/ADAO               62      32     32            10       10       10        22        23       26        29
SFS (district)        155      58     15            15       10       12       (2)        -         -       (2)
SMS (subdiv)          288      70     70            48       27       33        33       44        51        53
SMS (HQ)                4       4    (3)            -        -        -         -         -         -       (3)
Zonal JDA               7       7       7            4        4        4         6         6.        7        7
ADA (Ext)               1       1       1            1       -        -          1         1         1         1
Asst. D.A.             -              -             -        -        -          1 (*)    1          1         1
MONITORING AND EVALUATION:
nA (MIE)                 1      1       1            1        1        1         1         1         1         1()
(Sr.Agri.Econo-
mica)
DDA (Pesearch)           2      2       1            1        1        1        -          1         1         1(5)
DDA (Training)           1      1       1           -         4        1         1         1         1         1 (5)
SSA HQ                   2      2       2            2        2        2         2     .2            2         8
JSA                      2      2       2            2        2        2         2         2         2         2
investigator HQ          2      2      2             2        2        2         2         Z         2         a
SSA (disttict)         31      16     16             3        3        2         5         9        10        10
Invest. (field)        76      35     35            11       11       11        11        21        27        27
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH:
JDA                     1       1       1            1        1        1         1         1         1         1
DDA                     3       3       3            3        3        1         2         1         3         1
Asst. Agron.           36      18      18            7        6        6         7        16        16        15
JRA                   108      54      54           1S       21       21        21        26        36        36
(1)    Orig.^ original target in appraisal report
Rev. * revised target agreed GOB/W8 in 1981 because only 16 districts would be covered
Sanc.f number of posts setually sanctioned in GOB budgetary provision
(2)    In 81-82 district SMS posts werd abolished but from 85-86 are to be restored
(3)    JDA post vas sanctioned at the end of fi. .ancial year 84-85 to act as SMS Agronomy
(4)    Posted to assist ADA (Ext) as technical secretary
(5)    The incumbents have never been suitably qualified for M&Z and wore mostly engaged
on other duties before 83-4



IADIA: CREDIT 761-1N
8liAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Number of persons trained per Year - Extension INote 6)
TvoJe of Trainitn                    1978-79   79-S0   00-81   81-82   82-B3   83-84   84-8s         TOTAL
Pre-season Trainina
(number of personnel trained
per year) (I)
VEWs                                     900    1989    1989    1989    26f2    3131    3340          3340 (2)
Other staff                              150     21S      230      230     440      450     481        48; (2)
Soecia) Short Courses
(total number of courses) (3)
VEW/AEO                                                                                                     (3)
Other staff                               -       -         5        5       14       6      100       130
Orientation                               30      35       -       107      60       -       120       352
VEW Refresher (4)                         -       -       234      234     255      210      175      1108
Pre-service and Promotion courses
VEWfVLW (4) (5)                           -       -       174      t80      as       86       -        526
Promotional Training (4)                  -       50       50       50      49       42      -         241
OSc./MSc. for VEWs (4)                    -       -         I        I        1       4      -           7
foreign Visits                             -         I       -        2      -        -        2          5
TQ3A1. courses held                       30      86      464     579      465      348     397       2369
TOTAL courses planned (7)                650     640      710      790     820       -       -        3610
(1) Courses are held twice per year, for about 6 days per year.
however. these numbers include VLWs not engaged on extension duties.
Separate data tor extension are not available.
(2) The highest number trained in any one year; the same staff are trained every year.
(3) No special short course was arranged for VEWs or AEOa.
(4) Numbers include about 50% of personnel assigned to non-extension duties;
separate extension data not available.
(5) VEWIVLW pre-service training comprises nine-month courses at four
Extension Training Centres.
(6) Excluding regular fortnightly training of all VEW/4VO and monthly
workshops attended by all SMS. SAO and DAD.
(7) From Appraisal Report: it is not Possible to compare directly the appraisal
forecast with the actual achlrvement. because of different methods of counting
LR-3H-TA86



-30-                                          Table 6
INDIA. CREDIT 761-IN
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCN PROJECT
Eguipment Procured . Adaptive Research Component
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH FARMS (Equipment per farm)
A.   Meteorological Eguipment
Non-recording rain gauge.
Stevenson screen.
Wind vane.
Open pan evaporimeter.
Dry and Wet bulb thermometers.
Minimum and Maximum therometers.
Soil thermometers. (set)
S.   Labora-ory Farm Equipment
Tractor with trailer.
Power tiller.
Duster.
Sprayer.
Wheat thresher.
Measuring tapes.
Balances and Scales.
Callipers.
Steel tape.
Spring balance.
Pocket calculator.
Petromax lamp and torch.
C.   Vehicles
Jeep.
Jeep trailer.
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH HEADQUARTERS
A.   Equl2mnts
Duplicating machine.
Mazox copier.
Calculators.
Typewriter.
B.   Vehicle
Jeep (Diesel).
NB: This list does not include a set of furnitures purchased for each
of the ARfs and H.Q.



- 31 -
Table 7
INDIA: CREDIT 761-IN
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Staffina of Adaptive Research
No. of Posts
Revised      In position
Planned     Planned        July 1985
HEADQUARTERS - (Adaptive Research)
ADA  (A.R.)                            1
JOA  (A.R.)                            -           1                1
JDA  (Soil Science)                    1           _
DOA  (Soil Science)                    -           1                1
JDA  (Agronomy)                        1
DDA  (Agronomy)                        -1                           1
JDA  (Statistics)                      1           -
DDA  (Statistics)                     -            1                1
Stenographer                           1           -                1
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH FARMS (NO.18)
Assistant Agronomist                  18           -               15
Junior Research Assistant             54           -               18
Store Keeper                          18           -               18
Jeep Driver                           18           -               16



-32 -
Table 8
INDIA: CREDIT 761-IN
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Reporting
REPORTS REQUIRED
No.        Type             Frequency      EntttY Reporting       Format Agreed
1     Project Progress   6-monthly              GOO                   Yes
2     Accounts & audit   Annual                 GOB                   Yes
3     M & E Summary       Annual                GOB                   No
REPORTS RECEIVED
REPORT NO. 1                  REPORT NO. 2 -                REPORT NO. 3
Required        Received    Peguired          Received    Required       Received
(period ending)             (period ending)I/              (period endingr
*09.78                       03.79   )           )        03.83  3/   Received
03.79            08.79       03.80   )          )         03.44  -    Received
09.79            08.80       03.81   )   J      ) /
03.80            12.80       03.82   )Due       )
09.80            04.81       03.83   !          )
03.81            09.81       03.84   )          )
09.81            04.82       03.85   )          )
03.82            02.83
09.82            06.83
03.83            09.83
09.83            01.84
03.84            08.84
09.84            02.85
03.85
1/ Report due within nine months of this date.
2/ Some "Certified statements' for 1978-79 to 1981-82 received but these
have been returned to GOB for verification and correction; not yet
re-submitted.
3/ Monitoring and evaluation only started functioning recently; earlier
reports not requested.



- 33 -
Table 9
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 761-IN)
List of PubLications of the Monitoring and Evaluation CelL
A. MONITORING SURVEYS
1.  Rabi, 1982-83                 Nov. 82 to Mar. 83                 Published
2.  Kharif, 1983-84               June 83 to Dec. 83                 Published
3.  Rabi, 1983-84                 Nov. 83 to Mar. 84                 Published
4.  Kharif, 1984-85               June 84 to Dec. 84                 To be published
B.  MONITORING-CUM-EVALUATION SURVEYS
1.  Rabi, 1982-83                                                    Published
2.  Kharif, 1983-84                                                  Published
3.  Rabi, 1983-84                                                    Published
4.  Kharif, 1984-85                                                  To be published
C. SPECIAL STUDIES
Characteristics of Central Farmers and
Socio-Economic Conditions of Farmers in Bihar                    To be published



- 34 -
fable 10
BIHAR AMRUTUA   EX IONU MAN NM     MM
Estimte of Anual Vorkica  of  niftorWin  aW Evlut10ion Staff in No-DAYS
JOA    M              PUT
in      Statistics    I             Statistial   Field
Tr  of Activity             jar   Res. 9fficer Scmililst I/ Assstant         InvestiL&tor
Questionnire design        2          5                           -               -
Modification of
questioaire              1          -            . 
Sale design                1                        -                             -
Selection of sale          -          -             -            45               -
Training                   6          6             5            22               6
Supevision of field
wort                    60        100            go            45               -
Field  rkof surveys              -    -             -             -              80
Scrunity of data           -         14             -            90               -
Taulation of data
and analysis                   -                 -             60
Report writing                        -            90             -
Adeinistratlon            90          30           30             -               _
Meeting with other
officers                60          60           45             -
Misellarous               go          90           45            s0              90
Total orking days 
per individual         310         310          310           322             n6
l/ I fact a genral etenion spcialist,  nking as ODA (Training).



- 35 -
NDIA CnDIT - 761-IN                             Table 11
SIMUI GRITCULUAL   TNSI0ot & _ESAtaCM PRIOJECT
1984-85 Work Plan for Monitoring and Monitoring-cum-Evaluation Surveys and Special Studies
Khatif     Kha:tf     Rsbi        Rabi            Special Study
MS         M45       MS          M&2
1.  Questionnaire design         1.4.84     1.7.84     1.10.84     1.12.84
15.4.84    1S.7.84    15.10.84    15.12.84
2.  ModIficAtion of question-  16.4.84    16.7.84    16.10.84    16.12.84
naire
23.4.84    23.7.84    23.10.84    23.12.84
Printing of schedules      25.4.84    25.7.84    25.10.84    25.12.84
30.4.84    30.7.84    30.10.84    30.12.84
4. Designing of the survey    16.4.84         -        16.10.84       -
fl                         18.4.84               18.4.84
5: Drawing of samples           16.4.84    16.7.84    16.10.84    16.12.84
30.4.84    18.7.84    30.10.84    30.12.84
6. Training of Field Staff       3.6.84       -         3.10.84       -
5.6.84                5.10.84
7. Yield vork                    1.8.84    15.10.84   10.1.85       1.3.85
15.9.84    15.12.84   15.2.85      15.4.85
8.  Scrutiny 6 analysis         10.10.84   16.12.84   16.2.85      16.4.85        No special study work do"
30.10.84   30.12.84   28.2.85      15.5.85        in 1984-85. FroM 1985-86
three special studie hae
been tae up.
9. Report writing                1.11.84    1.2.85      1.3.85       1.6.85
30.11.84   28.2.85    30.3.85      30.6.85
10. Prlnting of reports



1HD.A  CREDIT 761-IN
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Results of MiE Survevs Farmers Awareness of TbV System
MS Rabi   USE Rabi    MS Kha-1f    MAE Kharif   US Rabi   USE Rabi    MS Kharif    MEE Kharif
1982-s3 1082-@3   1903-01       M2;-84         1983-84   1983-84i      t904-8z       1904-05
................................... (Percentage of Farmers) .
Farmers knowinu VEW
Contact fkrrers                 46         99           56            69             70         60           70            67
Non-contact farmers             31         70           46            50             44         42           43            40
Frequency of visits of
VEW durina oravious
four weeks
(a) Nti visit
Contact                     11         5            33            33            33         30           31             29
Non-contact                 16        39            58            59            57         58           58             59
(b1 One visit
Contact                     12        17            17            26            23         23            20            22
Non-contact                 tO        29            15            21            19         20            16            18
(ci Two and more visits
Contact                    33         78            50            41            45         47           49             51
Non-contact                 19        32            26            21            24         22            26            28
Reft4laritv of visits
on the fixed day
Contact                         34         95           42            39             43         40           49            46
Non-contact                     22         55           22             18            17         20           22            20
Place of visit
(a) field.
Contact                    Is         61            14            36            32         43           41             40
Non-contact                 8         23             7            13            14         20           21             is
(b) OtbAr otJAce                                                                                                                    cr
CuIbt) .t                  It         34            23            41            44         40           29             30
Nun-cuntdct                 tO        50            1G            34            32         37           28             30
t  Ms 5 Monitoring Sear vey.
2  m&e 5 Monitoring--cum-Evaluatlon Suevey.



-I                                                                  . -z ez                 * n          1s it       I -     9Z 52s   ,lm
.2      Zt                          82           IC          1$         it i                 112ZZ  1135Sit *1 1aSIe*J
at      lSi             ?F1841 "as
-        -             -            -                                              4 -  *  -1  1         III a P     i1 tIIz1lBIA
1i       a            91            t           IS           a          CZ         of       a  to el a  U  is         It      It                               "16pe t qa
U6      I"             01-961 5 831
-        -             -            -            -            -         *           11      91 at a  U  n  a          *1      of                           p1LI    ItU^8
el       la            2            S            95            8                     S             t t   IC9t  9  Pfi                                        i 1P   'Iii'j
fSll  U'1     u'I       SS  S1U1
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I W1fWTIi
^  ~~~~~~~~~To)    tww ii  fumin                                                                r  zxu)
rtl a 13 I-  i- a a I       r    s El I SI as  Jsyita                                                                   W g sw 
Typ^ww"TMVV" riXEfrwl OJ Sltnq
I nrm^wTti



INOIAi CREDIT 761-IN
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Monitorina Surveys 2 Reasons for Partial or Non-adoption of Recomm_ndations
(Percentage of Farmers)
Lack of
Too          Lack of        Input not        proper        Not profitable
Recommendation             Sample size        Expettsve      Irrigation      avallable        knowledge        and others
CF      NCF       CF    NCF      CF      NCF      CF    NCF       CF    NCF      CF          NCF
Kharlf 1903-84             1086   1103                                                                                              1
t. Seed rote                -       -         13     13       6       4       9       9       tO     14      13            s         )
2. Selection of HYV         -       -         21     25      18       17     18      IB       13     iS       9            9
3. AppliCation of
fertilizer             -      -         41      42     28       37      14      11      15      i6      3             3
4. Plant Protection
measures               -      -         37      46     -        -       25      25      16      16       1            2
S. ^Aronomic practices    -         -         is      is     22       27      6       7       le     22       3            3
Rabi 1983-84                740    576
1  Seed rate                -       -         It     IS       6        3      7       9       3       4       4            6
2. Applicatton of
fertilizer             -      -         39      42     25       30      22     24        a      14     15           20
A. Plant Prot-ction
measures               -      -         37      42      -       -       25     34       12      to      12          23
4. A4W tomtc practices    -         -        61      25       I       to     10      21       a      19'      6           Is
CF s Contact Farmer
NCF a hon-Contact Farmer



-39-
Table 15
INDIA: CREDIT 761-IN
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Relationship Between Yield Rate and Visits
Survey                 No. of Visits      Irr"iated       Rainfed'      Total
Rabi 1982-83           Nil                  1,707           N.A.        1,707
(Wheat)                One                  1,782           N.A.        1,782
Two or more          2,103           N.A.        2,103
Total                1,915           N.A.        1,915
Kharif 1983-84         Nil                  1,994          1,631        1,845
(Paddy)                One                  2,631          2,287        2,533
Two or more          2,718          2,482        2,701
Total                2.496          1,892        2,520
Rabi 1983-84           Nil                  2,026           1,550       1,981
(Wheat)                One                  2,039          1,508        1,869
Two or more          2,279          1,395        2,186
Total                2,154          1,479        2,050
Relationshie Between Yield Rate of Crops
and Main Source of Advice to Farmers
Survey              Source of Advice      Irrigated       Rainfed       Total
Rabi 1982-83        Extension personnel    1,997             N.A.       1,997
(Wheat)             Other farmers           1,910           N.A.        1,910
Other sources           1,880           N.A.        1,880
No advice               1,670           N.A.        1,670
Total                   1,945           N.A.        1,945
Kharif 1983-84      Extension personnel    2,652           2,286L       2,592
(Paddy)             Other farmers           2,179          1,868        2,104
Other sources           2,642          1,699        2,228
No advice               2,222          1,508        1,904
Total                   2,565          1,893        2,396
Rabi 1983-84        Extension personnel    2,240            1,602       2,166
(Wheat)             Other farmers           1,943          1,496        1,870
Other sources           2,216          1,570        2,167
No advice               1,98           1,475        1,921
Total                   2.154          1,553        2,079



INDIAt CREDTI 7.fi1-1N
BtHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTEhSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Exoend1ture Statement under World Bank Agricultural EEtenslon Protect
Si
no - I t e m s                  1978-79      1979-80      1980-Uil     1981-82      1982-83       1983-84      1984-85         TOrTA
...............................     ............  R 0 0)  ..........................  ............  ......... ROo)....,,,.,,,.,,,,,I
1.  Civil Works                    -            -            -        690.000         -       11.657.500          -       12.247.500   0
2.  Equipments                  844.Y31      110.7t9      855.085   2.070.836       t10.150    3,296.285       449.938    7.737.744
3.  Vehfctes                  2.993.58t      129.753   1,102.1t9       t55.983         -             -            -        4.901.438
4.  Training and                 14.749   |  80.266         8.253      31t.370     S85.631       640.05t       879.674    2.527.000
Fellowships
S.  Satsries                 23.332.337  13.236.400  26.729.895  27.394.553  41.2S7.604   56.325.013   69.693.996  263.999.798
6. Physical Contingency
& Misc. E,penditure      494.849   1.075.235       718.617      620.080      636.451    1.081.325    1.297.701    5.924.258
Including Trials
T O T A L                    27.680.247  14.632.373  29.413.969  31.749.822  48.619.838   73.000.160   72.321.309  297.417.736
It



I"DIA2 CR1DIT 761-1
SlSHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARC" PROJECT
PrCoect Costs :COrnarative AnalYsIs
I of Exoend-                                       Additional
Amount of the .1/      1ture to be       Amount       Amount already       aount
Items of work           Lcredit allocated       rnAmkbursea       actually        rembursef         cl-amed      Disbursnment Z/
Planned  Revised          by we          sent             by WO            by 7J85         aarcfni
.... ... ...  I.. ... ... .... ... ... ...     Rs million  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1. Clvil Works                 26.1    31.9              80          12.2     / af    S101                 1.489           20.6
2. Equipment a VehiCles        21.6    26.4              so          12.719           10.284                 -             38.9 
3. Trainin  S Feltlowship       2.25    2.75             80           2.527            2.02  _/                            73. 6          $
4. Consult-cy                  0.09    0.11             o                  -                                               -
5. Salaries                    17.46   21.34             10         263.999          22.328                1.35           110.9
6. Unallocated                  4.S      5.50            -               -          .   -
7. Physical contingency          -        -              -            5.924
and trlals
TOTAt                       72.00   88.00             -          297.417          39.733                2.839           48S
.If The smount shown in the Credit Agreement Is US dollers, converted here to Rs.
The  planned' is at the original rate of Rs 9 - USS 1. the 'Revised  Is the
same aount converted at the operational rate of Ro It = USS t. These amounts
do not reconcile sith the Table of Totsl Project Costs as contained in the
Appraisal report. Also. In respect of 'salaries'. the appraisal estimate was
the incremtental cost, whereas reimbursement Is S percentage of total extension
staff cost.
I/ Total reombursement as percentage of the 'se.itstl  stpaeeb i.redit allocation.
It This amount was advanced to the construction agencies appointed by GOB but
statement of expenditure received from them was Rs 8.237 M. on which reimburse-
ment claimed.
_i Ps 0.444 M. expenditure Incurred and is being claimed.



- 42 -
Tstble IS
II: CRff 761-IN
SOA  lAMRIC&UL   EXMNSIgo AS  RESEMO PECr
Schle o1' Di0ewet (La  n 15 March 198S)
A C C U    L U L A  t E   D    I S A U R S E M E N T S
Lats                          Lats
!La      EstatetAltE l
Aetutal   ar1aiL       S         as S an.         tl                E.
FY 6 Oartrs    Total    Estiate          Estiate  Estimate E(culttv)   Est1jt@
(2/83)
.................      .      .. ..........    .       .. ( I       ........    ...  ).. ..t
FY 1979
79 - 3             0         0.1                    0              2.00W          2
4             0         0.3                    0              4.063        1,3549
ist              0.3         0.6                   50              4.899          814%
2nd              0.3         1.0                   33               -               0
3rd              0.5         1.3'                  38             5.275          AO.5%
4th              0.6         1.6                   36                -               0
FT 19181
nst              0.6         1.9                   32              7.269         38.3%
2nd              0.7         2.2                   32              9.899         44.9%
3rd              0.8         2.5                   32              -
4th              1.0         2.8                   36              -
FY 1O2
1st              1.2         3.1                   39                              -
2nd               1.2        3.5          1.5      34            10.823          30.9%
3rd               1.2        4.0          1.1      30            11.974          29.9%
4th               1.3        4.5          1.5      29              -               -
FY I9&
lst              1.3         5.0          1.7      26            19.616          39.6%
2nd               1.3        5.6          1.9      23              -
3rd               1.8        6.2          2.1      29              -
4th              2.2         6.8          2.3      32            22.331          32.8%
1st              2.2         7.6          2.5      29            25.543          33.6%
2nd              2.S         8.0          3.0      31            30.118          3J.6%
3rd              2.8                               35              -
4th              2.8*                              35              -               -
1St              3.1                               39            39.766          53.2%
2nd               3.1                              39             2.839 (eapected)
3rd
Closing date 10.31.83
* 3.31.85
SourCe: '1> -    W4 orld Boak.
p  * 6011.



I2                      -                U6 96    1                                                       61*'
-      U        - A     m                                                      off
tot         tit                                                              "I                                                     wis
toII                 getiot                                                                                                          11
V              -        S                                                    as                                                     u *..q
u                          at                                                                                                       4;T zz  @*nw*
6  66  ill                                                    Sal                                              *)j* tq111
-      1191    6*3       ,sl'                                                   9us                                             Ul
-  ass  us  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t ~~~sated AV4e
-  10       911~~"    US L9IFSI
11  139  U9  3*3                                             e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n 114
an                               -       lid      -        9su:                                                   29n  t
I~ ~ ~~FU  Ul   Will! U IWl
tU
-  3E'i    3E'6    ~~~it's    to'    UI'    5Its6    in6'        h.Z'    to'       91       W6       to
-  sn       e~~ms    goc      fta       u1       toS      a9       us       us        at      ,c       9wSpi
Su      hi       Oi         9      to5      619      6in       lS       It       119 61    15      99       tit                        114
-  M      -        M       *6       16IZ If'll  Wll    fll    tilli   15t         AUS                II6  Sml
-55'!    NS'6    Z-4't   5l,'    mLI         of's    itz'l    tIZ'    *nl 3fue             9C1      ral       oul                        we"
91,11   1I        SU      .D*1    "I         P16      is       S        16       US"      358      16       5*6                        F jJjt"
#101 i



- 44 -                                                                 Table 20
(tOtAi CR3IT ?61-1N
Izs A3C1L1L"RAI.      lo AISZ NDM 05334CR PlojcT
C _  ns CrontAa _atte" joiset mtomeam  Lan Snor (Itro.   to S crops)
tWO  Ie  om. caigs  toa 'cgeppng patters at  too impiientstato  ot TY .oteaston to Saner. Apo-*co8gicbLooe-vs-                 M&St%nO estcropping
patta. _  t044   croppn  pato.t. tternos t. Do"  no wtn   tatauzar tots.  time era  am soonh La  BInr. btut up untu n. Tnv  78stz 05"
eiS ilint    et oetr lose n  tatte so0n" oa.  btCe ot tooe r,40m50             pattetti Ut* 0onn  ..A4 cno  Odoot O tOr tcn    Molrte
2096                            KaiC ot tao distrits              bcotana Ctopping Pattern                      I.tc_eeOB  Croppian fttteau
lb.     Nme o on 2er                    antsm L tLo  Scn  netn U uaatu                 Itrsaere             Uftartiaat               tmtii4
tnciueaoo ot Cte an. USa Cr.n
I    Mtto AUVSSiA Plans  Uat ane bt Cnmparto.  Itce- PaLrs at  apoead/ l                 is *-Whet        an.-pne/cn n   Ibias r.. or
Due to tacneOae La      GesCAa   . Smama, SStct. n,    tQtO. Leta. Serity        ouas-Potsco      bae-Arstar (Sep. omm)         Sltu  Crt_-
trrigatso arm          Hubs*trmr. Vestieta        cc"                          bA&e n-9bet       matate-eet Potato                tat
Patto     Risce-PuAsom (hattIe.    btst-Potato-
P547-UeSta                      Cr6eJ             Cr'.
P?4y Potato       (ase-CrtA                tstato-Ulieat
Vk&**-q"t
Potato-
Onsou
RaCa-Uba"t-CrS.
RACa0-Potato-Osiowa
nicuetU8IO  of     Rosi sa  Grnet Cr5S
MtrtO Fast A.uuyaSA          Putted. Katoapr.            RAce-Patio,. Kaua.          Juts-ace          batstAre  (t.)    JutOmst
Plt"c (Jute cil i-       Son r.                         Arart                 aRteuheat          Raise-Rpo2tbet   Jets-baa rbaa.
etton. or" datev-                                 Rise-Post of Linseoe.       IrSe-Potano        Rtts-PVLe       ti4)     Jutea-RUS-
sitied)                                                 Lotayrus              Rige-potato                                 Rilce-be-orsnm
Jute-Ric                                                                           Cr
R&xas-Grseo-Us
- _ Cr_  .
Riase-1areasGre.n
(nciueao ot SateS_. Oats. a Cres  Or'.
W eutt SunIt A4ttaia          Gays. Anurgaoae.             ate-aos                    biOs-Potato        RitOs'.- of L5tu    Racarbet-Grea
Dus to  otrase. an      Reatee. lbojpau.            RIc*-Paira ot Lacuprwo      bg-ftiseea         Riee 1oew_                         Ci".
rwatee are            Patna                           Cr_5 or Lentil          Rice-bet                  batca          RAter-Vamt-Omost
Jowar-fatsop                Rice-otvato-       145m-Atet r                        Ores
iatsO-AttCt                       OGtom                              RAICOsersoma-R*.
ba.o-Fstjew.                                                          ltce-otate-Osion
-Ctr_ (TL aa)                                                   madstP atato-Gro_
-Vbst (do) p Ct_                                                               arm
MbSS-Potato-teet
ntsy St"" Ftot.. t"Qbwe  .e Crtwaadt
MV  reepczlasced RIet as to
Cnattal e4  Raeti o       .3. portion of           Rtca-Palto                   RiCe-beet          haCs-Sat4oer         RacO-Ilaea
anters  Platee.         Rabaul ditrict            5tiea-felIm                  Rca-Potato         RXiC-LMtt4            uAcGeu-Ptato-fte
Rut? atr (grosmy                                   ,Na r-fattor                                    Relany-satrioer       au_e*-fteat"Vt
04507 loan to Lou                                  Conoata-PtW                                     SorIee Potato         Creue-Vegeoe
00o4)                                                                                              balso-Arnar                     mat
PAca-Uet-Orse.
cr'.
RACs-tiSe
Soyaboa-Ubsar ot
Vegetable
S      eneta Flaote           S lV. portion o@            Riletse-low                 bAls-Potato        S_mm as Zone 4        RiCelat
x"ry ar" (Sr,.44Y         Rafli disntrit            NAa-tauon                   Rn_e-Poctto        Rc-S cflmer           RMe-  e       e
am"  lof to &OM                                    mise-peara ot               ltRcn-Usert        Rtace-LeotU            batstPoto-Vbeft
eso)                                                      L tbyte                                  Rice Seem              Gteu         eo
Go0s4 -e.low                                   Paro-Ssstous,         Sdrta_VetaaIa
H043s-Athrba           .c-I5tC
Soyegoe-Srttlsreir                aea
RAe-mba



- 45 -
Table 21
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 761-IN)
List of Technologies Generated and Recommended for Adoption of Farmers
1. Varietal
-   Sita, Janki, Sugandha. Radha and Rajendra Dhan in rice under
different field situation.
-   Laxmi and HaeLant in maize.
-   Bahar in Arhar.
-   12  in Moong and Navin in Urd, Q Varuna and B.R. 40 in Rai. M13 and
333 AK.12-24 and Kubair in G.nit.
-   8.0.70 and 8.0.91 in sugarcane.  R.A.U.-1 in Millet and RS-5 in
sweet potato.
-   HP1101, HP1209, and C 306 in wheat.
2. Agronomical
Cultivation of winter maize. summer planting of Urd in wheat-paddy
rotation, cultivation of summer till. two tier planting of sweet potato
with Rs-5 and Q cross-4. Interculturing of maize and Arhar in alternate
rows of 75 cm each.
3. Plant protection
(a) Insects
- Control of Mango hopper by carbaryl or monocrotophos or
endosulfan at the rate of 0.5 kg/ha.



- 46 -
Table 21
Page 2
- Treatment of 3 weeks rice seedling with either fenitrothion or
phosphamidon or endosulfan at the rate of 0.5 kg/ha. Another
spray if needed after 40-50 days of transplanting of seedlings.
- In maize, application of carbaryl or phorate granule
e 5 kg/ha. Phorate @ 10 kg/ha granules (102) against white
grubs. Application of gamma BHC at sowing time in Sugarcane.
Neem seed Kernal suspension against pod bvorers in Arhar. Early
sowing of mustard against aphid infestation.
(b) Diseases
Treatment of wheat seeds with Vitavas (0.25 g/kg) for control of
loose smut. 4 sprayings of Dithane M-45 against late blight of
Potato 0.251 maize rust.  Baviston 0.05% spray for control of sheath
rot of rice, brown spot of rice and leaf spot of millets. Seed
treitment of pulses with Baviston + Theirsm. Rajendra Dhan 201,
Saket 4, Ratna, IR 20 are resistant to Tungro virus of rice and
tolerant to bacterial blight disease.
Soil and Fertilizer Management
Application of ZnSo4 Q 25 kg/ha every three years, and pyrite
9 1.5-2.0 ton/ha in low pH soil repeated every 3rd year. Use of
Rhizobium and Algae cultures in legumes and rice respectively.
Reclamation of salt affected soil.
Water Management
Water schedule for wheat, malze, paddy and sugarcane.



Cte(63  teS 
.. .. ...............,.............................. ......  v M                               tn  ...................................  ...........
lice             4,21Q.4  4,57.6  4M3.7  4,2t.6  1,4.5  3,1.  4,15U.  3,*1.6  4,33.6  4,47.6  4,44.5  4,117.5  4,432A  4,S1.6  4,1.   5,43.5  5,4t.5  3,534.9  5,64.1  4,151.?
n ut              Uu.I    A.1       X4.4    157.2     M.7   V17.4    $7.    V7.6  1,113.2    132.S    76.          94         4.0    751.6    912.1    68.4     MI   7.2   8619.5   7U.I
.Jr.                *.1 t     .9    U2.l      1.4      S.4      9.0      7.3      .4       6.0      5.0     4.2      6.2      1.1      I.6      7.9      5.4     5.8    6.6       6.       5.**
137.6    31.6 96.                     6 nJ   ".7     U.6    243.1      "A.       Q.1     i.j     53.1    62.1    86.5       611      7.1.     9.1    119.1    12)1   71.2   5n4.2    n3.4
sket              5261    417.2   417.1    47.3   365.0   983.5   n53.1           . 66 1,12.   2,41         1576e  4,6     I,RSJ    0.7  2,6.6  2,214J   2,56.  1,mA   2,53.9  2,261.3
kStw              2$4.1   2M7.1    171.1    162.1    126.4   233.5   163.6   177.6    141.5    355.    126.4         6.      6.6    18.6       El      31.4     9.3      9.?   *S.$    U.S
frau              263.6   2m.7    m1.5  334.4    3U3.3   264.5   156.6   147.6   174.2    171.3   I333.1    04.1   I5J    034.1   111.3   124.4   13.0    l.S   146.1    123.J
StlO  eulse6      76.1   666.7  6ns.3        7t.2       .4    675.6   763.    7.6   717.6   542.J   522.1   5i1.6   716.6             R.        24    45S.    763.6   A3.$    R2.3   774.3
U_lei              34.2    31.5       J.?    31.6    12.1    28.3    1361    43.2    43.2    31.9    11.6           24       44.3    6L6       3.T    46.1    37.6   t7.         42.6     H.6
lietd d
AntV4            55.6    27.5    32.6    33.3    21.6    54.6    39.1    51.            53.5     349      44.6    43.0    49.2 t      .6    41.3    5z.7        .3    33.2    39.4    46.4
lnn                M174.t    3.    2U.6    112.6    t".6   594.6    U6.1   125.1    U3.1          T.6   133.   .1    134.6    121.3    Ilt.2    5351    176.7   33.3    34.3    145.1
lul      .       1t,444.   ,157.1    6.6    64.6    9.6    6.6    466.6    60.0             .     476.6      A.6    31.2    50.6      MI.     a.7   172.0   63.    93.2    19A           033.1
J;"acas.         4,U6.1  5,664.6  1,151.1  5,942.6  41-  3,917  5,1194.6  6,563.6  4,201.0  4,477.  4,333.0  5,157.  5,530.6  4,161.   4,175.0  4,D.4  3,570.2 3,M93.6  3,.4   4,37a.3
PtaSew            831.2       .6    61.6    7A.4    765.6       6.6  1,1,7.1    On2.$  1,121.5      A.4           .6        149.6  5,414.0  1,311.2  1,53.4  1,131.1 1,0R.4   ,1,2.   1,221.1
ma113l,t          163.6     3.6      6.9   ISe.-    76.6    114.        94.6    14.6    n7.4    41.6    6.0         74.6     ".46     17.6    41.1    71.0    71.7   47.5    52.0    5t45



- ,k-
T1, I's  f "  , if  h /   k



Annex 1
- 49 -                           Bake 1
mX                              Uttt ht."*~~~Omt  74/41) (90)
_  f. *t*
flu. S.L. s'.^a,                       *mgcle|trfor LIDWOW.
*}                    (  FDoperlmt eI Agriculture & Coqp.'tfhmn)
mIniTRY OPF AGICULTURE
OVIRMINMNT Of INDIA
coo N"ee t1  ) VI-T&woo                  INN t, 4: d" rstTqt VwW, qf 
V ent Wok No*.A R K. Pu rm. Nefvw MM.Ih
sA"r Shri Natbur.
This has refetene  0 toy   p. lette No. 3(1G6)/86-F9V
W- -d  "  Ostber ISfe   ed            mar l*nt1        t   daft
ret ?"lase  A9gr-Ietualteb aJeuRi    r.
(Ctedit ?61-}) to Are 3.k0 Hall of the I6eld Oank (
Olhi SPlice). The comments as forwarded by you were bosed
an thoes oomnioeted to Shki 3*b. S.jo  30@it se"etary, KA
vido out letter No. 5(19)/6-T&V dated  7th ;uly, 1986.
We have  oge.ntly r*ooivod a draft PCR en the  tase
prepared by the bwld Banks South Eset Region. nsloeed
kindly find a copy, Apparently, the ommonts that were
eoemmtce?ed to Pr. 3ohn Hall de not find mention In this
draft. It SEA has no objection we eSy bring thLi to the
notia, of the Uorll Bank9forwarding owu comment.*
it-*l  t@@
yours sinicerelys,
Sd/-
5... Gheal)O
Undwr Sesrtaro'y,
r Tn Bank WZR,
Department ot lEonoic Affairs,
Nofth Block
New DeZh    11001
opy to Mr. Graham Qonaldson, Division Chief,
Agriculture & Human Resources, Operations Lvaluation Department,
Tho Ilorld Bank, International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, International Development Association, 1818 H btreet,
N.i"LU llashington, D.C, 20433 U.S.A.
Director (F ield    tension).



- 50 -
my,; Annex 1
--               ~~~~~~Page 2
NJI    IU. naai DWAL
XN3R* 000n
D UNUOIX  !tgtA
1101 SUUDRAE 11IU1AR    AL
1131 BW!           DAT!D *IAR  6, 1987 ADX8D3    !0
Joint a5531AIT.  2I!     01 UGOJOKIC AI?AIIUGAWING
ma@   01EM O101I 23101 iif 3PIO! 01FSINAZ ASRICMUL!UI
MI=8Z X01 AD  MBAR0  110C8  (OR 761Iff). GOIIS o0
US !ATh WQY!. 01 31 AO WV?. OP MIA ONX =3 DiA
1.0.1. WM  BUT 3? =  TO X. J=BI ALt S,NIJIR 13080
Oiw   NNW DmI 0103 TM  OUR LN!3 DAM  0010    7,
11 901 01 fVARl T3XD NIB ION TO tI3 VOMD MIK 2O 0
13oo1oaA3)ISN US FINAL P.C.R(.) neARza(.)
_     _   _  W., _ m   a   Om_       g _w  _   _  _  _
J - '0 (- 5 WILVII                    5  ;
bayed 30  hrarh, 1987
Deputy Beoretary
cop    j   st In confirmation to:-
it.   an Donalson, Divlsion Chief Agriculture &
Huam  eqouroes, Operations Bvaluation Deprtment,
fo Wor' Bankg, 1818 . Streot, N.W. Vahla6ton,
'.0.2043 , UBA. I flnd frou the copy of the POC now
sent by ou that the comments sent by us to Ir. Hall
are not rflectod thoria. A copy of the comnats
y 4p  earlier to Mr. Hall is enclosed for your
} esdy rmiaaoe. fnoes may kindly be incorporated In
the fnal  .
Dpuy Irrtar  t$3)



-~ 51 -Annex 1
Page 3
Comments on the draft Project CoMletion Report
(PCR) of Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research
Para 4.3           Project implementation improved from late 1982
following recognition by Government of Bihar of tho advantagel
of an effective agricultural extension service and its
commitment to the project's success. Government of Bihar
took a number of actions including sanctioning and filling
of vacant staff positions, initiating efforts to organise
and improve field extension and training activities,
compliance with financial covenants and importantly, pro-
vision of adequate budgetary resources from 1983-84.
These measures resulted in setting up of a structural and
institutional foundation   ;  future development during
the later part of the Project.
Para 4.21         The draft PCR inadvertently mentions that the monthly
workshops are held at sub-divisional level . These work-
shpps are held at zonal level in Bjhar.
Para 4.Z5         It is now accepted by the Department of Agriculture
that the training quality should be improved and greater
understanding of these problems by trainers and researchers
is to be addressed in all the future projects.
Para 6.1          The impact of the Project has been apparent in
3 areas: (i) shift from food crops to cash crops like potato,
(ii) exphasis on rabi crops, and (iii) increase in wheat
production.
para 8.10       2bx  A reference has been made in the first sentence
for this para to the Ministry of Finance. Presumably,
this refers to the Department of the State Government.



84                                 8s5                                86                                 sr                                 887
INDIA
B I H A R
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION and RESEARCH PROJECT
POLITICAL-GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS
,  *  State Copital
@     District HeodQuarters
Main Roads
Jfi-       .               ru- .--.-.. Raylws
District Boundaries
WEST                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~State Boundaries
} ? -  w  E s-T r    7Xj0                20    40    60                                   International Boundaries
''j iil.,         -   ~   ~ Rivers
(            -                 .      -                               ' . l , 20  40  60  Location of Constituent Colleges, Research Stations and Substations
-274-A  M  P       A                                                                  -   Location of Adoptive Reseach Farms                         27--
~cWAMP    Af    {   z;                                                                GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS:
k t   -  27  ' /  i' ~  ~       ^'~                                    Northern Plains
I                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Central Plains
6 ? ~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                      Plateau and Hilly Areas
0 a          t S [ W \1sA l                                                           4  G          u       R    S A.) \U  4,  P                           5           |
261
u -~ ~ ~~~~~~~~--
*                    ~.N\N'~ N                                                                   KV~Z- N#v StZAL



IBRD 12926R
I.   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S -W.  .A.1%.
(S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mrt8



