Report No. 1754a-IN                                                   FILE  COPY
India: Appraisal of the
Bihar Agricultural Extension and
Research Project
December 14, 1977
South Asia Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
othe'wise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                =    Rupees (Rs) 9.00
Rs = Paise 100      =    US$0.11
Rs I Million (M)   =    US$111,111
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 kilogram (kg)                       =    2.20 pounds
1,000 kg                              -    0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                           =    1.09 yards = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                      =    0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 m             =    2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km )   100 ha          0.39 square mile
I cubic meter (m )                    =   25.39 cubic feet
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADA          -      Additional Director/s of Agriculture
AEO          -      Agricultural Extension Officer/s
APC          -      Agricultural Production Commissioner
Asst. DA     -      Assistant Director of Agriculture
BDO          -      Block Development Officer/s
DAO          -      District Agricultural Officer/s
DDA          -      Deputy Director/s of Agriculture
GOI          -      Government of India
GOB          -      Government of Bihar
HYV          -      High Yielding Variety/Varieties
IRRI         -      International Rice Research Institute
ICAR         -      Indian Council of Agricultural Research
ICRISAT      -      International Crops Research Institute for
Semi-Arid Tropics
JDA          -      Joint Director/s of Agriculture
M            -      Million
RAU          -      Rajendra Agricultural University
SDAO         -      Sub-divisional Agricultural Officer/s
SMS          -      Subject Matter Specialist
TO           -      Training Officer
VLEW         -      Village Level Extension Worker/s
CROP SEASONS
Kharif         Rainy season        -     June-September
Rabi           Dry season          -     October-March
Summer         Dry season          -     April-May



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..... . . . ... -....-.-.r.*........    i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ...............                    . ..   . .  1
LII.   BACKGROUND   .    .................    ......            1
A.   Agriculture in Bihar .     .................
B.   Agricultural Administration and Support
Services ...... .                   ..... O..     3
C.   Strategy for Agricultural Development .....          6
III.   THE PROJECT .......................................       7
A. General Description                  . .               7
B.   Detailed Features        .... . . .. ..              8
IV.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ..... ................   11
AA.  Cost Estimates .. ..........    . ..-.. ....        12
B.   Proposed Financing ................ ........        13
C.   Procurement .      . ................................   13
D.   Disbursements and Audit  ....................       14
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ................. .          I5
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .........................   1f7
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ......................  ,. .....    19
ANNEXES
1.  Agriculture in Bihar
Table 1  Agricultural Situation and Production
Table 2   Crop Production
Table 3   Cropped Area
Table 4   Yields
2.   Agricultural Extension
Table 1   Incremental Staff Requirements
Table 2   Incremental Staff Requirements Year-wise
Thir document has a r,tricted distribution And may be wed by rocipsents only in the perfornc*e
of their official dutes. ItU contents may not othere be discIomed withcut World Bank authorization.



-2
3.   Agricultural Research
4.   Project Costs
Table I   Summary of Project Costs
Table 2   Project Costs:  Extension
Table 3   Project Costs:  Training
Table 4   Project Costs:  Adaptive Research
Table 5   Project Costs:  Monitoring and Evaluation
Table 6   Price Contingencies
5.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
6.   Implementation Schedule
Table 1   Schedule of Cumulative Staff Appointments
Table 2   Project Implementation Schedule:  Extension
Table 3   Project Implementation Schedule:  Adaptive Research
7.   Project Monitoring and Evaluation
8.   Economic Analysis
CHART -   (World Bank 17492)
Organizational Chart - Agricultural Research and Extension
MAP - (IBRD 12926)
Bihar - Political/Geographic Regions



INDIA
APPRAISAL Of THE BIHIAR
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        By almost all economic indicators Bihar ranks among the poorest of
Indian States. Its extreme poverty results from highly skewed land distri-
bution, widespread tenancy arrangements and low agricultural productivity.
Agricultural production, growing only at 1.6% p. a. over the past 15 years
has not kept pace with population growth, which has increased by 2.2% p.a.
over the same period. On the other hand, Bihar has favorable climate, large
tracts of fertile, alluvial soils and a vast, but, largely unexploited, sur-
face and groundwater potential. In view of both potential and disappointing
past performance, Government of Bihar (GOB) recently embarked on programs to
strengthen the delivery systems for credit, inputs, storage and marketing, to
develop the state's irrigation potential and to re-vitalize the agricultural
extension and research services. This strategy was recently reviewed and
endorsed by IDA (Report 1440-IN). The project would, through reorganization
and improvement of agricultural extension and research services help support
this strategy.
ii.       The five year program would:
(a) Provide additional staff, housing, equipment, vehicles and
staff training to consolidate the reorganization of the
extension service;
(b) Provide additional staff, vehicles, simple farm equip-
and buildings in order to strengthen adaptive research;
and
(c) Provide staff, equipment, transport and funds for
studies to monitor project progress and evaluate its
impact.
iii.      Total project costs (inclusive of contingencies) are estimated
at Rs 144 M (US$16.01 M). The proposed IDA Credit of US$8.0 M would finance
about 53% of total project cost, net of duties and taxes, including foreign
exchange costs of US$0.84 million.
iv.       The main items to be financed would include:  civil works, vehicles,
equipment, training and staff salaries. Civil work contracts, (US$4.94 M)
mainly for housing would be small and widely dispersed both geographically
and over time; and would therefore be awarded on the basis of local competi-
tive bidding following local advertising. There are numerous local contractors
to carry out these works. About 216 motor vehicles (US$1.59 M) would be re-
quired and would be purchased in small quantities over four years. As ade-
quate maintenance and availability spares would be of paramount importance,
this would necessitate purchase of vehicles already widely used in rural



- ii -
areas and which are locally manufactured. Procurement would be by local
competitive bidding following established and satisfactory procedures. Motor-
cycles and bicycles (US$1.47 M) would be purchased by individual staff, accord-
ing to their preference since they would be expected to repay the purchase
price. Orders for purchase of minor equipment and furniture (US$0.65 M) would
be bulked wherever possible and purchased following similar competitive bidding
procedures, except where orders are valued at less than US$50,000, when they
would be purchased by prudent shopping following established governmental
procedures. The balance of project costs (US$7.36 M) would consist of local
training and fellowships (US$0.38 M), incremental staff salaries and allow-
ances (US$4.94 M) and other project operating costs (US$2.04 M) not involving
procurement.
v.        Overall responsibility for project implementation would lie with
GOB's Department of Agriculture. All extension, adaptive research and train-
ing activities would be carried out by the Directorate of Agriculture under
its Director of Agriculture, who is responsible to the Agricultural Production
Commissioner (APC). The Director of Agriculture would be responsible for day-
to-day administration of the project assisted by two senior officers, one
responsible for extension, the other for adaptive research.
vi.       Effective coordination would be maintained at all administrative
levels. At State level, existing Seasonal Workshops would provide a mechanism
for coordinating the activities of various government organizations and the
University. In addition, coordination between extension, adaptive and applied
research would be formalized both at State level, through the existing State
Research Planning Committee and at district level through District Adaptive
Research Committees.
vii.      Extension and research programs would be generated by District
Adaptive Research Committees forwarded for comment to the State Research Plan-
ning Committee and thence to the Seasonal Workshop for final review of impli-
cations in respect of credit and input needs. Project monitoring would be
the responsibility of a unit 'Located within the Department of Agriculture and
an independent evaluation of the project's impact would be carried out under
the direction of APC with funds provided under the project.
v4ii.     Total project costs over the five year period, including contin-
gencies, amount to US$2.3 per farm family (assuming 7.6 M farm families in
Bihar). Incremental costs, following project completion, would be about
US$0.4 per farm family per annum, compared to GOB present annual budget
expenditures on agricultural development alone of about US$2.50 per farm
family and would be met without difficulty.
ix.       The desig.n of the project, its timing, scope, relative size of proj-
ect components and organizational arrangements are based on past experience
with similar successful agricultural extension and research reorganization
in India. Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project
is difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural practices,
which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely to extension
and research. Moreover, there is not enough experience in Bihar to estimate



- iii -
acceptance rates with any degree of accuracy. However, there is no doubt
that the substantial improvement in the efficiency of utilization of resources
which would be brought about by the project, would generate a high rate of
return. The principal economic benefit of the project would be an increase in
agricultural production, particularly foodgrains. Given the present cropping
pattern (paddy 50%, wheat 20%, pulses 10%, and low valued cereals 20%), it
would be reasonable to expect that by Year 7 crop yields, over at least 50% of
all cropped land, would increase by 12 kg per ha or by less than 1% over the
"twithout project" situation, giving an economic rate of return of 50%. Given
the performance of the new extension service, elsewhere in India, there is
little risk these yield increases would not be attained. Already, better
farmers in Bihar obtain nearly twice current average yields and, on research
stations substantially higher yield levels than these are achieved. This high
rate of return should, however be treated with caution since, as improved
agricultural practices spread, further investments in infrastructure and
services would become necessary.
x.        The most significant risk lies in the fact that the effectiveness
of the new extension methodology is highly dependent on an efficient organiza-
tion and management of extension and research services as well as on farmers'
response. Experience with on-going projects in other States has already
demonstrated, however, that the new system can work efficiently ir formulation
and delivery of messages, and in motivating farmers. The proposed project
includes rainfed, as well as irrigated areas and in rainfed areas there is
a somewhat higher degree of risk concerning achievement of yield increa5-as.
However, there are a significant number of improved practices and researt
findings suitable for dissemination which can substantially improve yields,
even under rainfed conditions.
xi.       In the past, agricultural development strategy has been aimed at
achieving production increases mainly through investment in irrigation and
through use of 'optimal' packages of practices, involving MYV with substantial
doses of fertilizer and pesticides. The reorganized extension service would
focus first on improved cultural practices and better farm management and use
of low cost inputs; adoption of these recommendations would primarily involve
more labor -- an asset most small farmers have abundance. Thus, aside from
generating high economic benefits, the project would have a benefical impact
on marginal and small farmers.
xii.      The project is considered suitable for an IDA credit of
US$8.0 million.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE BIHAR
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Eastern Region of India, comprising the States of Assam, Bihar,
Orissa, eastern Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, is the country's major rice
growing area, accounting for 60% of the area under the crop and about 45% of
rice production. Most of the region enjoys moderate to heavy monsoon rains
and has large areas of relatively fertile, alluvial soils. There is a vast,
largely unexploited, surface and groundwater resource.  Yet, foodgrain yields
are generally lower than elsewhere in India and production has not kept pace
with population growth.
102      In view of both potential and disappointing past performance, GOI
and the Bank agreed in 1974 to give special emphasis to the development of
suitable agricultural projects in Eastern Region States aimed to achieve
quick increases in food production. The proposed project was identified as
a result of an agricultural sector survey of Bihar in September 1976, and was
prepared by a GOB working group assisted by Bank staff and consultants. The
project is the fourth identified in line with this new direction of Bank Group
agriculture operations in India, following the Assam Agriculture Development
Project (Credit No. 728-IN); Orissa Agricultural Development Project (Credit
No. 682-IN); and the West Bengal Agricultural Development Project (Credit
No. 541-IN) and is the sixth IDA-supported agricultural extension and research
project in India.
1.03      This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which
visited Bihar in April 1977, comprising of Messrs. P. Pohland (IDA), F.
Haworth, D. L. Jain and M. M. Jain (Consultants). The mission was assisted
part-time by Mr. D. Benor and staff of the Bank's Resident Mission in India.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Agriculture in Bihar 1/
General
2.01      lihar, bordered by Nepal to the north, has a total area of
174,000 km of which about 60% is cultivable. Population density is high at
1/   Details of India's agricultural sector are provided in Economic
Situation and Prospects of India (Report No. 1529-IN). Details
of Bihar's agricultural sector are provided in the Eastern States
Foodgrain Review - Bihar (Report No. 1440-IN).



- 2 -
about 360 per km . Agriculture dominates the economy, providing 50% of net
domestic product and giving employment to over 80% of the working population.
Bihar ranks among the poorest of Indian States; large dependency on agricul-
ture, low productivity, an unfavorable land/man ratio combined with fragmen-
tation and insecure tenurial arrangements are all contributing factors.
Topography, Soil and Climate
2.02      On the basis of physical features Bihar can be broadly classified
into three main geographic regions, the northern and southern plains and the
plateau, which covers nearly half the State. Based on soil type, rainfall and
temperature conditions, four main agro-climatic regions can be identified each
having specific cropping patterns. Details are given in Annex 1. The dis-
tinctions between zones are important since extension recommendations will
have to be carefully tailored to these local conditions (para 3.04). Normal
average rainfall is about 1,270 mm, varying from 1,590 mm in the east to 990
mm around the capital, Patna. However, annual fluctuations, are considerable.
About 80% of the rain falls in the monsoon months of June to September. Mean
daily temperatures vary from about 38 0C in May to about 10 0C in December and
January.
Land Distribution and Tenure
2.03      Apart from the technical and institutional difficulties of raising
agricultural productivity (paras 2.05-2.15), increasing population pressure,
insecure tenancy arrangements and a large tribal population living in the
plateau region, are additional constraints to modernizing agriculture in Bihar.
At present there is, on average, about 0.7 ha of cultivable land available
to each family (5.5 persons). This unfavorable (and deteriorating) land/man
ratio is further accentuated by skewed land distribution as holdings below 2
ha represent roughly 80% of the total number, but cover only 30% of the State's
agricultural land. Although tenancy data are unreliable, it is estimated that
about 40% of the cultivated area is under some share cropping arrangement.
In addition, almost 45% of small farmers (less than 2 ha) are tenants mainly
with oral contracts. Tribal people, concentrated in the plateau region and
representing about 8% of the population, live mainly from forest products or
engage in primitive and often shifting cultivation.
Agricultural Production
2.04      Of the State's 17.3 M ha, 8.3 M ha are cultivated, with some 10.7
M ha planted to crops giving a cropping intensity of 129%. Only 1.9 M ha are
irrigated (about 23% of the net cultivated area). Of foodgrains (94% of
cropped area) the most important are paddy, wheat and maize. Total food
production averaged 8.3 M tons between 1973-76 but over the past fifteen
years has increased only by 1.6% p.a. (largely because of increased wheat
production), falling behind population growth of about 2.2% p.a. See Annex 1.
Thus the situation has arisen whereby production in the agricultural sector,
which supports 80% of the State's 62 M people, is largely stagnant and which
has little land resources into which it can expand.



B. Agricultural and Administrative Support Services
Administration
2.05      Bihar is divided into 31 administrative districts, each headed by a
District Magistrate (Collector) and 587 Development Blocks, the lowest rural
administrative unit, headed by a Block Development Officer (BDO). Annex 2
gives additional details. Districts are further grouped into 7 Administrative
Divisions. Agricultural work within a Division is handled by a Joint Director
of Agriculture (JDA), who reports to the Director of Agriculture, located at
state headquarters and who in turn is responsible to the Agricultural Produc-
tion Commissioner (APC). See Chart World Bank 17492 for further details.
Coordination and Planning
2.06      In the past, program implementation and planning has been weak as
coordination of input supplies with development requirements, has often been
deficient. Recently, a system of weekly meetings has been instituted at both
district and block level, chaired either by the Collector or BDO respectively
and which have improved coordination. Furthermore, a Block level physical
inventory has been compiled and which is constantly up-dated. This data
includes details of population, number and location of villages, input sales
points, credit agencies, tubewells, electricity connections, etc. On this
basis a system of micro-level planning has been evolved which allows for
better allocation of agricultural requirements to these areas.
Agricultural Extension (Annex 2)
2.07      The Director of Agriculture is responsible for agricultural exten-
sion and is assisted at headquarters by Sectional Directors (SDA) responsible
for administration, input supply, training and crop production. SDA are
supported by several Subject Matter Specialists (SMS).
2.08      Divisional Joint Directors control at district-level, District
Agricultural Officers (DAO) of the rank of Assistant Director of Agriculture
(ASDA) and several SMS. Within each District there are a number of Sub-
divisions, each with a Sub-divisional Agricultural Officer (SDAO), supervising
Agricultural Extension Officers (AEO) at Block level. Normally, one AEO is
technically responsible for the work of 10 Village Level Workers (VLW), each
operating in an area of some 1,000 farm families. VLW, however, are under
the direct administrative control of BDO, and are responsible for a wide range
of developmental, administrative and regulatory functions, in addition to
agriculture. In 252 of 587 Blocks located throughout the State, staff levels
are doubled (so-called "Package Blocks" indicating a more intensive agricul-
tural effort). There are also special schemes (e.g. for jute, oilseeds, pulses,
horticulture, agricultural engineering etc.) under which additional staff
are also provided. While VLW are responsible for agricultural extension and
are supposed to devote 80% of their time to this task, their efforts are
hampered by the considerable time required for regulatory and statistical
work, small savings schemes, coordination of input supply, recovery of



o' short-term credit and family pIlanning.  These non-agricultural tasks are
generally given priority by BDO to the detriment of agricultural production.
The situation is compounded by poor super-vision, absence of training and
little technical support.  This has resulted in few farm contacts and low
impact on yields, particularly of small farmers.
Training of Agricultural Staff
2.09      AEO are usually directly recruited from agricultural graduates and
-who have subsequently received minimral in-servnice training.  VLW are generally
secondary school leavers and are recruited after completion of two years
pre-service training given at deparitmental agr.cultural schools and after
wnich they received a further six months training in extension.  These schools
have stopped functioning since the numbers of trained VLW became surplus to
requirements.  There are, however, four traini.ng centers providing one-year
in-service training and refresher courses to a limited  `uaber of 'VLW.  However,
many older AEO and VLW received their basic training before many of the more
recent technological advances and have not received subsequent training.
Technical recommendations for agricultural field staff are made during I to 3
day workshops organized twice a year by the Department of Agriculture before
each main cropping seasons (kharif and rabi) and held at state, district and
block level (para 5.08).
Agricultural Research
2,10      In late 1970 basic and applied research in agriculture was trans-
ferred from the Department of Agriculture to the Rajendra Agricultural
University (RAU), whilst adaptive research remained the responsibility of the
Departmernt of A-griculture.  The main teaching campus of RAU is at Dholi/Pusa
with subsidiary campuses at Sabour (agriculture), Patna (veterinary science)
and Ranchi (agriculture and veterinary science).  The role of RAU covers teach-
ing, research and extension educatiron with the main research station near the
main campus.  Approximately 80% of funds available for research come fro  ICAR,
the rest are provided by the State.  RAU also maintains ties with international
research organizations such as ICRISAT, 7RRI and CIM1YT. The research program
is run by the Director of Research responsible to the Vice Chancellor. Re-
search programs are consolidated by the Director of Research and submitted
for approval to the State Research Planning Committee and on which the
Directorate of Agriculture is well represented. See Annex 3.
2.il      For various reasons, of which the most important has been a lack
of continuity of leadership at Vice Chancellor and Director of Research levels,
RAU has yet t.o establish a comprehensive agricultural research program.  c-e
establishment of RAU is being assisted by IDA (Credit 342-IN).  The siCuation
may now change rapidly as a new and outstanding Vice Chancellor has been,
appointed.  Present basic and applied research includes work on the growing of
maize, wheat and pulses, agro-meteorology in relation to dryland farming, and
intensified cropping under rainfed conditions. There has been a past tendency
to concentrate, however, on obtai-ning maximum yields without considering eco-
nomic implications.  Work on rainfed crops, especially in drier areas, has been
neglected until recently.  Deficiencies 1n program formulation, a shortage of
funds and equipment in research laboratories and some older laboratories



- 5 -
in need of renovation have all been constraints to the development of a com-
prehensive research program. Nevertheless, there is a reservoir of relevant
research recommendations immediately available to the extension service. To
serve the longer term RAU will require additional support for basic and
applied research and this is fully recognized by GOB. Meanwhile GOI and the
Bank are discussing the possibilities of a national research project, which
would support university research programs directly.
Field Experiments Service
2.12      While responsibility for basic and applied research was transferred
to the university, adaptive research remained with the Directorate of Agri-
culture and which is presently carrying out a large program of field experi-
mentation, mainly on fertilizer responses of main crops grown throughout
the State. It also undertakes soil analyses related to the experimental
program. The Head of the Field Experiment Service (FES) is assisted by
10 professional staff and 58 supporting staff at headquarters, with 25 junior
professionals at District level and 640 junior field staff at Block level.
All planning and design of experiments is done at headquarters and the program
approved by the Sectional Director (Crops) and the Director of Agriculture
before implementation. As yet there is no formal link between RAU and FES in
program formulation (para 5.07). Since its formation in 1948, FES has pro-
duced a large number of experimental results and some 6-9,000 replicated
trials are undertaken each year. The low qualifications of field staff, lack
of systematic training and effective supervision by more senior staff have
adversely affected the validity of some of the results produced. At present,
FES does not cover the range of experiments required to meet the needs of
farmers in different agro-climatic regions of the State.
Credit
2.13      In Bihar, as in most other Indian States, several sources of credit
exist: Taccavi (direct) loans from GOB for crop production following natural
calamities; institutional credit from commercial banks, rural banks and co-
operatives; and loans from money lenders, relatives and friends. Taccavi
loans and short-term lending from cooperatives provide only about 20% of total
estimated requirements, inferring that the bulk of rural credit is met (or
not met) from traditional sources. Constraints to increased short-term lend-
ing relate to availability of funds and lack of recovery efforts in the case
of taccavi lending, while the cooperative movement has suffered from too
many non-viable societies, lack of full-time paid staff, low membership and
high overdues. GOB, acting on the advice of the Reserve Bank, has recently
embarked on an ambitious program to overcome these problems. The action plan
calls for a reduction in the number of societies, a paid management cadre, a
membership drive and efforts to streamline operations at field level. Suc-
cessful and vigorous implementation of this plan would mean a significant
breakthrough in credit supply. Experience in West Bengal shows that, given
firm political backing, such a plan can be successful in bringing about
substantial improvements.



- 6-
Fertilizer- Seeds and Pesticides
2.1 4     Average fertilizer consumption is about 11 kg/ha (of all nutrients)
compared with a national average of 16 kg/ha, with total statewide usage
of 124,000 tons in 1975/76. Distribution of fertilizer is carried out through
the cooperative sector (56%) and private retailers (44%).  Input storage is
available at all existing sales points.  However, with anticipated increase in
demand anA coverage of more remote area, additional sales points and storage
would be required. In anticipation of this, the National Cooperative Develop-
ment Corporation (NCDC) is currently preparing a storage project covering the
eastern States,  Availability and distribution of HYV seeds is generally well
catered for and the situation should further improve with the second phase of
the Bank-assisted National Seeds Project, which would also include Bihar and
which has recently been appraised. A major constraint to wider use of farm
chemicals relates to the weakness of the extension service. Provision of plant
protection subject matter specialists under the proposed project should help
remedy this. In general, present input systems are expected to meet require-
ments over the project period, especially since extension efforts would ini-
tially be directed to wider adoption of improved husbandry practices. How-
ever, in the longer term strengthening of the physical input distribution
system would be necessary and this has already been initiated by Government.
Crop Marketing
2.15      The State Marketing Board provides the institutional and legal
frameworK for regulated marketing through which the major portion of agricul-
tural produce passes. These regulated markets (mandis) are normally located
near larger towns. At market yards, all produce is sold by auction, and mar-
ket committees provide physical facilities and supervise transactions.  Market
committees finance their operations with a 1% levy on the value of produce
sold. At present there are no overall marketing problems, although, in some
areas, facilities are not satisfactory. The Board is presently improving
50 mandis with assistance from IDA (Credit 294-IN) and GOI. This project
after a slow start, is now progressing satisfactorily.
Ce Strategy for Agricultural Development
4.16      Although overall agricultural growth has been slow over the past
decade, individual crops, such as wheat grown under irrigation, have shown
significant progress. In the past, emphasis has been placed on raising
production through use of high levels of cash inputs, including HYV seeds,
fertilizer and irrigation, mainly geared to the needs of larger farmers
and thus by-passing the majority of small farmers. To redress this imbalance
and to raise foodgrain production in the short run, emphasis will have to be
placed on raising yields through the wide adoption of improved agricultural
practices, such as tim.ely sowing, seed treatment, better weeding and optimal
plant populations. The short-term strategy therefore lies in closing the gap
between Twhat is practiced by better farmers and the majority of farmers by
transferring to them the know-how of already proven but simple improvements.



- 7 -
This can largely be achieved through a better and well organized extension
service. Secondly, known research results need to be tested under varied
farming conditions, through upgrading adaptive research. The project is
aimed at building on these opportunities. However, under longer term con-
siderations, such improvements need to be backed by a successful and res-
ponsive research program and an effective physical distribution system. To
these ends the agricultural university in Bihar is already receiving Bank
assistance (Credit No. 342-IN) and discussions between GOI and the Bank, aim
at further strengthening the research base. As mentioned in para 2.13 GOB
has embarked on a program to strengthen credit institutions and an input
storage program is to be implemented through the National Cooperative
Development Corporation.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The project seeks to achieve early and sustained improvement
in agricultural production, particularly of foodgrains throughout the State
of Bihar. This would be accomplished by reorganizing and strengthening the
agricultural extension service and upgrading and developing adaptive research.
This would be the sixth IDA-supported agricultural extension and research
project in India.
3.02      The five year project would comprise:
(a) Reorganization and strengthening of the agricultural
extension service:
provision of additional staff, housing, equipment,
vehicles and staff training;
(b) Development and strengthening of adaptive research:
provision of additional staff, vehicles, simple
farm buildings and equipment; and
(c) Project monitoring and evaluation:
provision of staff, equipment, transport and funds
for studies to monitor project progress and evaluate
its impact.



- 8 -
B. Detailed Features
Agricultural Extension
3.03      The Extension Methodology:  Under the project, the agricultural
extension service would be reorganized and intensified throughout Bihar (see
Map) following the pattern successfully employed in other States of India over
the past 2-3 years. The project would provide farmers, on a regular and sys-
tematic basis, with up-to-date advice on farming practices best suited to
their specific conditions and emphasizing proven practices having immediate
impact on income. This would be brought about by a regular system of training
and visits by field staff, supported by professional advice from within the
Department of Agriculture and from research institutions. To this end, two
organizational changes would be made: firstly the establishment of a single
line of command from the Director of Agriculture down to the VLW and secondly,
all agricultural field staff would be employed exclusively on agricultural
extension. VLW would be redesignated as Village Level Extension Worker (VLEW)
to reflect this new exclusive role. GOB has issued an administrative order
transferring all VLW required for project implementation to the Department of
Agriculture.
3.04      Based on an average of one VLEW to every 850 farm families, about
9,000 VLEW would be required to cover the estimated 7.6 million farm families
located throughout Bihar. Actual number of farmers covered by each VLEW
would vary from 700 to 900 depending on population density and communications.
Each main group (circle) would be divided into 8 smaller groups of about 100
farmers, each to be visited regularly on a given day during a two-week cycle.
Actual frequency may vary from weekly half-day visits in fully irrigated
areas to bi-weekly full-day visits in rainfed areas. VLEW would work pri-
marily through 8-10 contact farmers selected within each circle. The extension
message to be communicated to farmers at each visit would be simple, concen-
trating on the most important crops of their locality and the most important
aspects of crop cultivation at the time in question. Initially, emphasis
would be placed on improved cultural practices. At a later stage, use of in-
puts and more sophisticated cropping systems would be advocated. VLEW would
receive the extension message at training sessions held on a regular day in
each fortnight by their supervisor, the AEO, supported by Subject Matter Spe-
cialists (SMS) (para 3.05). Training and visits would take 9 days per fort-
night and the three days remaining in the two-week period (with one rest day
per week) would be devoted to demonstrations, making up missed field visits
and administrative work.
3.05      Technical Support and Supervision:  To ensure satisfactory levels
of supervision, training and guidance, staff at some of the 76 Sub-divisions
would have to be strengthened. 58 Sub-divisional Agricultural Officers (SDAO)
are already in place and the remaining 18 would be appointed by up-grading AEO
or by transfer of other staff with required qualifications. Staff at Sub-
divisional level would generally comprise an SDAO, with Assistant SDAO in
large Sub-divisions, so as to retain a ratio of about 6-8 AEO per supervisor.
To strengthen technical support, the project would provide three SMS at Sub-



- 9 -
divisional level (one each in agronomy, plant protection and training). At
District level, an Assistant District Agricultural Officer (ADAO) would super-
vise the work of Sub-divisional staff, while about five specialists would
provide additional technical support, in such matters as water management,
farm implements, entomology and horticulture. SMS would spend their time
about equally between field visits (including guiding and supporting lower
level staff), research and training. Provision has also been made for a
small support staff at headquarters. See Annex 2 for details.
3.06      Staffing and Project Phasing:  All 9,000 VLEW and about 90% of
1,123 AEO needed to provide recommended staffing levels, are already in
service. 81 additional SDAO/ASDAO would be recruited or up-graded from
existing staff. At Sub-divisional level, a total of 228 SMS would be required
of which 92 are available. There would be no difficulty in recruiting and
training additional staff required for the project. However, SMS at district
level are the vital training link with VLEW and it is essential that their
professional qualifications are of high standards. It is estimated that of
155 SMS required, about 75 existing staff would have the necessary qualific-
ations and experience but the remainder would have to be recruited from out-
side the department or trained (para 3.09). Assurances were obtained that
staff appointments would be made in accordance with Annex 2, Table 2.
3.07      Incentives:  Work under the project would be carried out under dif-
ficult conditions and experience in similar projects has shown that staff
would have to work much harder than in the past. Present pay is low, espe-
cially that of field level staff. Salary levels would not be increased.
Provision has therefore been made for an incentive honorarium of Rs 100 to
be awarded after each season to 25% of project field staff fulfilling their
duties outstandingly. Provision of housing, housing allowances, motorcycles
and bicycles on credit would also provide additional incentives to field staff.
To open an avenue for advancement of VLEW and AEO, funds would be provided to
enable a limited number to study at the Agricultural University in order to
obtain either degree level or post graduate training and thus qualify for
promotion. Individuals given these scholarships would be bonded to the
Directorate of Agriculture for a period of four years after completion of
training. As has been done in the past, some exceptionally capable VLEW
would be directly promoted to AEO, and some AEO to the position of SMS, but
after appropriate training.
3.08      Housing and Transport for Extension Staff:  The proposed extension
methodology is based on regular and frequent farm visits. It is therefore
essential that field level staff and their supervisors live near their work
and that they are sufficiently mobile to enable them to function effectively.
At present, housing for rent in rural areas is limited and extension workers
often live far from their work and rely on public transport which is limited
and unreliable. GOB housing policy would continue to encourage the use of
rented accommodation wherever possible. Since this would not be feasible in
all areas, the project would provide housing for about 25% of VLEW and AEO.



- 10 -
Assurances were obtained that GOB would ensure that VLEW and AEO would live
in the area assigned for their operations and for this purpose would provide
such low cost housing as necessary. Site selection has not yet been final-
ized and assurances were obtained that GOB would, by December 31, 1978 under-
take the necessary survey to locate the sites for VLEW and AEO housing. De-
sign standards and detailed cost estimates were also reviewed during nego-
tiations. The project would also provide for additional equipment and vehicles
at Headquarters, District, Divisional and Sub-divisional levels and motor-
cycles for AEO and bicycles for VLEW. Motorcycles and bicycles would be sold
to staff on credit. Credit terms and travelling allowances must be of a
magnitude to ensure sufficient incentives for purchase and, most important,
for utilization of vehicles purchased by field staff. Terms and conditions
of credit and travel allowances were reviewed at negotiations.
3.09      Training:  Fortnightly training of VLEW and AEO by SMS would be a
major feature of the extension system. Sub-divisional SMS would be trained
each month by district staff. Limited equipment and extension aids would be
required for this training and would be provided under the project. At the
start of the project, new staff would have to be trained and others up-graded.
The project provides therefore for SMS training, additional in-service and
short-term training of selected VLEW and AEO. See Annex 2 for details.
Adaptive Research
3.10      The project would improve Bihar's adaptive research program in order
to provide practical answers to farmers' problems and to evolve technological
packages of practices adapted to local conditions. It would focus on main
crops, especially those grown under rainfed conditions, and would concentrate
on developing low-cost practices. Particular attention would be paid to soil
and water management (including conservation), cultural practices, use of
good quality seeds and to cropping patterns.
3.11      The Field Experiments Service (FES) of the Department of Agriculture
would assume responsibility for the adaptive research program and would be
strengthened. Its present role, which includes soil testing and carrying
out of fertilizer trials on farmers' fields, would continue, but staff would
be increased and reorganized at District and Block levels. In addition, 36
government-owned seed farms (to be known as Adaptive Research Farms) located
throughout all 31 districts would be provided with additional facilities for
field experimentation. These farms are listed at Annex 3, Table 6. The
strengthening of at least one such farm in each district would enable DAO and
District-level SMS to become fully involved in the adaptive research program.
In addition, staff located at seed farms, together with SMS, would assist
VLEW in carrying out at least one demonstration each season on farmers' fields.
This service, to be renamed the Adaptive Research Service (ARS), would be
headed by a suitably qualified senior officer of the Department of Agriculture.
3.12      Staff and Training:  Professional staff of ARS would be increased
from 36 to 50; support staff would be increased at Adaptive Research Farms
but not at headquarters. Fellowships (60 man-months) would be provided to



- ii 
ARS staff for short term courses or study tours within the country. In-
service training of field staff would be carried out by district level SMS or,
a continuous basis. The project would also include 10 man-months of short-
term consultancies over the project period to permit suitably qualified con-
sultants to assist ADA and district level staEU in program formulation and
evaluation. Details are at Annex 3. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that adaptive research staff appointments would be in accordance
with Annex 3, Tables 4 and 5.
3.13      Facilities, Equipment and Housing for ARS Staff:  Land and facil-
ities for field experimentation would be made available at government-owned
seed farms located throughout the State. The project would construct a small
office/field laboratory at each of the 36 farms. A small amount of farm
equipment specifically for use of the adaptive research program and transport
for supervisors of the field trials program would be provided. Field staff
would also be eligible for motorcycle and bicycle loans. Assurances to the
above were obtained during negotiations and that all land and facilities
would be made available by December 31, 1978. Incremental sLaff salaries,
allowances and field operating expenses would also be provided. Details
are in Annex 3.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.14      An essential feature of the project would be monitoring and evw-lua-
tion of project progress and its impact (details are in para 5.09). For as
purpose, the project would provide staff, equipment and transport to strengthen
the Statistics Section of the Department of Agriculture (project monitoring)
and provide funds for short-term studies to measure the impact of the project.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      Detailed cost estimates, which include duties and taxes estimated
at about US$0.8 million, are given in Annex 4 and summarized below:



- 12 -
Foreign
Thousand Rupees          Thousand US$           Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Extension
Civi-l Works            28,910        -   28,910   3,212       -      3,212
Equipment &
Vehicles             15,128   4,068  19,196   1,681    452    2,133            21
Establishment /a        37,691      867  38,558   4,188        96    4,284          2
Sub-total           81,729   4,935  86,664   9,081    548    9,629             5
Agricultural Staff
Training
Equipment                1,965        -    1,965      218      -        218
Training Costs           1,921        -    1,921      214      -        214
Sub-total           3,886       -    3,886       432      -        432
Adaptive Research
Service
Civil Works              1,460        -    1,460      162      -        162
Equipment &
Vehicles               3,599      555   4,154       400      62       462       13
Establishment /a         6,902      218   7,120       767      24       791        3
Consultancy/
Fellowships              220       -       220       24       -        24
Sub-total            12,181      773  12,954   1,353        86    1,439         5
Monitori_g &
Evaluation
Equipment &
Vehicles                 273       73      346       31       8        39       21
Establishment /a         2,522         9   2,531      280        1      281         0.4
Evaluation Studies         400         -     400       44       -        44
Sub-total             3,195       82   3,277       355       9       364        2
Total Before
Contingencies        100,991   5,761 106,752  11,221    643   11,864             5
Contingencies
Physical                 4,212        18   4,230      468       2       470
Price                   31,376   1,710  33,086   3,486    190    3,676
Sub-total            35,588   1,728  37,316   3,954         192   4,146
Total Proiect
Costs                136,579   7,519 144,068  15,175         835  16_010
/a   Establishment costs include incremental salaries, allowances, taxes
and incremental operating costs.



- 13 -
4.02      Cost estimates are based on findings during appraisal and updated to
October 1977. Physical contingencies have been applied on civil works (10%),
equipment and furniture (10%) and office and vehicle operating costs (5%) and
average 4.5% on total basic project cost. Price contingencies have been
applied cumulatively as follows:
(a) Local equipment, vehicles and training, 3.5% per annum
for the remainder of 1977, and 7% thereafter;
(b) Civil works, 4% for 1977 and 8% thereafter; and
(c) Incremental establishment cost (salaries, allow-
ances and incremental extension and research
operating costs), 3% for 1977 and 6% per annum
thereafter.
B. Proposed Financing
4.03      Finance to cover total project costs of Rs 144 M (US$16.01 M),
including contingencies, would be provided as follows:
IDA          GOB/GOI          Total
US$ million                 …
8.0             8.01          16.01
The proposed IDA credit of US$8.0 M would be to GOI on standard terms and
conditions and, would finance about 53% of project costs, net of taxes and
duties, but including estimated foreign exchange costs of Rs 7.5 M (US$0.8 M).
IDA funds would be channelled through GOI to GOB, in accordance with GOI
standard terms and arrangements for the financing of State development
projects. The balance of project financing (US$8.01 M) would come from
GOI/GOB.
C. Procurement
4.04      The main items to be financed are:  civil works, vehicles including,
motorcycles and bicycles, equipment and staff salaries and training. Civil
works are small in size and cover small rural houses for VLEW, offices-cum-
residences for AEO and small farm buildings and staff quarters on Adaptive
Research Farms. Civil works contracts (US$4.94) would be small and dispersed,
both geographically and over time, and would therefore not be suitable for
international competitive bidding. Contracts would be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding following local advertising. There are numerous qua-
lified local contractors to carry out such civil works. The existing Rural
Engineering Organization has experience in tendering and is competent to
oversee construction.



- 14 -
4.05      About 216 motor vehicles (US$1.59 M) of various types would be
required under the project. They would be purchased in small quantities
over five years and would be widely dispersed in rural areas. As adequate
maintenance and availability of spares would be of paramount importance, this
would necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles of types already used by
Government departments. Thus, procurement would be by local competitive bid-
ding under existing and satisfactory Government procedures. Motorcycles and
bicycles (US$1.47 M) would be purchased by individual staff according to their
preference, as they would be expected to repay the purchase prices.
4.06      Orders for purchase of minor equipment and furniture (US$0.65 M)
would be bulked wherever possible and purchased according to established GOB
local bidding procedures, except where valued at less than US$50,000 when
they would be purchased by prudent shopping through normal trade channels.
Assurances on procurement procedures mentioned in paras 4.04-4.06 were
obtained during negotiations.
4.07      The balance of project costs (US$7.36 M) would consist of local
training and consultants, fellowships, and external evaluation (US$0.38 M),
incremental salaries and allowances (US$4.94 M) and operating expenditures
for the adaptive research service, offices and vehicles (US$2.04 M) not in-
volving procurement. Assurances were obtained that consultants employed
would have qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employ-
ment mutually satisfactory to IDA and GOI.
D. Disbursement and Audit
4.08      Disbursements under the Credit would extend over five years for:
(a)  100% of the cost of consultants and of foreign costs
of imported vehicles and equipment;
(b)  80% of cost of civil works and of locally procured
equipment and vehicles and local training, fellow-
ships and evaluation; and
(c)  10% of total salaries of extension and adaptive research
personnel engaged on the project.
4.09      There would be no disbursement against land aquisition and against
operating expenditure of adaptive research farms, offices and vehicles because
these would be difficult to identify for purposes of disbursement documenta-
tion. Disbursements against civil works would be fully documented. However,
certificates of expenditures would be sufficient for civil works for one or
more progress payments, not exceeding Rs 50,000, and for locally procured
items of equipment and materials costing Rs 20,000 or less. Similarly, dis-
bursements against staff costs would be made against certificate of expendi-
tures. Relevant documentation would be retained by GOB for inspection in the
course of project review missions. A schedule of projected disbursements is



- 15 -
presented in Annex 5. Any savings in the Credit amount would be reallocated
by increasing the percentage disbursement for total staff costs.
4.10      Assurances were obtained that separate accounts would be kept of
expenditures made under the project to be audited annually for each fiscal
year, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied.
Accounts would be submitted for audit within three months of the financial
year's end and audited not later than 9 months after the end of each such
year, and submitted to IDA promptly. Certificates of expenditures would be
audited at least once in six months and the report furnished to IDA. Such
reports would cover, inter-alia, that the funds withdrawn were used for the
purpose intended, that goods have been received or work performed, and, that
payments, have been made.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      Project Implementation:  Overall responsibility for implementation
of the extension and adaptive research program would lie with the Director of
Agriculture of GOB's Department of Agriculture. An implementation schedule
is presented in Annex 6. As neither extension nor research can function with-
out close cooperation, these relationships would be formalized through regular
meetings at State level and through close working relationships at district
level.
5.02      Extension:  An Additional Director of Agriculture (ADA (Extension))
would be responsible for day-to-day administration and control of the extension
program, supported by the existing administrative machinery of the Department.
Appointment of a suitably qualified and fulltime ADA (Extension) was agreed
at negotiations. ADA (Extension) would be responsible for recruitment and
training of staff, budgeting, procurement, disbursement of funds and submis-
sion of periodic progress reports in a form acceptable to IDA and agreed upon
during negotiations. The reorganized extension program would involve a single
line of command from the Director of Agriculture, through ADA (Extension),
division, district, subdivision down to VLEW at field level. See organization
chart - World Bank 17492.
5.03      Adaptive Research Service (ARS):  A suitably qualified and senior
officer of the Department of Agriculture would be responsible for day-to-day
operations of the adaptive research service and would be supported by a small
staff. Appointment of a suitably qualified Head of ARS would be a condition
of credit effectiveness. Head of ARS would be responsible for recruitment of
staff, training, implementation of trial programs on Adaptive Research Farms
and on farmers' fields, budgeting, procurement, disbursement of funds and
submission of research programs and periodic progress reports in a form accept-
able to IDA and agreed upon at negotiations. Field testing of recommended
practices, adaptive trials and farm level demonstrations would be carried out
by District level staff under the technical guidance of specialists.



- 16 -
5.04      Coordination between Agencies:  Close coordination between exten-
sion, input supplies, adaptive research and the university would be ensured.
At State level, Seasonal Workshops would provide the mechanism for that
purpose. In addition, the relation between extension, adaptive and applied
research would be formalized both at State level (through the existing State
Research Planning Committee) and at district level through District Adaptive
Research Committees, which would be established under the project.
5.05      Seasonal Workshops chaired by Agricultural Production Commissioner
(APC) would meet, as at present, twice yearly before the kharif and rabi
cropping seasons. These workshops would discuss all implications of exten-
sion recommendations and ensure cooperation among various input supply agen-
cies and ensure that problems of credit, marketing and supply would be given
due attention. The committee includes the Vice-Chancellor of the University,
Director of Agriculture, Director, Department of Cooperation and Irrigation,
and representatives of the Apex Marketing Federation, State Land Development
Bank, State Cooperative Bank, and representatives of RBI and ARDC.
5.06      Extension recommendations would be generated by District Adaptive
Research Committees as would adaptive research proposals.  Proposals would be
consolidated by Head of ARS who, in consultation with ADA (Extension) would
then obtain comments from the State Research Planning Committee, prior to
forwarding them to Seasonal Workshops for review and discussion. Following
this, recommended agricultural practices would be released by ADA (Extension)
to field staff and the adaptive research program implemented under direction
of the Head of ARS.
5.07      The State Research Planning Committee:  Chaired by Vice Chancellor,
RAU, and comprising senior officers of both the University and Department of
Agriculture, meets twice a year.  It provides a formal mechanism for review
of university research results and formulation of future research programs.
In addition, Adaptive Research Service would present results from trials
carried out at District level and would recommend agricultural practices
applicable to each agro-climatic region. These would be commented on by
State Research Planning Committee as would the consolidated work programs
of ARS which would also be reviewed. Since experimental results and pro-
grams would already have been discussed in detail by District level com-
mittees (para 5.08), the State Committee would be more concerned with the
general balance of ARS programs rather than details of trials done at Dis-
trict and sub-divisional level and designed to be primarily of local applic-
ability. Its meetings would precede those of Seasonal Workshops.
5.08      District Adaptive Research Committees:  Chaired by the District
Agricultural Officer (DAO) would be established in each District by June 30,
1978 and comprising district level field staff, SMS, regional agronomists of
RAU (or their nominees in specialist subjects) and representatives of the
Adaptive Research Service. The committee would meet at least twice yearly
to review and formulate recommended agricultural practices and adaptive re-
search and field demonstration programs. Proposals would then be submitted
to the Head of ARS (para 5.06). Assurances were obtained that the organiza-
tional arrangements mentioned in paras 5.02 through 5.08 would be implemented.



- 17 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.09      Monitoring (and reporting) of physical and financial inputs would
be the responsibility of the Director of the concerned Department. As dis-
cussed in para 3.14, to provide a measure of the degree of achievement of
project goals, as well as to generate data concerning the performance of
project organizations, this needs to be supplemented with further monitoring
and evaluation on a sample basis by an external organization. This requires
continuous data gathering and, for this purpose, an evaluation unit would be
set up at headquarters under Deputy Director, Statistical Section, Department
of Agriculture. This section would be strengthened both at headquarters and
at field level. A senior agricultural economist, a farm management specialist
and two field statistical research officers together with a small supporting
staff would comprise headquarters staff. At district level, a senior statis-
tical assistant would supervise sub-divisional field investigators, responsi-
ble for data collection. In turn, this on-going evaluation would be supple-
mented by short duration ad hoc studies. Funds have been provided for the
Agricultural Production Commissioner to commission outside agencies to help
with evaluation and to carry out ad hoc studies, as required. Because of the
need for uniform procedures for monitoring and evaluation of the proposed
project and of similar projects being undertaken in other states, GOI, con-
cerned states and IDA have recently worked out detailed procedures (Annex 7).
Details were finalized during negotiations and assurances obtained that GOB
would carry out continuous monitoring and evaluation of the project. Results
of such monitoring and evaluation would be sent to IDA at least once a year.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
6.01      Financial.  Total project costs over the five year project develop-
ment period, including physical contingencies, amount to about US$17.5 M or
US$2.3 per farm family assuming 7.6 M benefitting farm families. Incremental
costs after the project development period, to be met from budget sources,
would be about US$2.9 M per annum or US$0.4 per farm family. This requirement
compares with GOB present budgetary allocation to agricultural development
projects of about US$44 M equivalent annually and a total current expenditure
of US$22 M (1975/76). Incremental costs would be partly recovered by GOB
through market levies (presently 1%) on paddy and other agricultural produce
entering commercial markets. Stimulation of demand for agricultural inputs
would also increase state revenues from sales taxes on these items.
6.02      Economic.  The design of the project, its timing, scope, relative
size of project components and organizational arrangements are based on past
experience with similar successful agricultural extension and research reor-
ganization in India. Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type
of project is difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural
practices, which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely



- 18 -
to extension and research. Moreover, there is no experience in Bihar to
estimate acceptance rates with any degree of accuracy. However, there is no
doubt that the substantial improvement in the efficiency of utilization of
resources which would be brought about by the project, would generate a high
rate of return. The principal economic benefit of the project would be an
increase in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains. Given the
present cropping pattern (paddy 50%, wheat 20%, pulses 10%, and 20% other
lower valued cereals), it would be reasonable to expect that by Year 7 crop
yields, over at least 50% of all cropped land, would increase by 12 kg per ha
or by less than 1% over the "without project" situation, giving an economic
rate of return of 50%. Details are in Annex 8. Given the performance of the
new extension service, elsewhere in India, there is little risk these yield
increases would not be attained, since the best farmers in Bihar already
obtain nearly twice average yields and, on research stations substantially
higher yield levels than these are achieved. This high rate of return
should, however, be treated with caution since, as improved agricultural
practices spread, further investments in infrastructure and services would
become necessary.
6.03      Social.  In the past, the agricultural development strategy has
been aimed at achieving production increases mainly through investment in
irrigation and through use of 'optimal' packages of practices, involving
HYV with substantial doses of fertilizer and pesticides. Adoption of these
improvements usually requires credit which, more often than not, is not
available to small farmers; consequently larger farmer have benefitted most
from past programs. The reorganized extension service would focus first on
improved cultural practices and better farm management and use of low cost
inputs; adoption of these recommendations would primarily involve more
labor -- an asset most small farmers have in abundance. Thus the project
provides a unique opportunity for small and marginal farmers to benefit and
therefore, aside from generating high economic benefits, the project would
have a beneficial impact on marginal and small farmers, now living close to
or below the poverty line.
6.04      Project Risks.  The most significant risk lies in the fact that
the effectiveness of the new extension methodology is highly dependent on
an efficient organization and management of extension and research services
as well as on farmers' response. Experience with ongoing projects has already
demonstrated, however, that the new system can work efficiently in formulation
and delivery of messages, and in motivating farmers. The proposed project
deals with rainfed as well as irrigated areas, and in rainfed areas there is
a somewhat higher degree of risk concerning achievement yield increases.
However, there are a significant number of improved practices and research
findings suitable for dissemination which can substantially improve yields,
even under rainfed conditions. Furthermore, farmers in rainfed areas tend to
be less affluent and in greater need of technical advice. Thus, even though
benefits may be lower in rainfed than in irrigated areas, these would still
be considerable, both in economic and social terms.



- 19 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained on the following
major points that:
(a) GOB would employ incremental staff as outlined in the
schedule (para 3.06);
(b) GOB would, by December 31, 1978, complete the necessary
survey to locate sites for VLEW and AEO housing
(para 3.08);
(c) GOB would ensure that VLEW and AEO live in the area
assigned for their operations and for this purpose
would provide such low cost housing as necessary
(para 3.08);
(d)  GOB would make available credit and allowances to staff
on such terms and conditions as to create incentive for
the purchase and use of motorcycles and cycles (para 3.08);
(e) GOB would employ incremental staff for the adaptive
research service in accordance with the schedule
(para 3.12);
(f) Civil work contracts would be awarded after local com-
petitive bidding following local advertisement (para 4.04);
(g) GOB would submit periodic progress reports and research
programs in a form acceptable to the Association (paras 5.02
and 5.03);
(h) District Adaptive Research Committees would be set up
by June 30, 1978 and meet at least twice a year
(para 5.08); and
(i) GOB would carry out monitoring and evaluation of the
project in such form as agreed with the Association
and the results of such monitoring and evaluation
would be sent to the Association at least once a
year (para 5.09).
7.02      The following would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Appointment of a suitably qualified and full-time Head of
the Adaptive Research Service to head adaptive research
(para 5.03).
7.03      With the above condition and assurances the project is suitable
for an IDA credit of US$8.0 M to GOI.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
TNDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Present Agricultural Situation
A. Background
General
1~ sAgriculture is dominant in Bihar's economy contributing about 48%
of total domestic product.  About 82% of the 62 million population (1976)
depend directly or indirectly on agriculture. Of a total area of about 17.3
million hectares, 8.3 million hectares are cultivated. Of this, about 23%
is irrigated, but less than half of the area receives water in the dry (rabi)
season.
2.        The three principal crops in Bihar are rice, wheat and maize which
account for 73% of cultivated area (1975/76). Over 67% of these crops are
grown in the kharif season, June to December, when moisture is available from
the monsoon. In the Gangetic plains, paddy is the dominant crop during kharif.
In the Southern plateau where the crops are more diverse, small grains, pulses
and oilseeds are growr on poorer soils. Yields are not impressive and have
shown no significant improvement (with the exception of wheat, largely growrn
under irrigation) during the past decade.
3.        Foodgrains production (1.6% growth) has not kept pace with popula-
tion growth (2.2% growth). Although overall agricultural production has been
growing slowly over the past decade, individual crops showed wide variations.
Cropped area and yield of rice and maize have shown little tendency to change,
while wheat acreage and yields have shown a consistent upward trend. With
these factors in mind there is thus both need and potential for increasing
production through intensified action.
The Rural Setting
4.        By almost any index of economic development, Bihar ranks one of
the lowest among the States of India. Compared to the national average of
Rs 700, per capita income was estimated at about Rs 490 which is some 10% be-
low the so-called poverty-line of Rs. 50 per capita per month (1960/61) prices.
5.        The pressures of population and poverty in rural Bihar are consider-
able. There are about 62 million people, growing at an annual rate of about
2.0% and which is expected to continue adding about 1 million people every year.
The population is also stratified along class, caste and tribal lines and is
caught in a maze of socio-economic relationships and land tenure systems which



ANNEA I
Page 2
further hamper agricultural development. Scheduled tribes and castes
are economically the weakest, but recognized separately for administrative
purposes, as are the "small" and "marginal" fariers w-th holdings below 2 hec-
tares, who represent roughly 80% (6.0 milllon) of total holdi4gs (7.6 million)
but operate less thar 30% of the State's agricultural land. Adding to this
skewed distribution of assets and therefore income, are the l-andless and
agricultural laborers, constituting an additional 6.8 million households.
Complicating the problem of size of holding, is fragmentation, each holding
comprising 7 plots on average.
6.        Agricultural production can be considerably influenced by ownership
and tenancy patterns. The 1970/71 Census reports only 0.4% of holdings are
rented. It is well-known, however, that tenurial data in the Census do not
truely reflect the position as data are a compilation of land and revenue
records rather than based on field enquiries.  While it is not possible to
quantify the area under share-cropping (mainly oral arrangements) in Bihar,
various estimates put it as as high as 40-50% of the cultivated area.
7.        A serious obstacle to an immediate surge in agricultural production
is the quality of what may be called the "delivery systems", for instance, re-
search results are known but few farmers use them; fertilizer availability is
by and large no constraint, yet fertilizer use is extremely low; the Govern-
ment stresses institutional credit, but the majority of farmers depend on
relatives and moneylenders.  The extension service is not short of personnel,
but it lacks the systematic approach to delivery the messages.
Physiogra2hy
8,        Bihar State lies between 21 58'10" to 27 31VI51T North Latitude and
83 19'50" to 88017'40" East longitude and covers an area o` 173, 876 sq km.
it is bounded in. the north by 300 kilometre long boundary of Nepal, in the
west by Uttar Fradesh and Madhya Pradesh, in the east by West Bengal, in the
extreme north-eastern by West Bengal, Assam and Bangladesh and in the south
by Orissa.  As regards physical Leatures and agroclimatic conditions, Bihar
may be divided r _ughly into (a) North plains (5) South Bihar plains and
(c) the hillls and plateau mostly comprising Chhotanagpur and Santhal Pargan-
nas districts.
9.        The North Bihar plains comprise the sprawling landscape to the
north of Ganges intersected by the rivers Kosi and Gandak, and a number
of other smaller rivers.  This area includes the districts of Muzaffarpur,
Vaishali9 East and West Champaran, Begusarai, Darbhanga, Samastipur, Madhu-
bani, Sitamarhi, Saharasa, Purnea, Katihar, Saran, Siwan and Gopalganj.  67%
of the geographical area is under cultivation and rice, wheat, maize, sugar-
cane and pulses are the main crops.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
10.       The South Bihar plains extend from the southern bank of the Ganges
to the foot of the plateau and consist of the districts of Patna, Nalanda,
Bhojpur, Rohtas, Monghyr, Bhagalpur and Nawada. The area is spotted by hil-
locks in the Rohtas district. The plains area is generally fertile and grows
rice, wheat, maize and pulses.
11.       The Plateau consists of the districts, Ranchi, Palamau, Hazaribagh,
Giridih, Dhanbad and Chaibassa and'is intersected by high hills which is an
extension of the Vindhyan range. The plateau area has the highest upland with
Netarhat standing at an altitude of 3,500 ft above sea level. About 25% of
the area is under forest and only 35% of the total geographical area is under
cultivation. The important crops of this region are rice and smaller millets.
Soils
12.       The soils of the Bihar plains are sedimentary, originating from the
alluvial deposits of the snowfed rivers north of the Ganges and those of the
rainfed rivers south of the Ganges. In the north Bihar plains as the Hima-
layan rivers flow southwards, they offload their silt during high flood. The
coarser silt is deposited on the upper reaches and the finer one further
south and the soil thus varies from sandy to loam with pH values varying
from 6.5 to 7.5. Also depending upon the composition of the rock through
which the rivers cut their way, sodium salts and calcium carbonate get de-
posited making the soil saline, alkaline or calcarious at places. pH
values in these pockets generally vary from 7.0 to 8.5. The South Bihar
plains have been formed from silt deposits of the rainfed rivers arising
from the Chotanagpur plateau and the soil is light to heavy clay, the coarse
sand mostly remaining confined between the river banks. pH value of these
soils generally varies from 6.0 to 7.0. Plateau soils are sedentary with
pH values ranging from 5.5 to 6.5. They consist mostly of light to heavy clay
originating from the parent rocks ranging from basic and ultra basic sand-
stones, shales and limestones to heavily leached acidic high level and low
level laterites, as well as the ones rich in coal, iron bauxite. Most soils
of the State are low in carbon, ranging from 0.1 to 0.2% in the plains to
less than 0.3% in the plateau. They are also low in nitrogen and phosphate.
Available phosphate in the soils range from 2-10 kg/ha the average being
4 kg/ha.
Climate
13.       The climate of Bihar is favorable for cropping throughout the year;
especially with irrigation in winter and summer. Most of the paddy and
maize in the State is grown with monsoon rain which is abundant, though
often erratic, and most rabi pulses as well as some wheat are grown on the
residual moisture after the monsoon. Temperatures are lowest in December-
January with an average minimum monthly temperature of about 10°C and average
maximum monthly temperature of 380C in May.



ANNEX I
Page 4
14.       Rainfall is the dominant climatic factor.  The yearly normal rain-
fall for the State is about 1272 mm varying from 992 mm to nearly 1500 mm
for the 31 districts of Bihar. However variations from year to year, in
certain districts may be above 50%. 75% of the rains fall in 50 days during
the four months from June to September, the main monsoon season. But at both
ends of the monsoon there are periods of highly variable precipitation. High
rainfall intensity, typical during the monsoon leads to much runoff and flood-
ing of the lowlands. The following figures show the rainfall distribution
pattern:
Rainfall
(mm)
January                      17.2
February                     24.4
March                        14.4
April                        17.1
May                          19.9
June                        182.1
July                        330.9
August                      330.9
September                   222.2
October                      69.2
November                     11.6
December                      3.9
Total                 1271.6
15.       The above pattern of rainfall indicates that intensive cropping
in rabi is possible only with irrigation. The effect of the variable pre-
cipitation at either end of the monsoon is more complex. With the available
implements and draft animals (unless there are sufficient pre-monsoon showers)
farmers are unable to prepare their land for cultivation before the monsoon
breaks. Generally cultivation starts by the end of June (barring only such
places having some limited source of irrigation) and in most cases farmers
are not able to start nursery plots before this date. With perhaps two weeks
required for land preparation, planting generally starts as late as mid July.
Most rice varieties in common use require about 100 days before the critical
growth stage of grain formation. By then, however, the major and most relia-
ble portion of the monsoon has passed. Average monthly data indicate that
there should just be sufficient rainfall to prevent the paddy from drying out,
but in fact, as analysis of the weekly data shows, there is an increasing pro-
bability of damaging moisture stress after mid-September. Most of the paddy
varieties irrespective of the date of planting, mature in late November-
December. Under many of soil and topographical conditions, the effects of
the vagaries of the monsoon can be extremely damaging. However, the obvious
implications are that the reliability of a kharif crop depends on earlier
planting or on the subsitution of the current long-maturity varieties (145
days) with short maturing photo insensitive varieties (95-120 days). In soils



ANNEX 1
Page 5
of low water-holding capacities i.e. the higher uplands, a change from paddy
to drought resistant coarse grain paddy or maize and other millets would be
desirable.
Topography
16.       Micro-topography is highly important and traditionally plays a
major role in cropping patterns and practices. It is closely related to water
availability during the growth season, and crops are planned accordingly.
Cultivable area is thus divided into what are conventionally considered high,
medium and low lands. In high lands is short duration paddy, in the lighter
soils and slopes, millet, maize, oil seeds and pigeon pea (arhar) are grown.
However these crops are the first to suffer from drought. Medium lands are
planted to medium duration paddy and lowlands to long duration, relatively
flood resistant paddy, harvested in December and even in January. Many
farmers own parcels of land in all three categories, providing them with some
form of insurance under varying climatic conditions. Of 8.3 million ha under
cultivation, about 45% are upland, 25% medium and 30% lowland.
Land Use
15.       Most cultivable land in Bihar is under cultivation reflecting the
high density of population.
Table 1:  LAND USE PATTERN
% of Total
Geographical
'000 ha         Area
Non-agricultural uses                           1,573             9
Barren land                                     1,061             6
Forest                                          2,852            17
Total non-agricultural area                5,486           32
Pasture and grazing land                          164             1
Fallow and non-cultivated land                  3,305            19
Total non-cultivated agricultural area   3,469             20
Cultivated area                                 8,373            48
Total geographical area                   17,328           100
The situation is particularly acute in the more populated northern region.



ANNEX I
Page 6
Table 2: CULTIVATED AREA AND RURAL POPULATION
%O                         Rural
Cultivated                   Population
Area of                       Density
Total       Population         per ha
'000 ha    Cultivable        '000        Cultivated
Northern Bihar       3,399         82           23,754            6.9
Southern Gangetic
Plain              3,076         74           17,750            5.7
Plateau              1,898         54            8,946            4.7
Total State        8,373         71           50,450            6.0
The total cultivated area has not changed in the last ten years while
rural population has increased by about 20%. This process will continue
in the future and any notable increase in production will have to come
from improved yields and cropping intensity.
18.       Irrigation facilities are estimated to cover about 1.9 million
hectares, about 23% of the cultivated area. In 1975-76 the Department of
Agriculture estimated that dependable water supply was available on about
28% of the total area sown (Table 3).
Table 3: IRRIGATED AREA
Annual     % of
Kharif    Rabi    Total    Sown Area
Northern Bihar                  619      525    1,144         25
Southern Gangetic Plain       1,062      566    1,628        39
Plateau                         128       76       204        10
State Total                1,809    1,167    2,976         28
Because tubewell irrigation is more prevalent in Northern Bihar, the area
irrigated varies less there from kharif to rabi than in the Southern Gangetic
plain, where the major source of water is from barrages, without regulation
of the river flow. Irrigation plays a minor role on the plateau because of
the lack of water resources.
Cropping Seasons and Crop Rotations
19.       There are three cropping seasons.  The largest area is sown during
the kharif season, with rains from June-July to October-November. Rabi crops
are grown during the first part of the dry season from November-December to
February-March. Summer crops, which cover the smallest area, are grown during
the last part of the dry season from February to May-June.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
Table 4: AREA UNDER CROPS
'000 ha
Kharif      Rabi       Summer       Total
7,200      3,200        300       10,700
20.       During kharif, rice and maize (about 80% of the annual area under
maize) are the dominant crops. Rice is usually grown in the lower lying areas
with autumn varieties harvested in September. Winter varieties (of longer
duration) are harvested in October-November. Maize, grown in better drained
soils, is harvested in September-October. Other kharif crops are jute in the
North East and North West of Bihar, and millet on poorer soils of the plateau.
During this season, natural hazards sometimes take a heavy toll; floods can
destroy large areas along the rivers of Northern Bihar, drought spells can
delay the planting of rice in Southern Bihar and the plateau thus much reduc-
ing yields.
21.       Rabi crops are grown either with irrigation or on residual moisture
left in the soil. Wheat is the main crop in irrigated areas or where the
water table is not too deep. Potatoes and some maize are also grown. Drier
areas are planted with drought resistant crops like barley, millet or short
cycle crops (pulses and oilseeds). Yields are more secure than in kharif
because pests are less active and it is also free of major climatic risks.
22.       Summer crops are all irrigated.  The main crops are vegetables,
some rice and maize.
23.       Farmers have devised a large number of crop rotations to take ad-
vantage of available land and water resources. In Northern Bihar and in
the Southern Gangetic plain the most widespread cropping is:
(i) In rainfed but well-drained areas: maize in kharif followed
by pulses or oilseeds.
(ii)  In rainfed lowlands:  rice or jute in kharif followed by
wheat or maize.
(iii)  In irrigated areas:  rice in kharif followed by wheat.  If
water is still available summer crops are grown. The rice-
wheat rotation is expanding rapidly because of the profit-
ability of rabi wheat.
On the plateau, the main rotation on the more fertile soils is rice in kharif
followed by pulses and oilseeds. On poorer soils rice is replaced by millets.
Potatoes are being developed for kharif cropping as they sell at a high price.



ANNEX I
Page 8
24.       Cropping intensity averages 129% in Bihar.  It varies from 109% on
the plateau which has few irrigation facilities to 135% in Northern Bihar and
on the Southern Gangetic plain.
25.       Permanent crops cover a limited area, about 3% of total cultivation:
orchards are grown, particularly in Northern Bihar, sugarcane, is kept for
two years particularly in Northern Bihar and in the west of the Gangetic
plain.
Cultivation Techniques
26.       Land is prepared, in most cases with 6 to 12 passes of the tradi-
tional plough (without mouldboard) and which only scratches the soil surface.
The number of steel mouldboard bullock ploughs in Bihar is not known but very
few are used. There are about 7,700 tractors and 700 power tillers. Accord-
ing to the Bihar Agro Industrial Corporation, tractors are largely underutil-
ized since each ploughs about 20 ha per season only. Thus, mechanical culti-
vation does not cover 1% of the cropped area.
27.       Improved or HYV seeds for rice, maize and wheat are supplied by
the Department of Agriculture which operates seed farms totalling 5,884 ha
and by seed corporations. In 1975-76, the total quantity of seeds available
from public sources was far short of farm requirements even for the improved
cultivation programs (Table 5). A large part of the seed planted by farmers,
is either saved from previous harvests or procured from other farmers and thus,
may be of poor quality.
Table 5: SEED REQUIREMENTS Ia
Total Quantity                               Improved Cultivation
Available from         Total       Seed            Program /b
Public Sources /b      Area      Required      Area         Seed
(tons)          ('000 ha)    (tons)    '000 ha         (tons)
Rice             2,735             5,225      53,000       1,170        11,700
Maize            2,539               936       6,000 /c      462         4,600 /d
Wheat           13,918             1,815      50,000       2,025       56,000
/a   Estimated at 40 kg per ha for paddy, 20 kg for maize and 110 kg for
wheat, replaced every 4 years except for hybrid maize for which new
seed is required every year.
/b   Source:  Instructions for Kharif and Rabi production programs 1975-76
(Department of Agriculture).
/c   Assuming 10% hybrid maize.
/d   Assuming 33% hybrid maize.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
28.       Irrigated and winter rainfed paddy are transplanted, whilst early
paddy and paddy grown in flooded areas are broadcast. Rice is often planted
late because of insufficient rainfall or lack of irrigation water. Often,
it is too widely spaced. Apart from maize, which is planted on hills, other
crops are generally broadcast. Late planting of the first crop often delays
the planting of the following rabi crop, such as wheat.
29.       Farmers regularly apply compost or farmyard manure although in
limited quantities (1 or 2 tons per ha). Traditional ploughs do not turn
organic manure evenly into the soil.
30.       Fertilizer consumption has increased more than eight times during
the last 15 years, from 15,000 tons (in terms of nutrients) in 1961-62 to
124,000 tons during 1975/76. The quantity of fertilizer applied by farmers
on the various crops is not known. Compared to the total cultivated area
fertilizer use is still low (about 11 Kg of nutrients per ha). However, it
seems to be quite significant in irrigated areas where most fertilizer is
applied (according to farmers), particularly during the rabi season. It is
also quite remarkable in relation to the HYV program of rice, wheat and maize
(Table 6). Farmers mainly use nitrogenous fertilizers and which is not in
accordance with the recommendations of the agricultural research stations.
Farmers of the Southern Gangetic plain are main users of chemical fertilizer
(50% of total State consumption) followed by those of Northern Bihar (45%).
Little fertilizer is used on the plateau (5% of total State consumption).



ANNEX 1
Page 10
Table 6: FERTILIZER CONSUMPTION (in Terms of Nutrients)
1975/76 /a ('000 tons)
N     P205    K 20    Total Nutrients
During the whole year         100      16      8           124
During kharif season           22       3      2            27
During rabi season             78      13      6            97
Apparent use (kg/ha)
per cultivated ha /b         9       1.5    0.7           11.2
use per irrigable ha /c       34        5      3            42
use per irrigable ha
during kharif /c            12       1.7    1.1           14.8
use per irrigable ha
during rabi /c              67      11       5            83
use per ha of HYV /d
(rice, maize, wheat)       42        7       3            52
NPK balance advised by agricultural research (kg/ha)
for rice                      80      40      20
for wheat                    100      50      25
for maize                    112      67      25
/a   Data from the Department of Agriculture.
/b   Total annual consumption divided by total cultivated area.
/c   Total consumption during the season divided by the area
irrigated during the season.
/d   Total annual fertilizer consumption divided by the target area
of rice, wheat and maize HYV during both seasons.
31.       Water management in irrigated fields could be much improved.  Land
is poorly levelled and bunds are often much too low. Consequently in rainfed
fields or where irrigation flow is unreliable, farmers cannot store enough
water to tide their crops over a spell of dry weather or over a period when
water supply is interrupted. Field channels have not been completed in large
parts of the command area of major irrigation systems and fragmentation of
holdings makes the delivery of water to farms difficult.
32.       Weeds are a major problem particularly in rainfed broadcast crops.
Land preparation with the traditional plough, absence of line sowing and of
weeding equipment and insufficient plant density do not allow proper weed
control. Pests and diseases are more severe during the hot and humid



ANNEX 1
Page 11
kharif season than during rabi. However, apart from some localized attacks
of specific parasites (gall fly on the plateau, rice blast in Northern Bihar),
losses are usually limited. Efficient chemicals for crop protection exist
but they are not easily available to farmers who also lack suitable advice
and sprayers.
33.       Harvesting is done by hand.  Most farm crops are threshed under the
feet of bullocks. Some 50,000 power threshers are used. Post harvest losses
of grain from weevils and rats are estimated to be high. Metal containers
have been developed for grain storage. They are not yet widely used.
B. Agricultural Production
Cropped Area and Production
34.       Most of the cropped area (94%) is devoted to foodgrain production:
predominantly rice, maize, wheat, millet and pulses (Appendix 1, Table 1-4).
35.       During the last 10 years the area under rice and maize has changed
little apart from year to year fluctuations. On the contrary, there has been
an increase in rabi cultivation of potatoes and particularly wheat, which now
occupies the second largest area. These two crops have been developed at the
expense of less profitable dry season crops, notably pulses and millet. Far-
mers' interest in wheat may also have contributed to the decline of fiber
crops which sometimes delayed the planting of rabi crops (Table 7).



ANNEX 1
Page 12
Table 7: TOTAL CULTIVATED AREA
('000 ha)
Annual      Annual         1973/76
Average     Average      Area as %
1963-66     1973-76      of 1963-66
Rice                      5,293        5,278           99
Maize                        770          907         118
Wheat                        665        1,624         244
Barley                       349          189          54
Millets                      196          185          93
Jawar & Bajra                 14           12          85
Gram                         472         251           54
Arhar                        170          109           64
Other Pulses                1563       1,188           76
Potatoes                      87         121          140
Oil seeds                    308         231            75
Sugarcane                    157         141           89
Fibre Crop                   248          161          65
Total Sown           10,205       10,273          101
Source: Directorate of Statistics & Evaluation Bihar.
36.       The production of foodgrains has not kept pace with the growth
of population (growth rates 1.6% p.a. for grain output and 2.2% p.a. for
population). While rice production has remained at the same level, wheat
production has increased almost four times, thus making up for the decrease
in small grains and pulses. The decline of maize production has been mainly
due to flood. On the whole the foodgrain situation in Bihar has not improved
(Table 8).



ANNEX 1
Page 13
Table 8: TOTAL ANNUAL PRODUCTION
('000 Tonnes)
Average     Average      1973-76 Production
1963-66     1973-76         % of 1963-66
Rice                4,561        4,515              100
Maize                 745          772              104
Wheat                 438        1,982              452
Barley                189          113               59
Millets               102           70               69
Jawar & Bajra           9            5               56
Gram                  288          135               49
Arhar                 137           78               57
Other Pulses          844          571               68
Total Foodgrains   7,429         8,324              112
Potatoes              716        1,068              149
Oilseeds               85          117              138
Sugarcane           5,928       5,211                89
Source:  Directorate of Statistics & Evaluation Bihar,
Patna.
Yields
37.       Average yields are low in most cases.  Apart from wheat other
yields show no apparent trend from 1963-66 to 1973-76 since all yields are
well within the normal range of annual fluctuation. This is also supported
by a more detailed yield analysis based on three-year averages (Table 9).



ANNEX 1
Page 14
Table 9: STATE AVERAGE YIELD (kg/ha)
1973-76
1963-66      1973-76     % of 1963-66
Rice                     862          856            99
Maize                    968          851            88
Wheat                    660        1,221           185
Barley                  541          598            110
Millets                  520          385            74
Jowar & Bajra           643          417             65
Gram                    610          538             88
Arhar                   806           716            89
Other pulses             540         480             88
Potatoes              8,249        8,826            107
Oilseeds                 280         507            181
Sugarcane            37,758       36,957             98
Fibre                   440          530           120
Source:  Directorate of Statistics and Evaluation, Bihar
38.       Average yields of rice and maize vary largely according to the
season in which they are sown. These variations can be attributed to several
causes. During kharif, the growth of the maize crop is often checked by water
logging. Shorter cycle varieties used for autumn or summer rice and summer
maize have a lower potential than the longer term varieties used for main crop
planting. Moreover, intensive cultivation using high yielding varieties,
fertilizer and irrigation are more commonly used for winter than for autumn
paddy and for rabi maize rather than for kharif maize (Table 10).
Table 10:  SEASONAL AVERAGE YIELDS IN 1975-76 /a
Unit Yield    % of Total
kg/ha        Crop Area
Autumn rice                    580            11
Winter rice                  1,240            88
Summer rice                  1,190             1
Kharif maize                   860            80
Rabi maize                   2,000            10
Summer maize                 1,090            10
/a   Data from the Department of Agriculture.



ANNEX 1
Page 15
39.       The effect of various cultivation techniques on unit yields has
not been documented at farm level. However, state statistics on irrigated
or rainfed production with traditional or HYV seeds give some indication.
It appears that substituting HYV for traditional varieties increases yields
by about as much as irrigation, even without accounting for the heavier fer-
tilizer rates applied on irrigated fields (Table 11).
Table 11: AVERAGE YIELDS IN 1975-76 /a
Winter Rice                Rabi Wheat
% of Rainfed/              % of Rainfed/
Traditional                Traditional
kg/ha      Varieties       kg/ha       Varieties
Rainfed traditional
varieties                   860          100            830         100
Rainfed HYV                  1,020          119         1,050         127
Irrigated traditional
varieties                 1,060          123          1,110         134
Irrigated HYV                1,430          166         1,490         180
/a   Data from the Department of Agriculture.
40.       Annual fluctuations of yields are large.  According to the available
statistics (for the period 1959-60 to 1974-75) the standard deviation of unit
yield distribution is:
139 kg per ha for rice
248 kg per ha for maize
which means that one year out of three average unit yields per ha can be:
for rice, either less than 657 or more than 936 kg, and
for maize, either less than 680 or more than 1,176 kg.
Thus crop production is still largely dependent on factors beyond the control
of farmers (climatic conditions, availability of water, pests and diseases).
41.       Comparison of yields in 1975/76 shows that the output of rice, maize
and wheat in the plateau region is higher due to better rainfall distribution
during the monsoon. The higher yield of wheat and summer maize is due to the
fact that they are grown in limited areas with irrigation from large diameter
wells, rivers and reservoirs. The area under irrigation is however small.
North and South Bihar Plains have abundant water resources for rabi crops
and the main season rice benefits from heavy soils and large scale gravity
irrigation (Table 13).



ANNEX 1
Page 16
Table 13: AVERAGE YIELDS 1975-76 (kg/ha)
Rice                               Barley &
Autumn   Winter   Summer   Maize   Wheat    Millet    Pulses
North
Bihar               651        817     1,007      861   1,301      549        493
Plains
South
Bihar               429      1,100     1,474      974   1,234      474        609
Plains
Plateau /a          589        993     1,260      934   1,445      370        390
/a   Including North Bhagalpur and Monghyr Districts.
C. Potential and Constraints
42.       The agro-climatic and geological features of Bihar, together with
the socio-economic fabric of its agrarian structure (distribution of holdings,
tenancy and limited farmer knowledge and resources), and subsistence needs
of its people, largely determine cropping patterns and poor crop management
systems have limited the productivity of land. Together with the unfavorable
land/man ratio, low productivity of land has meant that productivity of labor
has also remained low. Given that in the decades to come, the State's land/
man ratio will deteriorate further, the only way for Bihar's agriculture to
increase productivity (and farmers' income) is to intensify the use of land
through multiple cropping as well as higher yields per cropped area. This
process of intensification would involve, inter alia, (i) evolving crop rota-
tions (with and without irrigation) that allow multiple cropping, and increae
the efficiency of farm resources (for instance, growing crops on residual
fertilizer and moisture or intercropping), (ii) increasing yields of indivi-
dual crops (including post-harvest handling) and (iii) reduce fallow lands.
The scope for improvement, however, is vast. As with other States located on
the eastern Gangetic plain, Bihar has fertile alluvial soils and largely un-
tapped groundwater. Control of water, in the sense of irrigation and drainage,
together with yield improvements, are perhaps the most important factors
enabling intensification of land use. However, there are a number of con-
straints (see below) which need attention before this potential can be
realised.
Physical Constraints
43.       Floods frequently affect large areas of Northern Bihar during the
kharif season. During the major floods of 1975, crops were destroyed over
990,000 hectares in Northern Bihar (about 30% of its cultivated area) and



ANNEX 1
Page 17
160,000 hectares in the Southern Gangetic plain (about 5% of its cultivated
area). The control of large rivers with irregular flows and originating in
the Nepalese mountains is difficult despite 2,700 km of embankments. There-
fore, farmers in affected areas have concentrated their efforts on the more
reliable crops of the dry season, as shown by the comparison of average yields
of kharif rice and rabi wheat between Northern Bihar and the Southern Gangetic
Plains.
44.       Damage from drought is not as well documented but is estimated by
local specialists to be at least as important as that from floods. Insufficiernt
rainfall in June, July and August is frequent on the Plateau. In the Southern
Gangetic Plain abnormally low rainfall during August 1975 prevented or delayed
paddy transplanting on 40-75% of the area usually cultivated, with a notable
decline in output.
45.       To supplement insufficient rainfall, irrigation should be developed
in the Southern Gangetic Plain. In the Plateau, where irrigation cannot be
expanded on a large scale, the only answer to erratic rainfall is to improve
rainfed agriculture: land preparation methods to increase water retention
and to prevent the growth of weeds, more careful weeding, higher bunds around
levelled fields, substitution for rice during kharif by more drought tolerant
crops as sorghum and millets on poorer soils or maize and soyabean on the more
fertile areas. An integrated dry land agricultural development project sup-
ported by the Central Government was started in 1971 in the Palamau district
with these objectives.
Socio-economic Constraints
46.       Because of a high population density, land resources are limited.
Farms are small (average size 1.5 ha and 64% of holdings are less than 1
hectare) and mainly devoted to the growing of food crops of low unit value.
Therefore, development potential is limited for small farmers. Nevertheless,
if small holdings are not to be left behind in the development process, agri-
cultural programs must involve large numbers of these farmers with agricultural
advice suited to their needs.
47.       The small size of farms is compounded by land fragmentation (about
7 plots per farm). Admittedly, part of fragmentation is an insurance against
risk of localized flooding and allows a small farmer to diversify his cropping
pattern. However, in irrigation areas land fragmentation complicates water
distribution. In these areas the ongoing programs for land consolidation
should be actively encouraged.
Technical Constraints
48.       The main cause of low average yields does not appear to be insuffi-
cient application of chemical fertilizer. The consumption of chemical fertil-
izer, in fact, is high by comparison to the general level of crop husbandry
and to the use of other inputs (quality seed, irrigation). Although detailed



ANNEX 1
Page 18
studies are not available, some data tend to indicate that the best use is
not made of the fertilizer now applied.
49.       In 1975/76 incremental production of rice and wheat in irrigated
areas over the non-irrigated areas was about 320 kg/ha as shown in the fol-
lowing table.
Table 15: INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION FOR IRRIGATED AREAS /a
Incremental Unit       Incremental
Irrigated   Yield of Irrigated    Production in
Areas     Crop over Rainfed    Irrigated Areas
'000 ha       Crop (kg/ha)           '000 tons
Wheat-improved varieties          268             284                 76,112
Wheat-HYV varieties             1,003             443                444,329
Paddy-traditional
winter varieties              1,206             205                247,230
Paddy-HYV varieties               330             407                134,310
Total State                     2,807             321                901,981
/a   Data from the Department of Agriculture.
If it is assumed (as stated by both farmers and extension staff) that most
fertilizer is used on irrigated land and therefore on rice and wheat, (which
occupy 94% of the irrigable area) then the average fertilizing of irrigated
rice and wheat is about 34 kg of N per ha (see para 30). Therefore, response
to N and to irrigation is about 9 kg of grain per kg of nitrogen applied.
This figure is much lower than the response from 1 kg N (as estimated by
field experiments made in India from 1959 1/) which gave over 12 kg of rice
in Bihar and 14 kg of wheat, with old varieties less responsive than now.
Even if allowance is made for the assumptions used in such comparisons, present
response indicates that the profitability of chemical fertilizing could be
increased notably. Consequently, further promotion of fertilizer application
would be restricted to the most advanced farms and not pursued as the main tool
of general agricultural development. The main priority should be that farmers
make the best use of the inputs they are applying now and then later promote
additional input use.
50.       The present low usage of improved seeds could have a more detri-
mental effect on production than low fertilizer consumption. The quantity of
seed (paddy, maize and wheat) available from public sources in 1975/76 was
only 27% of that required for the improved cultivation program and 18% of the
total requirement of the whole state. The development of seed production is
one of the first priorities and which is currently being appraised under the
second Bank-assisted National Seeds Project.
1/   Statistics of Crop Responses to Fertilizer-FAO, 1966.



ANNEX 1
Page 19
51.       Many other aspects of crop husbandry could also be improved.
Part of these improvements would come from better technical advice: land
levelling and bunding of rice fields, transplanting and spacing, new crop-
ping patterns and water management. Other changes would require improved
farm equipment: animal-drawn mouldboard ploughs, line-sowing attachments,
rotary hoes, etc. This equipment has already been developed in India and
introduced in to Bihar. Its expansion has been limited because it has neither
received support nor has been properly organized (lack of spare parts). The
expansion of mechanical cultivation is constrained by the small size and frag-
mentation of farms as well as by its cost. Improving traditional practices
should be the very first priority in order to obtain maximum returns from
existing irrigation facilities and cash inputs.
Insticutional Constraints
52.       Agricultural research (see annex on agricultural research) has
of'-en not provided farmers with the right answer to their problems. On
the other hand, agricultural research has produced a number of very useful
results, particularly from its breeding programs. However, agricultural
scientists have become obsessed with the pursuit of the highest yields that
they have tended to neglect small farmers' problems. This attitude is
demonstrated by the recommendations offered by research stations and which
can advise on techniques required to get 2.5 or 3.0 tons/ha of rice with
intensive cultivation but not on techniques for raising rice yields from I
ton (present State average) to 1.5 tons per ha, which is the real need of
most farmers. Levels of agricultural technology intermediate between
traditional practices and the most sophisticated type of farming are not
known. The first priority for agricultural research should be to concentrate
on limited improvements of traditional practices which are within the reach
of small farmers.
53.       Agricultural research has also not paid enough attention to the
financial aspects of its recommendations. Although,the profitability of fer-
tilizer has been demonstrated, a more detailed analysis of costs and returns
could have led to a better understanding of farmer reactions and consequently
to other recommendations. Indeed it is not surprising that most farmers,
whose annual income is less than Rs 2,000, do not follow fertilizer recom-
mendations which would cost Rs 1,400 on the average farm growing 1.5 ha of
rice and 0.50 ha of wheat 1/. Similarly, the present imbalance in fertilizer
applications by farmers is justified, at least on financial grounds, by the
greater profitability of the first quantities of nitrogen applied and as
demonstrated by the following experiments on wheat.
1/   Cost of fertilizer per kg Rs 4.07 for N, Rs 6.10 per P 205 and Rs 2.08
for K20.



ANNEX I
Page 20
Table 16: FIELD EXPERIMENTS ON WHEAT
Incremental Net Ratio of Incre-
Total Cost                   Profit over      mental Net
Nutrients applied   of Fertil-                   Control with-    Profit to
kg/ha           izer      Wheat Yield   out Fertilizer   Fertilizer
N            P205      Rs           kg /a          Rs /b             cost
0              0        0         1,428               0
60              0      280         2,294             630               2.25
120              0      560         2,911             998               1.78
60            45       555         2,873             963               1.74
60            90       830         3,326           1,163               1.40
120            45       835         3,497           1,338               1.60
120            90    1,110          3,988           1,578               1.42
/a   Source:  Field Experiment Service, Shahabad district, 1975/76.
/b   Rs 1.05 per kg of wheat.
54.       Agricultural extension (see Annex on agricultural extension) has
largely been ineffective because of organizational arrangements and lack of
sound advice to farmers'.
55.       Other supporting services, input supply, credit and marketing, are
provided through either private or cooperative (including departmental) chan-
nels. In spite of their present weaknesses, the cooperative movement would
be an essential factor in meeting the requirements of increased agricultural
production in Bihar. GOB has realized this and embarked on a program (a) to
reduce the number of societies to produce organizations of viable size, (b)
to provide professional management for those new societies, (c) to increase
membership and (d) to reduce overdues. For further details, see the sector
report on Bihar's agriculture (Report No. 1440-IN).



INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Bihar - Agricuiltural Situation and Production in 1976
Agricultural Situation
Total         Rural       Nuimber of    Total    Cualtivatable    Cultivated       Total            Irrigated
Population   Population    Farms         Area        Area            Area           Sown Area          Area
---------------- 000 --------- ----    ----------------------------000 ba -------------------------------
North Bihar Plains             25336         23754        3589          5146        746             3399            4553              597
South Bihar Plains             19977         17750        2649          5692       1063            3077             4152            1542
Plateau                        11039          8946        1339          6551       1649             1898            2062              141
Total State                56352         50450        7577         17389      3458             8374            10767            2280
Area and Production
1975-76
'Autumn  Rice            Winter Rice         Summer Rice           Total Nine              Maize              Wheat           Millets & Barley t  0olses
'000 ha. '000 tons '000 ha.  '000 tons '000 ha.  '000 tons '000 ha4 '000 tons h'000 ha., '000 tons. '000 ha, '000 tons '000 ha,                          '000 tons
North Bihar Plains         393        256     1628       1330        43         46      2064       1632      476        409        970      1228       228      125        448       221
South Bihar Plains -         7          3     1395      1533         19         28      1421       1564      190        185       735        910       116       55        722       440
Plateau                    195         87     1570      1560          5          6      1770       1653      185        157        110       159       316      117        321       125
Total States           595       346      4593      4423         67         80      5155      4849       851        751      1815       2297      660       297       1491       786
j   Including North Bhagalpuir and Monghyr Districts.
Source: Directorate of Statistics & Evaluation, Bihar.



INDIA
BIHIAR AGRICHLTHRAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Cro  Production
'000 tons)
CroP        1959-60   1960-61  1961-62  1962-63  1963-6A  1964-69  1965-66  196667          -68  1968-69  1969-70  19701   9-7 2  1972-73  17 4  2145   1975-76
Rice           3889.4   4544.3   4404.8   4282.4  4507.0   4913.7  4262.0   1489.5  3846.6   4195.0   3670.0   4339.0   4437.0   4464.5   4107.5   4452.0    4849.0
Maize           930.8      821.1    838.8    885.0    892.8    584.4    757.2    948.7    997.4    837.0    870.0   1113.?    132.5    718.6    994.3    474.0          751.0
Bajra              2.0       2.9      6.6       8.1      8.9     12.1      6.4       5.4      9.0      7.3       8.4      8.0      5.0       6.2      8.2       7.1       8.0
Ragi            124.3      104.7     98.0    102.0    106.8      96.6     98.7     82.0    243.1      99.1     92.0      91.3     53.1      62.6     86.5     65.1       76.o
Wheat           354.5      442.6    522.6    529.3    417.2    417.8    477.3    365.0    913.5    953.0    966.0   1192.1   2493.7   2157.0   1648.7   1715.0          229.7
Barley          192.4     203.9    258.7    234.6    207.1    178.1    182.1    120.4    233.5    183.0    177-0    163.5    155-9    120.4    106.8    106.6           108.0
Granm           243.4      324.1    299.6    283.0   249.7   281.5    334.4    113.3   204.5    158.8   147.0    174.2    170.3    133.6    114.3    157.0              134.0
Other Pulses    634.8      765.5    813.2    767.9    880.7    818.5   761.2    679.4    875.8    703.9    734.0    797.0    542.0    522.0    561.0    716.0           602.0
Nigerseed        13.7       13.7     13.7     13.7    13.7       13.7     17.9       9.1     13.2     14.5      12.5     22.2     13.0      13.6     13.6      NA
Linseed          29.7       31.4     36.o     34.2    31.5       38.9     31.0      12.9     28.3    18.6       43.2     43.2     30.9      26.0     25.4     44.3       80.0
Rapeseed &       27.2       31.9     45.1     55.8      27.5     32.0     33.3      21.8     54.0     39.6      51.5     51.5      34.9     44.0     43.0      48.2      55.0
Mustard
Mesta           101.0      123.0    321.6    194.0   329.0    232.0    162.0    198.0    194.0    80.0    125.0    165.0          99.0    139.0    201.0    116.0       126.0
Jute 2/         850.0      850.0   1263.0   1044.0  1157.0    909.0    884.0    938.0    026.0    400.0   668.0    788.0    470.0    559.0    842.0    546.0            629.0
Sugarcane      6644.0    6027.0   6230.0   4800.0   5084.0   6751.0  5942.0   4329.0   3967.0   5914.0  6563.o   6209.0   4477.0   4331.0   5157.0   5518.0    4907.0
Potatoes        474.6      605.8    354.8    831.2   684.8    669.8    788.4    765.0    784,0   1117.1    822.5   1121.5    985.4    778.6    840.0    949.0    1414.0
Small Millets   321.0      261.0    239.0    103.0      89.0     81.0    158.0      76.0    110.0     94.0    104.0      97.0      61.0     68.0     74-0      66.0      67.0
4/   '000's bales of 180 kg.
3in
p'D



INDIA
BIHAR AGRICTLTTTRAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Cr   ed Area
'000 ha
CroP             1959-60  1960-61   1961-62  1962-65  4~~4   1964-65  1965-66  _966-67  i7~    1968-69  1969-70  1970-71   t971-72  1972-73  1973-74~                              t974-75
Rice                   4971-7   5239.7   5091.3   5199.8    5322.5  5309.4   5248.5   4420.2   5145.4   5407.0   5449.0   5112.1   5407.0   4715.5   5124.5    5126.0    5254.0
Maize                   802.7    805.1    819.1    836.1         821.6   744.6    743.4    857.9    993.9    947.0    943.0    990.9    823.5    807.4    988.4                789.0      851.0
Bajra                     5.8       6.1      12.8      14.5       13.5    17.3       15.5      13.0      12.9      16.4      15.0      13.5      10.8      15.6      16.0       15.9       16.0
Ragi                    202.4    210.2    205.5    187.4         176.3   185.6    171.8    165.4    206.1    180.0          175.9    177.4    135.9    144.8    167.7          160.5       181.0
Wheat                   652.8    657.6    699.0    715.6         682.1   636.5    675.2    809.4   1054.4   1088.0   1156.0   1230.0   1397.4   1909.0   1577.2                1478.0    1815.0
Barley                  435.5    393.3    408.8    406.7         448.2   339.9    339.5    350.2    358.9    293.6    284.0    253.7    236.7    218.0    199.7                195.4       176.0
Gram                    577.8    541-9    534.9    512.2         500.0   466.o    450.9    298.9    332.3    237.6    242.0    244.4    241.3    261.6    264.5                248.0       242.0
Other Pulses           1540.0   1603.7   1613.0   1593.3    1569.9  1585.8   1538.1   1474.8   1189.4   1173.5   1462.0   1389.0   1297.0   1213.0   1299.0    1305.0    1184.0
Nigerseed                44.3      44.3      44.3      44.3       44.3    44.3       54.7      43.6      33.5      45.4      52.1      51.9      54.2      50.8      50.8        NA
Linseed                 1o6.3    109.2    110.9    107.4         113.5   110.1    103.3        46.9      64.2      62.3      55.8      55.8      74.5      82.0      86.7       97.9       104.0
Rapeseed & Mustard       93.7      87.9    117.7    106.3         92.6    86.4       82.7      70.7      79-1      79-3      87.1      87.1      78.2      84.0      93.0        91.3      102.0
Mesta                    37.9      37.9      81.0      52.7       65.1     57.0      43.9      39.3      38.2      23.4      33.1      35-5      31.5      31.4       38.4       28.4       28.0
Jute                    161.4    147.2    226.3    198.2         201.2   170.7    152.9    160.7    157.8    157.1    138.0    141.8    131.1    112.5    144.0                 104,8      100.0
Sugarcane               179-3    185.5    197.1    162.1         140.8   165.7    170.0    149.1    117.4    151.5    167.8    161.6    141.9    134.3    148.8                 141.0      134.0
Potatoes                 70-5      75.6      72.7      81.3       82.2    84.6       96.7      94.5      95.0    109.3    102.0    100.9         97.2    105.0    107.0         114.0      142.0
Small Millets           303.8    282.8    239.3    232.8         217.2   200.5    221.5    195.9    247.7    239.1    417.0    224.3    177.0    183.6    198.0                 192.0      195.0



INDIA
SIHAR AGRICUITURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Yields
( Kg/ha)
Crop           1959-60  1960-61  1961-62  1962-63  1963-64   196-65  1965-66  1966-67  1967-68  1968-69   1969-70  1970-71   1971-72  1192-    1973-74   1974-75   1975-76
Rice,               782      867       865      824       847       925      812       387     748       776       674        849       821       947        801       869        928
Maize              1160     1020      1024     1059      1087       785      1019     1106    1004       884        923      1124        161      890       1006        601       883
Bajra               351      475       512      555       662       702      411       415     697       448        560       593       465       524        513       449        500
Ragi               614       498       477      544      606        521      574       496    1179       551       523        515        190      432        516       406        419
Wheat               543      673       748      740       612       656       707      451     866       876       836        969       1785     1130       1045       1160      1265
Barley              442      518      633       577       462       524       536      344     651       623       623        644        659      551        535        546       614
Gram                421      598       560      553       499       604       742      379     615       668       607        713        706      511        432        633       554
Other Pulses        412      477       504      482       561       516      495       461      736      600        502       574        418      430        432        549       509
Nigerseed           308      308       308      308       308       308       327      208      393      319        240       428        240      268        268        NA
Linseed            280       288       325      319       278       353       300      275     440       297        774       774        414      319        293        453       769
Rapeseed & Mustard 290       363       383      525       297       371       403      309      682      499        592       592        446       526       458        528        539
Mest&               487      590       815      722       992       760       592      852    1023       677        679       865        566       854       940        794        810
Jute                402      412       484      431       493       451       467      429      432      279        871       981        645      1100      1051        961       1062
Sugaroane       37,650   37,952   32,123   30,094   36,691    41,385   35,567   29,510  34,325   39,032           39,110   38,428    31,468   39,876    34,668    39,496    36,619
Potatoes         6,731    8,010    4,883   10,222    8,327        7,914    8,155    8,095   8,263   10,216         8,063   11,110    10,134    7,415       7,850      8,325     9,958
Small Millets      461       380       374      444       534       402      480       387      446      401         446      433        345      369        374        344        344
. 3
0aI,



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Extension and Training
A. Introduction
1.        Growth of Bihar's agricultural production has been slow over the
past decade and productivity levels of all major crops are low. The poten-
tial for irrigation is great, but it will take a long time to realize the
potential. However, in addition to raising productivity on irrigated areas
(which cover about 28% of the net sown area),-there exists a potential for
considerable increments under present rainfed conditions. But to achieve
these increases, the transfer of existing technology, development of new
technology and an effective system for its delivery are essential. To these
ends the project is addressed.
B. Background
Rural Administration
2.        Bihar is divided into 31 administrative (revenue) districts, each
under a District Magistrate (Collector). The district is subdivided into
subdivisions, each under a Subdivisional Officer (SDO). There are 58 Subdivi-
sions at present but there is a proposal to create 18 new ones for adminis-
trative convenience. Each Subdivision is further subdivided into Blocks
each under a Block Development Officer (BDO). There are 587 blocks in the
State. The block is the smallest administrative and development unit even
though each block is further subdivided into groups of villages called Gram
Panchayats. There are 10,872 Gram Panchayats in the State. Initially em-
powered to settle small local disputes in villages, this popularly elected
body also participates in some development programs. The BDO coordinates all
development programs at the block level and the District Magistrate in turn
coordinates development programs at the district level.
Present Extension Organization
3.        Agricultural extension, at the field level, is the responsibility
of the Village Level Worker (VLW). In the past 10 VLW had been appointed to
each Block by the Department of Community Development and Panchayats under
the administrative control of a Block Development Officer (BDO). Later with
the introduction of the "Agricultural Package Program" in selected districts



ANNEX 2
Page 2
10 more VLW were appointed to such blocks by the Agriculture Department.
There are 252 such blocks in the State at present. Project Executive Officers
(PEO) have been posted to 92 package blocks and are assisted by Block Develop-
ment Officers. In the remaining 160 package blocks, however, there is no BDO
and his place is taken by the Agriculture Department Officer who is designated
as Prakhand Vikas Padadhikari (PVP). The PVP is responsible for all develop-
ment, regulatory and executive functions in the package block. PEO, PVP and
the BDO are responsible to the respective District Officer who is the chief
administrative officer at the district level in respect of all matters of
Government. At present in package blocks there are 20 VLW in each block
totalling 5040 VLW averaging one VLW for 500 farm families. In normal blocks
there are 10 VLW in each block totalling 3980 VLW and averaging one VLW for
950 farm families. These VLW receive technical guidance at the block level
from Agricultural Extension Officers (AEO). In each package block there is one
AEO incharge and three more appointed to serve as Subject Matter Specialists.
The VLW and the Agricultural Officer at the block level are under the admin-
istrative control of PEO, PVP or BDO. The AEO receive technical guidance
from the Subdivisional Agricultural Officer (SAO, hereafter called SDAO) and
there is one SDAO appointed to each of the existing 58 administrative sub-
divisions of the State. SDAO in turn report to the District Agriculture
Officer (DAO). There is one DAO for each of the 31 districts. The DAO is
backed by junior Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) usually one each in Agri-
cultural Chemistry, Botany and Horticulture.
4.        DAO report to one of 4 zonal Joint Directors of Agriculture (JDA)
who, together with Special Deputy Directors of Agriculture and other JDA and
Development Officers for special crops and agricultural programs such as jute,
oil seeds, pulses, horticulture, agricultural engineering, etc., report to
the Director of Agriculture who is assisted at headquarters by 4 Sectional
Directors, one each for administration, crops, inputs and agricultural
education and training.
5.        In addition to the staff outlined above, there are other field
level staff, at the block and higher levels, responsible for special crops
and schemes as well as for regulatory functions, such as soil testing, plant
protection, seed certification and seed testing, jute development and grading,
oil seeds development, tobacco development, potato development, etc. They
report through their respective administrative channel to the Director of
Agriculture. At State level the Agricultural Production Commissioner (APC),
who is also the Principal Secretary of Government, coordinates development
programs of the different development departments.
Present Training
6.        AEO are normally direct recruits from agricultural colleges who
have subsequently received minimal in-service training. VLW have generally
finished secondary school and were given a two-year Diploma course in Agri-
culture at departmental agricultural schools. They also received a six-month
training in extension methodology before recruitment as VLW. However, these



ANNEX 2
Page 3
training facilities closed down, when a large number (about 1,000) of trained
VLW could not be employed. Nevertheless, these departmental agricultural
schools are fully equipped and could be opened almost immediately if required.
Four extension training centres are still functioning and provide one-year-
in-service training and short refresher courses to VLW. The Rajendra Agri-
cultural University (RAU) offers pre-service and limited in-service training
for higher level extension personnel. RAU participates in 2-3 day workshops
organized by DOA before the kharif and rabi seasons and in national and state
crop demonstration programs on farmers' fields. These seasonal workshops at
State level are attended by all officers down to district level and district
level workshops are attended by block level officers and some farmers. At
the block level there are one day training camps, organized each season by
departmental staff and attended by VLW.
Present Effectiveness of Extension
7.        The present extension service has a number of serious problems which
GOB is determined to overcome. Perhaps the most serious problem is the lack
of a single line of command within the extension service. As VLW, the field
agent of the service, is under the direct control of the multipurpose Block
Development Officer it is inevitable that non-agricultural tasks dominate his
work. While agricultural activities are supposed to occupy 80% of his time,
field studies suggest that perhaps 20-30% is actually spent on agriculture.
Even then, his activities are likely to confined to non-productive report
writing and regulatory work, so that the amount of time spent on helping
farmers in the field is insignificant. Closely related to this problem is
the diffusion of the VLW's responsibilities by designating him a multi-purpose
worker. Since he is responsible for virtually all aspects of rural development,
collection of statistics, regulatory work, etc., he becomes responsible for
virtually none. His responsibilities in one sphere become an excuse to avoid
responsibilities in another and vice versa. Strong incentives exist for him to
do only those tasks which are now most clearly defined and supervised (e.g.
writing reports and other time-bound activities).
8.        Special schemes based on particular crops or aspects of agriculture
have been adopted in the past in an attempt to overcome the basic weaknesses
of the system. Over the years a fairly large number of such schemes have
emerged. These special schemes have served only to weaken the extension
effort further by dissipating efforts in many uncoordinated directions and
obscuring the need for a fundamental reform of the extension service.
9.        In addition to VLWs' efforts being spread too thinly over too
many subjects, their work in extension is neither planned systematically nor
supervised adequately. At all levels extension staff lack mobility neces-
sesary for effectively carrying out their work.
10.       The training of extension staff at all levels is inadequate and
often outdated. Most extension staff from VLW up had their agricultural
training more than ten years ago. Many new developments in agriculture



ANNEX 2
Page 4
have passed them by. The linkages with research have been weak. In fact,
the only contact has been the semi-annual, two-day workshop mentioned above.
A regular flow of information from field to research and back has not been
established. Among other problems, this lack of contact means that recom-
mendations developed by research and passed on to farmers by the extension
service are often inappropriate both for farmers' needs and to their technical
and financial capabilities. Recommendations are usually focussed on high
levels of purchased inputs, such as fertilizer, rather than on improved cul-
tivation practices (such as timely sowing, optimum plant populations, timely
weeding) which cost little and bring sure results.
C. The Proposed Agricultural Extension Service
11.       The project would support the reorganization of the extension
service in Bihar. A well-trained, highly motivated and technically competent
single organization would be created, making optimal use of existing staff.
The organization would be given the means to reach the majority of Bihar's
farmers with relevant and practical technical guidance aimed at increasing
production and income. Available manpower, supplemented as required by
additional staff, has excellent potential to achieve results provided it is
properly reorganized to concentrate on extension only and is subjected to
continuing and frequent training. VLW would be redesignated as VLEW (Village
Level Extension Workers) to reflect their exclusive extension role.
12.       The other fundamental change in the new extension service is a
single line of command from the Director of Agriculture down to the VLEW.
In Bihar this will be achieved by transferring, to the Department of Agricul-
ture, all VLEW already working inthe blocks. This would leave 20 Panchayat
Sevaks (multi-purpose workers) in all blocks to cover non-agricultural tasks.
All VLW and other field staff presently engaged on special schemes will also
be consolidated into the general extension service.
13.       Because of the size of Bihar, its poor communications, substantial
tribal population, areas of less productive soils and varying stages of
agricultural development, it is proposed to phase the project over five years.
The first districts selected are those having good potential for irrigation
and representative of various agro-climatic zones and cropping patterns found
throughout the State.
14.       The project would provide for:
(a) Reorganization of all existing extension staff and those
engaged on special schemes to work (i) exclusively on
extension and (ii) under a single line of command within
the Department of Agriculture;



ANNEX 2
Page 5
(b) Establishment of 18 new agricultural subdivisional offices
with adequate supporting supervisory and technical staff
and maintaning a supervisory ratio of one SDO to 8 AEO;
(c)  Increases in staff to provide adequate field coverage
(varying from 700 to 900 farm families per VLEW), together
with supporting supervisory and professional staff at all
levels;
(d) Introduction of regular and systematic farm and village
visits to provide farmers with advice on farming prac-
tices best suited to their conditions;
(e) Frequent and continuous training of all staff;
(f) Facilities and equipment to support extension and
training programs;
(g) Staff and facilities for adaptive field trials and
demonstrations;
(h) Vehicles and travel allowances to ensure greater
mobility of all staff;
(i) Minimal office and residential accommodation for
field staff; and
(j) Coordination between research and extension services
to enable effective development and testing of new
technology and its transfer to farmers' fields.
D. Intensive Agricultural Extension
15.       Methodology:  The extension methodology proposed is based on sys-
tematic and regular visits by full-time agricultural extension agents (VLEW)
to farmers' fields combined with frequent and regular training of VLEW.
Strong technical guidance and supervision would be also required. Field
staffing patterns would be determined by the number of farm families that can
effectively be covered by each VLEW; the number of VLEW that can be supervised
by each AEO; and the number of AEO and VLEW that can be effectively trained
and supervised by an SDAO with a small technical support team.
16.       The organizational structure (see chart) is based on the total
number of farm families and the number of families which one VLEW can reason-
ably expect to visit. In Bihar, the plains districts, particularly those in
North Bihar, are very densely populated and many families live close together
in villages. Large villages are broken into smaller groups or hamlets called
tolas. In plains districts the number of farm families in a tola varies from



ANNEX 2
Page 6
20 to 100 averaging about 60 farm families per tola. In plateau districts
the population is thinner and villages are smaller and often situated much
farther apart and are often inaccessible. Tribals inhabiting hills districts
are of diverse ethnic groups often speaking different unwritten languages.
For these difficult hill districts as well as for package districts where, due
to a preponderance of canal irrigation, agriculture is more intensive requir-
ing closer contacts, a ratio of 1 VLEW to 700 farm families may be desirable.
In other districts a ratio of I VLEW per 900 farm families may be considered
adequate. The estimated 7.6 million farm families of Bihar would be divided
into about 9,000 groups of some 850 families each and to which one VLEW would
be assigned. Each VLEW would divide the farm families assigned to him into 8
smaller groups, each averaging 90-120 families. Each of these smaller groups
would be visited by VLEW on a fixed day of the week, once every two weeks.
Thus, a VLEW would cover 4 groups in one week and 4 groups in the next. A
VLEW would spend the full day with the scheduled farmers' group. During the
morning hours he would visit their fields, and, in the afternoon, hold an open
meeting in the village at a predetermined hour. One of the four remaining
working days each fortnight would be devoted to in-service training during
which VLEW would learn recommended practices to be given to farmers during the
following fortnight and have an opportunity to bring farmer's problems to the
attention of his teachers. On one day in the following week VLEW would meet
their supervisor, the AEO, in a group so that subjects taught in the previous
week's training season could be reviewed and problems encountered resolved.
During the two remaining days VLEW would visit field trials, arrange any
special extension activities, or make up for visits missed because of illness
or holidays and complete office work. VLEW would maintain a chart showing
days for visiting each group, as well as the time and place of the meeting.
His supervisor, the AEO, would keep such charts for all VLEW supervised by
him. An example of a chart is shown below:
MON  TUE  WED  THU  FRI  SAT  SUN    MON  TUE  WED  THU  FRI  SAT  SUN
EXT                               TRA
1    2    3    4   TRA  VIS   H        5    6    7    8  AEO  VIS   H
1 - 8 = Farmers Groups visited
TRA   =  Training once a fortnight with SMS
EXT
VIs   =  Extra visits for checking field trials, office work, make up
visits due to holidays, illness, etc.
TRA
AEO   =  Group meeting once a fortnight with AEO.
H    =  Holiday
17.       It is neither possible nor necessary to attempt to reach all farmers
directly through extension work in the field. Many farmers are part-time,
others not accustomed to contacts with outside agencies, and yet others are
best influenced by neighbors or relatives. Under the guidance of supervisors
and in consultation with Panchayat heads and farmers themselves, VLEW would



ANNEX 2
Page 7
select about 10 contact farmers from within each group. Contact farmers would
be from all levels of village society, including share-croppers, and would be
selected for their potential influence on other farmers and their willingness
to collaborate with extension workers in following recommendations. Changes
in contact farmers could be made, especially between seasons, if they were
ineffective or if they so desired.  VLEW, during field visits, would make
special efforts to visit at least all contact farmers' fields and to convince
them to adopt recommendations on at least part of their fields. They, in turn,
would encourage others to follow their example and share the responsibility
of organizing and attending the afternoon meetings or any other group activity.
Their fields could be used as demonstration plots and for carrying out field
trials.
180       As extension efforts would be concentrated on selected farmers, so
would VLEW concentrate on the most important crops, focussing mainly on those
practices which bring the best economic results while making optimum use of
available resources. Initially, concentration would be on improving agricul-
tural practices and would include better land and seed bed preparation, im-
proved nursery maintenance, use of good seed, seed treatments, timely opera-
tions such as weeding and proper spacing of plants, etc. Thus, stress would
be on improved management practices rather than on increased use of purchased
inputs (such as fertilizer). In adopting better practices farmers face little
risk, but will be required to work harder. Since most small farmers have
surplus labor but little cash this fits their financial status well.
19.       Cultural practices requiring basic changes would often first be
recommended for adoption on a part of the land, and thus allow results to
be compared with traditional ones. Once farmers' yields and incomes increase
substantially so will confidence in VLEW grow and thus make farmers more
receptive to further advice. Simple improvements in cultural practices can
be introduced into an extension service quickly and without requiring an
elaborate, time-consuming screening and trial process. Thus, the extension
service can rapidly make that initial impact which will ensure its continued
success. Farmers, once convinced that they are capable, with the help of
extension workers, of increasing production and income by improved practices
will be willing to adopt more expensive (e.g. fertilizer, insecticides) and
more sophisticated (e.g. new varieties and crops) recommendations. Even
then, economic considerations will continue to be emphasized.
20.       To be fully effective, extension staff should not be involved in
physical handling and distribution of input supplies and credit requirements,
nor in the normal administrative and regulatory duties of Government. Spe-
cificallv, VLEW would not be called upon to collect dues on production credit.
These tasks would be reassigned to existing field staff such as Panchayat
sevaks, already in position and in sufficient strength.
Organizational and Technical Support
21.       General:  To ensure adequate supervision and training of VLEW, it
would be necessary to strengthen the administrative and technical staff.
Table One shows the number of existing staff and those required at various



ANNEX 2
Page 8
levels. The number of VLEW posts would remain at 8,980. Under the project,
975 AEO would be drawn from existing agricultural staff to provide field level
supervision and technical support and 148 new AEOs would be recruited over a
period of 5 years. Each AEO would supervise about 8 VLEW and would spend at
least 8 days every two weeks in the field so that each VLEW is supervised and
guided during his visits to farmers. He would vary the days of his visit to
each VLEW so that he would visit every farmers' group at least twice each
season. He would check that VLEW visits and meetings were carried out on
schedule and would assist both VLEW and farmers in technical matters. AEO
would also assist VLEW in carrying out demonstrations and simple trials.
Once every two weeks he would meet his VLEW as a group to reinforce lessons
of the previous week's training and suggest adjustments, if necessary. He
would join VLEW in their fortnightly training sessions with SMS (para 31).
22.       Staff supervising VLEW and AEO would know VLEW and AEO schedules of
visits and would be able to find out quickly and easily whether visits are
being made as planned, not only by making surprise visits to areas in which
VLEW and AEO are scheduled on particular days, but also by questioning farmers
about visit days, asking the name of the VLEW and AEO, messages learned, etc.
Experience shows that, once farmers become aware of the visit schedule, they
themselves actually become effective supervisors of the work of VLEW and AEO.
23.       A Subdivisional Agricultural Officer (SDAO) would supervise AEO
and VLEW under his jurisdiction and is in overall charge of training programs.
One SDAO can supervise effectively about 6-8 AEO. A number of Bihar's present
administrative subdivisions are so large that an SDAO might have several times
this number of AEO. Moreover, they would have too many VLEW for one team of
SMS to train effectively (para 33). Consequently, some 76 of the administra-
tive subdivisions will need an additional SDAO to keep the supervisory ratio
of 1 SDAO to 8 AEO. The District Agricultural Officer (DAO) will be respon-
sible for the operation of the extension system in his district and will
supervise SDAO.
24.       At divisional level, the existing Joint Director (JDA) would coor-
dinate activities in districts and subdivisions with the help of existing
staff. At headquarters, the Director of Agriculture would be assisted by an
Additional Director of Agriculture (Extension). This would be a new post
with full-time responsibility for supervising the extension service.
25.       Technical Support Staff.  To provide professional backing and
support at field level, three Subject Matter Specialists (SMS), (one special-
izing in field crops, another in plant protection and the third in training)
would support and train about 90-100 VLEW. They would spend about one-third
of their time on field visits with AEO and VLEW, helping them solve technical
problems. Each SMS would also spend about one-third of his time training
groups of VLEW once each fortnight. For the purpose of such training VLEW of
each subdivision would be divided into 2-4 groups of manageable size. The
remainder of SMS' time would be devoted to visits to and collaboration with
local research facilities (Field Trial Stations, etc.). SMS would play a
central role in developing local recommendations and in passing them on to



ANNEX 2
Page 9
AEO and VLEW at training sessions (para 37) and also would form a vital link
between research and extension. As it is not possible to provide more than
minimum technical support at subdivisional level, additional support would be
provided in each of the 31 agricultural districts, in the form of 5 senior and
better trained SMS, most probably concentrating on agronomy/water management,
plant protection and special crops. Existing District Agricultural Informa-
tion Officer or other SMS at district level would be responsible for adminis-
tration of training programs in the district, coordinating participation of
subdivisional SMS, SDAO, district SMS, and researchers in training activities
and in organizing and supervising the use of audio-visual aids and equipment.
26.       At headquarters level, the Additional Director (Extension) would
receive technical support from a team of four senior subject matter specialists
(one each in crop production, crop protection, water management and farming
systems). This specialists' team would be responsible for technical and pro-
fessional aspects of the service, including developing in-service training
programs for extension personnel, particularly SMS, maintaining close contact
with researchers both in Bihar, the rest of India and other countries, and
reviewing all technical recommendations to be made (See Annex 3).
Extension Staff Requirements
27.       The following table summarizes the number of available staff and
incremental staff required at each administrative level:
Total      Existing   Incremental
Post                    Required   Staff       Requirement
VLEW                     8,980       8,980         nil
AEO                      1,123         975          148
SMS (Subdivision)          228          92          136
SDAO                       157          76           81
SMS (District)             155          75           80
DAO & ADAO                  62          31           31
Zonal JDA                    7           7            -
SMS (HQ.)                    4           4            -
ADDL. DA (Extension)          1          -            I
Details of requirements by district and by year, are shown in Tables I and 2
of Annex 2. Salaries of additional staff required form part of total project
costs.
28.       Assurance has been given that suitably qualified persons could
be found for all positions. However, there is need for quick selection and
recruitment. SMS and specialists who would have a key role in training would
require immediate training as well. Furthermore, once trained and having
gained experience ways and means should be provided to advance them within
their professional and speciality areas.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
Salaries and Incentives
29.       Extension work as required under the project, would be carried out
under difficult conditions. Experience in similar projects has shown that
the entire staff would have to work much harder than in the past. Pay is
low, especially that of field level staff, and salary levels would not be
increased. The project would, however, provide for incentive payments field
staff. Rs 100 would be awarded to 25% of outstanding staff after each season.
Provision of some housing, motorcycles and bicycles would also provide added
incentive to field staff. To open an avenue for advancement of VLEW an-d ABO,
funds would be provided under the project to enable a number of VLEW and AEO
who have achieved outstanding performance in the field, to study at the Agri-
cultural University in order to obtain either degree level or graduate train-
ing and thus qualify for subsequent promotion. Individuals given these
scholarships would be bonded to the Directorate of Agriculture for a period of
four years after completion of training. As has been done in the past, some
exceptionally capable VLEW would be promoted on the job to AEO and similarly,
some AEO would be promoted to the position of SMS, after receiving appropriate
training.
In-Service Training
30.       General:  The proposed intensive extension approach is based primar-
ily on a visit by VLEW to each of 8 farmers' groups one day every two weeks.
VLEW, in turn receive one days training every two weeks. The entire system,
including that of adaptive research is geared to support this rigid schedule,
so that VLEW receive timely, relevant and meaningfull messages to pass on to
farmers, and that he is able to deliver them effectively. The system must
moreover be equipped to adapt itself to give answers to problems as they
arise. It is mainly through in-service training that these goals would be
achieved.
31.       VLEW Training:  The basic training unit would be a group of 30-40
VLEW. They would meet their AEO on a regular day, once in two weeks, in a
group, and receive instructions from subdivisional staff (SDAO and SMS),
supported if needed by district staff and research workers. At least every
other training session would be held where there are means for practical
application of lessons taught - a seed farm, an experimental station, or a
training center. Entire sub-divisional teams would devote 6-8 days in each
four-week period to training of VLEW and AEO.
32.       Training would be practically oriented and cover those farm opera-
tions most likely to arise over the next two-week period. Time would be
allowed for VLEW to actually carry out field operations. During training VLEW
would have a chance to raise and discuss problems which they had encountered
during the preceeding weeks. BDO, representatives of cooperatives, banks and
agro-services centres, irrigation engineers and all other staff participating
in agricultural activities would be invited to attend these sessions to ensure
coordination of related activities. Experience elsewhere has shown that these
fortnightly training sessions assist greatly in inter-departmental coordination.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
33.       Prior to each of the two main agricultural seasons, Rabi and Kharif,
VLEW would receive a 2-3 days' course covering the main crops grown during
the season and practices recommended for them. These courses would be held
at subdivisional or district level. Representatives from headquarters and,
particularly, from zonal and district levels £7 well as research workers from
zonal stations would also attend. These courses would initiate the extension
campaign for the coming season.
34.       Senior Staff Training.  AEO would attend all training sessions of
their VLEW given at block and subdivision/district level. At fortnightly
sessions at the block level, they would be expected to play an active role,
helping SMS in the training. In time, as they gain experience, they would
be expected to train VLEW themselves once every four weeks, thus taking the
load off subdivisional staff.
35.       Once every four weeks the District Agricultural Officer would hold
a 2-day meeting for his staff together with SDAO and Subdivisional SMS as well
as staff responsible for input supply and at least one AEO from each of the
district blocks. Trainers would be research workers from regional stations,
district specialists and occasionally subdivisional SMS themselves. Th-.ese
meetings would be held, like VLEW training meetings, on regular predetermined
days. They would, in fact, become organizational and professional semi.-ars
for district staff, in which progress would be reviewed and the coming %our-
week program planned and prepared.  The first day would be devoted mainl   to
technical subjects - lectures, discussions, review of research and field
trials, determining recommendations and trying to solve problems which have
arisen. During at least part of the second day, staff from each subdivi-
sion would work separately, planning in detail the coming month's program of
work. As at block meetings, all those from agencies involved in agricultural
development work at the district level would be encouraged to participate.
36.       Two pre-season training sessions would be held annually at the dis-
trict level for subdivisional staff and AEO. This course would be organized
by the DAO and his staff following the divisional workshops (para 39) and
approval of crop recommendations at State level.
Special Courses for the SMS
37.       The SMS play a critical role in providing training and technical
support to VLEW. Few existing SMS are well trained and special attention
will have to be given to SMS training to be sure they have the information
needed. Each year SMS would spend about one-third of their time working with
research staff and other sources. This would involve groups of SMS visiting
field trial stations, progressive farmers and RAU staff. In addition, SMS
should receive one or two weeks' intensive training each year in subjects
related to their specialty. These aspects of SMS work and training would be
coordinated at the district and headquarters levels. Training would also be
arranged at national institutes.



ANNEX 2
Page 12
38.       Special training opportunities would be provided for staff at all
levels, in addition to regular ongoing activities.  Short courses, ranging
from. one to several weeks' duration, would be organized at RAU or its campuses
and at research stations and substations, and would cover a variety of subjects
and crops.  Courses for VLEW would be held at Extension Training Centers.  The
Additional Director (ADA) , at State 1,ev  woald plan overall training needs;
and district DAO w7ould propose specific courses and would recommend candidates
£or participation.  Examples of such 2ourses would be:  "Economic Use of Fer-
Cilizers", for vLEW, duration 2 weeks, TMaking Local Farm Implements More
Effective", for subdivisional agronomists, duration one week; "Paddy Nurseries",
for AEO, duration 1-0 days; "Insect Control in SugarCane", Plant Protection in
Sugarcane9 the specialists, duration 4 weeks. Some specialized courses can be
organized to better advantage on all India basis, utilizing the best institu-
tions in the country. it is expected that the Commissioner for Extension in
GOI would plan and coordinate such training.
39.       The ADA (Extension) will be responsible for organizing the pre-
season workshoo for all staff at divisional, district and subdivisional levels,
and together with his group of senior Subject Matter Specialists would be
resDonsible also for organizing special short courses for SMS and other senior
staff,  The Agricultural Information Officer, under the direction of the DAO
and in consultation with the district and subdivisional SMS would be responsi-
ble for arranging training at the subdivisional level.  The costs of in-service
training form a part of total project costs.
40.       Thus the following activities would be scheduled:
Where held
Activity                 and number   F'requency   Duration  Participants
Pre-season               Division       `xea-^-    2-3 days  DAO, AIO, SMS,
FTS
Pre-se-son               District      2 x year    2-3 days  SDAO, AEO, SMS
31.
Pre-season               Subdivision  2 x year    2=3 days  VLEW
76
Monthly Prepar-ation    District       12 x year   2 days    SDAO, SMS, AEO
31
On- go-ing               Subdivlsio-   26 x vear       a day   VLEW
Speci al. courses        All India    As needed   1/2-3        SMS & above
as needed                  mouth



ANNEX 2
Page 13
Other Training
41.       Orientation Training.  All AEO will undergo Orientation Training
for a period of 3 days so that the new organization and methodology can be
fully understood and effectively implemented.
42        P-re-service Traiing.  SMS required at district level (see Table I)
would be recruited by promoting better PEO/PVP or M.Sc. graduates from the
Raeandra Agriculture University.  Also as PEO/PVP and SDAO would be of the
same rank and pay scale, the better aind senior PEO/PVP would be posted as
SDAO; and the more junior and M.Sc. graduates from Rajendra Agriculture
University would form the subdivision level SMS. Better AEO or fresh M.Sc.
graduates from Rajendra Agriculture University will also be promoted to the
post of SDAO or subdivisional level SMS.  Experienced VLEW and Agriculture
nspeccors who are agricultural graduates and new agricultural graduates would
.-.e ra-erLted to fill the AEO posts thus vacated.  About 1,000 agricultural
o-f the Rajend-ra Agriculture University are available at the moment.
Suclh ££ -w , recruited senior staff as would be required to fill the vacant AEO
posts wo-,£d be g-ivLen short supplemental training both in their fields of
specializatior. and in the approach to extension (Annex 2 Table 2).
43.       Refresher__Training,  A number of existing VLEW have had inade-
q-uate training. 'While the fortnightly training sessions will help overcome
these deficiencies, a somewhat longer refresher training course will be help-
ful.  In the initial years of the project, however, the other in-service and
pre-service training programs described above will necessarily have priority
and efforts should be concentrated on these programs. Once these programs are
going well then refresher training courses can begin and those VLEW most in
need oL such training would be identified. The program would be about 2 weeks
in duration and conducted by the Department of Extension Education.
44,       Upgrading courses for the AEO VLEW. A small number of scholarships
to RAU would be provided each year for extension staff who show exceptional
talent and for -whom such higher training could be necessary for further promo-
tions  About 10 AEC will be deputed every year for a two year M.Sc. course at
RAU while a similar number of ViEW will be sent every year for 4 years to
complete  he    Y. e e course3
Equipment and Materials Supportinig ERLeuiiIon O-perations
45.       Equipmen- wouild be provided under the project for the production of
publications, printing of diaries and preparation of audio-visual aids.  In
addition, duplicating machines and photographic services, materials and equip-
ment needed  Uv VLEW a:d AEf as de.        -c aids and for field trials and to
meet the needs of training and extensioi  work, would be provided.  Funds pro-
vided would cover incremental operating costs involved, and those of preparing
materials and aids for training sessions.
46.       A 16 mml projector along with accessories, generator, microphone,
screen and public speaking unit, would be provided for each of the 31 dis-
tricts.  This would be utilized for presenting frequent film and slide



A:NNEX 2
Page 14
shows, and used at group meetings in rural areas and for special extension
campaigns. Training equipment and demonstration material would also be
provided at each subdivision for the use of SHS.
Transportation and Mobility
47.       A key feature of the new extension methodology and its organization
is a requirement that the entire staff spend most of their time in the field.
Each week, VLEW would spend four days on pre-planned visits and a fifth day
on field trials, demonstrations and special duties. AEO would spend at
least four days a week with VLEW. SMS would be expected to devote two days
to field visits and two days to field trials each week. DAO, SDAO and ASDAO
would spend at least three days a week in the field.  Transportation is thus
crucial to the success of the program and is presently a serious constraint.
The project would provide for one 4-wheel station wagon at headquarters,
and 176 four-wheel drive vehicles at the district and subdivision at levels,
about 1123 motorcycles and 6735 bicycles. Motorcycles and bicycles would
be sold on credit to AEO and VLEW respectively.  Subdivisional level staff
would also be eligible for motorcycle loans.
48.       Lending terms of staff loans for purchase of motorcycles and bicycles
appear generally adequate but funds need to be allocated for these loans and
should be made available to all AEO and VIEW, regardless of length of service
or retirement date. There is at present no allowance for travel by motorcycle.
Project costs would include both the costs of additional vehicles, their
operating costs and incremental travel allowances.
Offices and Staff HouJsing
49.       It is important that extension workers live in their areas of
operation, or as close to the areas as possible. Under present conditions
hardly 10% of VIEW have their own accommodation or live with their relatives
and another 10% of them rent quarters near the4r area of operation. The proj-
ect would therefore provide quarters of a modest size for 25% of VTLEW and for
the remaining house rent allowances would be provided under the proj ect.  At
AEO level, quarters for 25% of AEO would be provided and for the remainder
house rent allowance pro-vided.
Evaluation and Monitoring
50.       The continuous and regular contact with farmers and which is built
into the extension system, provides the most rapid and effective evaluation
mechanism. Within a fortnight the extension service can know reactions of
farmers to specific recommendations. The inpact of such recommendations
on yields can be broadly assessed within one season.  Quantitative data on
field trials showing the impact of specific recommendations will be collected
and analyzed by the Adaptive Research Farms staff (Annex 3). Data on input
and credit use are available from the records of input supply and credit
agencies.  Overall trends in yields in project areas can be assessed from



ANNEX 2
Page 15
existing subdivision yield and production figures currently collected by
the Department of Economics and Statistics. Under the project the Department
of Agriculture's statistical cell would be strengthened to enable it to carry
out specific ad hoc studies as the need arisc; and to collate existing in-
formation from various sources (credit/input agencies, Department of Economics
& Statistics, etc.) and which bears on project performance. To provide an
independent assessment of the economic and social impact of the project, funds
would be provided for the Department of Agriculture to commission the Agro-
Economic Research Centre (or other reputable independent agency) to carry ouL
bench mark and assessment surveys identifying trends in farm income and its
distribution, on-farm employment and production costs. (See Annex 7 for
details.)



.AJNE   2
I N D I A                                                                  TABLE  1
BIRAR AGRICuLTjHRAL TXTRRSION & RESEARCH PROJECT
AGRICULTURA. TEXTENSION INaCRTTAL STAFF RI  IR&E8NTS
No.of Farmere    To.of VLWe'   AT0                         SID   AO                   S  T   S   (SD')       i                                                        H A    0    S   MS  (DJ>  Readquater
Districte      Families           required &   Requi- AvaiIA New   ,Requirej Avail-  New    Require-  A              Neail-. Nev  Require-' Avail   lew     Require,' Avail-   Addi. Direotox   V
available    red   ,able   requi- :ent        able  1requir&4  ment       able  1require.j meat       able   require-  meat         able
' rement 'ment   :meat                                                   .          ment  '___'___
fTanohi           356886              750        94      76     18       12.      4       8          15      1        14         2       1        1           5         25
Bhojpur           236813               220       27      45() 18          3        2      1           6     13   (-)7            2        1       1           5         13
Purne             3550860              510       64      64      -        8        3      5           9     13   (-)4            2       1        1           5         13
S;TA&ruA          361487              410        52      59() 8           6       3       3          12     t8   (-)6            2        1       1           5         1l
S. Parara         395909              660        83     66      1T       10        6      4          18.     -        18         2       I        1           5         25
Pohtae            222183              410        51      53  -)2          6        2      4           6      12  (_)6            2        1       1           5         12
E.  Qmpaxm       272738              330        41      44(-) 3          5        1      4           6     11   t-) 5           2        t       I           5         II
W. Chapaa         231809               280       35      40(-) 5          4        1      3           6      12  (_)6            2        1       1           5         12
latibar           156744              150        19      19      -        2        1      1           3      4   (-)t            2        1       1           5          4
Sin&hbnx          385764              340        49      59     10        6        3      3           9      -         9         2        1       1           5          4
Satan             226391              280        35      28      7        4        1      3           6      -         6         2        1       1           5         12
Siwaa             157068              220        27      22      5        3        1      2           3      -         3         2        1       1           5          7
Sa*etipur         280591               180       23      18      5        3        1      2           6       *        6         2        t        1          5          3
Copalganj         145344               160       20      16      4        3        1      2           5       -        3         2        1        t           5         6
Xu,etfazpur       280225              2200       25      21      4        3        1      2           6       1        5         2        I       1           5          ¶
Nrawe,ab          203271              140        18      14      4        2        1      1           3      -         3         2        1        1           5         4
Auiaagabad        22007t               200       25      20      5        3        1      2           6       -         6        2        1        1           5          8
Gaya              304048              570        46      37      9        6        3      5          12      -        12         2        1       1           5         13
Hasaribagh        187488              31O        39      31      8        5        2      3           9       -        9         2        1        1           5         -
Sitaamrhi         236785              300        37      13     24        5        1      4           6       -        6         2        1        I           5          5
Taebali           193609              230        29      15     14        4        1      3           5       -        3         2        1        1           5         2
Darbbhmga         246873              t90        24      20      4        3        1      2           6       1        5         2        1        1           5          2
Xn4bbaai          332435               260       32      27      5        4        1      3           6       1         5        2        1        1           5          3
Mongbrr           376277              350        44      33       9       6        3      3          12       -        12        2        1        1           5          9
Giridik           154476               230       31      23      6        4        1      3           6       -         6        2        1        I           5          -
Dh"be6d           80358                100       12      10      2        2        2      -           6       -         6        2        t        1           5
Pala.             1T74533              250       31      25       6       4        3      1           9       -         9        2        1        1           5          -
Bbhgalpur         262011               220       28      23      5        4        2      2            9      1         8        2        1        1           5         11
Patna             232046               290       36      33      3        4        4      0          12       4         8         2       1        1           5         15
Nalad.a           196t7t               230       29      23      6        4        1      3           6       -         6         2       t        I           5         11
B.geuaxei         135969               140       18      14       4       2        1      1           5       -         3         2       1        1           5          3
TOTAL          7577251            8980      1123    975    148       140       59     81         228      92      t56        62       31       31          155       250-/2
1/  Adjutniu.niate  OA id brough to i&teteal tranferr If required.
I2/  lt is esttnaed  ut oat of 250 PRO & P.Y.Ps 75 would barve necessary qualification to serve as SMS at the Distriot levl.
Remainig 80 SO W  will have to be  relted..
d/ Aadl. Diveotor will b  provided supportiag stff.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
I ND I A
BIHAI AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION & RESEIACI PROJECT
AGRICULTURE  EXTENSION STAV RJUIRMn BY YUEk.
1.        VLNJ                          1            2             3            4             5
1. Excistin
Yearly                    1890          1830          1430         2000         1830-
cumulative               1890           3720         5150          7150        8980
II.     Agriculture Extension Officer
txistiag
Yearly                     244           222          144           177          189
Culative                  244            466         610            787          975
New Staff Raggired
Yearly                     -             -            34            73           41
cwmlative                  -             -           34            107          148
III.    Sub-Divisional Officers & Addl, S.D.Os.
Existing
Yearly                     12            11            8            12           16
Czlative                  12             23          31             43           59
New Staff ReIuired
Yearly                    12            14           20            22           13
Camulative               12             26          46             68           81
IV.     Subiect Matter Specialists
Existing
Yearly                   45            39             1             2            5
COlatiwe                 45            84           85             87          92
New Staff Reguired
Yearly                     -           -             29            49           58
Cinlative                  -           -            29             78          136
V.     District Agriculture Officers & Add1  DAOs.
Existing
Yearly                     4            5             6             8            8
Cemlative                 4             9           15             23           31
Na Staff Reguired
Yearly                    4             5             6             8            8
elative                   4             9           15             23           31
VI.  District SubJtect Matter Swecilist
atiting
Yearly                    69           64            33            37           47
Clstive                  69           133          166            203          250
New Staff taeuirad
Yearly                    -           10            20            20           30
emulative                 -           10            30            50           80
VII. Headquarter Staff
Existin_ Addl. Director of
Agriculture                      N I L
NW Staff Rllired
Yearly                     1
Clative                   1             1            1              1            1



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
A. Background
1.        General.  Basic and applied agricultural research in Bihar is the
responsibility of the Rajendra Agricultural University (RAU) founded in 1970.
Field testing and local trials on farmers' fields remain with the State
Department of Agriculture which is also responsible for agricultural extension.
Thus to ensure a smooth flow of tested technology to farmers (and of farmers'
problems to research workers) close cooperation between RAU and the State
Department of Agriculture should be further encouraged.
2.        Agricultural Research Institutions.  RAU is a multi-campus teaching,
research and extension education institution. The main campus and head-
quarters is located at Pusa in the North Gangetic Plain area of Bihar and
with a subsidiary campus at Ranchi on the Southern Plateau. One agricultural
college at Sabour and one veterinary college at Patna are constituent parts
of RAU (for location see map).
3.        The agricultural part of RAU was formed by an amalgamation of the
three long-established agricultural colleges, two veterinary colleges, four
Regional Agricultural Research Institutes and the Sugarcane Research Institute
at Pusa, together with at least nine substations (for location see map).
These units were formerly under the control of the State Department of
Agriculture.
4.        The University offers undergraduate training in Agriculture and
Masters degree courses in the main specialized areas. The doctoral degree
course previously available in a few disciplines, has recently been discon-
tinued. There are substantial numbers of staff in post but coverage and
expertise between departments is uneven. Out of a total of about 360 staff
of the Faculty of Agriculture some 50 have Ph. D. degrees from outside Bihar
and about 30 staff members have received postgraduate training overseas.
5.        Research at RAU is under a Director of Research who reports to the
Vice-Chancellor. While this post has remained vacant for a long period
(shortly to be rectified), the work of the Agricultural Research Institutes
has remained under the control of four Regional Directors, three of whom
were also College Principals. The research programs are mainly formulated
at each Institute in consultation with the Heads of Departments; they are
implemented after approval by the State Research Planning Committee, of which



ANNEX 3
Page 2
the Vice-Chancellor is Chairman and on which the DOA is well represented.
This committee also puts forward proposals to the Crop Improvements Committee
(chaired by the Director of Agriculture) once new varieties or practices are
considered to have been adequately tested. If approved, they are incorporated
at an appropriate time into the list of recommended practices.
6.        Major discussions of research results also take place bi-annually
at three-day workshops, convened by the Department of Agriculture, held before
the Kharif and Rabi crops (Seasonal Workshop). These meetings may be preceeded
by discussions among smaller groups each dealing with a particular crop or sub-
ject. Recommendations arising from these meetings form the basis of practices
recommended for use during the coming season; they are usually issued as pack-
ages of practices. Workshops are attended by senior officers of the Directorate
of Agriculture, Irrigation Department, Cooperative Department, other supply
agencies and RAU specialists.
7.        The four Agricultural Research Institute now incorporated into RAU
were started in 1964 and so sited as to be representative of the four major
agroclimatic zones of the State.  Research results from work at thes-e locations
is of general applicability at zonal level. Even when smaller sub-stations
are used for further adaptive testing (field trials), the size of the State
and the effects of very small differences in topography on crop performance,
require that a much larger number of sites be used for trials, before s. ocific
practices can safely be recommended to farmers in a particular area.
8.        The greater part of funds for research at RAU comes from ICAR,
which finances almost 30 schemes in crop production. These include maize,
wheat, pulses, sugarcane, and rainfed crop production in upland areas. Very
little work would be possible without this form of support. Research staff
involved in these schemes participate in national seminars and workshops as
part of the overall program. GOB is the main source of funds for general
administration.
9.        Some support has also been received from external sources; for
example rice research has been supported by grants from the Ford Foundation.
RAU maintains close associations with national and international orga-
nizations involved in research on rice, wheat, maize, jute and pulses.
10.       ICAR maintains three regional commodity research sub-stations in
Bihar. These are at Patna (potatoes), Dholi/Pusa (tobacco with some wheat
and sugarcane) and at Ranchi (lac).
11.       Other institutes also do work of some relevance to agricultural
research. The Bihar Institute of Technology at Ranchi has done good work
on essential oils and medicinal plants.
Research Accomplishments
12.       General.  Very few scientific papers containing results of agri-
cultural research have been published by staff working in Bihar since 1970.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Some good work has been done, however, and the results have been incorporated
into the state extension recommendations. Coverage has been uneven, with
rice, wheat and maize breeding making up the greater part of the programme.
On some topics, such as upland cropping (dryland agriculture), work began
relatively recently, but already some results of immediate applicability have
been obtained; the major effect of liming on maize yi1elds on the Chotanagpur
Plateau is a good example.
13D       Cultivation practices:  general agronomy.  Novel results have not
been obtained from work in this field but basic practices now widely accepted
as near optimal for rice, wheat and maize have been shown to give good yields
when applied under controlled water conditions in Bihar.
14.       Improved varieties.  Several improved local varieties of paddy and
suited to the wide range of conditions found in Bihar have been produced.
The performance of one locally produced HYV compares favorably with that of
HYV's introduced in areas where these can be grown. Short duration open-
pollinated maize varieties have been produced for upland and flood-prone areas
and two non-photoperiod sensitive hybrids have been released for areas with
good drainage and assured water supply. Good work is in progress on wheat
and some promising lines have been approved for pre-release testing.
15.       Fertilizer requirements.  Major yield responses to nitrogen and
phosphate have been determined for paddy, maize, wheat and potatoes with the
latter crop also giving marked responses to potash. Zinc deficiency has
heen confirmed in some areas and yield responses have b&en obtained following
applications of zinc compounds on rice, maize and potatoes. Applications of
liming materials have been shown to give substantial and economic increases
in yield of several crops, especially maize, in tne southern Plateau region
(see para 20).
16.       Disease and pest control.  In general, standard pest control mea-
sures have been adapted to suit local conditions so that major outbreaks can
be prevented or contained.
17.       Irrigation agronomy:  water use.  Optimum frequency of irrigation
to produce maximum yields of rabi crops has been determined in general terms
-or the main soil types and the effects of sub-optimal frequencies on the
yield of paddy and wheat have been measured in a few areas.
18.       Farm machinery.  A number of bullock drawn mould board ploughs
have been designed and these have proved satisfactory when tested under
farm conditions. As yet they have not been manufactured and adopted on a
large scale because of the difficulty of meeting the strength/weight require-
ment using low-cost materials.  Improved handtools, particularly wheeled push
hoes, have also been designed. Work is well advanced on a new type of bullock
operated water lifting device.
19.       Horticulture.  The importance of adequate manuring in maintaining
mango yields and in improving quality in oranges has been demonstrated.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Several locally selected banana varieties, suitable for specific areas have
been identified and propagated. Varieties of potatoes suitable for late
Kharif and Rabi cropping have been released and a fully tested production
program recommended. A serious disease of chillies has been identified and
methods of control, using very few sprays, have been successfully used.
20.       Rainfed (Upland) Crops.  This work was started comparatively re-
cently and has been concentrated on maize, pulses and oilseeds growing on
sloping land and on paddy planted on terraced valleys within upland areas.
Major yield responses have been obtained with maize and paddy from applica-
tions of liming materials and of fertilizers on soils of the Southern Plateau.
Since there are local source of lime, basic slag and rock phosphate, there
should be a good opportunity to apply these results to farmers' fields.
Studies in agro-meteorology, aimed at assessing the probability of damage from
drought at particular time and in different areas of the Sourthern Plateau,
are well advanced. The results could help in risk avoidance in some crops.
21.       Present effectiveness.  Since its formation in 1970, RAU has not
been able to develop a vigorous applied research program in agriculture for
a variety of reasons. Of these, the lack of continuity at senior manage-
ment level (Vice-Chancellor and Director of Research) and consequent delays
in RAU's general development are probably the most important. Staff develop-
ment and training in reserach have been adversely affected and funds available
to meet day to day costs of research (except from ICAR sources) have been
seriously reduced. Nevertheless, several good lines of work are in progress
and a proportion of staff have maintained their enthusiasm for research des-
pite all problems.
22.       Research programs have, tended, however, to follow traditional
lines and to aim at maximizing yields paying little attention to farmer's
profits and minimizing risks. There is some evidence that this attitude is
changing and that efforts are being made to produce packages which fit
farmers' needs. This is particularly true of breeding work on rice, maize
and wheat where varieties with specific attributes, which would allow greater
flexibility (and risk avoidance) in cropping patterns, are being developed.
23.       Production of high yields utnder controlled water conditions using
high levels of inputs has been emphasized. This has been at the expense of
work on production under rainfed conditions or using minimal supplementary
irrigation. This imbalance needs to be rectified since, almost 70 percent of
farmers, have no control over drainage or do not have irrigation facilities.
24.       Organizationally there appears to be some weakness in the linkages
between RAU, ICAR units in Bihar and the Field Experiments Service of the
Department of Agriculture (see pare 25).
Field Experiments Service (Department of Agriculture)
25.       General.  The service, which was established in 1948, is not to be
transferred to RAU, and remains as part of the Department of Agriculture. The



ANNEX 3
Page 5
service has a headquarter office and soil testing laboratory together with
field experiments assistants in each Block, and who are under the adminis-
trative control of the DA0. The Field Experiments Specialist who heads the
service, is assisted at headquarters by three officers (Class II), one each
in field experiments, agronomy and statistics together nine assistant research
officers, seven junior research assistants, 20 computational staff and 31
supporting staff. The laboratories are reasonably well equipped. There are
about 640 field staff and 25 Agricultural Inspectors at District and Block
level.
26.       At present the service is concentrating on fertilizer trials in-
cluding use of organic manures and laid down in farmers' fields (this
includes variety and fertilizer interactions); the testing of soil samples
in connection with these experiments; the correlation of results of soil
analyses done in all soil testing laboratories in the State (16 in all) with
crop responses, and the carrying out of ICAR funded projects such as Model
Agronomic Experiments.
27.       Apart from the ICAR program, all experiments are designed in detail
at the Field Experiment Service's headquarters and all results are calculated
and assessed at that level. Each field assistant is expected to carry out
15 trials per crop season, thus several thousand trials are done in each of
the two main seasons.
Accomplishments
28.       General.  From the results of such a large number of trials and of
the more detailed Model Agronomic Experiments, clear trends emerge as to the
main nutrient responses which may be expected from the main crops grown on
different soil types. The main responses are to applications of nitrogen and
phosphate with smaller responses from potash, except on very sandy soils.
There is clear evidence of a response to trace elements especially of zinc
(as sulphate) on several major soil types. These response patterns are in
keeping with those found in other areas of the Gangetic Plains. As would be
expected there are major differences in response on different soil types and
correlations have been demonstrated between the levels of available phosphate
and potash in the soil and crop responses to these nutrients added in fertil-
izer application. The service has also carried out experiments in liming
materials with results similar to those mentioned in paragraph 15.
29.       Present effectiveness.  As with research at RAU, the work of the
Field Experiments Service has tended to follow traditional lines. As a con-
sequence undue emphasis has been placed on crop responses at high rates of
application of fertilizer using new varieties under better-than-average con-
ditions. Insufficient attention has been given to measuring the economic
benefits from lower doses of fertilizer in situations of higher risk. While
this imbalance is understandable (no worker enjoys reporting failures and
losses) it should be redressed in the interest of the majority of farmers
who work under high risk situations and may have only modest resources. This
weakness in the program is compounded by the lack of a sufficiently close



ANNEX 3
Page 6
working relationship between the staff and those of RAU, both in deciding on
work programs and in the evaluation of results.  it seems doubtful whether
there is a continuing need for such a large prog-am of fertilizer trials (as
opposed to demonstrations) now that there is substantial knowledge available
about the nutrient requirements of most crop-.
30.       While the collected result of many years trials give good guide-
lines as to the fertilizer needs of the main crops (para 28), detailed
examination of some sets of data brings to light some disturbing features.
The response patterns reported in certain experiments covering dispersed
replicates on as many as 30 sites, are sufficiently unusual as to merit
close scrutiny and repetition under carefully controlled conditions before
the results are finally accepted.
B. The Proposed Program
31.       General.  The proposed project would support reorgan-;t4--ra and
strengthening of the Field Experiments Service coupled with a brca-_-:         f
the scope of the experiments themselves.  Support for research (fieid t,ials
and demonstrations) at University level will be considered in a propose.
National Research Project.
32.       Program Goals.  The project would strengthen adaptive agriculturz;.
research to provide practical answers to farmers' problems. Efforts would
focus on paddy, maize and wheat in the context of cropping sequences under
both irrigated and rainfed conditions. It would pay particular attention
to increasing yields in areas not prone to flood or drought damage. It would
devise practical systems of increasing output under rainfed conditions in
both uplands and lowlands, with special emphasis on water conservation and
utilization of residual moisture at the end of the kharif seasons. Attention
would be paid to the development of packages at different inputs levels suit-
able for different sizes of farms, levels of farm management and risk-taking
capacity of different groups of farmers.
33.       The program would be developed on 36 existing State farms (one in
each of the 31 Districts with 5 additional farms in very large districts) and
through experiments on farmers' fields. The headquarters unit of the Field
Experiments Service would be strengthened to handle the new orientation of
the work program.
34.        The program would also strengthen coordination between research and
extension at local, district and State levels to facilitate the rapid spread
of tested technology to farmers.
35.       Program Components.  The project would provide:
(a) Civil works at 36 existing State farms and would include
stores and offices-cum-laboratories;



ANNEX 3
Page 7
(b) ecuipment and vehicles;
(c)  increases in professional and support staff;
(d) training fellowships; short term consultancies; and
(e)  incremental operating costs over the five year period.
Details of investment are given in Table 1-3.
ProDosed Initial Adaptive Research Activities
36.       Because of the lack of precise information of practices used by
farmers and on responses of crops to packages of practices recommended through
the State extension service at differing level of on-farm management, there
is a large amount of adaptive research which needs to be done. Even though
the intensity of basic and applied research needs to be increased there is an
increasing backlog of results awaiting local evaluation and adaption. In this
situation it is essential to select items of immediate potential for increas-
ing yields, decreasing cost or minimizing risks and to pursue them through
carefully controlled trials. While specific topics should be selected at
District level, so as to reflect the problems and opportunities of the Dis-
trict and could, in total, be numerous, broad guidelines for the initial
program would be:
(a) Cultivation Practices and General Agronomy. Development of low
cost techniques for improving crop growth through careful attention to land
preparation, choice of seed and seed treatment, seed-bed preparation and
seedling production, size and age of seedlings at transplanting, on sowing
date in relation to rainfall pattern, rate and time of application of fer-
tilizer, and placement of fertilizer. Crop protection measures and harvest-
ing methods would also be included.  Improved water management practices and
techniques to ensure effective utilization of rainfall in rainfed areas would
be emphasized.
(b) Use of Improved Varieties. Several improved and recommended
varieties of rice, maize, wheat and potatoes are available for most of the
agroclimatic regions of the State, but there is reluctance on the part of
the farmers to use these varieties except under irrigated conditions. The
program  would seek to determine the yield advantages which might reasonably
be expected from newer varieties and the overall behavior of varieties, under
a range of conditions on adaptive research farms and on farmers' fields.
During the course of this work, farmer attitudes to the adoption of new
varieties would be assessed and recorded.
(c) Pest, Disease and Weed Control. The routine application of
protective pest and disease control measures (except seed dressing) is un-
common on crops other than fruit. Remedial spraying, often with the support
of the Plant Protection Service is more general. The economic viability of



ANNEX 3
Page 8
some of recommendations for protective pest control measures has not been
assessed at farm level and this general subject would be taken up. Although
there is common agreement that weeds depress yields, quantitative data on the
effects of weeds on yields, the amount of hand labour needed to control them
and the economics of the use of herbicides in particular situations are not
available. These data would be collected, initially on the adaptive research
farms, and evaluated at headquarters (paragraph 36(e).
(d) Farm Implements. Testing of improved bullock implements, which
have been available for some years, would be undertaken. Specification of
modifications needed to meet local requirements would be attempted as would
the definition of new types of equipment which may be found to be needed in
new farming situation, e.g., moisture conservation practices in dryland
farming. The relative costs of traditional cultivation and different types
mechanized cultivation would be assessed in relation to the intensification
cropping patterns made possible by the availability of new short duration
,a: ay maturing varieties of some crops.
(e) 7arm management studies.  The economic evaluation of practices
cested at the adaptive research level would be undertaken by the agricultural
economist in the Monitoring and Evaluation unit.  Main activities would
initially be concentrated on the assessment of the economic benefits to be
derived from introducing low cost cultural practices.
37.       A Working Paper for use by GOB has been prepared by the mission,
setting out in more detail, and in order of priority for the first group of
Districts to be taken into the program, the subjects which would be included
in the adaptive research program.
C. Organization and Management
38.       The adaptive research program outlined above would be the respon-
sibility of the Head of ARS. He would be based (as now) at Departmental head-
quarters in Patna. The general management of the adaptive research farms at
DIstrict lavel would remain with the DAC, but responsibility for the adaptive
research program at the farm and for -.Le- Zie 1 d trials program would be the
responsibility of the Junior Assistaut Agronomist (JAA) (presently called
Agricultural Inspector).
39.       Formulation of the technical program for each Station would be done
by a group comprising the DAO, ADO, SMS's of RAU and the JAA; approval of the
program, before implementation, would be the responsibility of the Head of ARS.
40.       Coordination.  The essential features of the adaptive research pro-
gram are that it should be location specific and that it should provide the
link between agricultural research in the widest sense and agricultural exten-
sion. Hence, although the program would be consolidated and approved at State



ANNEX 3
Page 9
level, it is essential that it should be generated at District level while
taking full account of the latest research results. Coordination of work
of the adaptive research program with basic and applied research on the one
hand, and agricultural extension on the other, would be accomplished at State
and at District levels.
41.       At State level, the consolidated program, prepared by the Head of
ARS and approved by the Director of Agriculture, would be presented to the
existing State Research Planning Committee for comment. The approval of this
committee would not be required prior to implementation, since the Adaptive
Research Service would be an integral part of the Department of Agriculture.
Presentation at the six monthly meetings of the State Research Planning Com-
mittee for comment and discussion would, however, allow RAU and ICAR research
staff to make suggestions and raise any important issues. It is very unlikely
that substantive issues would arise at this stage since the individual items
in the consolidated program would already have been agreed at District level
(para. 42). Results from the previous season's work would already have been
presented for discussion at the departmentally organized Kharif or Rabi Work-
shop as appropriate.
42.       The main program components would, therefore, be generated at
District level. There, formal meetings would be held at six monthly intervals,
to finalize proposals for the coming crop season taking into account earlier
results at district level and new information flowing from research sources.
The District level Adaptive Research Committee would be chaired by the DAO
and would have JAA, of the adaptive research farm, as Secretary. Other members
would be the ADAO, district level SMSs', RAU research officers, as nominated
by the Director of Research with the approval of the Vice-Chancellor, and
officers of ICAR institutes located in the state, as appropriate. Since pro-
gram generation is a continuous process, it is expected that there would be
regular meetings of all the staff involved and that the bi-annual meetings
would be able to concentrate on formalizing proposals and recommendations for
submissions through the Regional JDA to the Head of ARS for consolidation and
approval.
D. Staffing and Fellowships
43.       At full development the staff of the Adaptive Research Service would
comprise 50 professionals of whom 14 would be additional staff. Of these,
36 would be on adaptive research farms. They would be given technical guidance
by the 155 District Level SMS who would have responsibilities in research as
well as in extension and training. Details are in Table 4 and 5.
44.       Fellowships of up to two months duration and to a total of 60 man-
months would be provided. These would allow staff of the Adaptive Research
Service, mainly from District level, to receive training outside the State
in addition to in-service training and training at RAU.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
45.       Short-term consultancies, two per year and of one month's duration
each, w~uld be provided so that scientists from India with experience of
adaptive research programs would advise on research programs before each of
the main cropping seasons.
E. Cost Estimates
46.       Estimated project cost would be Rs. 13.5 M (US$1.5 M) summarized as
follows:
I.      Capital Costs                             Thousand Rupees
A.  Buildings                                       1,606
B.  Equipment                                      2,127
C.  Vehicles                                       2,220
D.  Fellowships                                       120
E.  Short-term Consultants                            100
Subtotal:               6 ijTi
II.      Operating Costs
A.  Salaries & Allowances                          2,290
B.  Operating Expenses                             4,339
Subtotal:               7,329
GRAND TOTAL:           13,502
Details of these costs are given in Table 1-3.



ANNEX 3
Attachment 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Note on the Role of District Level Subject Matter Specialists
in Relation to the Criteria to be Used in their selection
1.        District level SMS are the key technical personnel in the whole
program since they are responsible for:
(a) recognizing problems at farm level and selecting appro-
priate solutions from amongst the recommended and approved
practices which are available;
(b) developing work programs on the District Adaptive Research
Farm aimed at adapting available technology to meet the
needs of the micro-agroecological regions found in the
District;
(c) keeping up-to-date with the results of State and
Regional level research, with the purpose of recognizing
those items of potential applicability; and
(d) regular training of subdivisional SMS and VLEWs in
practices most likely to produce favorable results in
each part of the district and with all main crops grown.
2.        It will be seen from para 1 that the team of SMS at district level
to be effective (the core staff would be an agronomist, extension training,
plant protection specialists, together with 2-5 others, depending on the needs
and cropping patterns of the district) would need to contain a blend of field
experience and up-to-date technical knowledge. Hence, in the selection of
a particular officer, it is not possible, therefore, to specify the exact
criteria which should be used. Nevertheless, most SMS should have a minimum
qualification of M.Sc. (Grade I) and preferably Ph.D., together with some
research and field experience relevant to the main crops with which they
will be concerned in the particular district.
3.        While it may be possible to give further training in specific fields
in which an officer may have limited knowledge and experience, short-term
training courses should not be regarded as a substitute for a very good level
of basic training with a research and teaching (extension) bias. For some
SMS e.g. in Plant Pathology or Entomology, a doctorate in the appropriate
subject may be regarded as essential.



ANNEX 3
Attachment 2
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Suggested Terms of Reference for the Consultant
Adaptive Research Programs
1.        The consultant will work with the Assistant Director (Adaptive
Research Service) to evolve work programs with a much wider scope than those
previously carried out by the service. To do this it will be necessary for
:lim to work at district level as well as at headquarters.
At the district level he will work wi-th the DAO, ADAO, SMS, and
the  siel  staff of the Adaptive Research Service to select a few items or
problems of local importance and priority for study on the District Adaptive
Research Farm and on Farmers' fields.
3.        While he would be expected to select specific items for study, his
main objective would be to assist in the development of the methodology of
adaptive research. This would involve recognition of problems and constraints
at farmer level, the possible role of available technological inputs in
increasing output under the identified constraints and experimental techniques
to measure the probable increases in output.
4.        In considering the technological potential for increasing output,
the consultant would take into account the risks from natural hazards of
flood and drought in specific districts.
5.        The consultant would take part, if requested, in the formal training
programs at District level, but his participation would inevitably be res-
tricted to individual lectures or discussion group meetings.
Qualifications
6.        Experience of the formulation and execution of adaptive research
programs at station and farm level is essential. It would also be a major
advantage if this experience had been gained in a monsoon area of predominantly
small farms and in which paddy and wheat were the main crops, and irrigation
was partl; availablee



ANNEX 3
I N D I A                                                   Appendix 1
Table    I
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION & RESEARCH PROJEC?
Cost Estimates
(Rs '000)
Y  E  A   R
1      2       3      4        5           Total
Civil Works
District Units   2/
Sub-total                       243.0   283.5  243.0   364.5   326.0         1.460.0
Sub-total                                 243.o   283.5  243.0   364.5   326.0          1,460.0
Physical Contingencies (10%)                       24.3    28.3   24.3    36.5    32.6           146.0
Total                                     257.3   311.8  26/.3   401.0   358.6           ,606.o
Equipment and Vehicles
District Units                                   678    791      678   1017       904      4068
Headquarters Unit                                 86       -       -      -        -          86
Sub-total                                 764    791      678   1017      904       4154
Physical Contingencies (10o)                      34      37       32     48       42        193
(Not on Vehicles)                             =__
Total:                                    798    828      710   1065      946       4347
Training and Fellowships
Fellowships 60 man/months
@ 2000 Rs. per month                              30      30       30     30       -         120
Consultancies 10 man/sonths
@ 10,000 Rs. per month                           20      20       20     20       20        100
Establishment costs (Incremental)
(a) Salaries: District Units                       150    325      475    721      977       2648
Headquarters Unit                    66      66       70      70      70        342
(b) Operating costs: District Units                240    520      760   1120    1440        4080
Headquaeters Unit                     10    10       10     10       10         50
Physical Contingencies (5% of                    13    27        39     57       73        209
operating cost)
Sub-Total                              263    557       809   1208    1600        4437
Total Establishment Costs                          479    948    1354   1978    2570          7329
Total:                                2180   2812    2943   4338    4621         16894
Physical Contingencies                              137    169      161    240      235        942
GRAND TOTAL                                   1,594   1,727  2,381  3,494  3,895    13,502
1/ Based on 6,7,6,9,8 stations to be equipped in years 1,2,3,4 and 5 respectively.
2/ See Table 2 and Table 4 for staffing.



ANKEX 3
Appendix 1
I N D I A                                           Table      2
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION & RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Coats for One District Unit
(Rs '000)
A.    CAPITAL AND EQUIPNENT                                                        Unit         No. of
Area                          Cost        Units
Civil Works                                 (H2)
Office/Store                               50                            15.5          1              15 g
Threshing floor                            50                            10.0          1              1l.e 
Garage/Storage                             50                           15             1              15
1/
Staff quarters
Junior Professional
Field staff
Others
Sub-Total                                                                                        4. 5
Physical contingencies (1O0)                                                                           4.0
Total                                                                                            44"5
EauiM.nt and Vehicles
Power tiller and trailer/
accessories                                                          30                            30
Meteorological equipment (set)                                           8                             8
Weighing,sampling, testing,
spraying                                                            15                             3
Vehicles - 4 wheel drive with
trailer                                                     60                            60
Sub-Total                                                                                      113
Physical contingencies (10%)                                                                           5
TOTAL                                                                                          118
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                          283
B.  OPERATING COSTS
Establisbment costs (incremental)
(a) Salaries: 3 Jr. Reasearch Assistants
vith allowances for 2 others                                                                   25
(b) Operating costs: office, transport,
trials                                                                            40
Physical contingencies                                                                               2
Sub-Total                                                                                      42
Total establishment costs                                                                           67
1/   The staff is expected to stay on the farm site.
Salaries for Junior Agronomists (for the whole FTS component) will be provided in
year 4(3) and year 5 (11) at Rs. 7,000 per person including allowances.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Table 3
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Costs for Headquarters Unit
(Rs '000)
Unit   No. of           Years   -
Civil Works                             Cost   Units   1   2   3   4   5  Total
Nil
Equipment and Vehicles
Office Equipment/Furniture                       -      20   -   -   -   -    20
Calculators                               3      2       6   -   -   -   -       6
Vehicle - 4 wheel drive
with trailer                   60     1       60   -   -   -   -    60
Sub-total                                               86                      86
Physical Contingencies                                   3                       3
Total                                               89                      89
Establishment Costs (incremental)
(a) Salaries: 3 Joint Director
with allowances                                  66  66  70  70  70   342
(b)  Operating Costs                                    10  10  10  10  10    50
Contingencies (5%)                                  1   1   1   1   1       5
Sub-total                                          11  11  11  11  11    55
Total Establishment Costs                          77  77  81  81  81   397
Total                                             162  76  80  80  80   478
Physical Contingencies                              4   1   1   1   1       8
GRAND TOTAL                                  166  77  81  81  81   486



ANNEX 3
Appendix I
Table 4
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Incremental Staff Requirements at District Level /a
Establishment  Total for  Available   Incremental
of One Unit      36 Unit   or Transfer    Staff
Professional Staff
Junior Assistant Agronomists    1               36           25            11
Junior Research Assistants
Agronomy                          1             36            -            36
Statistics                        1             36            -            36
Field Experiments                 1             36            -            36
Field Assistants: /b
on F.T.S.                    4            144          144             -
in District                  8            288         288              -
Others:
Clerk/Storekeeper            1             36            -            36
Vehicle Driver/Mechanic    1               36            -            36
18            648         457           191
/a   The staff of the FTS unit, station and field will receive technical
guidance from the District level S,.
Extra large Districts will have extra units: Santhal Pargana (2),
Ranchi (1), Hazaribagh (1), and Purnea (1).
/b   A projected surplus of about 200 staff at this level will be reduced
by normal wastage to about 50 by the end of year 5. These could be
absorbed in the FTS at that time.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Table 5
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Headquarter Staff of Adaptive Research Service
In Post    Incremental   Total
Professional Staff
Director, Field Testing Service                  1 I/a        -            1
Joint Director, Soil Chemist                     -            1            1
Joint Director, Agronomy                         -            1            1
Joint Director, Statistics                       -            1            1
Field Experiments Specialist                     I /a         -            1
Assistant Agronomist                             1            -            1
Chemist                                1           -            1
Field Experiment Specialist            1           -            I
Specialist
Support Staff
Assistant Research Officer
Chemistry                                        4            -           4
Statistics                                       I            -            I
Computors                                       20            -          20
Others:  Office                                 19            -           19
Laboratory                             12           -           12
TOTAL                           69            3           72
/a   The head of the unit is at present designated Field Experiment
Specialist in the revised scheme, this post will be upgraded.
The incremental salary involved has not been included in the
project costs.



AEU3
Appendix 1
I ND IA                                         Table 6
113*1 AIWLTUAL xc=    & BRMP
List of Preees    Favw. fo  ADSS
Distace
Ng" of the      Nam  of farm     frm district       Are          wltivble          Irrigation Coverage                      2
district                         bq. (FM)            ()          area (it)              (h)                       Buildings
Ihawif       RAbi
1                 2               3              4                                65           7                 8
Patna           S.H.Y.
PWapaM (Potahi)       10             20            18.40           10.80        4.80                 Nil
Nalanda         S.D.F.                                                                                                     1/
Bibarsharif            4             24           18.58            18.58        8.00              Complete
Gaya            S.M.F. Bodh-gaya      10             10             8.80            8.80        6.00               Complete
Navadba        District Farm
Nawvadh                5             35           32.40            28.00       22.00
Aurangabad      S.D.F. Biris           6              12           10.42            4.80        4.00
Bifojpur        S.D.F. Arrab           2             19            14.00           14.00        8.00
Rohtas          S.M.F. Dehri           8             10             7.20            3.20        3.20
Saran           S.M.F. Garkba         10             10             8.76            3.20        2.20
Sivaa           S.M.F. Nairva          6             lo             9.16            8.00        6.00
Gopalganj       S.M.F. Chawabe         5             20           15.52             9.07        7.26
S. Chmparan    District FaTu
Piprakothi             5            112          87.20             60.00       58.27
W. Champaran    S.M.F. Madhoptr        8             20           18.80            12.40        4.80                Nil
Itizaffarpur    S.M.F. Narauli        10              10           9.27             6.00        6.00                Nil
Vaishali        S.M.F. Hazipur         4             10            4.30             4.30        4.30             complete
Sitanarhi       S.D.F. Mrradpur        7             20           18.00            18.00        6.00                  "
Darbhangs       S.M.F. Bahadurpur      6             10            9.00             4.00        2.00             Complete
Madhubani       S.M.F. Pandaul        10             10            8.46             4.00        2.00                Nil
Sanetipur       S.M.F. Masina          3             17           14.95            14.80       14.80              In complete
Beguarai        S.D.F. Beguarai        4             19           16.54            14.10       14.10              Complete
Naashyr         District Farm
Monshyr                5             79           50.07              -           -                Complete
ihagalpur       S.M.F. Orhara         25             42           35.15            35.15        9.60               Nil
Santhalpargana  District Farm
Duea                   2             35           25.10            13.02        7.15              Complete
ii) S.D.F. Sahebsanjug  160             21          16.90              6.00        2.80             Complete
Saharna         District farm
Agwampor              10             42           32.00            16.00        8.00              Complete
PFrnes          i) Pwrusa city
farm                5             84          50.00            40.00        30.00            In complete
ii) S.D.F. Kishaugsni  45             20           18.40            8.00         8.00              Complete



ANNZX 3
Appendix 1
Table 6
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MTENSION & RESEARCH PROJUT                               (page 2)
List of Proposed Farms for ARS
Distance
Name of the      Nme of farm       from district        Area         Cultivable          Irrigation Coverage                        2/
d±Etrict                           hq. (KX)              (h)         area (h)                  (h)                       Buildings
Kharif        Rabi
1                 2                3                 4               5                6            7                     8
Katihar         S.D.F. Katibar         4                20            15.47               8.00          8.00              Complete
Hazaribagh      District farm
Hazaribagh             5                36            26                  2.00          1.60              Complete
G ridih         S.D.F. Giridih        14                19            13.60               6.00          2.40              Complete
Vaenbad         S.M.F, Saridhella       4               10             6.36               1.60          0.50              Complete
Ranchi        i) S.N.F. Berro         20                10             9.43               1.60          1.00               Yil
ii) S.D.F. Siudage      216                17            12.90               4.00          1.20              Comaplete
Palamau      i) S.M.F. Sigaiggi        6                10             7.80               0.40           -                 Nil
ii) S.D.F. Latehar        70                26            19.90               5.27          3.50              Complete
Singhbhum   i) S.Y.F. Chaibasa         3                 8             6.40              6.40           5.00              Complete
ii)  S.M.F. Bahragora    160                 10             8.90               6.00          4.00              Complete
1/ Proposed after discussion with Deputy Director of Agriculture, subject
to minor adjustment if needed by work program.
2/ A set of buildings has been provided for on all farms from mn-project sources.
These are sufficient to house all the normal farm activities and some staff.
Mo st farms have minor irrigation facilities.



AMNEX  4
i N D I A                                                Table  1
B ER ACRIC1L273HAL MaRNSION_& U8EMQH _PRDECZT
'I
Foreign           Taxes &
YEAR                           1          2          3          4          L       Total         EnR              Duties
I. Caital Coats
1, Offices & Buildicgs       6,69c68    6,47C,5   5,C7L74,3   7,073,0    6,486.7 31,601.0                           1,272.5
2. Equipmnt                     37.2       39.6      37z4         53.0      63M8      253.0                            10.1
3. Vehicles                   3,835.0    3,680,0   3,110.5     4,250.0   4,110.0  18,965.5        4,067.5           1,013.9
II. Operatina C ost,
1. Salaries (inre*eaentl)      234.2      434.2  1,217.2       2,897.7   4,370.2  9,153.5                             513.3
2. Allowances                  855.8    2.60  7  3,824.1    5,536.3    7,227.8  20,048.7
3. Offices                      69.3      3142.8    209.0        304. 5     412.7  1,138.3
4. Vehicles                     580.2    1,126.4   1,638.1     2,320.6   3,020.2   8,665.5          868.6           2,605.0
Total Extension              12,328.5 14,478.2 15,110.6    22,437.1  25,691-4  90,045.8
AGRICULTURAL TRAINIG
I.  Caital Costa
1. Equipment                  363.0      '74.0    357.5        500.5      54ti5   2,161,5                           86.5
II. Operatina Costs
1. Traiting Costs             207.9      395.9    420.5        501.4      491.4   2,017.1
Total Ag. Training            570.9      769.9     778.0     1,001.9   1,057.9  4,178.6
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH
1. Capital costs
1. Offices & Housing         267'3      311,.     2e7.3       4u1         358.6   1,t06O.                           7U.7
2. Equipment                  378.0      408.0    350.0         52510     460  2,127.0                             85.1
3. Vehiclas                  420.0       420.0    380.0        g40,0      480.0  2,220.0          555.0            W44.3
4. Fellowships                 30.0       30.0      30.0        30.0        -       120.0
5. Consultants (national)      20.0       20.0      20.0        20.0       20.0    100.0                            16.7
II. Operatinz Costs
1. Sslaries/Allowances        216,0      391.0    54.0         791.0    1,047.0   2,990.0                          16o.1
2. Officeas                    15.0       31.0     42,0         62.0       78.0    228.0
3, Trials                     114.0      245.0    359.0        529.0     "8803  1,;27.0
4. Vehicles                   134,0      281.0    408.0        598.0      76850   2,184.0         218.4            655.3
Total Adaptive Research        1,594.3    1,726.8   2,381.3    3,494.0    3,894.6 13,502.0
HOITORI26 & EVAILUATION
I. Capital Ceats
1. Nquipment/Vehicles         153.0       36.3      41-5        56.5       L8.3    346.0           73.4            22.0
II. Overatina Costs
1. Salaries/Allelanes         223.6      335.8    445.2        603.4      783,1  2,291.1                           a.5
2. Office, Transportation      29.4       29.4      29M4        29.4       29.4    147.o            8.4            25.2
3. Project Evaluation            -       100.0    100.0        W00M       100.0    400.0
Total Mon. & Evaluation         406.0      501.7    816.1        7i89,      971.0   3,284.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               14 899.7  17 h76.6  18 886 0    27 722.3  31,614.9 111,012.5        5,791.3          6,108.2
(icnl physical contingencies)    (760.5)    (708.9)   701.9)    (985.3)  (982.9) (4,229.5)              (18)
Price contingencies             1,601.5    3,148.5   5,391.9      9,465.0  13,434.5  33,056.4       1,710.0          2,107.6
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              16,501.2   20,025 1  24,277.6   37,162.3  45,099.4 144,068.9         7,519.3          8,215.8
-/ -o- d             -                =l        -#        -__           -                -_
1/ For details see Table 2-8



I N D I A                                                     Table   2 a
BUM  AGRICULTUlAL XXTENSIOt & USZARCEH PRJECT
Aericultrl Eltion
0(R a000)
UNITS  COST/       Yanr 1         Year 2         Year 3        Year 4        Year 5                     FWC      TSe   6
UNIT     No. Costs    No, Colts    No. Costs   No. Costs   No, CoUts                Toal         7.      Dglige 
I. CAPITAL COSTS
A.       ng            1/
1. ANO (cm office)           281   15.0    59   885.o    57   855.o    45  675.0  62    930.0   58   870.0              4,215.0
2. VLII )/                 2,245   11.0   473 5,203.o  147 5,Q27.0   358 3,918.0  o09 5.500:.0   4 16.0270            241.695,o
Sub-total                                     6,o88.0        5,882.0        4,613.o      6,430,o       5,897.O ,   28,910.0
contingencies (10O)                                608.8   _  _ 588.2            461.3        643.0       - 589.7      2.891.0_
TOTAL                                         6,696.8        6,470.2        5,074.3       7,073,0       6,486.7     31,801.0                  a
B. EeuiMeat (Offices)
1. District   2/              31     2.0    4         8.0    5      10.0    6      12.0    8      16.0   8      16.0        62.0
2. Sub-division  3/           76    2.0   14         28.0  13       26.0  11       22.0  17       34.0  21      42.0       152.0
3. Headqarters _/              1   16.0      1       16.0             -              -              -             -         16.0
Sub-total                                       52.0           36.0           34.0           50.0          58.0       230.0
Contingencies (101)                                   5.2            3.6            3.4            5.0           5.8        23.0
TOTAL                                           57.2           39.6           37.4           55.0          63.8       253.0                 8
C. Vehicles
1. Ieadquarters I/            1    60.0      1       60.0             -              -              -             -         60.0    25          13
2. Districts    6/           31    50.0      4      200.0    5     250.0    6    300.0    8    400.0   8    400.0        1,550.0    25          13
3. Sub-division  6/         145    50.0   29    1,450.0  27   1,350.0  24   1,200.0  32   1,600,0  33   1,650.0          7,250.0    25          13
4. Field Level
Notor cycles  7/    1,123      6.0  236    1,416.0  229   1,374.0  179   1,074.0  250   1,500.0  229  1,374.0      6,738.0    25          13
sicycles     7/    6,735       0.5  1,418     709.0 1,372    686.0 1073    536.5  1500    750.0  1372   686.0    3,367.5        5          8
TOTAL                                       3,835.0        3,660.0        3,110.5        4,250.0       4,110.0   18,965.5
GRAID TOTAL                                      10,589.0       10,169.8        8,222.2       11,378.0      10,660.5   51,o19.5
1/ For 25. of the staff.
2/ Furniture.
T/ Furniture.
4/ Includes furniture and Typewriter.
5/ 4-heel station wagon (Diesel).
6/ 4-4heel Drive (Diesel).
7/ For 757 of total staff.



AOXX 4
I N D I A                                                           Table  2 b
BIM  AGRICULTURAL mITENSION & RE8KARCa PNOJWCT
Agricultgl Ex ttension
(Na 000)
UNITS   CST/         Year             Year 2        Year 3          Year 4        Year 5                       FEC    Tsa &
_ IT       No.  Costs       No.  Costs   N6. Couts         o. ICosts   AMLo  CO-sta         Toal         7.       t
II *OERATING COSTS
A. Increnantal Salariss
1.  Naeatr
Add. Director            1     24.0        1     24.0      1      24.0     1    24.0      1    24.0       1    24.0        120.0                  20
Support Staffl/          1    42.2         1    42.2       1      42.2     1   42.2       1   42.2       1   42.2          211.0
2. DitriCt
Add, District AS. Officer 31   12.0        4     40.0      9     108.0   15  180.0    23   276.0    31   372.0             98.0                   15
Speialists  2t            s0   10.0                -                -             _      40   400.0    gO   800.0        1,200.0                 L5
3. SAb-Divisi
SD Ag. Officer          81     10.0       12    120.0    26      260.0   46  4U0.0    M6 0.0    81   810.0               2,230.0                 15
Spctialist  1I         136     10.0                         -       _     29   290.0     78   780.0   136 1,360,0        2,430.0                 15
4. Fieald oyo-
AO.                    148      6.5                -                -    34   221.0    107   693.5   140   962.0         1,878.5
TOTAL                                      234.2            434.2       1,217.2        2,69Y.7         4,370.2      9,153.5
B. Staff Allenees
1. Allowaes 4/            5/                           35.1             65.1         182.6          434.7           655.5      1,373.0
2. Ibneraria: Field Staff                              90.0            180.0         300.0          400.0           600.0      1,570,0
3. Nosing  Field staff 6/
VLW                  6,735     0.12   1,418    170.2  2,790    334.8  3,863  463.6   5,363  643.6   6,735  806.2        2,420.4
ABO                    842     0.24     177    42.5      349     63.8   483  115.9   . 671  161.0    842  202.1           "S..3
4. Travel allowance  7/                               518.0          1,941.0       2,762.0         3,87.0         4,2.0       14,080.0
TOTAL                                     855.8          2,604.7       3,824.1         5,536.3        7,227.8     20,048.7
C. Office O"rZtiz costs
1. Eeadqaarters   8 1              10.0        1     10.0      1      10.0     I    10.0      1    10.0       1    10.0         50.0
2  District  /               31      5.0        4     20.0      9      45.0   15    75.0    23   115.0    31   155.0            410.0
3. Sb-diatim   8/            76      3.0       12     36.0    27       81.0   38   114.0    55   165.0    76   228.0            624.0
s5b-total                                     66.0            136.0         199.0          290.0           393.0      1,04.0
Centingancies (5)                                   3.3              6.8          10,0           14.5            19.7         54.3
TOML          2/                              69.3            142.8         209.0           304.5          412.7      1,138.3
D. Vehicle DOpr tina Costs
1. aoedqarters                1     16.25       1     16.3      1      16.3     1    16.3       1    16.3      1    16.3         81.5
2. District                  36     16.25       4     65.0      9     146.3   15   243.8    23   373.8    31   503.8          1,332.7
3. Sub-division             145     16.25      29    471.3    56      910,1   80 1.300.0   112 1.820.0   145 2.356.3          6.857.7
Sub-total                                    552.6          1,072.7       1,560.1         2,210.1        2,876.4      8,271.9
Contingecies (57)                                  27.6             53.7          78.0           110.5          143.8        413.6
TOTAL                                        580.2          1,126.4       1,638.1         2,320.6        3,020.2      8,6.5.5         10       60
GRA2D TOTAL                                     1,739.5          4,306.1       6,88.4         11,059.1       15,,.030.9   39,026.0
III. CAPITAL AND OPZUTIW: COSTS                           Juaft" L.       ,.1AL           1A.L          ..ZHAL          ALA2f&L   .2iAL
1/ Incledes: Su.riatendent Accotnts, UDC (3), Typist (2), Stengrapher (1), Driver (1), Peor. (2).
I/ See AnRen  2 for detail.
3/ See Annex 2 for details.
4/ 153  on base salary.
5/ 57 of total base salary of *11 project staff to be distributed mong 257. of all staff; twice a year Re. 100 per staff mmber.
R/ e. 10/month for VLW, Re. 20/month for AMO.
7/ Depending an perdien ; average travel tire 15-20 days per month.
8/ For stationary, telepbone, postage etc.
9/ 25,000 km/year e Re. 0.65/k.



AM= 4
I  D IA                                                       Table  3
BIHAR AGRICULTUl KTDENSION & RUSEACf  PROJWr
A ricultural Training
(Re 000)
UNITS    COST/       Year I         Year 2         Year 3         Yur 4         Yer 5                      *lC    TaM&
UNIT      No. Costs           co. Cts    _1D. Costs    no. Costa    No. Costs        Total -
I. CAPITAL COSTS
1. Uoadqulterv                  I      50.0            20.0            20.0           10.0            -             -          50.0
2. District -/ V               31      25.0       4   100.0      5   125.0       6  150.0       8   200.0     8  200.0        775.0
3. Sub-Division                76      15.0      14  210.0    13   195.0    11  165.0    17  255.0   21  315.0              1,140.0
Sub-total                                    330.0           340.0          325.0          455.0        515.0      1,965.0
Contingencies (102)                                33.0            34.0           32.5           45.5         51.5        196.5
Total                                        363.0           374.0          357.5          500.5        566.5      2,161.5                 .8
II. OPSATIG COSTS
T-rei-M         4/
1. Sesior Staff         5/4 days        0.1      90    9.0    90        9.0    l00   10.0   150    15.0  200   20.0            63.0
2. RAfresb&r Course (IM.)6/14 days      0.25    300    75.0   250      62.5   350    87.5   300    75.0           75.0        375.0
3. Up-grading Courem(AO) _  K/T         5.0      10   50.0    20   100.0    20  100.0    20  100.0   20  100.0                450.0
4, Up-grading Course(VLSW)  HIT         4.0      10   40.0    20    80.0    30   120.0    40   160.0   40  160.0              560.0
5. "eil Course (SII) £/  )/Io           3.0       -      -      30    90.0    30   90.0    30   90.0   30  90.0               360.0
6. Oritenttisa (ASO)       3 days       0.1    240    24.0   230       23.0   1SO    18.0   250    25.0  230   23.0           113.0
Slb-2toa                                     198.0           377.0          400.5          477.5        468.0      1,921.0
Contingencies (52)                                   9.9            13.9           20.0           23.9         23.4         96.1
TOTAL                                        207.9           395.9          420.5          501.4        491.4      2,017.1
Ill. CAI9AL AID OPSUATMs COSTS                              570.9           769.9          778.0        1,001.9      1,057.9      4,178.6
It Include: Photo5raphic SquiPuaot (PR. 10,000), Calculator (Rn. 3,000), Dtplisaahr (Rs. 5,000),
Slide projector (Ra. 7,000), books ad periodicals.
2/ Iawo a:  16 a, projector with accessories (am. 9,000); GeC raor (Rs. 6,300), Bleak board,
Flenael Board, Pastors, Ch3arts, Files, DepTlicator (Ra. 5,000).
3/ InelwAce:  Buplienter (is. 5,000), Black boards,Flannel boerd, Postors, Charts, other small item.
a/ d.ianrtars, districtu, eub-division.
1I For 8}! sod AF0,
j/ IUSe-Osmra 2 years: 10 persons per year
7/ 11a-Coarse 4 ysers: 10 persons par >aar
if  In ustieoaal  iraatRiona.



A     4
I N D I A                                                       Table 4
BTIAR AGRICULTUAL 8YTNSION & RZSIARC( PR_OICI
ACi2152;earcarh
UNIITS  COST/       Year I       Y"r 2          Year 3         Year 4        Year 5                       FIC      Teas &
UNIT     No. Comes    no.  Coats          No,. Cott   No. Costa                     Totel          S       DUties X
I. CAPITAL COSTS
A. Cidl llrka
1. Office/Sterage           36    4o0.5      6 243.0        7    28&3-5    6-2434L    92  364.5    8  326.0           1,460.0
Sub-total                                 243.0       _     235    _      243.o         361,&5 _     t326.nl-   ,460.0
coatia.nciea (10O)                            a34.3             28.3         2IL.3          36.5         32          11,6.0
TOTAL.                                    267.3             311.8        267.3          40I.0       358.6       1,606.0                    8
B . eed_ ut
1. ReadqarCtrs               1    26.0       1    26.0             _             _              _             -          26.0
2. District                 36    53.0       6   318.0      7   371.0      6  318.0       9  477.0     8   424.0    1.908.0
Sub-total                                   344.0         371.0          318.0         477.0          424.0    1,934.0
CaGtiagemccl  (101)                             34.0           37.0          32.0           48.0          42.0       193.0
TOAL                                        378.0         408.0          350.0         525.0          464.0    2,127.0                     8
C. Vuile.
1. seiqu.tet                 1    60.0       1      60.0                         -              -             -          60.0
2. KetU*                    34    60.0       4    340.0     7   420.0      6  360.0       9  540.0      8   480.0    2.160.0
IWIAL                                       420.0         420.0          360.0         540.0          480.0    2,220.0         25         13
3. ZIMLMAIIm
1. pe11 _1pa                 0 N/s 2.0    is       30.0   13    30.0    15   30.0    15   30.0          -      -        120.0
1. csaelt.a (aatiaal)    10 U/I 10.0         2     20.0    2    20.0        2   20.0      2   20.0      2    20.0       100.0
TomAx.                                       50.0          50.0           50.0          50.0           20.0       220.0                   30
asm TOT"                         ~~~~~1,115.3   1,189.8        1,027.3       1,516.0        1,321&.6    6,173.0
II. CiS1C 
A. Sa1a"iaa/A11mes
1. Eeaqurtrs                                       66.0          66.0           70.0          70.0           70.0       342.0                   20
2. Distriet                                       150.0         325.0         475.0          721.0          977.0    2,648.0                    10
TOMAL                                       216.0         391.0          545.0         791.0        1,047.0    2,990.0
S. 9t/tQ          Uzeensel
1. eadquartars              1      2.0      1       2.0    1      2.0      1    2.0      1    2.0      1      2.0        10.0
2. District                36      2.0      6      12.0   13    26.0    19   38.0    28   56.0   36    72.0            204 .0
3. Trials                  36    18.0       6    108.0   13   234.0    19  342.0    28  504.0   36   648.0    1,836.0
4. !aLitlea
rIdqmarters              1     8.0      1       8.0    I      8.0      1    8.0       1    8.0     1      8.0        40.0         10        60
Distrcat                36    20.0      6    120.0   13   260.0    19  380.0    28  560.0   36   720.0    2,040.0                 10        60
Sob-tetal                                  250.0         530.0          770.0        1,130.0       1,450.0    4,130.0
Coatiuenet.s (51)                               13.0          27.0           39.0          57.0           73.0       209.0
TOAL                                       263.0         557.0          809.0        1,187.0        1,523.0    4,339.0
CaD TOTAL                                      479.0         948.0        1,354.0        1,978.0       2,570.0    7,329.0
III. CU  TAL AND OERATfS  COSTS                        _1,594.-3         26.8       j                             39L.6   213,502.0
/ Se Annex 3 far details.



A1H   4
Table  5
UHMs At:RICULTAL KITENSlON & RESEAPRLa R0CT
Project Monitorinx and Eveluation
(RS '000)
UNIT   COST/          Year 1          Year 2         Year 3        Year 4        Year 5                     FEC     TexAs &
-     2     -       a_I Ne   . CoatsNo   Cot    -# o. Costa                      d      o     ...Co1 ._L _M%uL
I.  CAPIUL COSTS
A. i_nt           1/
Headquarters               1       22.0              22.0            -              -              -             -        22.0                     a
B . Vehicles
1. Eeadquarters              2       50.0       2    100.0             _              _              _              _      100.0         25         13
2. District (motorcycles)    31       6.0       4      24.0    5   30.0       6    36.0      8   46.0       8    4U.0      186.0         25         13
3. Sub-division (Bicycles)  76        0.5      14       7.0   13    6.5    11        5.5   17    8.5    21    10.5          38.0          5          8
Total                                              153.0         36.5            41.5          56.5            58.5     346.0
II. OPUATING COSTS
A. Salaries
1. HAozdorterer
Sr. AS. Ecomist         1      16.0               16.0          16.0           16.0          16.0            16.0      80.0                    20
Sesearek Officer         2      12.0               24.0          24.0           24.0          24.0            24.0    120.0                     15
Farm Eanag. Spec.        1      12.0               12.0          12.0           12.0          12.0            12.0      60.0                    15
Sr. statist. Assistant   2       6.5               13.0          13.0           13.o          13.0            13.0      63.0
Support Staff            1      25.2               25.2          25.2           25.2          25.2            25.2    126.0
2. Sistrict                                                                                                       -
Sr. Statistical Aset.   31       6.5        4      26.0     9   58.5    15    97.5   23  149.5    31   261.5    533.0
3. Sub-Division
Investigators           76       3.6       14      50.4   27   97.2    38   136.8   55  198.0    76    273.6    756.0
Total                                             166.6         245.9          324.5         437.7           565.3  1.740.0
B. Allowances    2/
1. Allowances                                           25.0          36.9           48.7          65.7            84.8    261.1
2. Travel  /                                            32.0          53.0           72.0        100 .0            33.0    390.0
Total                                             37.0            89.9          120.7        165.7           783.1  2,391.1
C. Office/Vehicles                2       8.0        2      16.0    2      16.0    2     16.0     2   16.0       2    16.0       80.0        10          60
1. Vehicles 4/
2. Headquarters office        1      12.0        1      12.0   1       12.0    1     12.0     1    12.0      1    12.0       60.0
Sub-total                                          28.0           28.0          28.0          28.0            28.0    140.0
Contingencies (52)                                    1.4            1.4           1.4           1.4             1.4       7.0
TOTAL                                              29.4           29.4          29.4          29.4            29.4    147.0
D. External Evaluation                                        -           100.0          100.0        100.0           100.0    400.0
GRAND TOTAL                                          253.0          465.2         574.6         732.8            912.5  2.938.1
III.  CAPITAL AND OPERATING COSTS                             406.0          501.7         616.1         789.3           971.0  3,284.1
1/ Office equipoent, typewriters (2), calculators (2), furniture.
2/ 15 2. of salary.
3/ Based 15-20 days travel per nonth.
4/ Based on 12,000 km ( R. 0.65/km.
Plus contingencies.



"I   D I A                                         ANNEX  4
Table 6
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION & RESEARCH PROJECT
Price Contingencies
(Rs 000O)
Year  1        Year 2         Year 3        Year 4         Year 5           TOTAL
I/
Civil Works               7,000.0        6,782.2        5,340.6      7,474.0         6,845.3        33,442.1
2/
Contingencies               799.7        1,280.6        2,172.9      3,096.2         3,761.1        11,110.5
TOTAL                 71797.7        8,062.8       7,513.5      10,570.2       10 606.4 44,552.6
Equipment & Vehicles      5,206.2        4,938.1       4,256.9       5,927.0         5,744.8        26,073.0
Contingencies               552.7          901.3        1,127.5      2,087.4         2,570.3          7,239.2
TOTAL                 5,758.9        5,839.4       5,384.4       8,014.4         8,315.1        33,312.2
1/
Establishment              2,729.4       6,167.2        9,287.5     14,321.3        19,024.8         51,530.2
Contingencies                249.1         966.6        2,091.5      4,276.4         7,153.1         14,736.7
TOTAL                2,978.5        7,133.8      11,379.0      18,597.7        26,177.9        66,266.9
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES       1,601.5        3,146.5        5,391.9      9,460.0        13,484.5         33,086.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS      16,535.1       21,036.0       24,276.9     37,183.3        45,099.7       144,068.0
1/ Includes physical contingencies.
2/  4 % for rest of 1977 and 8 % from 1978 onwards, which corresponds to about 127%, 21%, 31Z,42%, 53% for years I through 5-
3/  3.5 % for rest of 1977 and 7 % from 1978 onwards, which corresponds to about 11%,18%,277.,367,, 45% for years I through 5.
4/  3 7 for rest of 1977 and 6% from 1978 onwards, which corresponds to about 9%, 16%, 23%, 307., 337. for years 1 tlrough 5.



ANNEX 5
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements /a
(US$ M)
IDA Fiscal Year
and                                   Disbursements
Quarter                        In Quarter           Cumulative
FY 1979
3rd /b                              0.1                  0.1
4th                                 0.2                 0.3
FY 1980
1st                                 0.3                 0.6
2nd                                 0.4                  1.0
3rd                                 0.3                  1.3
4th                                 0.3                  1.6
FY 1981
lst                                0.3                  1.9
2nd                                 0.3                  2.2
3rd                                 0.3                  2.5
4th                                 0.3                 2.8
FY 1982
Ist                                 0.3                 3.1
2nd                                 0.4                 3.5
3rd                                 0.5                 4.0
4th                                 0.5                 4.5
FY 1983
1st                                0.5                  5.0
2nd                                 0.6                 5.6
3rd                                 0.6                 6.2
4th                                 0.6                 6.8
FY 1984
Ist                                0.6                  7.6
2nd Ic                              0.6                  8.0
/a   Calculations based on Annex 4 and 6.  Assuming 1-2 quarter
lags in disbursements.
/b   Estimated date of effectiveness March 31, 1978.
/c   Estimated closing date October 31, 1983.



ANNEX 6
Schedule 1
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Cumulative Staff Appointments
A.   EXTENSION                                       Years ---------    Total
Require-
Headquarters                       1     2      3     4      5      ments
Additional Director                1     1      1     1      1       (1)
Supporting Staff                  10    10    10    10    10        (10)
District Level
Additional District
Agricultural Officer             4     9    15    23    31        (31)
Subject Matter Specialists         -    10    30    50    80       (155)
Sub-Divisional Level
Sub-Divisional Agricultural
Officers and Additional DAOs  12    14    20    22    81         (140)
Subject Matter Specialists         -     -    29    78   136       (228)
Block Level
AEO                                -           34   107   148   (1,123)
VLEW                               _-    -                 -    (8,890)
B.   MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Headquarter
Senior Agricultural Economist    1       1      1     1         1
Supporting Staff                  14    14    14    14         14
District Level
Senior Statistical Assistants    4       9    15    23         31
Sub-Divisional Level
Investigators                     14    27    38    55         76



ANNEX 6
Schedule 1
Page 2
------------  Years…----------    Total
Require-
1     2     3     4     5      ments
C.   ADAPTIVE RESEARCH SERVICE
Headquarter
Head of Service                   1     1     1     1      1
Supporting Staff                  3     3     3     3      3
(Professional)
District Level (Adaptive
Research Farms)
Professionals                     -     -     -     3    11
Supporting Staff                 30    65    95   140   180



INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Implementation Schedule (Extension)
PRE-
PRE-BOARD          EFFECTIVE-       ------------------Month after Effectiveness------- -------
ITEM                          PRESENTATION        NESS             1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19,20,21,22,23
Buildings &
Equipment
Site Selection
Land Acquisition (if any)
Prepare Tender
Start Construction
Prepare Tender for:
Vehicles                                                                        -
Equipment                                                                       -
Procurement
Staff
Appoint ADA (EXT)
Appoint ADOA, SDAO
Selection of SMS
Selection of AEO
Project Monitoring
Selection of Staff
Appoint Staff
Project Evaluation
Initiate design of                                                                                                                 S
Base Surveys
Data Collection



IND IA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Implementation Schedule   (Adaptive Research Service)
PRE-
PRE-BOARD         EFFECTIVE              -       Month after Effectiveness-------------
ITEM                          PRESENTATION       NESS             1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19,20,
Buildings &
Equipment
Site Selection
Land Acquisition
Specifications
Prepare Tender
Start Construction
Prepare Tender for:
Vehicles
Equipment
Purchase of Vehicles                                                  __-___ _ _ _ __ _
& Equipment
Staff
Appoint ADA (ARS)
Appoint
Professional (ARS)
Select ARS Farm Teams
Appoint                                                                                                                     P1x
Professional Staff 1/                                                                                                     a\
(District)
1/ In year 4 and 5 only



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.        The project seeks to reorganize and strengthen agricultural exten-
sion and adaptive research services in Bihar and to generate and bring proven
agricultural practices to a larger number of farmers thereby increasing their
productivity and income. An integral part of the project would be the estab-
lishment of a monitoring and evaluation system to: ensure that the extension
and inputs organizations are operating efficiently, enable project management
to undertake corrective action when necessary, and to assess the impact of
the project on the target group. In order to promote uniformity of monitoring
and evaluation of the proposed and of similar projects in other states, GOI,
concerned states and IDA have worked out detailed monitoring and evaluation
procedures. The following outlines the broad pinciples contained in a report
on monitoring and evaluation and has been discussed with GOI and GOB; details
would be finalized and agreed during negotiations. A provision of Rs 3.3 mil-
lion has been included in project costs to carry out such monitoring and
evaluation (Annex 4, Table 5).
2.        The data generation system in an Extension and Research project is
composed basically of two main parts: (a) the functional reporting from
lower to upper levels of the administrative structure, which is often called
"internal reporting," and (b) the set of special monitoring and evaluation
studies and surveys which generate information supplemental to the normal
reporting and which is sometimes called "external" monitoring and evaluation.
While the present report is concerned essentially with setting up the "b"
part, it fully recognizes the crucial importance of a sound reporting system
as an information lifeline for project management.
3.        Internal Reporting.  Project Management should be put in the best
position to integrate the information received through the reporting channels
with the information produced by the monitoring studies and surveys and to
guide the so-called "external" monitoring towards checking, supplementing
and/or deepening the critical information signals received through the
reporting system. The reporting system itself should be strengthened and
streamlined so as to facilitate a smooth and rapid flow of management
information.
4.        It is desirable that the introduction of the T & V system gives the
occasion, in each State Department of Agriculture, for a thorough review
of existing routine reporting patterns on the overall agricultural activities,
with a view of relieving district and regional staff from redundant and un-
necessary report writing and freeing managment from excessive report absorb-
tion. For instance, the Government of West Bengal, with the technical assis-
tance of Mr. Benor, has embarked recently on an effort to cut down reporting



ANNEX 7
Page 2
requirements in agriculture. From the some 1,450 reports routinely asked
annually from each district in agriculture (including weather conditions) the
number is being cut down to about 350. Experiments with the new formats are
in process.
5.        An outstanding characteristic of the T & V extension organization
is its built-in monitoring, which practically co-opts beneficiary farmers into
the monitoring mechanism. Keeping paperwork at a minimum is a fundamental
principle. The main record at the grass roots level is the Diary of the
Village Extension Worker. The T & V system normally uses oral reporting at
the lower levels, and switches to written reporting only at the higher func-
tional levels of the extension service. These rules should never be altered
by requesting written routine reports from the field level staff.
6.        The Agricultural Extension and Research Projects provide resources
for expanding extension staff and facilities and for developing the network of
applied agricultural research centers (research staff, civil works, fellow-
ships, equipment etc.). The monitoring of the timely and effective use of the
project inputs should be carried out through the internal functional reporting
s-stem of the Department of Agriculture. There is no need for the Evaluation
Unit to get involved in this process. Functional managers at different levels
(SDAOs and DAOs) would report on a monthly basis to the Director of Agriculture
about these and other items. The Research Units would report on their activi-
ties, as agreed, to the Directorate of Agriculture as well.  Normal functioie1
supervision would be exercised. Accounting procedures are established for
reporting on consumption of financial resources provided under the project.
7.        External Reporting.  For the purpose of centralization at state level
of district information on staffing and equipment, as well as for semi-annual
reporting to the Bank on state of projects, a proforma for semi-annual progress
reports is proposed (Annex 4 of full report). The proforma would contain
quantitative information on progress in territorial coverage by the reorganized
extension service, on staff recruitment and training, on building of functional
and residential facilities and on provision of transportation equipment. A
similar proforma can be used for reporting on physical developments in the
research components.
8.        If, in addition to extension and research, the project contains
other components as well, appropriate headings would be incorporated in the
proforma for the semi-annual reports. This refers, for instance, to such com-
ponents as the small irrigation schemes in the Assam Project.
9.        As soon as the m/e surveys and ad hoc studies will pass through the
testing phase and will start producing regularly substantive information,
appropriate summarizing columns should be introduced into the proforma for
the semi-annual report. These columns should report on achieved intensity of
coverage of contact farmers, actual frequency of visits, proportion of accepted
practics, etc. A qualitative analysis of the overall progress should be
appended to the statistical proforma, which would thus inlcude the survey find-
ings which can be tabulated and quantified in the proforma.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
10.       The VEW Diary.  The main record at the field level is the Diary of
the Village Extension Worker. Though the usefulness of the diary as a self-
monitoring and internal reporting tool is very significant, there are also
some shortcomings:  (1) there is no attempt to process and aggregate the
primary information contained in the diaries for systematic monitoring or
evaluation studies; and (2) the current format of the diary permits redundancy,
while omitting some important information.  The diaries are only periodically
checked by the AOEs or SDEOs, but never synthesized.
II.       The report monitoring function of the diary can be enhanced by
improving its format and uses. First, there is no need to use the space of
the diary and the VEW's time to repeat 8 times the same list of subjects on
which he imparts information during one fortnight to the 8 farmer groups he
visits, unless the subjects are really different. More space should be
provided for recording the issues or requests raised by the farmers. Clear
instructions should be given that the VEW records each week only the names
of contact farmers he visited and did find in the village or field, and not
simply list in his diary all the contact farmers who he is supposed to meet
in the village. Since the diaries are to be printed by the Department of
Agriculture, it would be desirable to have one page with printed instructions
as to the keeping of the diary.
12.        More systematic aggregation might help detect some trends which
otherwise might not be grasped in a cursory review of each diary individually.
Therefore it is recommended that, from time to time, the AEOs be directed
to undertake such a compilation. In addition, the State Evaluation Unit
should initiate at a certain point during the year (but not as a permanent
bureaucratic operation) review of samples of VEWs and AEOs diaries, producing
a simple aggregations of the standard infomration containe din these records
and attempting to identify trends and patterns in VEW visits or in the issues
raised by farmers and recorded in the diaries.  Some changes in the diary's
format are also proposed.
13.       Surveys and Ad hoc Studies.  The information generated through
internal reporting/monitoring will be completed with data generated through
a set of empirical surveys and ad hoc studies.
14.       Several criteria were taken into account in choosing the studies
proposed. It is not desirable to assign too many data collection objectives
to each individual study, since this would make its undertaking cumbersome.
Periodicity at short intervals should be the rule for monitoring studies,
which should lend themselves to fast data processing and feedback.
15.       The recommended studies are listed below:
(a) A Monitoring survey (pre-harvest months) of a sample of contact
farmers.
(b) An Evaluation survey (at harvest time) of a sample of the total
farming population, combined with a crop cutting survey.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
(c) Ad Hoc Monitoring and Evaluation Studies:
1. Study on the Selection of Contact Farmers
2. Study of the Role Performance of VEWs and AEOs
3. Farm Practices Studies
4. The Quality of Training Sessions
5. Sociological Village Case Studies on Extension Impact
6. Farm Budgets (case studies)
7. Review of Research Output
(Note: Studies 1-4 will use relatively small samples
of observed units, while 5-6 will be case studies).
16.       The two sample surveys are the basic monitoring and evaluation
tools. The proposed logistics and the similarity of design would facilitate
replication of two surveys periodically over the year. This would have the
fundamental advantage of generating data time-series, thus allowing for
comparisons over time. The ad hoc studies would complement the survey
information with a more indepth analytical exercise. These ad hoc studies
would fulfill either monitoring or ongoing evaluation functions, or, in
some cases and in various degrees, both.
17.       The objectives, nature and statistical design of these studies,
with instructions for sampling procedures, options for sample size, draft
interview schedules, suggested techniques for case studies, etc. are pre-
sented in detail in sections 6-8 of the full report and which have been
made available to GOI and GOB.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Economic Impact and Rate of Return
1.        Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project is
difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural practices,
which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely to extension
and research. Moreover, there is not sufficient experience in Bihar to esti-
mate acceptance rates with any degree of accuracy. However, there is no doubt
that the substantial improvement in the efficiency of utilization of existing
resources, which would be brought about by the project, would generate a high
rate of return.  Yield increases necessary to generate a 50% economic rate of
return have been calculated.  It has been assumed that by Year 7 only 50% of
all cropped land would have benefited from improved farming practices and,
that the present cropping pattern of 50% paddy, 20% wheat, 10% pulses and 20%
lower valued cereals (sorghum, maize, barley, millets) would continue.
2.        Table I shows that to realize a 50% economic rate of return, annual
incremental production value by Year 7, at 1977 prices, would need to reach
about Rs.65 M (US$7.2 M).  This could be achieved with annual yield increases
of about 66,300 tons paddy, 22,700 tons wheat, 24,700 tons of other crops,
coming from 5.0 M ha of the 10.0 M ha of annually cropped land to be found in
the project area. These increases would amount to about 12 kg per ha of all
crops grown. Experience with reorganized extension services in other states
of India suggests that there would be little risk that yields would not in-
crease by an average of at least 12 kg per ha. The following shows yields now
obtained on best farmers' fields and present average yields:
Present Yields -
Crop               Area              Yield Averages             Best Farmers
(M ha)                kg/ha                      kg/ha
Paddy              5.3                   1,250                      2,500
Wheat               1.8                  1,260                      2,000
Pulses             1.2                     500                        800
Other Cereals /1   1.7                     600                        900
/1   Sorghum, Barley, Maize, Millets.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Assumptions
3.        The life of the project is assumed to be 20 years and no residual
value is attributed after that period.
4.        In deriving the cost stream, extension, training and research
crops have been aggregated (Table 1). No scrap values have been placed on
buildings and equipment. Financial prices have been used on all cost items.
The shadow exchange component is small; shadow pricing of foreign exchange
cost would have a negligible effect of the result.
5.        The benefit stream and conversion to yield figure has been derived
on the following assumptions:
(a)  that all benefits derived come from 10.0 ha cropped land,
cropped as follows:
Paddy 5.3 M ha
Wheat 1.8 M ha
Pulses 1.2 M ha
Other cereals 1.7 M ha
(b) the economic price of crops is based on Bank Commodity
Price forecasts June, 1976 and calculated to be paddy
Rs.1,450 per ton, wheat Rs.1,845 per ton and other crops
Rs.820 per ton;
(c) benefits would accrue as follows:
Year                               Percentage
1                                    Nil
2                                     10
3                                     30
4                                     60
5                                     80
6                                     90
7 onwards                            100
6.        Project Risks:  The most significant risk lies in the fact that
the effectiveness of the new extension methodology is highly dependent on
an efficient organization and management of extension and research services
as well as farmers' response. Experience with ongoing projects has already
demonstrated, however, that the new system can work efficiently in formulation
and delivery of messages, and in motivating farmers. The proposed project
deals also with rainfed areas and for this reason there is a somewhat higher
degree of risk concerning achievement of yield increase. However, there are
a significant number of improved practices and research findings suitable for



ANNEX 8
Page 3
dissemination which can substantially improve yields, even under rainfed con-
ditions. Furthermore, farmers in rainfed areas tend to be less affluent and
in greater need of technical advice. Thus, even though benefits may be lower
in rainfed than in irrigated areas, these would still be considerable, both
in economic and social terms. A second generation risk would be faced when
the success of the new methodology generates demand for additional inputs.
If this were not met, the resultant farmer frustration could adversely affect
the success of the extension effort. However, at this juncture and for some
time to come, the deficiencies in the existing network for supplying farmers'
inputs are related to the lack of demand and there is slack in the network
which can be taken up to meet additional demand. The seasonal workshops are
responsible for assessing seasonal input requirements and should be able to
ensure the development of arrangements capable of coping with increased
demand.



INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Economic Analysis
…--------------Costs (Rs. '000)------------------    ----------- Benefits-----------
Incremental     Incremental              Total Cost    % Ult.                     Present
Extension       Research        Total    Discounted    Benefit       Discount    Value of
Year                Costs            Costs           Cost     at 50%         Achieved    Factor        Benefits
1                   14,625           2,317           16,942   11,283           -          0.666          -
2                   17,024           2,981           20,005    8,882          10          0.444       0.044
3                   17,506           3,104           20,610    6,101          30          0.296        0.089
4                   25,620           4,578           30,198    5,943          60          0.197       0.118
5                   29,003           4,856           33,859    4,436          80          0.131      0.105
6                   16,435           1,523           17,958    1,562          90          0.087      0.078
7 - 20              16,435           1,523           17,958    3,124         100          0.174       0.174
41,332                                 0.607
The annual incremental value of crops (1976 prices) required from Year 7 onwards to achieve a 50% rate of return
is Rs.  _  M or Rs 65 M.
0.607
Present Yearly                         Present Yearly
Area            Present Yields          Production         Price of Crops       Value of Crops
M Ha             Tons/Ha                    M Tons             Rs/Ton                Rs M
Paddy               5.3                1.25                      6.63              1,450 l/              9,614
Wheat                1.8               1.26                      2.27              1,845 2/              4,188
Other Crops          2.9               0.85                      2.47                820 -               2,025
To obtain Rs 65 M all yields must increase by 65       or 0.45% on all cropped land or 1% on 50% of cropped area.
Yield increases required would thus be:         15,827
Paddy  12.5 kg/ha
Wheat  12.6 kg/ha
other crops                                                                       M X4
1/ See Tables 2a and 2b.
2/ Government support price has been used as these crops are not traded substantially.



ANNEX 8
Table 2a
Page I
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Economic Impact and Rate of Return
Economic Price for Paddy
1.   Milled Rice - Bombay                               ES$
Price milled rice 25-35% broken
fob Bangkok                                      234 /a
Add cif to Bombay and handling
to wholesale outlet                               42
276 ton in Bombay
wholesale market
2.   Cost of Milling and Handling Rice from Bihar (Farmgate to Bombay)
Paddy - farm to mill, transport, in-store handling and storage
charge
Rs./ton
(a)  Transport to mill (20 km) /b                  24.00
(b)  Handling at purchase center and mill          18.50
(c)  Milling /c                                    30.00
72.50/ton paddy
=109.85/ton milled rice
Milled Rice - transport, storage handling to wholesale market
Rs./ton
(d)  Transport to rail (50 km)                     60.00
(e)  Rail to Bombay                                85.50
(f)  Handling to wholesale market Id               28.50
174.00/ton milled rice
Ia   From Bank Commodity Price Forecast, June 1976.  1985 forecast for
milled rice 5% brokens at US$359.4/ton x 0.65 for price of 25-35%
brokens.
/b   Transport farm to millhead Rs 1.20/qtl.
/c   Miller paid Rs 20/ton for milling + Rs 10/ton commission and other
charges for 66% outturn.
/d   Handling charges and commission.



ANNEX 8
Table 2a
Page 2
3.   Economic Price Paddy at Farmgate
Imported rice Bombay wholesale market
(US$276/ton) less milling and handling
charges Bihar to Bombay, converted from rupees to
dollars @ Rs 9 = US$1;
(Rs 109.85 + 174.0 = US$31.5/ton milled rice)
9
= US$(276-32) x 0.66 /e
= US$161 or Rs 1,450/ton paddy
/e   Milling percentage.



ANNEX 8
Table 2b
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Economic Impact and Rate of Return
Economic Price for Wheat
1.   Wheat - Bombay                                     US$
Price of wheat fob Canada                          172 /a
Add cif to Bombay and handling
to wholesale outlet                               52
224/ton in Bombay
wholesale market
2.   Cost of Handling Wheat from Bihar (Farmgate to Bombay)
Rs./ton
(a) Transport and handling up to
railhead /b                                 64.00
(b)  Rail to Bombay                                85.00
(c)  Handling to wholesale market /c               20.00
169.50
3.   Economic Price of Wheat at Farmgate
Imported wheat Bombay wholesale market
(US$224/ton less handling charges from
Bihar to Bombay, converted from rupees to
dollars @ Rs 9 = US$1);
= US$205 or Rs 1,450/ton wheat
/a   From Bank Commodity Price Forecast, Report No. 814, June 1976.
/b   Transport and handling from farms to railhead Rs 2.50/qtl.
/c   Handling charges and commission.
Source: Food Corporation of India.






INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Applied Research                                                                   Coordination                                                                  Adaptive Research & Extension                                        Admin. Level
|  UNIVERSITY                                                                     INPUT AGENCIES |                                                                         EAGRICUL   TF
I                                                                                                                                                                            I
VICE CHA       LS State
_     …___      __-     …___ __    SEASONAL                                                                                                                     l_SD AM
-  -  -  -  --         WOKHPS.D. (ADM)
r  DIREC        F_           _          _         _.0__              _      _-                                                            __{                                   _
S.D. tCROPSI        State
_.AOA _ARSI A.A                                                                                                                                        _TI   S.D. (INPUT)
REG. RES. STATION___                                                                                                                                                         J.D.A. J7)   |Division
|  ~~~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~  _ ~~~~~~~~~SMS 
DOISTRICT ADAPTIVE           .........                AF 3OI           sm                     D.A..DAO 12)Dtrc
SUB STATION               ---          --                                  RESEARCH COMMITTEE                                                                                                                                      District
S_MS      .                                          SMS lAGRO)
SADA  1157)       _        SMS IPPj                      Subdivision
ABBREVIATIONS:                                                                                                                                                                             _
A.P.C.:  Agriculture Production Commissioner                                                                                                                                          1,123i                                              Block
D.A.:    Director of Agriculture.
S.D.:    Sectional Directors.
A.D.A. (ARSi: Additional Director (Adaptive Research)                                                                                                                          VLEW  8, 81                                                Village
A.D.A. 1EXT): Additional Director (Evtensionl
J.D.A.: Joint Diractor of Agriculture.
D.A.O./ADAO:    District Agriculture Officer/Additional District Agriculture Officer.                                                                                                                                                     Field
S.M.S:  Subject Maner Specialists.
(P.P., AGRO, TRGi: Plant Protection: Agronomy, Training
A.E.D.:  Agriculture Extension worker.
V.L.E.W.:   Village Level Extension Worker.                                                                        Line of Command
O.A.R.F.:   District Adaptive Research Farms.                                                        _           _   Coordinaton
S.R.P.C.    State Research Planning Committee,                          ............. Review
World Bank - 17492






d4'                                  8' 6'                                                                     87'                                  88°
INDIA
B I H A R
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION and RESEARCH PROJECT
POLITICAL-GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS
X  AF   I                                                  1*     State Capitol
j                                                          C,_  |iO  Dstr ct Headqasrters
I                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Main Roads
Distrct Bou,ndaries
N                                                                 State Boundaries
)/            0 \   --  t   !  O  20    4t  60  a0    IN                 Internotional Boundries
270         40          nO                     Laoian, of Costite  Cal ieges, Research Stat ons and Substations
-27'                                                                                                                          Location of Adlaptive Reseaoh Far-                           27'-
GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS
I   Tt-;'   '-M</  <         i                                                                                              I~~~~~~~~~~~  N
5tADtrOtAet                               ""P >|ins
Yc<gi,Zy                                                                       0t                                                                                          r3- |.-  S ApltmsCe5/r 
wed                                                            /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pce~ad  il  ,a
7~~~ f-                                                    92XSa     VC    5'(-|
2e
0-   ;  /T!   ;  i  >   ;  <   A   <   r    i    !               i                     2
HA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
I R'                  rereL
I _ 
4A,NKip~~~~~~~~~~
WARph82



