Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2148-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
December 14     1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1, 1977)
Rs 1.00           =           Paise 100
Rs 1000           =           US$0o.1160
US$1.00           =           Rs 8.62
Rs 1 million                  US$116,000
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been
officially valued relative to a "basket" of
currencies. As these currencies are now
floating, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate
is subject to change. Conversions in the
Appraisal Report were made at US$1 to Rs 9.00).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AEO      -     Agricultural Extension Officer/s
DAO      -     District Agricultural Officer/s
GOB      -     Government of Bihar
GOI      -     Government of India
RAU      -     Rajendra Agricultural University
SDAO     -     Sub-divisional Agricultural Officer/s
SRPC     -     State Research Planning Committee
VLEW     -     Village Level Extension Worker/s
CROP SEASON
Kharif   -     Rainy season - June-September
Rabi     -     Dry season   - October-March



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:           The State of Bihar.
Amount:                US$8 million.
Terms:                 Standard.
Relending Terms:       From GOI to GOB:  As part of Central assistance
for state development projects on terms and con-
ditions applicable at the time.
Prolect Description:  The project would reorganize and strengthen Bihar's
agricultural extension services, and help upgrade
and develop adaptive research with the objective of
achieving early and sustained improvements in agri-
cultural production, particularly of foodgrains. The
main project benefit would be an increase in produc-
tion benefitting an estimated 7.6 million farm fami-
lies. Small farmers with limited financial resources
but excess labor would be the primary beneficiaries
of the project's emphasis on efficient use of exist-
ing resources. The most significant risk lies in
the fact that the effectiveness of the new extension
methodology is highly dependent on an efficient orga-
nization and management of extension and research
services, as well as on farmers' response. Experience
with ongoing projects has already demonstrated, how-
ever, that the new system can work efficiently in
formulation and delivery of messages, and in motivat-
ing farmers.
Project components include the provision of:
- additional staff, housing, equipment, vehicles
and staff training for the extension service;
- additional staff, vehicles, simple farm buildings
and equipment in order to strengthen adaptive
research; and
- staff, equipment, vehicles and funds for project
monitoring and evaluation.
This document has a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated
Project Costs:                                          (US$ million)
Local      Foreign     Total
Extension                    9.08       0.55        9.63
Training                     0.43         -         0.43
Adaptive Research            1.35       0.09        1.44
Monitoring and Evaluation    0.35       0.01        0.36
Sub-Total                 11.21       0.65       11.86
Price Contingencies          3.49       0.19        3.68
Physical Contingencies       0.47        -          0.47
Total Project Cost        15.17       0.84       16.01
Financing Plan:
(US$ million)
Local      Foreign     Total
IDA                       7.16        0.84        8.00
Government of Bihar       8.01          -         8.01
Total                  15.17        0.84       16.01
Estimated
Disbursement:
(US$ million)
FY79   FY80    FY81   FY82   FY83
Annual                1.0     1.2    1.3     2.1    2.4
Cumulative            1.0    2.2     3.5     5.6    8.0
Rate of Return:        At least 50%.
Appraisal Report:      No. 1754a-IN, dated December 14, 1977.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for the equivalent of US$8 million on standard
IDA terms, to help finance a project to reorganize and strengthen the agri-
cultural extension service and upgrade and develop adaptive research in the
State of Bihar. The proceeds of this credit would be channelled to the
Government of Bihar in accordance with the Government of India's standard
terms and arrangements for financing of state development projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1529-IN dated April 25, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 3, 1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.         India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 States with
a population of some 630 million speaking over 60 languages. Since Independ-
ence the trend in growth of GNP has been about 3.5% per annum, or a little
over 1% per annum in per capita terms, while over the five years 1971/72 -
1975/76 it fell to as low as 2.5% per annum, in spite of the record harvest
of 1975/76. This unsatisfactory performance is in part the result of the
low availability of investable resources: while India's domestic savings
effort compares well with other countries at the same average income levels,
the rate has very rarely exceeded 17% of GNP; similarly, the net transfer of
resources from abroad has never been above 3% of GNP, and fell to as little as
0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74. The investment rate puts India in the lower
third of all developing countries. More significant perhaps is the fact that
in spite of a marked rise in the investment rate from about 10% in the early
1950's to about 18% over the past fifteen years, the trend in GNP growth has
remained about the same. This indicates a marked decline in the efficiency of
capital use, as a result of increasing capacity underutilization, long project
gestation, and increased emphasis on relatively capital intensive projects and
sectors.
4.        Since Independence the growth of the socio-economic infrastructure
(transport, education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has
1/   Parts I and II of this report are the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Second Calcutta Urban Development Project
(Report No. P-2141-IN), dated November 30, 1977.



- 2 -
often been achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality.
Many industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated well
below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and structural
change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many other
parts of the world; in other regions there has been stagnation, and in some,
decline. Although national income has increased in most years, there has
been no rise in the living standards of the vast mass of rural and urban poor,
conservatively estimated at 200 million people with per capita incomes of US$70
per annum.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.     Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of manufacturing industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s,
has remained approximately constant at about 16%. There has, however, been
a shift in the composition of manufacturing production, with consumer, inter-
mediate, and capital goods now contributing about one third each, compared
with an overwhelming preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        In March, 1977, a party other than Congress formed a Government for
the first time since Independence. The state of the economy was not a promi-
nent election issue; in fact the economy was generally stronger than at any
time in the last six years. Although the growth of GDP in 1976/77 is not
expected to have exceeded 2%, this was on top of the very good growth of 8.8%
in 1975/76. Agricultural production is expected to have fallen by about 3%,
but only because of the return to a more normal harvest of 110-114 million
tons of foodgrains after the record 121 million tons of the previous year.
Industrial growth was around 10% in 1976/77, which is significantly above the
rates achieved in the late 1960's and early 1970's. Exports continued their
bright performance, rising by 25% in nominal terms. The overall resource
position, with record foreign exchange and foodgrain reserves, is exception-
ally strong, and gives the Government considerable room for maneuver.
7.        In agriculture the bumper crop of 1975/76 was largely due to
remarkably good weather conditions; the good crop in 1976/77 - a foodgrain
harvest in the region of 110 million tons would be the second largest on
record - was produced under generally normal weather. A conspicuous change
was the increase in fertilizer use, which rose by more than 20% over 1975/76,
following marked declines in fertilizer prices. Industrial production bene-
fited from fewer labor disputes, fuller utilization of installed capacity
in both private and public sectors, a more liberal import policy, relatively
good power availability, and increased demand because of higher consumer
incomes, expanded exports and higher public expenditures. However, whole-
sale prices which had fallen 14% from September 1974 through March 1976,
rose 11% from the end of March to December 1976. This upsurge may be a new
inflationary trend or merely a correction of the previous sharp decline in
the relative prices of a range of agricultural commodities.



- 3 -
8.        The balance of payments situation has improved dramatically since
the 1973-1975 period. In 1975/76 the trade deficit was $1,530 million, which
was more than covered by US$1,560 million in net aid, US$205 million in net
purchases of currency from the IMF, and US$559 million in net miscellaneous
capital and invisibles (mostly private remittances); indeed, this large
aggregate net resource inflow led to a US$794 million increase in foreign
exchange reserves, to a level of almost US$2.2 billion. In 1976/77, the
balance of payments continued to improve, with exports provisionally, esti-
mated to have increased by US$1,135 million against an imports increase of
only US$15 million, so that the trade balance deficit is now estimated at a
mere US$380 million. The sharply decreased trade deficit, along with a
further increase in the net inflow of miscellaneous capital and invisibles
from abroad of US$470 million, more than offset the fall of US$350 million
in net aid and the US$365 million repurchases of currency from the IMF, and
allowed a US$1.5 billion addition to reserves, which reached a level of
US$3.7 billion at the end of March 1977.
Development Prospects
9.        The favorable economic situation gives the Government the opportun-
ity to address the longer-term constraints on growth. The basic task is to
raise the overall rate of growth from its historic range of 3% to 4%. In the
long run this will require raising more resources for investment. But it
will also be important to achieve significantly better utilization of avail-
able resources, partly through an immediate boost to industrial demand.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76 and the good crop in 1976/77, the long-term growth
rate of foodgrain production has been unacceptably low, at about 2.5% per
annum over the last seventeen years, and only 2% in the last ten. This has
meant that only in good years has there been any margin of production to
cater to per capita growth in food consumption, and in normal years it has
been necessary to import food. There is considerable scope for stepping up
growth both by increasing the use of inputs and by raising the productivity
of existing capacity. Three promising developments in regard to the first
are the sharply higher outlays on irrigation in the Fifth Plan Period along
with a renewed determination to complete projects expeditiously; the indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slow-
down in the early 1970's; and the recent recovery of fertilizer demand. With
regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is increased aware-
ness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects can be much
increased not only through command area development but also through more
efficient design and operation of major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Also, hopes have been generated for increasing productivity on both irrigated
and rainfed farms through a reorganized and improved extension and research
system, which has been recently introduced in several States in northern and
eastern India.
11.       A strong effort to raise agricultural growth is essential, not only
to meet food requirements, but also because of the pervasive influence of
agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the economy. This



- 4 -
effort must also be so structured as to increase the incomes of small and
marginal farmers, in order to increase production since they operate 25% of
the cultivated land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production,
and for welfare reasons, since they make up about 70% of rural population
and constitute the majority of those living below the poverty level.
12.       The industrial sector is poised for growth, as serious constraints
on the supply side have been removed by the improved situation, particularly
with respect to coal and imported raw materials and components; the power
supply situation is once more somewhat worrisome (paragraph 13 below).
There has been a progressive liberalization of controls and the 1976/77
Central Budget announced a reduction of some taxes on private industry. In
many cases management of public enterprises has improved, as is reflected
in their markedly higher production and profitability as a group. In the
medium term it is the demand for industrial output that will determine indus-
trial growth. In certain industries, export demand will provide a strong
pull on production; this is true, for example, for iron and steel, certain
chemicals, some electrical equipment, processed agricultural products, and
vehicles. But the impact of increased exports on overall industrial demand
will grow only slowly given the current low share of exports in sales. If
the higher growth and productivity in agriculture discussed earlier were to
materialize, it would provide a significant stimulus to industry. It is
difficult to specify the linkages explicitly; but because of the large share
that agriculture holds in GNP, the coefficients do not have to be large for
agricultural growth and the concomitant growth in demand for industrially
produced inputs and mass consumption goods to boost overall industrial demand
significantly. A higher public deficit and increased public investments are
the instruments most directly under Government control, and also those that
can increase demand for industrial products most immediately. The interim
budget of the new Government moves strongly in this direction with a 240%
increase in the planned budget deficit over 1976/77.
13.       The general improvement in the supply of energy augurs well for
India's ability to meet the needs of a more rapidly growing economy. Organ-
izational and transportation problems in the coal industry have largely been
overcome, production is sufficient to meet demand, stocks are comfortable,
and the industry has good prospects for meeting both domestic and export
demand. However, the supply of electricity continues to be a concern, since
the power situation is not uniformly good. Power shortages affect a number
of the more industrialized states, particularly Maharashtra in the west and
Tamil Nadu in the south, and as a result, there is a continued constraint on
the expansion of industry. This is despite a number of favorable factors:
greatly improved capacity utilization in thermal power stations; more effi-
cient exchange of power between states; accelerated implementation of power
projects; and somewhat improved availability of finance for power investment.
The underlying reason for the weak power supply position is that capacity
shortages continue despite the improved investment program. In the short-term,
the situation may improve somewhat if, as is hoped, reservoir replenishment is
better than average during the last stages of the monsoon. The prospects for
the oil and gas sector have been further improved by major new finds of oil
and gas near the large offshore Bombay High field. Crude oil from Bombay High



was brought to shore for the first time in May 1976; production reached an
annual rate of 2 million tons by March 1977, and will rise to a level of 12-13
million tons by 1984/85. Although India will continue to import crude at or
somewhat above the current level, much of the foreign exchange burden of
rapidly rising imports will be avoided by the development of these resources.
Prospects are also bright for further discoveries offshore, given the current
high level of exploration activity.
14.       Underlying all other development issues is that of population.     Al-
though India's population growth rate of a little over 2% is not high in com-
parison with most LDCs, the size of the absolute increment - 13 million
annually - is daunting. It appears, however, that population growth may have
passed its peak in the 1960's, and it is expected to continue to slow down,
both because the birth rate will continue to decline and because the death
rate will not fall as steeply as in the past. With a sustained family planning
effort, it should be possible to lower the population growth rate to 1.1% per
annum by the end of the century. Our "best guess" projection of India's
population by 2000 is 880 million. Many of the benefits of family planning
policy will only be felt beyond the turn of the century, but the decline in
fertility will bring about an early change in the age structure of the popu-
lation. The school age group will grow more slowly or not at all after 1981
thereby reducing the pressures on the primary and secondary education system.
The labor force, however, will continue to grow at a fast rate until the end
of the century.
15.       India's balance of payments position should be comfortable for the
next few years. The combination of past global inflation and increased ex-
ports have reduced the proportion of export earnings needed for debt service
from 30% in 1970/71 to 16% in 1976/77. The ratio is not likely to rise above
this level in the next few years. Given continuing favorable policies, the
volume of exports should continue to grow by 7% to 10% annually in the near
future; and import needs for fertilizer, POL and foodgrains will continue to
require a diminishing proportion of available foreign exchange. The large
inflow of private remittances shows no immediate signs of declining and should
continue to bolster the foreign exchange position in the medium term. Imports,
including a variety of capital goods, have already been liberalized signifi-
cantly. Increased public investment and a revival of the domestic economy is
likely to generate substantial additional import demand. However, this should
be quite manageable, given the currently comfortable foreign exchange position,
bright export prospects, and continuation of the current real level of net aid.
The present situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment
and, consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long term growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
16.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 52 loans and 93 development
credits to India totalling US$1,992 million and US$4,991 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$854 million has been



repaid, and US$1,980 million was still undisbursed as of October 31, 1977.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of October 31,
1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$13.8 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$30.1 million, US$23.6 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of October 31, 1977, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
18.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
19.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
20.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in large
part to the response of the aid community, India has successfully adjusted
to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need for readily
usable foreign exchange assistance, to augment domestic resources, assure
effective utilization of existing capacity, stimulate investment and acceler-
ate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import component of



projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas as agricul-
ture, education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be able to make
an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in these sectors, it
is important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
21.       It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. H1owever, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. As of
October 31, 1977, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,169 million, of
which US$697 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstand-
ing of US$472 million.
22.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1976, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was US$13.1 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was 25%. The Bank Group's share is expected to remain around this level in
the future. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the
form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In
1975/76, about 15% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN INDIA AND BIHAR
23.       Agriculture is India's most important sector.    It provides employ-
ment for approximately 70% of the population, contributes about 45% to GNP,
and provides a major share of exports. GOI's emphasis in the agricultural
sector has been on increasing foodgrain output through improved yields
resulting from more intensive use of seed of high yielding varieties (HYV),
fertilizer, pesticides and irrigation. With self-sufficiency in food as a
national objective, investments in foodgrain production have been given top
priority by Government and will continue to be the focus of national attention
for the foreseeable future.
24.       Since independence, the overall growth of agricultural production
has averaged 3% per annum. This rate has been very much affected by serious
droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972 and 1973 and obscures considerable
variations over shorter periods, between crops and between regions. The
success of high yielding va-rietiestproduced. increases in wheat production of
about 20% per annum between 1967' and 1971. This "green revolution" primarily
affected wheat and was concentrated in north western India, very largely on
account of the advanced state of agriculture in that area and the availability



- 8 -
of irrigation. The strategy of the Government is to spread this technology to
other regions, especially to the Eastern States which have a large untapped
agricultural potential and harbor a large proportion of India's poorest
farmers and agricultural laborers.
Agriculture in the Eastern Region
25.       In support of the Government's strategy, Bank staff have, since
September 1975, been engaged in state-by-state reviews of a number of Eastern
States to analyze the problems and, more importantly, assist in devising
short-term action programs to develop the potential within these States.
These reviews have reconfirmed in some detail much that was already known
about the Region. There is a vast groundwater resource yet to be developed;
and the farm service and supply institutions are in very poor condition and
operate at low levels of effectiveness. But the under-utilization of modern
inputs is first a demand problem rather than one of availability. Farmers
in the Eastern Region are caught in a cycle of low productivity, low income
and low investment. Their holdings are small and the fragments they cultivate
even smaller. They are poorly placed to take the risks associated with the
new but more costly technology. There are some who have adopted the modern
technical package of tubewells, HYV seeds and fertilizer, but the package is
mainly applied on irrigated wheat and rice in the dry season. Up to three-
quarters of the region's foodgrain, however, is produced during the monsoon
period from traditional varieties and using traditional cultural practices
that minimize the risk of crop failure but result in low productivity.
26.       These State reviews have also succeeded in identifying short-term
action programs which typically concentrate on re-organizing extension ser-
vices, improving adaptive research, accelerating the development of low-cost
shallow tubewells and simple dug wells, and improving the efficiency of
existing public irrigation schemes. With some exceptions, it has not proven
possible to identify parallel measures to strengthen short-term credit and
input supply services in the same time frame because of the weaknesses of
available institutions. However, in the Eastern Region, where few farmers
have experience of modern inputs, credit or irrigation, a rapid shift to a
high-input technology is at best difficult. Rather, as an immediate first
phase, the State reviews have stressed the potential for achieving a signi-
ficant and broadly distributed increase in production by improving basic
cultural practices, using the resources already available to small farmers,
in particular Eastern India's high rainfall and abundant labor.
27.       The key to this development is a strengthening of research and its
re-orientation toward the needs of the small farmer, and a re-organization of
extension services along lines that have recently proved highly successful
elsewhere in India. First tried in canal commands of three Bank Group
assisted projects in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh (Loan. No. 1011-IN, Credit
No. 502-IN and Credit No. 562-IN), where dramatic production increases are
being achieved, the new extension service puts great emphasis on concentra-
tion of efforts, on systematic and regular training, close supervision of
staff at all levels, and a fixed schedule of visits to farmers' groups.



- 9 -
Coupled with an expanded program of adaptive research, the system has the
capacity to transmit appropriate recommendations from the policy maker to the
village level quickly and effectively and at little extra cost to Government.
Once farmers have increased their production and hence gained confidence in
the extension service, they can be expected to adopt better and more costly
technology based on purchased inputs and on-farm investments. Hence, this
short-term strategy may prove an important first step towards breaking the
vicious circle of poverty. If it succeeds, it will create the very demand
now lacking for the inputs of the modern technology.
28.       This approach to improving extension services has been introduced
in India through a series of five projects assisted by the Bank Group. Under
these projects, nearly 15 million farm families in Orissa, West Bengal, Assam,
Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, are expected to benefit as a result of strength-
ened and upgraded extension and research services. This project would extend
the improved system to the State of Bihar.
Bihar
2
29.       Bihar has a total land area of approximately 174,000 km , of which
about 60% is cultivated. Agriculture is the dominant economic activity in
the State employing over 80% of its 62 million people and contributing nearly
half of the State's net domestic product. Rice, wheat and maize which are
grown primarily in the kharif season, are the three principal crops grown in
Bihar accounting for 73% of the net cultivated area. Of the State's 17.3
million ha, 8.3 million ha are cultivated. On average 10.7 million ha are
planted to crops annually giving a cropping intensity of 129%. Only 23% of
the net cultivated area is irrigated.
30.       With the exception of wheat, largely grown under irrigation, yields
have not shown any significant improvement in Bihar over the past decade.
Foodgrain production has increased at about 1.6% per annum over the past
fifteen years, failing to keep pace with the rate of population growth of
2.2%. Consequently, Bihar remains one of the poorest states in India with
an annual per capita income estimated at about US$76, as compared with the
national average of US$107 over the period 1972/73 to 1974/75.
31.       Apart from technical and institutional difficulties of raising
agricultural productivity, increasing population pressure, insecure tenancy
arrangements, and a significant tribal population (8%), are additional
constraints to modernizing agriculture in Bihar. At present, there is, on
average, about 0.7 ha of cultivable land available to each family. This
unfavorable land/man ratio is further accentuated by skewed land distribution
as about 80% of holdings, comprising 30% of the cultivable land, are less
than 2 ha, many of which are fragmented. Land tenure arrangements are com-
plex with tenancy and sharecropping prevalent. It is estimated that about
40% of the cultivated area is under sharecropping arrangements, and in addi-
tion almost 45% of small farmers (less than 2 ha) are tenants mainly with
oral contracts.



- 10 -
32.       In the past, the strategy to raise productivity has been to encour-
age the use of modern inputs--HYV seeds, fertilizer and irrigation. Although
some farmers have adopted the use of these inputs, many have not, and overall
yields have remained low. To redress this situation and to raise foodgrain
production in the short run, emphasis needs to be placed on raising yields by
transferring to farmers the knowhow of proven low cost, simple improvements.
This can be achieved by improvements in agricultural extension methods.
However, such improvement needs to be backed by an effective and responsive
adaptive research program. The Government of Bihar has recognized the advan-
tages of this approach and has decided to reorganize and improve its extension
service and adaptive research program on a statewide basis. The proposed
project is aimed at assisting the Government in this task.
Previous Bank Group Operations in Bihar
33.       The Bank Group has been involved in the agricultural sector in
Bihar through three previous credits. In March 1972, Credit 248-IN (US$14
million), was approved to provide funds for the development of agricultural
wholesale market facilities in 50 selected towns in Bihar. Initial progress
under this project was slow due to problems of land acquisition. These
difficulties have, however, been overcome and progress has since been satis-
factory. A number of markets have been constructed and opened for business.
Credit 342-IN (US$12 million), approved in November 1972, provides support for
the development of the Rajendra Agricultural University (RAU) in Bihar, and
the Assam Agricultural University. The project focuses on the development of
campus facilities and curricula, including those for basic and applied agri-
cultural research. Physical implementation at RAU began slowly for a variety
of reasons, but has recently begun to pick up. Progress is now satisfactory.
As this project includes development of basic and applied agricultural
research, it is complementary to the proposed project. Finally, Credit 440-IN
(US$32 million), approved in November 1973, provides long and medium-term
credit, primarily for minor irrigation, to farmers in Bihar. Of approximately
50,000 on-farm investments envisaged at appraisal, about 43,000 had been fi-
nanced by May 1977. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30,
1978.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The project was prepared by a Government of Bihar (GOB) working
group assisted by Bank staff and consultants. It was appraised by IDA in
April 1977. The Appraisal Report No. 1754a-IN, dated December 14, 1977,
is being distributed separately. Negotiations were held in Washington in
November, 1977. The negotiating delegation for India was headed by
Mr. D.K. Chatterjee, Director, Department of Economic Affairs, Government
of India. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
35.       The project would reorganize and strengthen the agricultural
extension service throughout the State of Bihar, and develop and strengthen



- 11 -
adaptive research. The main objective is to achieve early and sustained
improvements in agricultural production, particularly of foodgrains. The
project would be executed over a five-year period. Project components
include:
-    additional staff, housing, equipment, vehicles and staff
training for the extension service;
-    additional staff, vehicles, simple farm buildings and
equipment for adaptive research; and
-    staff, equipment, vehicles and funds for studies to monitor
project progress and evaluate its impact.
Project Implementation
36.       It would not be necessary to establish any new organization for
project implementation. The Agricultural Production Commissioner has overall
responsibility for agriculture in Bihar. Under him the Department of Agri-
culture, headed by the Director, is responsible for agricultural extension
and adaptive research. The project would provide for an Additional Director
of Agriculture (Extension) and a suitably qualified senior official to head
Adaptive Research to assist the Director on a full-time basis. The Additional
Director of Agriculture (Extension) has already been appointed and is in
position. To ensure efficient and effective implementation of the research
programs, the appointment of the Head of the Adaptive Research Service has
been made a condition of credit effectiveness (see Section 5.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement).
37.       Neither extension nor research can function effectively without
close co-ordination. At State level, this would be ensured through the
already established Seasonal Workshops and State Research Planning Committee.
Seasonal Workshops, chaired by the Agricultural Production Commissioner,
would meet, as at present, twice yearly (before the kharif and rabi cropping
seasons) to discuss the implications of extension recommendations and ensure
cooperation among the various government input supply agencies. The Seasonal
Workshops would ensure that problems of credit, marketing and supply are given
due attention. The Workshops include the Director of Agriculture, as well
as senior representatives of all relevant State and Central Government
organizations concerned, including the Vice-Chancellor of the Rajendra
Agricultural University.
38.       Additionally, the State Research Planning Committee (SRPC) would
provide a formal mechanism for review of University agricultural research
results and formulation of future research programs. SRPC would review the
results of field trials and recommended agricultural practices put up by
the District Adaptive Research Committee to be established under the project
(see para 39). SRPC is chaired by the Vice-Chancellor, Rajendra Agricultural
University (RAU), and includes senior officers from the University and Depart-
ment of Agriculture. It would continue to meet twice a year. Its meetings
would precede those of Seasonal Workshops.



- 12 -
39.       At district level, District Adaptive Research Committees chaired
by the District Agricultural Officer (DAO) would be established. These com-
mittees would meet at least twice a year to formulate extension practices,
and adaptive research and field demonstration programs. They would make
proposals to the Head of the Adaptive Research Service, who, together with
the Additional Director of Agriculture (Extension), would be responsible for
their submission to the State Research Planning Committee (see para 38).
Each District Committee would comprise relevant staff concerned with extension
and research at the district level. Assurances were obtained on these orga-
nizational arrangements (see Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement).
Agricultural Extension
40.       Under the project, the agricultural extension service would be
reorganized and intensified to provide farmers with relevant and practical
technical guidance aimed at increasing production and incomes. The new
system would replace existing arrangements which have proven largely ineffec-
tive. Under the previous system, village level workers were responsible for
agricultural extension and were supposed to devote 80% of their time to this
task. However, their efforts were hampered by the considerable time required
for regulatory and other functions. They were employed by the Community
Development Department, and were administratively responsible to Block Devel-
opment Officers, but received technical guidance from the Department of
Agriculture. Hence, while village level workers were locally responsible for
agricultural extension, their effectiveness was reduced by the many functions
expected of them, complex lines of technical control and supervision, and
large numbers of farmers each village level worker was expected to reach.
This resulted in little time being devoted to agricultural production, few and
sporadic farm level contacts, and low impact on yields, particularly of small
farmers.
41.       The proposed project has been designed to overcome these constraints
by a statewide reorganization of extension staff into a single line of command
under the Department of Agriculture. The Government of Bihar has issued an
administrative order transferring the village level workers required for proj-
ect implementation to the Department of Agriculture and has redesignated them
as Village Level Extension Workers (VLEW) to reflect their exclusive extension
role. Based on an average of one VLEW to every 850 farm families, about 9,000
VLEWs would be adequate to cover the estimated 7.6 million farm families loca-
ted throughout Bihar. The actual number of farm families covered by each VLEW
would vary from 700 to 900 depending on population density and the communica-
tions network. VLEW would be directly supervised by Agricultural Extension
Officers (AEO) located at the Block level (the lowest administrative unit).
42.       To ensure satisfactory supervision, training and control of field
staff, the 31 existing administrative districts would be divided into 76 sub-
divisions each headed by a Sub-Divisional Agricultural Officer (SDAO). Where
sub-divisions are large, the SDAO would be helped by an Assistant SDAO. Each
SDAO would on average supervise the work of between 6 - 8 AEO who, in turn,
would supervise about 8 VLEW. To strengthen technical support, three subject



- 13 -
matter specialists would be appointed at each sub-division, one each in
agronomy, plant protection and training. In addition, at district level, an
Assistant District Agricultural Officer (ADAO) would supervise the work of
sub-divisional staff, while specialists would provide additional technical
support, in such matters as water management, farm implements, entomology
and horticulture.
43.       All 9,000 VLEW and about 90% of the 1,120 AEO needed to provide
recommended staffing levels are already in service. At sub-divisional level
a total of 228 subject matter specialists would be required, of which 92 are
available. There would be no difficulty in recruiting and training additional
staff required for the project. Assurances were obtained that the new staff
required would be appointed according to an agreed schedule (see Section 2.07
of the Project Agreement).
44.       Under the reorganized extension system, an intensive farm visit
program would be introduced. An estimated 7.6 million farm families in the
project area would be divided into some 9,000 groups of from 700 to 900 fam-
ilies, and one VLEW would be allocated to each group. Each group would be
further divided into 8 sub-groups of about 100 farmers. From each sub-group
VLEW would select 8-10 contact farmers in consultation with the farmers them-
selves. Selection would be from among farmers of all categories who are
known to be of potential influence and willing to adopt the new extension
methodology. VLEW would visit each sub-group once every two weeks on a fixed
day of the week. At each location, he would convey extension messages pri-
marily through the contact farmers, concentrating on the most important crops
of their locality, and initially on a few improved cultural practices of imme-
diate relevance. In the morning, he would tour farmers' fields, and in the
afternoon he would hold a meeting in the village at a predetermined hour. In
irrigated areas the visits may be more frequent. Training of VLEW and field
visits would take 9 days per fortnight. The three days remaining in the two
week period (with one day rest per week) would be devoted to demonstrations,
making up missed field visits and administrative work.
Agricultural Research
45.       Basic and applied agricultural research was transferred to the
Rajendra Agricultural University (RAU) in 1970, while adaptive research re-
mained the responsibility of the Field Experiment Service of the Department
of Agriculture. RAU, which has still to develop a fully comprehensive
research program, is currently being assisted in its establishment by IDA
under an Education Project (Credit 342-IN). Funds provided under this earlier
credit are being used to develop campus facilities and staff, including those
associated with RAU's basic and applied agricultural research activities.
These efforts are complementary to the proposed project and RAU has produced a
reservoir of relevant research recommendations which are immediately available.
There is, however, a-general lack -6f research staff and facilities to test and
adapt these recommendations in the different agroclimatic regions of the State.



- 14 -
46.       To serve the immediate needs of the project for such adaptive
agricultural research, and to evolve technological packages of practices
suitably adapted to local conditions, support would be provided under the
proposed project to the Field Experiment Service of the Department of Agri-
culture. At present, the Field Experiment Service carries out a large program
of field experimentation. Under the project, this service would be reorganized
and expanded by the provision of additional field staff and facilities at 36
government-owned seed farms (to be known as Adaptive Research Farms), and the
service would be renamed Adaptive Research Service to reflect more fully its
new role. The strengthening of at least one Adaptive Research Farm in each
district would enable district level staff to become fully involved in the
adaptive research program. In addition, staff of the Adaptive Research Service
would assist VLEW in carrying out demonstrations in farmers' fields. A total
of about 36 professional staff would be required to strengthen the Agricultural
Research Service and additional support staff would be provided to adaptive re-
search farms. The new staff would be appointed according to an agreed schedule
An assurance on this was obtained during negotiations (see Section 2.07 of
the Project Agreement).
Staff Training
47.       The project would emphasize training to upgrade the quality of
extension and research staff. AEO are usually direct recruits from colleges,
VLEW are generally secondary school leavers, recruited after a two year pre-
service training at departmental agricultural schools. There is minimal
in-service training for VLEW and AEO to keep them abreast of more recent
technological advances. The project would, therefore, provide fortnightly
training on the job of VLEW by AEO, SDAO, and subject matter specialists.
Also once every four weeks, the District Agricultural Officer would hold a
two-day seminar with SDAO, sub-divisional specialists, staff responsible for
input supply, and at least one AEO from each Block in his district, at which
trainers would be research workers from regional stations, district special-
ists and occasionally sub-divisional specialists themselves. At these semi-
nars, overall project progress would be reviewed and the coming four-week
program planned and prepared.
48.       Furthermore, prior to each of the two main agricultural seasons,
rabi and kharif, a 2-3 day course for village level extension workers would
be held at sub-divisional or district level. These courses, conducted by
headquarters, zonal and district extension and research staff would cover the
main crops grown during the season and practices recommended for them. The
courses would initiate the extension campaign for the coming season.
49.       The project would also provide fellowships, short-term and spe-
cialized training courses as well as scholarships for career advancement
for a limited number of extension staff who show exceptional talent. In
addition, 60 man-months of fellowships, for periods of up to two months,
would be provided to permit research staff to visit key institutions in
India to keep abreast of developments that would be useful to their
disciplines.



- 15 -
Housing and Transportation
50.       The proposed extension methodology is based on regular and frequent
farm visits by extension staff. It is, therefore, essential that field staff
of all grades live near their place of work and are sufficiently mobile to
function efficiently. At present, housing available for rent in rural areas
is either limited, or inconveniently located, necessitating reliance on public
transport. Consequently, extension workers spend much of their time travel-
ling. GOB housing policy would continue to encourage the use of rented
accommodation whenever possible. Since this would not be feasible in all
areas, the project would provide for construction of low-cost housing for
about 25% of VLEW and AEO in areas assigned for their operations. Assurances
were obtained that by December 31, 1978, GOB would undertake and complete a
survey to locate appropriate sites for housing to be constructed. (See
Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement). The design standards and detailed
cost estimates for housing to be provided were reviewed at negotiations.
Similarly, to enable field staff to cover large stretches of rural areas on
a given time schedule, it is essential that they be sufficiently mobile. The
project would therefore provide motor vehicles for supervisory staff at head-
quarters, district, division, and sub-divisional levels. Credit would be
provided to enable AEO and VLEW to purchase motorcycles and bicycles, respec-
tively. Credit terms and travelling allowances were reviewed to ensure
adequate incentive for the purchase and utilization of motorcycles and
bicycles by field staff (see Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
51.       An essential feature would be the monitoring of project progress
and evaluation of its impact. At headquarters level, responsibility for
monitoring would lie with the Deputy Director of the Statistics Section,
Department of Agriculture. An evaluation unit would be set up within the
Statistics Section for this purpose. The unit would be adequately strength-
ened by the provision of a senior agricultural economist, a farm management
specialist, and supporting staff. At district level, a senior statistical
assistant, supported by sub-divisional field investigators, would be respon-
sible for data collection.
52.       Funds would be provided to the Agricultural Production Commissioner
to employ local consultants to carry out ad hoc studies to supplement the
ongoing evaluation undertaken by the Statistics Section. Because of the need
for uniform procedures for monitoring and evaluation of this project, and of
similar projects being undertaken in other states, detailed procedures have
recently been worked out by GOI, the states concerned, and the Association.
These were discussed and mutually agreed upon during negotiations. The
results of monitoring and evaluation would be submitted to the Association
for review at least once a year (see Section 2.12 of the Project Agreement).



- 16 -
Project Cost and Financing
53.       The estimated cost of the proposed project is about US$16.01 million,
including about US$0.8 million of duties and taxes. The principal components
net of contingencies are: strengthening of extension services (US$9.63
million), agricultural staff training (US$0.43 million), adaptive research
(US$1.44 million), and monitoring and evaluation (US$0.36 million). Physical
contingencies average about 4.5% for all items (US$0.58 million), and price
contingencies account for 22% (US$3.68 million). The latter is due primarily
to the civil works component (US$4.94 million) for which the annual price
escalation has been estimated at around 4% for the year 1977, and 8% for the
period thereafter.
54.       The civil works component of the project (US$4.94 million) covers
the provision of new housing for VLEW and offices-cum-residences for AEO, as
well as small farm buildings for the Adaptive Research Farms. The employment
of additional extension and research staff, as well as the upgrading of
existing cadre, would involve incremental, salaries which together with
allowances for extension work account for US$4.94 million. Incremental
operating expenditures for the Adaptive Research Service, offices and vehicles
account for US$2.04 million, while local training and consultants, fellowships
and external evaluation would cost US$0.38 million. The balance of total
project costs of US$3.71 million would be taken up by motor vehicles (US$1.59
million), motorcycles and bicycles (US$1.47 million) and minor equipment and
furniture (U$0.65 million).
55.       The proposed credit of US$8.0 million would cover about 53% of
project costs, net of taxes and duties. The credit would cover all foreign
exchange costs (approximately US$0.84 million), together with US$7.2 million
of local costs. The remaining local costs would be financed by GOB. The
proceeds of the credit would be channelled through GOI to GOB on standard
terms as part of central assistance provided to State governments for develop-
ment purposes.
Procurement and Disbursement
56.        Contracts for civil works (US$4.94 million) would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Association. Civil works contracts would be small and spread geograph-
ically and over time, and would not be suitable for international competitive
bidding. There are numerous qualified local, contractors to ensure satisfac-
tory execution of this component of the project. About 200 motor vehicles of
various types (US$1.59 million) would be required under the project. These
would be purchased in small quantities as required over five years. In the
interest of ensuring adequate maintenance and spares, they would be procured
by local, competitive bidding under procedures which are satisfactory to the
Association. Orders for the purchase of minor equipment and furniture
(US$0.65 million) woul]d be bulked wherever possible and purchased following
satisfactory local competitive bidding procedures, except where valued at
less than US$50,000 when they woul]d be purchased by prudent shopping. Motor-
cycles and bicycles (US$1.47 million) would be locally purchased by individual
staff, according to their preferences.



57.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 80% of the
cost of local staff training, fellowships, evaluation, locally procured
equipment, vehicles and civil works; 10% of total staff costs for extension
and adaptive research; and 100% of the cost of consultants and foreign costs
of imported vehicles and equipment. No disbursements would be made against
land acquisition and operating expenditures of adaptive research farms,
offices and vehicles as these would be difficult to identify for purposes of
disbursement documentation. To help expedite disbursements, disbursements
against civil works contracts for one or more progress payments not exceeding
Rs 50,000 (about US$5,500), and for locally procured items of equipment and
materials costing Rs 20,000 (about US$2,200) or less, against incremental
staff costs, and local staff training would be on the basis of certificates
of expenditure. The supporting documentation would not be submitted for
review but would be retained for inspection by review missions. There is
provision for periodic local auditing of these certificates of expenditure.
Disbursements against all other items would be fully documented.
Economic Benefits and Risks
58.       The main project benefit would be an increase in production as a
consequence of the impact of the new extension and research system. Small
farmers with limited financial resources but excess labor would be the
primary beneficiaries of the project's emphasis on efficient use of existing
resources.
59.       Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project is
difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural practices,
which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely to extension
and research. Moreover, there is not enough experience in Bihar to estimate
acceptance rates with any degree of accuracy. However, there is no doubt that
the substantial improvement in the efficiency of utilization of resources
which would be brought about by the project, would generate a high rate of
return. The principal economic benefit of the project would be an increase
in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains. Given the present
cropping pattern (paddy 50%, wheat 20%, pulses 10% and other lower valued
cereals 20%), it would be reasonable to expect that by Year 7 crop yields over
at least 50% of all cropped land, would increase by 12 kg per hectare or by
less than 1% over the "without project" situation, giving an economic rate of
return of 50%. Given the performance of the new extension service elsewhere
in India, there is little risk these yield increases would not be attained,
since the best farmers in Bihar already obtain nearly twice current average
yields, while on research stations substantially higher yield levels than
these are achieved. This high rate of return should, however, be treated
with caution since, as improved agricultural practices spread, further
investments in infrastructure and services would become necesary.
60.       The most significant,risk lies in the fact that the effectiveness
of the new extension methodology is highly dependent on an efficient organi-
zation and management of extension and research services, as well as on farmers'
response. Experience with ongoing projects (see paragraph 27) has already



- 18 -
demonstrated, however, that the new system can work efficiently in formulation
and delivery of messages, and in motivating farmers. The proposed project is
different from the ongoing activities in that it mainly concentrates on rain-
fed, rather than irrigated, areas and for this reason there is a somewhat
higher degree of risk concerning achievement of yield increases. However,
there are a significant number of improved practices and research findings
suitable for dissemination which can substantially improve yields, even under
rainfed conditions. Furthermore, farmers in rainfed areas tend to be less
affluent and in greater need of technical advice. Thus, even though benefits
may be lower in rainfed than in irrigated areas, these would still be consid-
erable, both in economic and social terms. A second generation risk would
be faced when the success of the new methodology generates demand for addi-
tional inputs.   If this were not met, the resultant farmer frustration could
adversely affect the success of the extension effort. However, at this
juncture and for some time to come, the deficiencies in the existing network
for supplying farmers' inputs are related to the lack of demand and there is
slack in the network which can be taken up to meet additional demand. The
Seasonal Workshops, charged with overseeing the planning and execution of
the extension effort, are also responsible for assessing seasonal input
requirements and should be able to ensure the development arrangements capable
of coping with increased demand.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
State of Bihar, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Association and the text of a draft Reso-
lution approving the proposed Development Credit are being distributed to
Executive Directors separately.
62.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
63.       An additional condition of effectiveness, specified in Section 5.01
of the Development Credit Agreement, would be the appointment of a full-time
suitably qualified senior officer to head Adaptive Research.
64.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 19 -
65.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
December 14, 1977



ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
INDIA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                         Page 1 of 4
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                  ------------------------------------------------
---------------                                   INDIA                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      3280.5                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.    1780.7                        1960      1970    ESTIMATE          INDONESIA      PHILIPPINES    BRAZIL**
_  - - -- ---     -- - ---  - ___-- _ - -__ --_- _- -  -----------  - - ___- __--  __-- ---_-_- _ --_- -- - __----
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      60.0*     100.0*    150.0/a*            130.0*     230.0*      550.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           434.9     547.6     620.4/a             117.6        36.9        92.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      133.0      167.0     189.0/a              62.0       123.0        11.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       252.0      308.0     348. 0Ta-           414.0       375.0        49.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          43.2      41.0       37.0               45.9        44.2        36.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           23.9      19.0       17.0               20.6        13.2         9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       139.0/a       ,,      130.0                  .        80.0       110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       41.7       47.2       49.5                 ..        65.6         3;
GROSS REPROOUCTION RATE                3.2       2.9        2.8                3.2         3.3         2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2.0       2.3        2.2                2.0         3.0         2.9
URBAN                                  2.5/b     3.2        3.1                 3.7 /a     4.0         5.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           17.9       19.6      20.6                17.5 /b    27.6        56.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       41.0       41.6       40.1 /b            44.0        45.6        42.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55.9       55.3       56.7 7w            53.5        51.6        55.0
65 YEARS ANO OVER                      3.1       3.1        3.2 7F             2.5         2.6         3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.6        0.8      0o.                 0.9         0.9         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1/C      1.1/a     1.2 /c               ,,        1.5         1.5
FAMINY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          71.0   14585.0    37658.0              259.3       354.0       250.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..        ..       18.7                 .,         2.0         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       175000.0   218000.0   248000.0 /a               ..    12400.0     29400.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          71.0      69.0       68.0                           5s.0 /a     40.4
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            1.0|d       ..       1.7                  ..        7.6         7.5
INCOME DISTR!SUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOG a.-
HIGHEST   5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            26.7      25.0/b       ..                  ..         ..        35.D /a
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             51.7      53.17w       ..                  ..         *.        62.o7Ef
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             4.1        4.7        ..                  ..          ..         3.01/
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             13.6      13.17l5      ,.                       .      .         o.o 7ia
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..         ..         ..                 ..          .        45.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         ..        ..                  .           .          1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              540.0/e f4890.0      4220.0            26370.0           ..     1910.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        5310. 7   220.0/C 3680-.0/d             7630.0/c         ..     3220.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          2590.0 771610.0-           .             1640.         60.0       260.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          95.0      92.0       89.0/e             91.0        93.0       109.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              55.0       53.0       52.07h             43.0        45.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          19.0      16.0         ..               14.0        22.0        39.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             44.0         ..        ..                  ..        6.6
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       38.0       65.0      79.0/b              69.0        13.0        87.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       9.0        .-       28.07T             12.0        49.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       12,0       11.0               12.0        10.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      8.0        6.0/d       .                29.0         6.0/b      17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 24.0      33.0-      36B0/b,f            59.0 .                64.0
HOUSING
PFRSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 2.6         ..       2.8                             2.1         1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WI'HOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                         .          .         ...                          76.0        73.0/C
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                                               '
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ,,        ..         ,,                  ,        23.0        46.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                      .          ..7.0                                               8.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THou POP)           5.0      21.0       24.0               114.0        45.0       60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU Pop)            0.7        1.0       1.0                 2.0         8.0       25.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            46.0      114.0     143.0                20.0      235.0       491.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.2        0.3       0.3                 0.3         2.0        2.7
 _  _ __ _---------- ___ __ --  _ __ ____  __ __--- -  _-__-_- _-- _-__- _-__- ______________- ____- _ _-  ---------------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNOEX I
Page 2 of 0
NOTES
nls otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to soy year hetweec 1959 aod 1961, for 1970 betw... 1968 ocd 1970, sod for Miost Recenc Eatimato hetwoos
1973 aod 1971.
0  GNP Per caPit- data ore hosed oo the World Back Atlas methodology (1974-76 basic).
0* Broell has heec    -1-Lated Se -0 ohjeti-c rosetry bocosse of it.ieslo         ond eteparablc prohleo     of rogloca1 i-aqu1itty.
NDItA             1960   0      1951-61 a-eroge;       lb  1951-60;      /c  Ratio of popolotios under 15 sod 65 sod over to labor force age 15 aod ovr,
Id   Regiaserad applitacte for work-         Ia  1962;     If   Regiarered, cot oIl pr-cticilg ic rho toontr,,           /R   Icolodiog
otdwtvca,      /h   1958,      It  1960-62.
1970     I    Ratio of popslatioc sodec 15 sod 65 atd over to 11cr fcrc           age 15 aed over;       /6   1967-68,      Ic  I-oodiog vidwtce.,
/d 1967.
MOST RiFfEN- ESTOIMATE;      Ia  1976;      lb  1971;     Ic   Ratio of popolorico ueder 15 sod 65 acd ovr to Islet foruc age 15 sod ever.
Id  IOlcidig midwives, I       IL  1969-71 average;       If   Popslcti-o 10 yeses    -edevr
INDONEfSTA        1970     Is   1961-71,     lb   1971,     /c   Icelodici midwive.
PHILIPPOINES      1970     is   A  pcmrwotsge of coployscer;        /b   hut icriadieg private voctloc         shols
BRAZIL            1970     Ia   fo-oicaIly sotivo populatloc;           /b  fospita1 perso....i,       Ic  1nsido osly.
011, N-bomhr T. 1977
DEfIN5tTlON5l OF SOCIAL, INDICATORS
Lsod Aees idesu k.2)                                                                          P.ealatiso eproe -tie cersom - Popslatio       divided IT msmbcr of peaticiog
Total    Total surface ara     oprisiog lead area sod blee.d esters,                             -ale sod fsat    graS,d sacs . srees, ~csed   or "certified'   -.urses, sd
Agris. -Most ree       es. timate of agrlc.1to  l ares aced temparsrily or pe-m-                esiliary persoome1 sub     trebing. or e-perlemo.
meetly for crops, pastrera, market & kitchem gsrdeos or to lie fall1s.                      Pspslatim opr hospitsl haed - Pepolatism    dicded by cooler af hospitsl beds
sostlable im poblic sod priests gainers-Isod spcislised hospital sod
GNP per cooitt    (tUs$) -Gtp Per capita estiate    as correct market prices,                   relhbilitstim      setos;esldeso,srs tog homes      cd eatabli.alacets for
saleslased byso      soers lo   s-ethod as World Beek Atlas (1973-75 basis);                  swtodisl sed pee-eti-eosre.
1960, 1970 sed 1975 dara.                                                                   Per caPita eseely of Oseis1         irsieata) - Cempotad fees soargy
eqoic1leet ef met  .fodsppie       avilable io ceotry per capita pee day.
Poslastiom sod vital stat,is.t ic;j                                                             avilable supplies comprisedoeticprod,stim, imparts less esporto, sod
l'sssaiosfoi-vermliml         As or July firet    if loat avilable, oversgs                ebsoges tostck       :ot .pplltea eaciode  oima   feed ..seeds, qsa   tisis  seed
of te   eod-yearesimates     1960, 1970 sod 1975 dets.                                        tfodProes tog sod issass to di-trihbtlos           reurraeswre ..,i- sad
by FAO hasad am physiological mee d, for srosI asticicy sod health somaid-
Pagoistiom de-ir    - cot soss.. fkc - Mid-year popolaciem    per square hilae,eter             aerlig   vra  ueetl teoperas-, body weights, ago sod sc ditstihutioma of
(100 hessare)of total ares.                                                                   po pulatiso, aod alloalg 102 for waste at bhmashld leve.
Pseslatia   de..sit, - Per samate s.of sgrtc. Isod - Coepstod as above for                    Pet lseita sweelv of gsrot.im (grala poe day) - Pr-toim     soateer of Per capita
egiotrl.isd emly.                                                                      me.ttsepply.of food par day; oa    su.pply of food Is dofised as abov. reqstr-
tsfee allco=teies established by USDA Esamoic Res..aroh Services
Vital statistics                                                                                 pro-ids far a utiass    llsc      of 60 gram     of total proteim  par day, sod
tends birth eats per thauesod, avrsis - Aeccu1 lice births per thosasod of                       20 gems of solatal sad pulse proeset, of ahi.b 10 gram        should ha asimal
mid-year popolatiem, see-year -arll, stis avrages -odiog to 1960 sad 1970,                    proteim; thee stendeeds see loer thee those of 71 gems of tete1 prostoi
sod f ive-year aveag     ,adiog i  1975 foe mast easeo-t artitmte                             amd 23 grace. of salo1 pr-teic     ss.     vrg   for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude death ease per gth ...s.od, -vr.e - Allual deths per thesussd of mid-year                  to the Third acrId Food Survy.
populatia; teec-year arith-lioei ave     age  ediog  ,to 960 sod 1970 omd fiv-              Pee act ero-tists    ucel     from so -a sad pste - Prosic supply of food
year  verag  odtg ic1975foeatMreaot etisas.                                             derive   ie afor  tals sd puse    isN gems par day.
tofact motality'eat f/thcs5        Aso..  deaths of imfasta sodar me year of age              Death rate 1/th.s) sac      1-4 - emosaI deaths per thosoand ic age group 1-4
per .thas...nd ive hyebs.pse, to shildree                                                                            in this age group; suggestedaso indlcstor of
tier     P eaet ..eatbirtb (yes)   A-Avrage mnbee of yeses ef life rmsisiog at                     1-lctrittom.
birth; ....sIly five-rest -vo-ge- edisg to 1960, 09 70 sod 1975 fee develop-                 d    ti
Cross reorodsctioc rate-tveroge cooke        of lIve daughters a    oe    ill hear             -d.s1e arllet, ratis - erimary ahsol - Eorollmeot of all ags                espr-
isher -oma    cepredsstive Period if she esperioso        pre..e.t ag-specifit               eostage of prima,cy schel-age papslastaom; iscludes obild-o aged 6-11 year
fetility raise, uualy five-yeor averges andiog to 1960, 1970 asd 1971                        but adjusted fso difforeos losgihs of primary eds...tiam; for coutsirte      etch
for develping o-torie.                                                                        u-ivees1 education, esrolleos may emcee d 10021 iace some puptls are blew
rosaio ewl rate    %     total  C-Copomed .omu-1 grocth rates of mid-year                 or abov     tbe official school age
populatiomfe1906,         196J0-70 sd 1970-75.                                               Adl-tced erlect rat io - ae"odaysho -             Com-Putda     above.,aeceoadary
Popu.lato   geostb eastf7l -. urbos      -CoPutedltegrmcb rate of tatal                          datimrequIre          atleast fonr yese  ofappCrovedtprimary iosttrisstn;
populotiem, differeot deficitises of reba erase may affect comparability of                    provides gaerl,vlati-maI or t.eaher crsiciog imeiruoti... for pupils
da.tap 500   ooriel,                                                                           of 12 ce 17 years uf egs; screapomde...euse           r  generally esoluded.
urba papleio         ftf tota)-1   gatits of srhac so easel pspulstiom: differect              Years of se   lih   ervdd iffIrc sa.d secomd levels)-Ttlyasn
defimittima ef urb     areas may effect comparability of data emog ...ustri.s.                  themliag; as ,esedry level,         . vtitt..sI icetrutim  may be partially or
completely s.tluded.
Ago tteu  tsse    iceesss) -,Cbildreem(0-14 yeses), wei-ga(15-64 yeses),                       Vosetiasa1 emeolimeit. f     of -econdaty) - tVcetiom1altttitetiona    toc1ude
sod retsrd (65 yeaee sod over) at p-rceosages of old-year pcpeietiom                           teshmical, ioutIa or        tber program     ehish sperese iodepodeosly or as
Ago, depeodeasy catio - cRlo of popsi-iom sudoc 15 cod 65 sod ovr so th-s                        d.parme-ts of aoc_mdsry icesittsicta
of ege     IS se-sgh &4                                                                      Adult literacy rate (%) - Litierato    dulse (sblo ta red end write) Os Per-
Eco... i :.depeodeosv y   raia - Ratio of populatio    -oder 15 sod 65 eod ovr t50. etage of coccI adult -Popltiom                    aged 15 yeses sod ovr.
the ilbr force to agegrap of 15- 64 years.
Po.il    elIm..co - asssesors (s_alai-e,thow). - Cumulative moobee of a.ceptere                 .. Iluici
of birth--ot-o1 deviou coder asupicec of catiom1 family pl-miog progra                       Persma a    ro       furkam   - Average mmbee Of persons per rea     im, ocupied
nicce toc..Ption.                                                                              caocicldeeliogs to sebm areas; de-lliogs e-lude mom-perma-tn
Family plaooe-care f           If martrod euse) - Pe-ccagos of earrted caeo of                   stemscu.rse sod um   cupied Parts.
hbild-bos ing Age   1-4yan;h            e  birth-control d-cic-      ts eli astrid          Occupiod dee1Iimieitchout piped water (5         - cPiod cae-otioal1 deelliog
m-ce     ic sam   age group.                                                                   ic  rbm sad rra        ares  ithout icaide  o a -t cido Piped -st- fatuiti1es
as per-ensage of all occupied doelliogs.
Emeloveect                                                            Access to eteosririty (7, ef all dealltlsugs) - C-mortiem..l deelllags with
Toa lbr force fthsnea1d).-rtEsom-icaIIY active persons            i-Icldieg seied                eleesrirtsY io    iio   qures      oprcset ftotal deelIiogs is erb.a sod
facssd   semployedIcot.ludini hen-esi-e,          LAtdoc, etc., dofiettioos                toalaras
LIs cariou ..eoncries are ist coupsrabl                                                       Rural deolliags comoected to eletrilcy t)          Computed .a babve for rues1
Lberf grre   - is ag icotceM)- Ag ricultural labor force (to femiog, forestry,                  dulitogs amy.
buot iag sod flab!%tog)aspercentage of total labor fre
fo elvd(7. oflbhr farce)     U- fsplyed seesa al..ly dofi-ed sa persons who.oe                  t
see% ab'le amd cil        ta rakea ja,ot uf a Jab o         give     day, romaiced sout       Rai   eevr        prto      e)-All types of rciesfin radio besadwasts
of s Jeb , and -eeiog osk fore spcfied mici               period sot asceodiog see             to gecrarl public per thosasad of popslstbm, emeldes ucliseneedreoea
esk; may out be comparable betemetiadue to diffarese defimitioms                               to ronstries and to yoars ehe.     eirrr        of radio acre w-   fo   ffeot;
of ucapicyad.and sorce of data, ..g. , mapleymet office statistics, sample                     data for re-et years may ct be somparable aRos. moat cosatries abo1iahed
sorveys,r_ coplsor    umamploymemi icau-ra   e.                                                lic....iog.
Psasoeer,, cars feartbos pop) -.Passeoger core comprise motor care sea ting
I-sm      diatribution- Perc...tgc  of private itcm-     (barb is cash sad hiod)                less thee eight prsoms;       I emldes  bul-cce, hearses sod militrry
received by richest 5%, richest 202, peeredt 202, sod poeress 402 of house-                   vehicle..
holds                                                                                        Electricity ikeh/ye ges .pS - SA--sI cmsopeti            of isduaerial, cseil
public sodrprivate e1sotrioity in kiissstt bones par capita, gemerally
Distribntioo of lead ose-thipe- Per...tsgea      of land mased by wealthiest 102                 based amprdnlti- data, without slmeefor lose                t   grids but  llas--
sand poarest 102 of 1eod awers.                                                                log for imparts sod eapari       of electricity
N-epsrict (kg/yr pee ap        Poe capit   socua1 comomptiom to kilagrsa
H.es1th sod Nutrirtim                                                                            estimated from domestic produstise plus met imparts of cevprat
Poeslatis Pee physiciso - Pepulation divided by m,ab,hr of practicing
physicia.. qualIfIed fro       a medical  school as soi-eity level



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PlR CAPITA IN 1975   US$ 150
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975/76  /                                                ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices) S/
USS Hln.                                              1960/61-1964/65    1965/66-1969/70    1970/71-t9L74/7
GNP at Market Prioes            82.8       100.0                                         3.8                 3.7                2.6
Gross Domestio Investment       (6.7        20.1
Gross National Saving           16.0        19.3
Current Account Balance        -0.7         -0.8
Resource Gap                    -1.5        -1.8
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor oost)          Labor Force            V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bn.             9il.l.._N-.ional Average
Agriculture                     24.5            46.6               130.0    72.1           188            64
Industry                        11.8            22.3                20.2    11.2           582           199
Services                        16L331.1                            50,2    16.7           542           186
Total/average                   52.6           100.0               180.4   100.0           292           100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                     Central Government
(Re. Bln)             9 of GDP                       (Re. Bln)             % of GDP
1975/76      1975/76   1973/74-1975/76               1975/76       1975/76   1973/74-1975/76
Current Reoeipts                 133.34        18.5          16.7                      79.11         11.0          9.8
Current Expenditures             118.77        16.5          1S.5                     705             9.7         8.8
Current Surplus/Deficit           14.57         2.0           1.4                      9.o6           1.3         1.0
Capital Expenditures  e/          54.27         7.5           6.2                      40-75          5.6          4.6
External Assistanoe (net)         13.89         1.9           1.3                      13.89          1.9         1.5
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                1965/66   1971/72    1972/73   197/74     1974/75   1975/76     September 1975   September 1976
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                     61.4     122.4      142.2     169.1      187.2     213.6          199.0            238.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector              40.8      69.0       82.5      92.9      102.6     108.5          112.8            112.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector             28.1      64.4       76.o      90.1      109.5     134.2          106.0            143.8
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                    January 1976     January 1977
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP         24.0      26.4       27.9      27.1       26.2      27.9
Wholesale Prioe Index
(1961/62 = 100)                      131.6      188.4      207.1     254.2      313.0     302.8          290.0            320.5
Annual peroentage changes int
Wholesale Price Index                     7.7        4-0        9.9      22.7       23.1                                      10.5 fl
Bank Credit to Public Sector             12.9       21.3       19.6      12.6       10.4       57                              4. 7
Bank Credit to Private Sector             12.8      13.6      18.0       18.5       21.5      22.5                            24.6
a/ The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the
World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
b/ Quiok Estimates.
S/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and
one observation after last year of listed period.
/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
/   All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
N/ Ret bank credit to Goverrnent Sector.
/ Bank Credit to Commercial Sector.



EOOCMIIC DEVELOPMENT DATA                                                 ANNEX 1
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1975/74          1l 9576              1976/77 /            tRC5RADISE EXPORTS (AGOS 1973/74-1975/76)
(il0s ijilio                                                    U   Yln. 
Exports of Goods                   3,239        4,174       4,555        5,400              Sugar                      342          9
Imports of Goods                  -3,971      -5,794      --6,085       -5,850              Jute Manufactures          3t7         8
rade Balanoe                      - 732       _t1,620      -1,530         -450              Tee                        249         6
SFS (net) j/                        n.e.         n.e.        n.S.        n.I.                Cotton Textiles           413         10
Iron Ore                  206          5
Resource Gap                        n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.                 ngjineering Goods       391          10
Other,                   2.071        52
Interest Payments (net)           - 233         - 260       - 250        - 280              Total                    3,989        100
Other Factor Payments (not)         n.a.         n.a.        n.e.        n.a.
Not Transfers /                     n.a.        n.a.         n.a.        n.a.
Balance on Current Accounts               n.a.         n.a.        n.      a n..            ExrAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1976
US$ Billion
Official Aid
Disbursements                  1,249        1,766       2,326       2,050               Repayable in foreign currency         12.3
Amortization                   - 459        - 519       - 516       - 560               Repayable through arport of goode      0.7
Traneactiona with IUF                 75          515         205       - 365               Total Outstanding and Disbursed       13.0
All Other Iteme                      205           80         559       1,100
D0EBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976/77      15.5  percent
Inorease in Reseerves (-)           -105           38       - 794     -'1495
Gross Reserves (end year)          1,416        1,378       2,172       3,667               IBDR/IDA LEID1NG, December 31, 1976   (ust lIn.)
Net Reesrvee (end year)            1,341          783       1,332       3,202
IBRD       IDA
Fuel and Related Materials
Outstanding and Disbursed          452.7     3208.4
Imports                              720        1,451       1,417       1,625               Undisbursed                        510.3     1140.5
of whioh: Petroleum               719        1,451       1,417       1,625               Outetanding including
6Undisbursed                       963.0     4348.9
Exports                               20           26          41         n.e.
of which, Petroleum                16          17           22         n.a.
RATE OF EXCEASGE  a/
Prior to mid-Deoember 1971       us$1.oo  =  Re 7.5                                         After end June 1972    :   Floating Rate
Rs 1.00  = uSto.133333                                      Spot Rate March 31, 1976
Mid-December 1971 to          :  US$1.00  = Rs 7.27927                                                 approx. ust1.00 * Rs.   8.80475
end June 1972                  Rs 1.00  = usSo.137376                                                approx. Re 1.00 a US$   0.113575
a'/ Estimated.
J/ Included with 'All other Items'.
_J/ Aid and trade figures converted to US dollars using exchange rates as indicated in inside front
cover of this report or notes to individual tables.
a' Including garmente.
a' Amortization and interest payments (excluding IMF transaotionm) as a peroentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of October 31 , 1977)
Loan or                                                                                                  US$ Millionh'
Credit No.            Year      Borrower                      Purpose                                 (Net of Cancellation)
BANK       IDA      Undiabursed
39 Loans/                                                                                     1,091.5
47 Credits fully disbursed                                                                                 2,527.4
614-IN                1969       India          Tarai Seeds                                       13.0        --          3.6
250-IN                1971       India          Tamnil Nadu Agricultural Credit                    --         35.0        1.2
264-IN                1971       India          Cochin II Fertilizer                               --20.0                 0.2
267-IN                1971       India          Wheat Storage                                      --5.0                  3.5
294-IN                1972       India          Bihar Agricultural Markets                         --14.0                10.1
312-IN                1972       India          Population                                         --21.2                 7.2
342-IN                1972       India          Education                                          --12.0                10.0
356-IN                1972       India          IDBI                                               --25.0                11.2
377-IN                1973       India          Power Transmission III                             --85.0                 7 .4
378-IN                1973       India          Mysore Agricultural Markets                        --          8.0        7.0
902-IN                1973       ICICI          Industry DFC X                                    70.0         --         8.3
390-IN                1973       India          Bomibay Water Supply                               --         55.0       33.1
392-IN                1973       India          Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit                  --38.0                 3 .2
403-IN                1973       India          Telecommunications V                               --80.0                 6.0
427-IN                1973       India          Calcutta Urban Development                         --35.0                11. 7
440-IN                1973       India          Bihar Agricultural Credit                          --32.0                16.9
456-IN                1974       India          HIP Apple Processing & Marketing                   --13.0                 9.9
481-IN                1974       India          Trombay IV                                         --         50.0       16.1
lOll-IN                1974       India          Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                           52.0         --        37.9
482-IN                1974       India          Karnataka Dairy                                    --         30.0       29.5
502-IN                1974       India          Rajasthan Canal CAD                                --83.0                54.9
520-IN                1974       India          Sindri Fertilizer                                  --91.0                27.5
521-IN                1974       India          Rajasthan Dairy                                    --27.7                27.1
522-IN                1974       India          Madhya Pradesh Dairy                               --16.4                15.6
526-IN                1975       India          Drought Prone Areas                                --         35.0       26.0
1079-IN                1975       India          IFFCO Fertilizer                                 109.0         --        81. 8
1097-IN                1975       India          Industry DFC XI                                  100.0         --        44. 4
532-IN                1975        India         Godavari Barrage Irrigation                        --         45.0       27.0
541-IN                1975       India          West Bengal Agricultural Development               --34.0                27-.7
562-IN                1975       India          Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                       -          24.0       19. 5
572-IN                1975       India          Rural Electrification                              --57.0                51. 7
582-IN                1975       India          Railways XIII                                      --        110.0       29.0
585-IN                1975       India          Utter Pradesh Water Supply                         --40.0                39.3
598-IN                1975       India          Fertilizer Industry                                --        105.0       95.5
604-IN                1975       India          Power Transmission IV                              --        150.0      149.9
609-IN                1975       India          Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                       --4.0                   3.9
610-IN                1976       India          Integrated Cotton Development                      --18.0                18.0
616-IN                1976       India          Industrial Imports XI                              --        200.0        5.0
1251-IN(TW)            1976       India          Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                        145.0         --       145.0
1260-IN                1976        India         IDBI II                                           40.0         --         38.3
1273-IN                1976        India         National Seed                                     25.0         --        25.0
1313-IN                1976        India         Teleconmunications VI                             80.0         --        44. 7
1335-IN                1976        India         Bombay Urban Transport                            25.0         --         23.8
680-IN                1977        India         Kerala Agricultural Development                    --         30.0        30.0
682-IN                1977       India          Orissa Agricultural Development                    --20.0                 20.0
685-IN                1977       India          Singrauli Thermal Power                            -150.0               150.0
687-IN                1977       India          Madras Urban Development                           --24.0                 24.0
695-IN                1977        India         Gujarat Fisheries                                  -4.0                    4.0
1394-IN(TW)            1977       India          Gujarat Fisheries                                 14.0          --        14.0
690-IN                1977       India          West Bengal Agricultural Development               -          12.0        12.0
712-IN                1977       India          Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development            --10.0                10.0
715-IN                1977       India          Second ARDC Credit                                 --        200.0      200.0
720-IN                1977       India          Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                          --23.0                23.0
728-IN                1977       India         Assam Agricultural Development                      -8.0                    8.0
1473-IN                1977       India          Bombay High Offshore Development                 150.0          --       150.0
*736-IN                1977       India          Maharashtra Irrigation                             --         70.0        70.0
*737-IN                1977       India          Rajasthan Agricultural Extension                   --13.0                 13.0
*740-IN                1977       India          Orissa Irrigation                                  --         58.0        58.0
1475-IN                1977       ICICI          Industry DFC XII                                  80.0          -         80.0
Total                                                                    1,992.2     4,991.0
of which has been repaid                                               82 2 .9     -31. 3
Total now outstanding                                                       69.3     4,959.7
Amo,unt Sold                                     13 3 .21,6.                        495     7
of which has been repaid                      111.5                   ___        ____
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                          1 ,16 9 .3  4 ,9 59 .7
Total undisbursed                                                          69 6.8   1,2 83. 0
*Not yet effective.
1/    Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of October 31, 1977)
Fiscal                                              Amount (US$ million)
Year         Company                              Loan     Equity    Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5       -         1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9       -         0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4       -         1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2       -         0.2
19>3-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.7      0.3        1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.             0.8      0.4        1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8      1.0       12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0      0.3        1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.0      0.1        1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                   8.6      2.9       11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1       3.8      18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                          6.6       -         6.6
TOTAL                            49.6      8.8      58.4
Less:  Sold                              6.0      1.6        7.6
Repaid                           13.8       -        13.8
Cancelled                         6.2      0.7       6.9
Now Held                         23.6      6.5      30.1
Undisbursed                       5.6       -         5.6



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$598.6 million in FY77 or 80% of Bank Group
commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$1,980
million as of October 31, 1977, corresponds roughly to commitments over the
preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime which would be expected
given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium and large scale
industries, which are often employing high technology and are export oriented.
Loans 1097-IN and 902-IN are fully committed and disbursements have reached
51% and 87% of total loan amounts respectively as of September 30, 1977, which
is slightly ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the production, processing and marketing of certified seeds of high yielding
varieties. The corporation is working effectively and has developed an ex-
cellent reputation for quality seed. Expansion of three processing plants
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14
is well under way. Delivery of some equipment in damaged condition, and
retendering, because of poor response for some others, has delayed delivery
schedules necessitating an extension of the Closing Date by one year to
December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 440     Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30. 1978
Cr. No. 715     Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
All the above agricultural credit projects are similar in structure,
being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farmers through
credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily in minor irrigation.
Credit 715 is a continuation nationwide of the previous program of agricul-
tural credit projects, which were confined to individual states. Apart from
initial start up problems with the individual state projects, mostly due to
the introduction of new lending criteria and lending terms, progress under
these projects has been satisfactory.
Cr. No. 267     Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The US$16.0 million project, with co-financing arrangements with
Sweden, finances (i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and
handling facilities, (ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain
Storage Study. The government-owned Food Corporation of India is respon-
sible for the storage construction. All the nine 10,000 ton capacity bag
warehouses envisaged under the project as revised were completed and be-
came operational in 1975. The construction of five grain silos is progress-
ing satisfactorily and expected to be completed by September 30, 1978. The
training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain Storage Study
was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating the proposal
for the Second Grain Storage Project which was appraised in February/Mlarch
1977 and approved by the Board on November 15, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14
Cr. No. 456     Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22. 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31. 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems; however, remedial measures have been taken to over-
come these difficulties. A recent review mission found substantial improve-
ment in project implementation and apple grower response has been encouraging.
Cr. No. 403     Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Ln. No. 1313    Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily. The closing date of
Credit 403 was extended by one year to December 31, 1977, to cover the
delivery and installation of imported transmission and switching equipment.
Disbursements under Loan 1313 have commenced.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9,, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 604     Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
For Power Transmission III all equipment has been ordered;
for Power Transmission IV, bids for all equipment have been invited and
most orders have been placed.
Cr. No. 481     Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Cr. No. 520     Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079    IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14
Cr. No. 598     Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project
completion may be delayed by about 18 months due to longer than expected
delivery times for critical equipment and to reflect the current situation
with respect to the use of the Credit proceeds. Under the Sindri project
plant construction and erection is proceeding generally according to schedule
except for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays in receipt of some
materials. Commencement of commercial production is expected by March 1978.
The anticipated cost to complete the project is presently running within bud-
get. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a change
in feedstock from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in completion of engineering
contracts. The project is now progressing satisfactorily based on naphtha as
feedstock. Site work has begun, process- and time-critical equipment is being
ordered, and engineering work is well under way. Credit 598-IN is designed
to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The
project has encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment
approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified
earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and
State governments. The Central Government has submitted a list of sub-
projects to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the
above, the project is likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294     Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378     Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. The project includes
training of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and
evaluation of the project's economic impact. As of June 30, 1977, develop-
ment plans had been completed for 48 of the 50 project markets. The remain-
ing 2 are pending land acquisitions. Appraisals and loan sanctions had been
completed for 13 and was in progress for 18 markets. Farmers and traders
served by the 8 market yards now in operation report more efficient marketing
activities and improved farmers' terms of trade. Progress under the Karnataka
project is improving. As of June 30, 1977, appraisals for 36 of the 39 proj-
ect market yard plans had been completed by participating banks and 25 of
these 36 approved by ARDC. Construction is in progress at 33 markets. In an
attempt to accelerate project progress, more liberal lending terms have been
provided to APMCs and Market Intermediaries (MIs) for construction of shop-
cum-godowns. The project is expected to be completed by the closing date
(December 1979) and to achieve its major objectives of making farm produce
marketing more efficient and improving farmers' terms of trade.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14. 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended to June 30, 1979.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointment of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in both Assam and Bihar.
Disbursements which have been slow because of initial delays should
accelerate now that construction and equipment procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries and in
strengthening the State-Financial Corporations involved, the second operation
(Ln. 1260) was approved on May 18, 1976, and more than 10% of the loan amount
had been authorized by mid-May 1977.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22,.1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain project components. The project has been



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14
redefined and rephased to fit the financing available from the Credit, local
loans and bonds, and internal cash generation of the project entity. The
revised cost estimates for the implementation period 1975/76 to 1979/80
amount to US$266 million equivalent excluding interest during construction.
All major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been
awarded.  This has considerably sped up disbursements which had been slow.
Financial performance of the project entity during 1976/77 was satisfactory,
and major rate increases from April 1, 1976 should ensure continuing financial
viability of the project entity.
Cr. No. 585     Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project had a slow start due to delays in preparation of techni-
cal reports for regional and local water authorities. The technical reports
for about a half of the project have now been finalized and construction
works started in October 1976, about one year behind schedule. All consul-
tants for engineering, organization, management and accounting services for
the Jal Nigam (Water Supply Development Corporation) and the Jal Sansthans
(water authorities) have been engaged. Significant institutional develop-
ment can be expected only after the consultants submit their final recommenda-
tions. The project is expected to be completed by March 1980, approximately
9 months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 616     Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
Utilization of the Technical Development Fund has been slower than
anticipated and the closing date has been postponed by one year to allow
completion of disbursements from the Fund which has been fully committed.
Cr. No. 427     Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Following considerable increases in project costs, GOI and IDA
finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to accommodate the project
to funding available. It is now expected to be substantially completed by
March 1979. Agreements have been reached on consultants services and
technical assistance, as provided for under the project.
Cr. No. 687     Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14
Project components consisting of sites and services; slum improvement; small-
scale and cottage industry; and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city. The
water supply and sewerage; road and traffic improvements; bus transport and
technical assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in
water supply and transport.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Prolect; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 500 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions, as envisaged under the project, have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 110 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. Technical ser-
vices investments are being made. Contracts have been placed for livestock
imports. The Rajasthan project is also doing well. Four milk unions have
been formed and excellent progress has been made in organizing the servicing
of nearly 350 dairy cooperatives at the village level. Plant-designs are
ready, and procurement is making adequate progress. Karnataka's decision to
procure plant equipment jointly with Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh on the same
tender should lead to a recovery of considerable time lost earlier in the
Karnataka project.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9. 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30. 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory and particularly successful with respect to
agricultural extension.
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 11, 1978
(expected); Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978 (expected);
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28. 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project became effective on July 31, 1975. Successful reor-
ganization of agricultural extension services has been a major achievement,
but preparations for lending operations have been slow mainly due to poor
coordination of project agencies. IDA and the government of West Bengal
have agreed on measures to improve coordination and on a timetable covering
a range of project activities. Progress with preliminaries for procurement
of equipment, markets construction and riverlift completions are satis-
factory.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date:   June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30. 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 15, 1978 (expected); Closing Date:
June 30. 1983
These projects totalling US$63 million finance the re-organization
and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of adaptive
agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early and
sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States. The project's components include provision
of additional staff, training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory
facilities, equipment and transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule. However, progress may be affected by possible changes in thinking
at the national level. GOI is presently reviewing all national rural develop-
ment programs, including the DPAP, in order to determine ways to improve over-
all performance in the rural sector. The Government's review is being fol-
lowed closely to determine whether any recommendations would have an impact
on the ongoing project and require changes.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve the productivity of tree crop agricul-
ture, and consequently improve the economic situation of smallholder farmers.
It provides for rehabilitation, new planting and processing of various tree
crops. Support to smallholders is in the form of long-term credit and special
extension and research services, together with technical assistance and
training.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31. 1979
Eleven states have now fulfilled the conditions of eligibility for
on-lending under this project (compared with six at the time of appraisal].
The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the need to adapt
specifications and tender documents to international competitive bidding
procedures, but these problems have been overcome. As of April 1977, orders
had been placed for 60 approved rural electrification schemes, and tenders
had been invited or were in the course of preparation for others.
Cr. No. 582     Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The project was designed to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program for two years, from
April 1, 1975, through March 31, 1977. However, since the approval of the
project, increased production in steel products in India and further develop-
ments in IR's indigenization program slowed down the rate at which IR requires
foreign exchange. Therefore, the Closing Date was extended for one year to
September 30, 1978 in order to complete implementation of the project.
Cr. No. 609     Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment. After initial delays due to difficulties in employing key personnel,
project implementation is now satisfactory. The contract for the feasibility
study has been awarded.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Prolect; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31. 1981
This project finances equipment and civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and increased cotton produc-
tion in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton
ginneries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. Project management and coordination were established
and the cotton production program has been pursued energetically. Implementa-
tion of the research and industrial components has started.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The National Seeds Corporation (NSC) has withdrawn from seeds pro-
duction as planned, having handed over to State Seeds Corporation (SSC).
Detailed production programs, by variety and responsible institution, have
been prepared for breeder, foundation and certified generations. GOI and
State Governments have made equity contributions to SSC thus ensuring financ-
ing of major project activity. Orders will shortly be placed for processing
machinery to provide bridging capacity pending the construction of new pro-
cessing plants. Tender documents for the first purchases of farm machinery
have been finalized.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20. 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Contracts for a first tranche of 325 single and 175 double deck
bus chassis have been awarded, and bidding for the balance of bus chassis is
in progress. Contracts for 275 single and 175 double deck bus bodies have
also been awarded. As for civil works, contracts have been awarded for 6
of 19 bus facilities, and for 11 of about traffic engineering schemes. The
Borrower, the Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority, has employed
consultants to assist it in organization, administrative and financial man-
agement systems, and accounting. The beneficiaries of the loan, the Bombay
Municipal Corporation, and the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Under-
taking, are in the process of employing consultancy assistance in traffic
engineering, and operations and management assistance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:   June 30, 1983
Progress is good. All project implementation units appear
to be competent and enthusiastic and the project is progressing as antici-
pated at appraisal.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Initial project implementation works, principally site acquisi-
tion, construction of access roads, temporary buildings, and design works
are proceeding satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA - BIHAR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Three months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Government of Bihar assisted by Bank Group Staff
and consultants.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
December 1976; January 1977
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
The project was appraised by staff of the Bank's
Resident Mission in India assisted by consultants
starting April 18, 1977.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
December 1, 1977.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
May 1, 1978.
Section II      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III     Special Conditions
1.    GOB would appoint a suitably qualified senior officer
to head Adaptive Research on a full-time basis
(condition of effectiveness paras 36 and 63).
2.    District Adaptive Research Committees chaired by the
District Agricultural Officer woul.d be established to
formulate extension practices, and adaptive research
and field demonstration programs (para 39).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
3.    GOB would appoint additional staff for extension work
according to an agreed schedule (para 43).
4.    GOB would appoint additional staff to conduct adaptive
research work according to an agreed schedule (para
46).
5.    GOB would provide low cost housing to enable extension
field staff to live near their place of work, and under-
take and complete a survey to locate appropriate sites
by December 31, 1978 (para 50).
6.    Credit would be provided to enable AEO and VLEW to
purchase motorcycles and bicycles; allowances would
be reviewed to ensure adequate incentive for their
purchase and utilization (para 50).
7.    The results of monitoring and evaluation would be sub-
mitted to the Association for review at least once a
year (para 52).



84'              a5'               80'              57'              88'
INDIA
B I H A R
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION and RESEARCH PROJECT
POLITICAL- GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ State Capital
Ri  District Headquarters
N. ,                                                 M - oim Roads
T   \'  'iN-' '  '')   l~~~~~ District^ Raundaries
Q    *' WAES0T >5xt;  '4?\  1 4              -N  State Boundaries
,L. 1/  )       Irj |                   > | 2r , 40 oo r4> IrJO  '-'-Inter-ational Boundaries
-.   -' $         i <.. ' 20  4o0  .         Location of Constituent Colleges, Research Stations and Substations
-27-          I   hA AP A R 41JZ4'                     A   Locato,, of AdaptiveReseach Farms  27-
,,  -   /  '  I - "~ ( .GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS
-7NorthernPlain
sr.i i rOn  -  *J.}  E  A  S  T  1  .  1   Cen'tral Pla,ins
I  )          i,,,,,,,,,J Plteoeu and H,lly Areas
20'
n>K>$u\ P<NK A L ; M n- :    ',. . .5~ ,i u r(     E R_M  R N  _i
)       A    `                  v-iD - ,      A   N   IN *
--  1_- 'J% \,\> F<7S- -tAJ\\     CE. ,DHAUBAD  -
i~~~~~~~~~~N u}  7 A, ,. A_- P U _Rv
K        Y-              'x.3n -       A it 
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ 
23-                  JH                   K                                             2j< 'Q f9 4 -H-, .  - 
*           X                                 R,-
25 ~  ~     \  w       ,    ;5e       u; NR.2   Gs E                                2Y-aO
_    -   n-     ,,          j I  I  A'  I                            5 rignd.
IttlS]/;             irG  R  I  H
84'~~          ~~~  LS        8b                 87BAs.        YoioS
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~  ~~~BNA
Aii-,,.-n',i                 t  ~ J    iC
R  U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ua



