Report No. 380a-ES
Appraisal of a
Second Education Project
El Salvador                                                                     FILE COPY
May 16, 1974
Education Projects Division
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit:   Colon   (0)
US$ 1.00  =   0 2.50
0 1.00 = Us$o.40
Measures
1 m2              10.76 sq.ft.
1 km               0.62 mi.
1 km2              0.38 sq.mi.
1 hectare          2.47 acres
Fiscal Year
January 1   -  December 31



EL SALVADOR
BASIC DATA
1971
Area                                                          20,900 km2
Population
-  in towns with over 20,000                                0.71 million (19%)
-  in smaller towns                                         0.74 million (20%)
-  rural                                                    2.23 million (61%)
Total                                                       3.68 millign (100%)
Density                                                     448 per km  of arable land
Growth                                                      3.6% p.a.
GNP (at market prices)                                        US$1,062 million
GNP per capita (Bankc Atlas)                               US$320
Annual Growth of GNP in Real Terms (1960-1970)              5.7%
Literacy_Rate                                                 58%
Enrollment Ratios (including over-aged)
Basic Education, first and second cycles (grades 1-6)   91%
-  in urban areas                                       (132%)
-  in rural areas                                        (62%)
Basic Education, third cycle (grades 7-9)                   21%
Secondary Education (grades 10-12)                          10%
Higher Education                                             5%
Education Finance
Share of Education in Central Government Budget             26.6%
Education Expenditures as Proportion of GDP
-  public                                                  3.2%
-  private                                                0.3%
Total                                                      4.0%






EL SALVADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS   . .............   . . . . ...............                  i-v
I.    INTRODUCTION   ............................................ ......                        1
II*   BACKGROUND   ....... ... ....... .. .. .   ........                                       2
III.  EDUCATION  AND TRAINING   ......................                        ........          3
General         .... ..       . ... ... *.... *..*.**.*.......     * -   ...........  3
The  Education  Reform:   An Overview                      ............          4
Education  Development  Strategy  ...."..              0 ..............          4
Basic  Education  ............................  .......... . . .                 5
Teacher Training   .... ..... ... ..     ...... ........ .. ...                  8
Nonformal  Education  and Training   .................                           9
IV.  EDUCATION  FINANCE  .................. . .. .. .  . .... . ........     * ...... .      10
V. THE PROJECT   .......................................                 ... ......        12
G>eneral   ............... ............................                         12
Basic Education                     .............................. ....         13
Teacher Training   . ...........    .........    .. ........  .                 15
Nonformal  Rural Training                     .........................         15
Possible Third Education Project   .................                            16
Cost  of  the Project                   ..............................          17
VI.  IMPLEMENTATION AND  DISBURSEMENT                          ........................      19
Project  Implementation   .......  .             ....................           19
Disbursement            ........         00 - 0*..............................  21
VII.  AGREEMENTS  REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ..................                              21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
El Salvador in September/October 1973. The mission members were Messrs. B.A.
Thoolen, A.A. Freire, R.J. Hemingway and A. Stam of the Bank, and A. Wilches
of ILO.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
APPENDICES
A.   The Formal Education System
B.   Planning the School Network
C.   Rates of Return of School Replacement
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Enrollments and Teachers, 1971
3.   Population and Enrollment, 1971 and 1981
4.   Enrollments in Basic Education, 1971-1981
5.   Investment Needs for Basic Education, 1971-1981
6.   Teacher Needs, 1973-1981
7.   Teacher Supply, 1973-1981
8.   Teacher Training:  Enrollments and Graduates, 1973-1981
9.   Education Expenditures, 1966-1981
10. School Types in Basic Education
11. Summary of Project Cost
12. Contingency Allowances
13. Project Implementation Schedule
14. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
CHARTS
1.   Structure of the Education System
2.   Education Pyramid, 1973
MAP



EL SALVADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the expansion of basic education
and training opportunities in rural areas, and for the improvement of quality
and efficiency of basic education in El Salvador. A Bank loan of US$17.0
million equivalent to the Government is proposed. Education development in
El Salvador was supported at the secondary level by Bank Loan 609-ES for
US$4.5 million in 1969. Implementation of this first education project, which
is expected to be completed by mid-1974, has been satisfactory.
ii.       In 1967, the Government initiated a dynamic and far-reaching
Education Reform based on the premise that El Salvador's lack of natural
resources calls for an active policy of human resources development and that
only a well-organized education system can fulfill this task. Implementation
of the Reform has been successful thus far, but several problems remain. The
most serious problem is the lack of adequate education and training opportuni-
ties in the rural areas; this is part of the general phenomenon of persistent
underdevelopment in these areas. Many rural schools do not offer the first
four grades of basic education--the minimum schooling required to establish
literacy on a permanent basis. Furthermore, some 40% of the school capacity
in public basic education is rented or in poor condition. The schools in
poor condition not only impose low pedagogical standards, but also are often
unsafe and unhealthy. Many of the classrooms are too small, leading to un-
economically low pupil/teacher ratios. Under the Reform, the curriculum of
basic education has improved substantially in quality and relevance, but it
is still too much oriented toward preparation for the next higher stage of
learning and not adequately balanced to prepare school leavers for adaptation
to adult life. Nonformal education/training is limited to regular evening
courses, literacy training and vocational training oriented toward the modern
sector, and does not meet the urgent training needs of the sizable rural
population.
iii.      In line with the Government's policy of uplifting rural life, the
1973-1977 Education Development Plan gives highest priority to the expansion
of education and training opportunities for both youth and adults in the rural
areas. This will be implemented through the establishment of community schools
offering a range of opportunities in formal basic education (grades 1-4 or
1-6) for rural youth and in nonformal education and training for out-of-school
youth and adults. The basic education curriculum will be modified by strength-
ening the teaching of practical subjects and science so as to provide a more
balanced curriculum, better suited to the needs of the rural children in
particular. Teacher training for basic and secondary education will be
strengthened and basic education teachers upgraded to enable them to teach
competently on the basis of the revised curriculum. Instructional television
(ITV), which is used effectively in grades 7-9 of basic education and is being
introduced in the lower grades, will be expanded to strengthen nonformal



- ii -
education programs.  The Government's rural education and training strategy
is aimed primarily at overcoming the peasants' resistance to change, diversify-
ing the village economy and help promote rural socioeconomic development. The
strategy will be implemented by the Ministry of Education through an innova-
tive program of work-oriented courses for rural out-of-school youth and adults,
with training and development action centered on the rural community schools.
To improve efficiency in education and reduce unit costs, a number of measures
are now being taken, including rationalization of the school infrastructure
by replacing schools which are rented or in poor condition. Although all
these Plan targets represent a major expansion and quality improvement of
education and training, they have been set realistically in order to keep
total education expenditures at a manageable level.
iv.       The proposed project would help the Government achieve these main
policy objectives. It would consist of:
(i) Basic Education. Establishment of 143 rural community schools,
replacement of 299 unsuitable schools, extension of 121 existing
schools, and equipping of 146 workshops.
(ii) Teacher Training. Extension of the Government's teacher-
training school by classrooms, workshops and laboratories,
and a provision to cover the cost of a special in-service
teacher training program.
(iii) Nonformal Rural Training. Equipment for a country-wide,
mobile training scheme, and a provision to cover operational
costs during the scheme's three-year pilot stage.
(iv) Technical Assistance. 15-1/2 man-years of expert services
and 11-1/2 man-years of fellowships.
The project schools and extensions would provide a total of 56,500 student
places, of which 56,000 would be in basic education and 500 in teacher
training. In basic education, 22,300 student places would be replaced and
33,700 student places added, thereby meeting 28% of the 1971-1981 investment
nee,ds in rural areas and 8% of those in urban areas. Most of the enrollment
expansion made possible by the project would take place in the first four
grades of basic education and only 17% would be in grades 7-9; hence, it is
not expected to create undue pressures for the expansion of secondary
education.
v.        Basic Education.  All 143 new schools, 283 of the replaced schools,
and 60 of the extended schools would be located in rural areas. Another 16
schools would be replaced in urban areas, with six of these schools located
on the sites of the proposed Bank Group financed site and services project,
and 61 existing schools in urban areas would be extended with a workshop and
a laboratory for grades 7-9. Further, 66 rural and 80 urban schools, which
contain already a laboratory, would be provided with equipment for a workshop
to be constructed by the Government.



- iil -
vi.       In the Salvadorean concept of rural development, the school in eacl
community is considered the focal point of all developmental action. Thus,
in addition to their role as community learning centers, the rural schools
would function as gathering points for community action and as centers for
essential rural services provided by other governmental agencies. A total
of 324 rural schools in the smaller communities would have two classrooms,
offering the first four grades of basic education, and a covered multipurpose
area for community activities. Access to higher grades of basic education
would be provided in centrally-located schools where grades 5-6 or 5-9 would
also be offered; the project would provide 118 of these schools.
vii.      The proposed replacement of 299 schools which are now rented or in
poor condition would be a sound investment in view of the savings in recurrent
expenditures for teacher salaries and rent. The financial rate of return to
the Government would be 13.0% over a 30-year period. However, the quality
improvements this replacement would bring about are the major benefits, and
the economic rate of return, taking into account some of these non-monetary
benefits, would be about 30% over the same period.
viii.     To hilp implement the modified, more balanced curriculum in
basic education, the proposed project includes equipment and an initial
supply of materials for practical subjects and science in all nine grades.
In the first six grades, these subjects would be closely related to subject
matter and taught by the regular teacher in the classroom and the multipurpose
area. For grades 7-9, however, specialized facilities (workshops and labora-
tories) would be provided to 26 of the new schools and to 245 existing schools.
This would be the first phase of the implementation of this well-rounded
curriculum, from which by 1980 60% of the students in grades 7-9 would
benefit. ITV programs would be modified in connection with the revised
curriculum, and TV sets for the project schools would be provided from a
current USAID loan.
ix.       Teacher Training.  The proposed project provides for an extension of
the Government's teacher-training school with classrooms, laboratories and
workshops to increase its capacity by 500 places and improve the quality of
training. The capacity increase would help ensure an adequate output of
trained teachers for basic education and the academic streams of secondary
education, and would facilitate implementation of the planned in-service
training program. Quality improvement would come about through: (a) improved
science teaching; (b) the training of teachers for grades 1-6 to deal competent-
ly with the new practical subjects; and (c) the orientation of these teachers
for their role in community development in the rural schools. The project also
includes a provision of US$270,000 to cover the cost of a special in-service
training program in practical subjects for teachers and supervisors of the
project schools.
x.        Nonformal Rural Training.  The project includes equipment, vehicles
and a provision to cover the development cost of the nonformal rural training
program. Under this program, instructors would circulate from community to



- iv -
community, giving a variety of short courses in such general fields as small-
scale agriculture, cottage industry, rural construction, home economics and
rural economy, and assistance would be given the villagers in the formation of
cooperatives, use of credit and establishment of new enterprises. The
Directorate of Permanent Education, recently established within the Ministry
of Education, would administer the program. Coordination with other entities
concerned with rural development would be through the Community Development
Organization (FOCCO) and a commission at the national level comprising all
Ministries and agencies involved in rural development. Development of the
scheme would take place in two phases. In the pilot phase of three years'
duration, action would be limited to the two Departments of San Miguel and
Mcrazan, where FOCCO is developing an intensive Coordinated Project of Com-
munity Development. The proposed project would include the program's esti-
mated development cost of US$270,000 during its pilot stage, which would be
closely evaluated. On the basis of the evaluation results, changes would be
introduced and in the second phase the program would be expanded gradually to
cover the entire country. When in full operation the program would offer 4,000
courses per year, serving the needs of some 80,000 peasants.
xi.       Technical Assistance.  To ensure proper implementation of the re-
vised basic education curriculum and the nonformal rural training scheme,
15-1/2 man-years of expert services and 11-1/2 man-years of fellowships are
included in the proposed project.  The experts would train their counterparts
and assist the Government in the teaching of science and practical subjects
in basic education (7 man-years); organization and techniques of nonformal
rural training (8 man-years); and evaluation techniques (1/2 man-year). A
total of 33 counterparts would receive fellowships for training abroad.
xii.      The total project cost is estimated at US$24.2 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$11.8 million or 49% of the total cost. The
proposed loan of US$17.0 million would be equivalent to 70% of total project
costs, and finance all foreign exchange costs and 42% of local costs. Base-
line cost estimates are in prices of January 1974, to which a contingency
allowance of 33% has been added.
xiii.     The Office of Planning and Organization (ODEPOR) of the Ministry of
Education would be responsible for overall coordination of project implementation,
and the Ministry's Architectural Department (DAE) would be the implementing
agency for construction, equipment and furniture under the project. The per-
formance of DAE, which has been responsible for implementing the first educa-
tion project has been generally satisfactory. Through the implementation of
the first project and a USAID-financed school construction project, both of
which are virtually completed, adequate capacity has been built up to implement
a project of this size. The possibility of community participation in works
such as site development is being explored and promoted. Savings achieved
through community participation would accrue to the particular community to
finance additional, related works such as teacher housing and equipment and
furniture for related community activities. Procurement would be based on
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Since



v 
foreign contractors are unlikely to participate, invitations for civil works
bids would be advertised locally, with notification to embassies. Further,
equipment and furniture items that cannot be grouped in packages of at least
US$5,000 would be procured in accordance with the Borrower's regular procure-
ment procedures; this would not in the aggregate exceed the equivalent of
US$300,000 or 5% of the total cost of equipment and furniture. In accordance
with the Central American Agreement, suppliers from Central American Common
Market (CACM) countries would receive a margin of preference of 15% of the
c.i.f. base price or 50% of the tariff payable by non-CACM manufacturers,
whichever is lower.
xiv.      The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of four years,
as follows: (i) the c.i.f. costs of directly imported furniture and equipment
and 85% of the local costs of furniture and equipment; (ii) 62% of the total
costs of civil works, special programs and project administration; and (iii)
85% of the total costs of technical assistance. Up to US$200,000 would be
disbursed retroactively to finance equipment and technical assistance for the
pilot stage of the nonformal rural training program.
xv.       Subject to the conditions in Chapter VI of this report, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank Loan of US$17.0 million equivalent
to the Government of El Salvador, for a period of 30 years, including a grace
period of ten years.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of El Salvador has requested that the Bank help
finance a project for meeting its highest priority in the education sector:
equalization of education and training opportunities between urban and rural
areas and quality improvement of basic education. The cost of the project,
for which a Bank loan of US$17.0 million equivalent is proposed, is estimated
at US$24.2 million; the foreign exchange component would be about US$11.8
million.
1.02      This would be the second project through which the Bank would
assist the Government of El Salvador in meeting high-priority needs in the
education sector. The first Bank loan (609-ES), for US$4.9 million, was
made in 1969 for the quality improvement and expansion of secondary education
to meet urgent manpower requirements. After some initial delays, which were
partly made up later, the first project is now almost completed. Its imple-
mentation has been satisfactory: construction, equipment and furniture are
of good quality, and costs within appraisal estimates. Curricula are well
designed, and existing weaknesses in their implementation are being overcome.
A full evaluation of the project is not yet possible, since the project
institutions are just beginning to be utilized. Meanwhile, the project imple-
mentation agency has built up sufficient capacity to implement a larger
project.
1.03      The Government's request for Bank assistance comprised the construc-
tion of 115,000 student places in basic education, a teacher-upgrading program
and a scheme for nonformal rural training. During appraisal, the size of the
construction program was reduced by about one half, since the availability
of counterpart funds was not assured for a larger project. Also, the teacher-
training component was slightly increased to ensure a sufficient number of
teachers for the project schools. The project as appraised would provide for
the expansion of education and training opportunities in rural areas by
establishing rural community schools offering a variety of education/training
activities for youth and adults, supported by a mobile, nonformal rural
training scheme. Quality improvement of basic education would be brought
about through the provision of facilities for practical subjects and science
teaching and for teacher training, and through the replacement of unsuitable
school capacity, leading also to reduced unit costs.
1.04      Initial sector work in connection with the proposed project was
carried out by a UNESCO mission in February 1972. The project was prepared
by the Ministry of Education, with occasional assistance by Bank staff, and
appraised in September/October 1973 by a mission consisting of Messrs. B.A.
Thoolen (economist), A.A. Freire (general educator), R.J. Hemingway (techni-
cal educator) and A. Stam (architect) of the Bank, and A. Wilches (vocational
training expert) of ILO.



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUNI)
2.01      El Salvador, smallest of the Central American countries, has an
extreme scarcity of cultivable land and a population density which is one
of the highest in the Americas. Apart from a strong concentration in the
capital district, San Salvador, the population is evenly distributed through-
out the country, facilitating the spread of social services. The population
has a homogeneous composition without sizable ethnical minorities and with
Spanish as the common language. In the last ten years the rural population
increased in absolute terms and its proportion remained a high 61%. However,
the definition of rural areas in El Salvador is somewhat ambiguous: many
smaller towns, classified as urban, have essentially a rural character.
Family planning programs are being carried out by various official and private
institutions, but in the absence of a national program their impact has thus
far been limited. Consequently, school-age youths (7 to 15 year-olds) comprise
23% of the total population and their numbers are growing by 3.9% per year.
2.02      El Salvador's economy is characterized by the existence of a
number of dynamic modern activities and a large subsistence sector, with a
wide gap between the two. In the last ten years the growth of national
income originated almost entirely in the modern sector, where the employment
increase was insufficient to compensate for the stagnation in subsistence
agriculture. As a result, open unemployment reached about 13% in 1971.
Moreover, the agricultural labor force, constituting more than 50% of the
working population, is probably employed only half the time on average, due
to the seasonal character of a large part of farm work.
2.03      Extreme poverty is widely spread in El Salvador's rural areas.
More than 90% of the rural population has a total annual income of less than
US$50 per capita. Scarcity of land is a main constraint to development, with
an average of six hectares of cultivable land per farm family. Moreover, agri-
cultural techniques in the smallholdings are primitive and productivity is
low. Although there is need for some land redistribution, a more pressing
need is for an increase in output of foodstuffs and agricultural raw materials
by the smallholders and the creation of alternative employment opportunities
for the mass of underemployed peasants. There is also an urgent need to
improve the rural standard of living through health and education services,
access to public utilities, and better housing. A basic requirement for
development is a change in attitude on the part of the rural masses, presently
inhibited by innate traditionalism and low literacy rates.
2.04      Recently, the Government initiated several actions geared toward
meeting the above needs of the rural population, and also strengthened the
institutional framework for rural development. The newly created Agricultural
Development Bank will improve the availability of credit for small farmers;
the Rural Colonization Institute has been strengthened to support the settle-
ment of landless farmers; and the autonomous Community Development Organization
(FOCCO) now receives direct Presidential support for its community development



-3-
activities. In addition, the health and education services will be improved
through the establishment of rural health centers and rural community schools.
Education is a key element of El Salvador's rural development strategy, with
the school in each community serving as the focal point of all developmental
action.
2.05      Overall planning for rural development was lacking until recently
and developmental actions still tend to be uncoordinated. A first step toward
integrated rural development is the Coordinated Project of Community Develop-
ment. This project, which commenced in 1973, is being carried out in the
Departments of San Miguel and Morazan under management of FOCCO, with inputs
from and in close cooperation with all Ministries concerned; it is aimed at
accelerating integration of the peasants into the national economy and secur-
ing their active participation in decision-making and community development.
As a result of studies and field research, 52 communities were selected for
intensive development. The project is being closely evaluated to serve as
a model for rural development throughout the country.
III. EDUCATION AND TRAINING
General
3.01      The Structure.  The formal education system comprises nine years
of basic education, three years of secondary education, and higher education
with courses of two to six years in universities and specialized post-secondary
institutions (Annex 2 and Charts 1 and 2). Basic education starts at age
seven and is organized in three cycles of three years each. The first two
cycles, comprising grades 1-6, are equivalent to primary education, while the
third cycle, with grades 7-9, is equivalent to the lower-secondary level.
Students follow a common program in basic education and select one of eleven
specialties when they enter secondary education (grades 10-12). Analytical
information on secondary and higher education is in Appendix A.
3.02      Administration.  Central administration, planning and supervision
of the education system have been reorganized with USAID assistance, leading
to greatly improved effectiveness. The organization of the Ministry of
Education has been consolidated, accompanied by a training program for admin-
istrative personnel. Within the Ministry, the Office of Planning and Organi-
zation (ODEPOR) is responsible for planning, programming, budgeting and
coordinating the main activities and for keeping the organizational structure
in line with the current needs of the education system. School supervision
is organized in ten zones of ten school circuits each and is effectively
carried out by school supervisors based in every circuit.



-4-
The Education Reform: An Overview
3.03      In 1967, the Government undertook a dynamic and far-reaching
Education Reform aimed at improving the education system, including its
structure, staffing, administration and technology, to enhance its responsive-
ness to the country's overall development needs. The Reform was based on the
premise that El Salvador's lack of natural resources requires an active policy
of human resources development, and that only a modern, well-organized edu-
cation system can fulfill this task. Accordingly, the Reform was conceived
as a first step in a series of continuous improvements in accordance with
the country's evolving needs. The first phase of the Reform was implemented
through the 1968-1972 Education Development Plan. Most of the Plan targets
have been achieved; specifically, basic education has been expanded as planned,
the curriculum has been revised, the proportion of qualified teachers has
increased to 95%, and quality has improved substantially. An instructional
television (ITV) program has been adopted and fully implemented in grades 7-9
and has led to significant improvements in the quality and efficiency of
teaching at this level. With the help of the first Bank-financed education
project, secondary education has been expanded and improved, and its curriculum
modified to provide a more vocational orientation, facilitating access to both
the labor market and further studies. Teacher training has been consolidated
and an intensive program of in-service teacher training implemented.
3.04      Despite these achievements, several problems remain to be solved,
the main one being the persistence of inequality in education opportunities
between the urban and rural areas. Schools are unevenly distributed and many
rural schools offer only the first two grades of basic education. Furthermore,
the curriculum of basic education is still too much oriented toward prepa-
ration for the next-higher stage of learning and is not adequately adapted
to the basic needs of rural youth. Although ITV is used in a more compre-
hensive way than in other countries, its coverage has not been sufficiently
extended to make it cost effective. Nonformal education/training is offered
on only a limited scale and does not meet the urgent training needs of the
sizable rural population. With a high proportion of the Central Government
budget being expended for education, it is essential to improve efficiency
and reduce per-student costs of the education system.
Education Development Strategy
3.05      After evaluating the 1968-1972 planning period, the Government
concluded that the 1973-1977 Education Development Plan should give highest
priority to the remaining problems mentioned above (para 3.04), and in
particular to the expansion of education and training opportunities in rural
areas. This will come about through the expansion of rural school capacity,
the use of rural schools as community learning centers, and the strengthening
and expansion of nonformal education/training and teacher training. The
Plan also stresses the need for further quality improvements, but proposes
several cost-reduction measures to compensate for the resulting increase of
per-student costs. A main concern of the Government is the need to make more



-5-
efficient use of the infrastructure of school facilities; in basic education
schools this is coming about through full implementation of the double-shift
system and their use for nonformal education purposes after regular school
hours. Furthermore, the Government intends to rationalize systematically the
existing infrastructure through the replacement of classrooms which are rented
or in poor condition. All proposals in the Plan have been quantified and a
careful selection among priorities has been made so as to keep education
expenditures at a manageable level. A sector study is underway, with USAID
assistance, and is expected to improve the statistical and analytical basis
for education planning and programming and to identify possible further
improvements in the education system.
Basic Education
3.06      Problems and Needs.  In 1971, total enrollments in formal basic
education were 70% of the school-age population--91% for the first two cycles
(grades 1-6) and 21% for the third cycle (grades 7-9)-but about one-fourth
of the students were over-aged (Annex 3). Participation in the first two
cycles had reached 132% in the cities but only 62% in the rural areas. Rural
participation rates have improved in the last few years as a result of the
introduction of the double shift and the construction of new schools. However,
education opportunities in rural areas are still far behind the national
average. Although the population distribution is fairly even, school facil-
ities are highly concentrated in the cities and many rural communities have
either insufficient access to schooling or none at all.
3.07      End-year examinations have traditionally been a purely selective
procedure, leading to low internal efficiency. This was particularly the
case in the first two cycles of basic education, where until recently re-
petition rates averaged some 18%. To improve this situation, new promotion
practices were introduced in 1971 and are being gradually implemented. Ex-
aminations at the end of each grade have been replaced by a continuous,
systematic evaluation of all learning activities, whereby promotion from one
grade to the next is virtually automatic. Teachers and supervisors have been
trained in these new techniques, particularly through ITV, and an evaluation
manual was recently distributed to all teachers. Repetition rates were halved
during the first year of the system's operation, and further reduction is
expected when the new promotion practices become fully Implemented in the
coming years. As a result, students will complete their education in a
shorter period and the cost per graduate will therefore be greatly reduced.
3.08      Early dropout from the first six grades of basic education is a
serious problem, particularly in the rural areas. Only 23% of the rural
students, compared with 65% in urban areas, complete the first four grades,
which are considered the minimum amount of schooling to establish literacy
on a permanent basis. Consequently, the education inputs in rural areas
are not only comparatively small, but a substantial portion are virtually
wasted. A main cause for this high dropout is the inadequacy of school
capacity: many of the rural schools consist of only one classroom where



- 6-
only the first two grades are offered so that these rural children are
locked out of further education. Moreover, distances to the rural schools
are long and, because of the prevailing malnutrition, often prohibitive for
the poorer children. Thus, there is clearly a need for rural schools that
offer at least the first four grades of basic education, and for a better
dispersion of school capacity.
3.09      Basic education is conceived as the common preparatory basis for
further learning and productive life. Curricular revisions, introduced under
the Reform, have led to substantial improvements in both quality and relevance.
However, the programs are stlll too much oriented toward preparation for the
next-higher stage of learning and are not adequately balanced to prepare
school leavers for adaptation to adult life. A further shift toward a more
balanced curriculum is particularly urgent to meet the basic needs of the
majority of the rural children, for whom basic education is in fact terminal
education. A more relevant program would also help to increase community
interest in the school and thereby strengthen its role in community develop-
ment.
3.10      ITV is being used on a full scale in day and evening courses for
grades 7-9 of basic education, and on an experimental basis in the fourth
grade. In grades 7-9, ITV has brought about major quality improvements,
partly through the program itself and partly through related actions such as
the provision of textbooks and teacher manuals, and in-service training for
teachers. ITV has caused an equalization of standards throughout the country
and has considerably improved the quality of education in the rural areas.
A related improvement was that repetition and dropout have been virtually
eliminated in grades 7-9. However, ITV has proved to be an expensive venture,
in 1971 absorbing ¢ 24 per third-cycle student, or 21% of total expenditures
at that level. ITV is not yet cost effective and can only become so when
further expanded and used to substitute for other inputs.
3.11      Strategy.  The Government's expansion program for the first six
grades of basic education is aimed at halving the gap between urban and rural
participation. The grades 1-6 participation rate in rural areas is expected
to increase from 62% in 1971 to 90% in 1981, whereas the urban participation
rate would decline from 132% to 122%, as a result of improved internal
efficiency and a reduction of the number of over-aged students (para. 3.07).
This implies an increase of public enrollments by 210,000 (7.0% p.a.) in
rural areas and 140,000 (3.9% p.a.) in the cities, which is less than the
expected urban population growth. The participation rate in the third cycle
of basic education would increase from 21% in 1971 to 35% in 1981 (Annex 3),
and the annual growth rate of public enrollments would be 25% in the rural
areas as against 10% in the cities (Annex 4). Taking into account the
possibilities for more intensive use of existing school capacity and replace-
ment needs, 288,000 additional student places in basic education must be
constructed between 1971 and 1981. The USAID-financed construction program
provides for 75,000 student places from 1971 to mid-1974. The proposed
project would provide 56,000 student places during a three-year period, and



-7-
would meet 28% of the needs in rural areas and 8% of those in urban areas
(Annex 5). The additional 157,000 student places would be provided from the
Government's own resources and through additional external borrowing.
3.12      While this expansion program would go a long way toward equalizing
education opportunities in rural and urban areas, it would fall far short of
the goal of universal basic education. Because of financial constraints, that
goal is not feasible for the time being, particularly in rural areas, and the
Government is aware of this. It is realized that the intermediate objective
should be to provide all children with at least four years of basic education.
Since the present structure of three three-year cycles in basic education is
not the most appropriate one for this purpose, the Government is considering
a restructuring into two four-year cycles. As a first step toward this
objective, the Government has decided that all smaller rural communities
where no education facilities now exist, but which have 160 or more children
of school age, will be provided a two-classroom school offering the first
four grades of basic education in double shift. Access to higher grades of
basic education will be provided in centrally located six- and nine-grade
schools. A detailed study of the school map has been undertaken to determine
the location and size of each school that will be newly constructed or
extended, in its relation to all neighboring schools (Appendix B).
3.13      In keeping with their key role in rural development (para. 2.04),
the rural basic education schools will be expanded in function to serve as
community centers, particularly in the smaller communities. They are expected
to function as gathering points for community action and as centers for essen-
tial rural services, such as health and agricultural extension, provided by
other governmental agencies. In their function as community learning centers,
these schools will provide a range of opportunities in basic education and in
nonformal education/training (e.g., accelerated basic education, literacy
courses and work-oriented training) for out-of-school youth and adults. These
programs will be supported by ITV, which is expected to function fully for
grades 4-6 by 1977 and for all nine grades of basic education by 1981.
3.14      The Government has reviewed the basic education curriculum and
concluded that it should become more balanced and have more relevance,
particularly to the needs of those who do not continue beyond basic education
(para. 3.09). The revised curriculum will include practical activities,
closely related to the subject matter in the first six grades and with rota-
tion in main fields of activities in grades 7-9. These activities will permit
more active participation in learning and include some basic training in
technical fields, giving the student the option, on leaving school, of find-
ing a job or continuing his education and training. The curriculum and
syllabi are being revised with technical assistance under the first education
project, and ITV programs will be modified accordingly. The revised curri-
culum will be fully implemented in newly constructed and extended schools,
and gradually expanded to all existing schools. The proposed project would
support the implementation of this improved curriculum.



-8-
Teacher Training
3.15      As part of the 1967 Education Reform, the Government has consolidated
all seven public primary teacher training schools into one institution and
phased out the 46 private teacher training schools. The one remaining public
school, Ciudad Normal, has developed into a broad teacher training institution,
responsible for training teachers for basic and secondary education. Also,
upgrading courses are provided for teachers of the first and second cycles
as well as short courses for third-cycle teachers, school directors and
supervisors. Teachers for the first and second cycles of basic education
follow a common three-year program at the secondary level, and third-cycle
teachers are trained in a two-year post-secondary program in three streams:
humanities, science, and physical education. There are no separate programs
for urban and rural teachers, but all teachers are appointed to rural schools
for at least the first three to four years of their career. In view of the
prevailing oversupply, no new basic education teachers were trained from
1968 to 1971, except for physical education teachers. In 1972, the training
was resumed in selected areas, though in small numbers. Since only few
unemployed teachers will remain by 1976, a full-scale resumption of teacher
training is now needed. The training of teachers for secondary education
(grades 10-12) has not yet started in Ciudad Normal and will be limited to
humanities and science teachers. Secondary education teachers for the first
project schools have had to be trained through short-term courses in
El Salvador and abroad; hence the initiation of a regular training program
is now urgent.
3.16      In accordance with the 1973-1977 Education Development Plan, a
detailed program for teacher training at all levels has been developed on
the basis of enrollment projections up to 1981 (Annexes 6 and 7). In basic
and secondary education together, some 750 additional teachers will be needed
per year up to 1977 and 900 from 1977 to 1981. To meet these needs, enroll-
ments in Ciudad Normal will have to be expanded to graduate 720 teachers
annually: 400 for the first six grades, 260 for grades 7-9, and 60 for sec-
ondary education (Annexes 7 and 8). The remaining teachers will be trained
through upgrading courses, and in universities and other post-secondary institu-
ti3ns. Ciudad Normal's expansion program also includes the establishment
of a one-year intensive course to train instructors in industrial arts and
hQnme economics for grades 7-9, who are needed to implement the revised basic
education curriculum. The training program for teachers of grades 1-6 has been
modified to include preparation for the teaching of practical subjects and to
orient the teachers for their role in community development in the rural commu-
nity schools. In addition, Ciudad Normal will continue to offer in-service
training courses for teachers and supervisors through summer courses and ITV
programs. The above teacher training requirements necessitate the expansion
of Ciudad Normal from 1,300 to 1,800 student places. The proposed project
would support this expansion through the provision of all required classrooms,
workshops and laboratories.



-9-
Nonformal Education and Training
3.17      Although the 1967 Education Reform was comprehensive in its goals,
implementation has thus far been limited to formal education as provided by
the Ministry of Education. Until recently, nonformal education programs
consisted of only evening courses, equivalent to formal education programs
(Annex 2) and literacy training. Meanwhile, a new program, PEO (Programa de
Educacion Orientada), has been developed to offer an accelerated form of
basic education for out-of-school youth and adults. PEO consists of flexible
courses with ITV lessons, written materials and regional counseling offices
replacing the regular classroom teacher. Such courses are now being implemented
only for the equivalent of the third cycle of basic education (grades 7-9),
where ITV is fully implemented. Similar courses for the lower cycle will
start once the use of ITV has been extended (para 3.13). It is expected that
enrollments in nonformal basic education (including evening courses) will
increase by 140% between 1971 and 1981 (Annex 3). Nonformal, work-oriented
courses are limited to a small vocational training center in the Ministry of
Labor, which is serving only the modern sector. Training programs oriented
toward the sizable rural population are virtually non-existent, and it is
here that a large and urgent need is to be met.
3.18      The main thrust of the Government's rural training strategy is to
overcome the peasants' resistance to change, diversify the village economy
and help promote rural economic and social development. This training strategy
will be implemented by the Ministry of Education, with the support of the
proposed project, through an innovative program of work-oriented courses for
rural out-of-school youth and adults, with training and developmental action
centered on the basic education schools. Instructors will circulate from
community to community, giving a variety of short courses in such general
fields as small-scale agriculture, cottage industries, rural construction,
home economics and rural economy. Assistance will be given in the formation
of cooperatives, use of credit and establishment of new enterprises.
3.19      The Directorate of Permanent Education, recently established in the
Ministry of Education, will Implement the training program. Coordination
with other entities concerned with rural development will be through FOCCO
which acts as Executing Agency of a national commission composed of the
Ministries of Education, Health and Agriculture; CONAPLAN; Administracion de
Bienestar; and UNDP. FOCCO operates through national and regional technical
committees on which the Ministry of Education is also represented.
3.20      Development of the training program will take place in two phases.
In the first phase of three years' duration, action will be limited to the
two Departments of San Miguel and Morazan, where it will function as integral
part of an intensive Coordinated Project of Community Development (para. 2.05).
Schools in 52 communities will be used, each school being visited about 15
times annually. Duration of the courses will be one week and there will be
about 780 courses per year, serving over 15,000 peasants. This first, pilot



- 10 -
phase will be closely evaluated to determine the effects on productivity and
income, formation of cooperatives, use of credit, improvements in the village
environment, improved nutrition, reduced birthrate, etc. On the basis of the
evaluation, changes will be introduced, and in the second phase the project
will be gradually expanded to cover the whole country. When in full operation,
there will be 4,000 courses per year, serving the needs of approximately 80,000
peasants and their families. The costs of the program are a reasonable ¢ 325
per course, or t 16 per participant, while its potential benefits for the
rural people are considerable.
IV. EDUCATION FINANCE
4.01      In 1971, expenditures for education totalled ¢ 109 million, or 4%
of GDP. The contribution of the Central Government is about 80%, which amounts
to a high 27% of its total budget (Annex 9), illustrating the high priority
given to human resources development in El Salvador. Public basic education
is free, and tuition fees for public secondary and higher education are kept
small so that they will not become a prohibitive factor in the participation
of the lower social classes. It is recognized, however, that other education
costs borne by the parents-particularly student subsistence costs-do consti-
tute a barrier for the poor. To equalize opportunities, a system of education
loans has been initiated recently through which students in secondary and
higher education can finance all private costs during their studies at both
public and private institutions. These loans are financed from a Central
Bank loan fund and made to the students by commercial banks on a commission
basis in accordance with individual needs and study results. In this way,
lower-income students are able to finance the cost of their studies and are
not locked out of higher levels of education.
4.02      The major sources of external assistance are USAID, the Bank, IDB
and UNDP. From 1968 to 1973, USAID provided US$12.2 million to support the
development of ITV, curricular and administrative improvements, and the con-
struction of about 1,900 classrooms for basic education. The school construc-
tion program is nearly completed, but USAID's lending program for El Salvador
does not allow for a continuation of lending for education on this scale and
in these fields. Undisbursed amounts on the USAID loans will be used for
technical assistance and the procurement of TV sets. The Bank concentrated
its lending on secondary education (US$4.9 million), and the IDB on university
education (US$2.0 million). The UNDP provided technical assistance amounting
to US$0.9 million in the same period.
4.03      Since participation rates in basic education are high compared with
those at other levels (Annex 3), expenditures for public and private basic
education amount to a sizable 62% of total education expenditures. Per student
costs are a reasonable e 88 for the first two cycles and ¢ 116 for the third
cycle. The difference between these cost figures is mainly due to teaching
materials and maintenance constituting only 3% of current expenditures for
the first two cycles and 20% for the third cycle, mostly in connection with



- 11 -
ITV. The provision of teaching materials is inadequate and needs to be
improved. At the same time, overall cost reductions are essential in view
of the high proportion of the Government budget already spent on education.
The Government recognizes that, and is implementing various cost-reducing
measures. First, the basic education curriculum has been modified to allow
double-shift use of school facilities; this has led to a substantial reduction
in the requirements for new investments. Furthermore, the teachers' workload,
which is now only 25 periods per week, is being increased with additional
hours being paid at half the regular hourly rate. This measure is being
implemented on a voluntary basis and has already been accepted by 16% of the
teachers; its implementation is facilitated by ITV, which releases teachers
from part of their active teaching tasks. It is considered attractive by
many rural teachers who do not have alternative employment possibilities after
school hours. Further cost reductions are possible through rationalization
of the infrastructure of school facilities. Of the 9,200 public basic educa-
tion classrooms in use in 1971, 2,400 were rented and 1,400 in poor condition,
many of which not only impose low pedagogical standards but also are unsafe
and unhealthy. Moreover, many of these classrooms are too small, leading
to uneconomically low pupil/teacher ratios. Unnecessary expenditures for
teacher salaries and rent could be avoided through the selective replacement
of unsuitable school facilities.
4.04      The Government's school rationalization program comprises 2,700 of
the 3,800 classrooms which are rented or in poor condition, and is expected
to be completed by 1981 (Annex 5). Replacement would be justified where
savings in recurrent expenditures for teacher salaries and rent would make
this a worthwhile investment. The proposed project would replace 299 basic
education schools with 767 classrooms and 22,300 student places; this would
give an average financial rate of return on the investment of 13.0% over a
30-year period (Appendix C). The non-monetary benefits of this investment
would be substantial, since the new school buildings would provide a greatly
improved environment for learning: they would be less crowded and of better
quality, with improved ventilation and illumination. When the additional
cost of essential improvements in the existing schools, whose quantificatiun
under certain assumptions is discussed in Appendix C, is compared with the
cost of providing new schools, the economic rate of return would be about 30%.
Thus, though this replacement program constitutes a sound investment, the
qualitative improvements it would bring about are the major benefits.
4.05      Projections for the next ten years confirm that the Government will
be able to implement its plans for enrollment expansion and quality improve-
ment while keeping education expenditures at the manageable level of 24% of
the Central Government budget in 1981 (Annex 9). Together with private
expenditures, this will constitute 4.6% of GDP, which is in line with the
efforts of other, comparable countries (Annex 1). Replacement of the 299
schools under the project would reduce recurrent expenditures by ¢ 1.3 million,
or 30% of present expenditures for these schools. Together with other cost-
reducing measures (para. 4.03), this would make it possible to increase



- 12 -
outlays for teaching materials and maintenance to 13% of current expenditures
for basic education, while the average per student costs remain virtually the
same. The incremental recurrent costs generated by the proposed project
would be 6.0% of the 1981 budget for the Ministry of Education. The project
cost would be about 70% of planned public investments in the education sector
in 1973-1977 and 4% of total public investments planned for that period. The
1973-1977 Investment Plan gives the highest priority in the education sector
to the expansion and quality improvement of basic education, and contains
the necessary counterpart funds for the proposed project.
V. THE PROJECT
General
5.01      The proposed project would (a) open up opportunities for education
and training of youth and adults by establishing community schools in thus
far neglected rural settlements; (b) lead to reduced recurrent expenditures
and improved quality by replacing unsuitable school capacity; (c) bring about
quality improvement in basic education by providing facilities for practical
subjects and science teaching and teacher training; and (d) assist in the
establishment and operation of a scheme for nonformal rural training. Specifi-
cally, the project would include the following items:
Student    Staff       Total    Enrollment
Places    Housing  Enrollment  Expansion
(i)    Basic Education
(a)  Establishment of
143 new schools           12,000       100        24,000    24,000
(b)  Replacement of
299 schools               36,900        80        73,800    29,200
(c)  Extension of
121 schools                7,100        -         14,200    14,200
(d)  Equipping of
146 workshops                           -           -          -
Total:  709 schools       56,000       180       112,000    67,400
(ii)   Teacher training                   500                   1,800        500
(iii)  Nonformal rural training             -         -       (80,000)  (80,000)



- 13 -
Basic Education
5.02      The project would provide for the construction, furnishing and
equipment of:
(a) Establishment of 143 New Schools
The new schools would be established in small rural communities
where no education facilities exist at present. For most of
these communities, the distance to the nearest school precludes
attendance, so that only a few school-age children are actually
enrolled. To avoid initial low utilization, 130 of the new
schools would have only two classrooms, offering the first four
grades of basic education on a double-shift basis. Access to
the higher grades of basic education would be extended through
the provision of 13 centrally-located schools which would also
offer grades 5-9 (para. 3.12).
(b) Replacement of 299 Schools
This project item would support the school rationalization
program (para. 4.04) and would include the construction, equip-
ment and furnishing of 194 two-classroom schools for grades 1-4
in the smallest rural communities, and 89 centrally-located
rural schools for grades 1-6 or 1-9. Another 16 schools would
be replaced in urban areas, with six of them having an enrollment
capacity of 7,800 to be located on the sites of the proposed bank
Group financed site and services project. Total enrollments
in these project schools would increase by 29,200, since all
of them would offer at least the first four grades in larger
classrooms, enabling a more economical pupil-teacher ratio.
(c) Extension of 121 Schools
This project item would include the extension of 22 existing
rural schools by one to three classrooms to increase opportunities
in grades 5-6 of basic education. Further, 39 rural and 60 urban
schools would be extended with workshops and laboratories
required to implement the revised curriculum (para.3.14), and
18 of these rural schools with additional classrooms to increase
opportunities in grades 5-9 of basic education.
The total enrollment expansion in basic education made possible by the proposed
project would be 67,400, of which 56,000 would be in the first six grades and
11,400 in grades 7-9 (para. 3.11 and Annex 10). The expansion in the higher
grades is modest and therefore is not expected to create undue pressures for
the expansion of secondary education.



- 14 -
5.03      Workshop Equipment.  The project would also provide equipment for
workshops to be constructed by the Government in 66 rural and 80 urban schools
for grades 1-9, which contain already a laboratory. Together with the 125
workshops and laboratories constructed under the project (Annex 10), this
would form the first phase of the implementation of the revised, more balanced
curriculum which emphasizes the teaching of practical subjects and science in
all nine grades (para 3.14). For the first six grades these subjects would
be taught by the regular teacher in the classroom and multipurpose area. For
grades 7-9, however, workshops and laboratories would be provided, with 20
student places each to serve 240 third-cycle students in two shifts. When
they are fully utilized by 1980, 60% of the grades 7-9 students in public
schools would benefit from this improved curriculum.
5.04      School Location.  The size and location of each school have been
determined on the basis of the school map, which provides complete information
on population spread and on location and size of existing schools. New schools
and extensions have been planned in view of their role within each catchment
area. Furthermore, the proposed workshops and laboratories would be evenly
distributed throughout the country and located either in larger schools or
where they can be used in common by two smaller neighboring schools (Appendix
B). Ministry of Education officials have made field visits to all the proposed
new project schools to verify desk information on the spot and to identify
availability and quality of sites, including the possibility of ITV reception.
5.05      The small rural schools would be of simple design, consisting of
learning areas, a covered multipurpose area which can be used for nonformal
practical training or other community activities, and ancillary facilities.
The schools would be built for flexibility to facilitate later extensions
with learning areas or other community facilities (para. 3.13). Participa-
tion by the community in works such as site development is being explored and
promoted by the Ministry of Education in cooperation with FOCCO. Savings
through community participation would accrue to the particular community in
the form of additional, related works such as teacher housing, additional
equipment and furniture for related community activities, feeder roads,
water supply and a sports field.
5.06      In many of the smaller communities, teacher accomodation is unsatis-
factory and hampers participation of the teacher in community development.
Since experience with staff housing is lacking in El Salvador, the project
would provide 30 staff houses on an experimental basis. Assurances have been
obtained that an evaluation, satisfactory to the Bank, will be carried out
during part of 1975 and 1976, while the first 300 new schools and school
replacements are being constructed.  The commencement of construction of the
remaining 142 new schools and replacements would await completion of this
evaluation. Upon positive findings of the evaluation, another 150 staff houses
would be constructed under the project, to meet estimated needs. These houses
would accomodate the teacher and the instructor for nonformal training during
his stay in the community.



- 15 -
5.07      The project would include equipment and a first supply of materials
for practical subjects and science in all nine grades (para. 3.14). Practical
activities would be of an exploratory nature, with equipment mainly consisting
of handtools. The project would also include sets of library books for each
project school; textbooks would be provided by the Ministry of Education
under its regular textbook program, which is currently being expanded. Since
adequate provision of materials and textbooks is essential for successful
implementation of the improved curriculum, assurances in this respect have been
obtained from the Government. TV sets for the receipt of instructional
television programs in the project schools would be provided from a current
USAID loan (para. 4.02). The provision of TV sets to the project schools
has been assured by the Government.
Teacher Training
5.08      The project would also provide for an extension of Ciudad Normal
with six classrooms, four laboratories and four workshops to increase its
capacity from 1,300 to 1,800 student places and to improve the quality of
training. This expansion would help to ensure an adequate output of trained
teachers for basic education and the academic streams of secondary education,
including instructors of practical activities for grades 7-9, and would
facilitate implementation of the planned in-service training program (para.
3.16 and Annex 8). Quality improvement would come about through improving
science teaching and through training teachers for grades 1-6 to deal competently
with the new practical subjects. Further, the project would include US$270,000
to cover the cost of a special in-service training program in practical
subjects for 1,700 teachers and supervisors of the project schools. The
program would consist of three-week summer courses in Ciudad Normal, reinforced
through ITV lessons on Saturdays and the provision of guidance materials, to
be produced in Ciudad Normal. Boarding capacity for this program is available
in the present complex. Assurances have been obtained from the Government
that enrollments in teacher training will be expanded and upgrading courses
provided, according to a plan acceptable to the Government and the Bank.
5.09      Technical assistance would be provided under the project for the
regular teacher-training program and for the upgrading courses. It would
comprise seven man-years of expert services in science, industrial arts and
practical subjects, and 6-1/2 man-years of fellowships for counterpart training
(Annex 13). Assurances have been obtained from the Government that suitably
qualified and experienced experts will be employed and fellowships provided
according to a timetable acceptable to the Government and the Bank.
Nonformal Rural Training
5.10      The project would provide the equipment, vehicles (20), related
technical assistance and development cost to start up and operate the planned
comprehensive nonformal rural training scheme (para. 3.18). Training action
would be mobile, centered on the rural basic education schools, with instruc-
tors and equipment moving from community to community in accordance with an



- 16 -
established itinerary. Prior to commencement of the courses, participants
would be classified where feasible according to age and schooling to ensure a
degree of homogeneity within the groups. Minimum age would be 14 years. There
would be no entrance requirements and a certificate of attendance would be
given at the end of each course. Each course module would consist of about
80% of practical work and related theory and 20% of subject matter oriented
to improving living conditions. The training needs of the peasants would be
determined by area supervisors, to be trained under the project, who would
maintain close relationships with each community. They would promote the
introduction of new activities, formation of cooperatives and use of credit,
thereby serving as the principal agents of change. The supervisors would
also plan the itineraries of the instructors, supervise and evaluate their
work, and give in-service training as required. Besides their training
responsibilities, the instructors would act as advisors and assist the
peasants in starting new activities. During the pilot phase, the services
of 3 supervisors and 25 instructors would be required. The number would be
gradually increased to 20 supervisors and 125 instructors when the program
is in full operation. The Ministry of Education would maintain close coop-
eration with FOCCO in implementing the program.
5.11      The first, pilot phase of the program would start during 1974 and
be of three years' duration. It would be closely evaluated by the Directorate
of Permanent Education (para. 3.19). The framework of the evaluation scheme
would be established at the start of the project, with outside technical
assistance, and an assessment would be made annually on a permanent basis.
To support smooth implementation of this innovative program, the estimated
project cost includes US$270,000 for the development cost of the program
during its pilot stage. The expansion of the program in the rest of the
country would be based on the evaluation results. Assurances have been
obtained from the Government that the program will be closely evaluated on
a regular and continuous basis and that it will be expanded in both content
and coverage on the basis of the evaluation results.
5.12      The key personnel in project development are the supervisors, and
they would be sent abroad for training under a fellowship scheme as part of
the project. In addition, three experts would be required to assist in
planning and organizing the project, establishing the evaluation procedure,
and developing courses in cottage industries. A total of 8-1/2 man-years of
expert services and 5 man-years of fellowships would be required for this
purpose (Annex 13). The employment of suitably qualified and experienced
experts and the provision of fellowships, in accordance with a timetable
acceptable to the Government and the Bank, have been assured by the Govern-
ment.
Possible Third Education Project
5.13      The project would assist the Government to implement a phase of its
long-term strategy to equalize education and training opportunities in urban
and rural areas, and expand the role of rural community schools, nonformal
training and curriculum improvements in basic education. The Government has



- 17 -
agreed that US$200,000 be provided under the project for initial preparation
expenditure in connection with a possible third education project. Such
project, for which financing may be requested from the Bank in about three
years time, would assist the Government in implementing the next education
development plan.
Cost of the Project
5.14      The estimated costs and foreign exchange component of the proposed
project are shown in Annex 11 and summarized below.
Colones (Millions)   US Dollars (Millions)  % Total
Project
Local  Foreign Total  Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
Basic Education
New Schools                4.57    3.52   8.09   1.83    1.41    3.24   13.4
Replaced Schools          11.54    9.42  20.96   4.61    3.77    8.38   34.6
Extended Schools           2.97    3.28   6.25   1.19    1.31    2.50   10.3
Workshop Equipment         0.45    1.52   1.97   0.18    0.61    0.79    3.2
Teacher Training              0.95    1.11   ,.06   A.38    0.44    0.82    3.4
Nonformal Training            1.04    2.28   3.32   0.42    0.91    1.33    5.5
Project Management            2.00    0.50   2.50   0.80    0.20    1.00    4.1
Preparation of Possible
Third Education Project   0.40    0.10   0.50   0.16    0.04    0.20    0.8
Subtotal                23.92   21.73  45.65   9.57    8.69   18.26   75.3
Contingencies                 7.19    7.78  14.97   2.88    3.11    5.99   24.7
Total                   3t.11   29.51  60.62  12.45   11.80   24.25  100.0
5.15      The base-line cost estimates are in prices as of the end of January
1974, and include the effect of the recent petroleum price increase.  Construc-
tion costs have been estimated on the basis of standard designs and recent
building experience. For the rural schools, simple designs have been developed;
local labor and materials would be used to the largest extent possible, and
direct community participation is being promoted (para. 5.05). As a result,
unit costs would be moderate, with an average of about US$65 per m2. Pre-
liminary furniture and equipment lists have been reviewed and are reasonable



- 18 -
in scale and cost. Costs of site acquisition are not included in the project;
in cases where the site cannot be donated by the community, the cost will be
borne by the Government. The costs of management and consultant services of
the proposed project and the preparation costs of a possible third education
project have been included in the project costs under the cost category project
administration.
5.16      Distribution of costs per category of expenditure is as follows:
Colones (Millions)    US Dollars (Millions)   % Total
Project
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
1.  Construction       17.71   11.81   29.52   7.09    4.72   11.81    48.7
2.  Furniture           1.01    1.87    2.88   0.40    0.75    1.15         4.8
3.  Equipment           1.52    6.10    7.62   0.61    2.44    3.05    12.6
4.  Tech. Assistance   0.19    1.08    1.27   0.08    0.43    0.51          2.1
5.  Special Programs
a. Teacher
Training      0.55    0.13    0.68   0.22    0.05    0.27        1.1
b. Nonformal
Training     0.54    0.14    0.68   0.21    0.06    0.27         1.1
6. Project
Administration    2.40    0.60    3.00   0.96    0.24    1.20         4.9
Subtotal       23.92   21.73   45.65   9.57    8.69   18.26    75.3
7. Contingencies
Physical           1.37    1.40    2.77   0.55    0.56    1.11        4.6
Price              5.82    6.38   12.20   2.33    2.55    4.88    20.1
Subtotal        7.19    7.78   14.97   2.88    3.11    5.99    24.7
Total          31.11   29.51   60.62  12.45   11.80   24.25   100.0
5.17      Contingency allowances are shown in detail in Annex 12.  The follow-
ing allowances have been included for unforeseen factors: construction, 5%;
furniture, special programs and project administration, 7.5%; and equipment,
10%. The average physical contingency allowance would be 6%. While in the
last five years costs have been fairly constant, prices of project-related
items went up by about 20% in 1973. For the coming years, annual cost increases



- 19 -
varying from 6 to 9% for local costs and from 7.5% to 12.5% for foreign costs
are foreseen. The project would be implemented in four years, requiring an
average allowance of 25% for price increases. All contingencies together amount
to 33% of the project cost excluding contingencies. The foreign exchange
component has been calculated as follows: (i) site development and construction,
40%; (ii) furniture, 65%; (iii) equipment, 80%; (iv) technical assistance, 85%;
and (v) special programs and project administration, 20%.
VI. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
Project Implementation
6.01       COPLACE, the school construction agency of the Education Ministry,
has been responsible for the implementation of the first project. Both that
project and the USAID-financed school construction project (para. 4.02) are
virtually completed and their implementation has been generally satisfactory.
COPLACE was recently reorganized and renamed Direccion Arguitectura Educativa
(DAE), and expanded by education and maintenance units. DAE would also be
responsible for construction, equipment and furnishing under the proposed
project. ODEPOR, the Ministry's Planning and Organization Office, would be
responsible for implementing the technical assistance component and the special
programs, and for coordinating the inputs of other entities of the Education
Ministry. The project cost includes salaries and other operating expenditures
for project management. Recently, DAE was expanded with the positions of chief
procurement officer and senior educator, seconded by the Technical-Pedagogical
Service of the Ministry. Further, the position of project coordinator was
established in ODEPOR. The appointment of suitable staff to these positions
would be a condition of loan disbursement for civil works and project admin-
istration. Since frequent turnover of key personnel has created problems of
continuity in the past, assurances have been obtained from the Government that
the posts of director, chief architect, chief procurement officer, and senior
educator in DAE, and project coordinator in ODEPOR will continue to be filled
by suitable staff during project execution. Moreover, new appointments to
these posts, and the terms and conditions of their contracts, would be in
consultation with the Bank.
6.02       As in the first project, DAE would provide all consultant services
for the construction, equipment and furnishing of the project schools except
site supervision of civil works, for which private consultant firms would be
contracted. During appraisal, standard designs for the project schools were
reviewed and found acceptable, and draft lists for furniture and equipment
were discussed and reviewed. Final sketch plans, and furniture and equipment
lists are being prepared. The construction program would be executed in three
phases (Annex 13). The first phase would comprise the expansion of the
teacher-training college and the construction of basic education schools for
which sites can be easily selected and obtained. To allow sufficient lead
time for the training of instructors for practical subjects, the workshops
and laboratories would not be built until the second and third phases.



- 20 -
6.03      Sites.  All locations of new schools and extensions have been select-
ed, and DAE has made visits to the locations of all new schools to verify
such data as school-age population in the catchment areas and school access-
ibility. Flexibility would be needed, however, with regard to the location
and size of the schools, since new developments (e.g., rural migration or
new roads) during project implementation may change the size of, and access-
ibility within, the catchment areas; hence a final selection of all school
locations long before the start of construction would not be desirable. But
while the list of project schools would be subject to change, the total number
of classrooms, workshops and laboratories, as well as their distribution
between urban and rural areas, would remain unchanged. Agreement has been
reached on criteria for modifications in the location and size of new schools
and extensions (Appendix B). No major problems are anticipated with regard
to site selection and acquisition, since all new schools and most of the
expanded schools would be in rural areas. The Government has provided assur-
ances that suitable sites would be acquired before commencement of final
design work for the schools concerned.
6.04      Procurement.  Contracts for civil works, equipment and furniture
would be awarded under international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines. However, El Salvador has a competitive local construction
industry and foreign contractors are unlikely to participate. Invitations
for civil works bids would therefore only be locally advertised, but embassies
would be notified, so that foreign bidders could participate if they wish.
Furniture and equipment would be grouped to form sizable packages for bulk
purchasing. Items that cannot be grouped in packages of at least US$5,000,
and would not in the aggregate exceed the equivalent of US$300,000 (correspond-
ing to 5% of the total costs of equipment and furniture), would be pro-
cured in accordance with the Borrower's regular procurement procedures. In
accordance with the Central American Agreement, suppliers from Central American
Common Market (CACM) countries would receive a margin of preference of 15%
of the c.i.f. base price or 50% of the tariff payable by non-CACM manufac-
turers, whichever is lower. DAE would be responsible for preparing and issuing
tenders, evaluating bids, and awarding contracts. Procurement would be a
larger and more complicated task than for the first project, and would also
include receipt, distribution and delivery of all goods under the proposed
project. Therefore, assurances have been obtained from the Government that
an adequately staffed, well-organized procurement section will be maintained
in DAE.
6.05      Maintenance.  While budgetary allocations for maintenance of the
schools under the first project have been adequate, maintenance is not always
timely and satisfactory. Improvement is to be expected now that the mainten-
ance unit has been integrated into DAE. A manual on the use and maintenance
of educational facilities is being prepared. Assurances have been obtained
from the Government that adequate budgetary provisions will be made for
maintenance of the project schools.



- 21 --
Disbursement
6.06       The proposed loan of US$17.0 million would be equivalent to 70% of
total project cost, and finance all foreign exchange costs and 42% of local
costs. The loan would be disbursed over a period of four years to meet (i)
the c.i.f. costs of directly imported furniture and equipment and 85% of the
local costs of furniture and equipment; (ii) 62% of the costs of civil works,
special programs and project administration; and (iii) 85% of the costs of
technical assistance. The estimated disbursement schedule is in Annex 14.
Undisbursed amounts could be used for the construction of additional rural
schools and for other project-related expenditures subject, however, to agree-
ment by the Bank. An amount of up to US$200,000 would be disbursed retro-
actively to finance equipment and technical assistance for the pilot stage
of the nonformal rural training scheme.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDArION
7.01       During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following principal matters:
(M) evaluation of staff housing before commencing the third phase of
the construction program (para.5.06);
(ii) expansion of teacher training enrollments and provision of teaclher
upgrading course (para. 5.08);
(iii) evaluation of the nonformal rural training program on a regular
and continuous basis, and expansion of the program on the basis
of the evaluation results (para. 5.11);
(iv) application of agreed criteria for any modifications in the
location of new and extended schools (para.6.03).
7.02       A condition of disbursement for civil works and project admninistration
is the appointment of a chief procurement officer and senior educator in DAEE.
and project coordinator in ODEPOR (para.6.01).
7.03       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a biank loan
of US$17.0 million equivalent to the Government of El Salvador, Eor a period
of 30 years including a ten-year grace period.






APPENDIX A
Page 1
El, SALVADOR
SECONDI ")UCATION PROJECT
The Formal Education System
This appendix contains mostly brief analytical information and is
complementary to the main text of the report.
General
1.        The Ministry of Education is responsible for administering formal
and nonformal primary and secondary education in El Salvador. It also
administers some types of post-secondary, but non-university education institu-
tions. Universities, public and private, are autonomous. The school year
is from the end of January to the end of October, so that school vacations
coincide with periods of peak labor demand in agriculture.
2.        The administrative structure of the Ministry of Education has
recently been reorganized with USAID assistance. This has been accompanied
by a training program for administrative personnel, the establishment of new
regulations for the main activities and a personnel classification system.
3.        The most significant improvement in the Ministry of Education's
new structure is the establishment of an Office of Planning and Organization
(ODEPOR), which is playing a major role in education planning and administra-
tion. ODEPOR has been responsible for preparing the Second Education
Plan--1973-1977, in coordination with the National Planning Council (CONAPLAN).
4.        School supervision has also improved as the result of the reorganiza-
tion. The country has been divided, for school supervision purposes, into
10 zones of 10 circuits each. Schools of each circuit have a supervisor based
in that area. Supervisors have received intensive training in new teaching
techniques and have been liberated from routine administrative tasks to permit
them to help teachers in the implementation of the revised curricula.
Basic Education
5.        Basic education is organized in three cycles of three years each.
The first two cycles, comprising grades 1-6, are equivalent to primary educa-
tion while the third cycle (grades 7-9) represents the lower-secondary level.
In 1971, enrollments in the first two cycles were 535,000, representing 91X
of the 7-12 age group. The enrollments increased by 5.3% p.a. in the last
ten years and are expected to grow at about the same rate in the 1971-1981
period. However, the emphasis will shift to expansion in the rural areas,
where enrollments will grow by 7.0% p.a. as against 4.0% in the cities
(Annex 4).



APPENDIX A
Page 2
6.        In the third cycle of basic education, enrollments Increased
rapidly after tlhe 1967 Reform, when grades 7-9 became part of free basic
education. In 1971, 51,500 students were enrolled, representing 21% of the
13-15 age group. An addition 8,700 students were enrolled in evening courses.
Private schools absorb some 30% of the day students and 54% of evening
students. Girls are well-represented with 47% of total enrollments (Annex 2).
Enrollments in day courses, which increased by about 8% p.a. from 1961 to
1971, are expected to grow by 9% p.a. till 1981, and reach a participation
rate of 35%.
Secondary Education
7.        Secondary education (grades 10-12) is diversified and prepares for
the Bachillerato diploma in any of eight specialities: academic (48%);
accounting, commercial and secretarial (46%); industrial (4%); arts (1%);
agricultural (0.5%); and pedagogics (0.5%) (Annex 2). New streams in health,
home economics and navigation and fisheries are being established. The
distribution by specialities was still unbalanced in 1971, since the diver-
sified schools provided under the first education project (Loan No. 609-ES
of 1969) had just been opened.  The Government plans to increase the propor-
tion of industrial and agricultural education to 77 and 3% respectively by
1976.
8.        In 1971, enrollments in day schools were 22,200 or 10% of the 16-18
age group, of which 38% were in public education. Further, 6,200 students
attended evening courses, of which only 28% were in public schools. Girls
represent 45% of total enrollments.  The enrollment growth was about 8% p.a.
from 1961 to 1971 and is estimated at 9% for the next ten years. Thus, the
participation rate in day schools would increase to 17% in 1981. HLowever,
the national planning office (CONAPIAN) has initiated a manpower study to
determine the required size and distribution of enrollments in secondary
education, which could lead to modifications of present plans for the develop-
ment at this level.
9.        Secondary education curricula have been satisfactorily revised.
They include a common core of general subjects at a proportion diminishing
from grade 10 to grade 12, thus allowing horizontal mobility and facilitating
access to both university and labor market. Technical subjects are directed
toward preparation in terms of broad knowledge and basic skills for a wide
range of occupations within a given field, so that graduates are not limited
in their freedom of occupational choice.
10.       The first education project assisted the Government in the imple-
mentation of this improved curriculum. At the secondary level, it provides
equipment and furniture for 34 secondary schools and construction of 11 of
them, equipment for two technical institutes and related technical assistance.
An evaluation of the project's contribution is not yet possible since the
project institutions are just beginning to be utilized.



APPENDIX A
Page 3
11.       Although 90% of the secondary teachers are qualified, the shortage
of fully competent teachers is a main problem. No satisfactory training
scheme for this educational cycle has been in operation until now. The
teaching force for academic subjects is composed of graduates from the previous
Higher School of Education (now part of Ciudad Normal), a small proportion
of university graduates, and upgraded primary school teachers. In the future,
teachers will be trained in a four-year post-secondary course at Ciudad Normal
and at universities (para. 16). Teachers for technical subjects are recruited
among graduates from secondary industrial schools who attend upgrading courses
of two months' duration. Only a few teachers are graduates from a two- to
three-year post-secondary program offered by the U.K.-assisted Central-American
Technological Institute. The Government has indicated that starting in 1974
it plans to recruit graduates from post-secondary institutions only, who will
receive pedagogic training at Ciudad Normal or abroad.
Higher Education
12.       Higher education is offered by the National University, the private
Catholic University, and by specialized post-secondary institutions under
the Ministries of Education (Ciudad Normal, Escuela de Trabajo Social, and
Instituto Tecnologico Centroamericano), Agriculture (Escuela Nacional de
Agricultura), and Public Health (Escuelas Nacionales de Enfermeria).
13.       The autonomous Nat1onpl University has been closed for nearly two
years because of serious disturbances. When it reopened in September 1973,
two student cohorts started their studies at the same time, and about 20,000
students enrolled, as against 10,600 in 1971. The expected large inflow of
students was aggravated as a result of the University's new policy of accept-
ing students without entrance examination. Future enrollments need to be
controlled to avoid undue expansion beyond the country's requirements for
professional manpower. A further problem is the possible deterioration of
education standards brought about by scarcity of qualified professors and
funds for recurrent expenditures. The present enrollment distribution of
4,000 in Medicine, 3,500 in Economics, 3,400 in Engineering, 2,000 in Law,
1,000 in Humanities and the rest in other courses shows only the students'
first choices, since more than 60% of them are in their first year.
14.       The private Catholic University enrolled in 1971 about 1,700
students in three faculties: Engineering, Economics, and Social and Natural
Sciences.
15.       The non-university higher education institutions (para. 12) offer
courses mainly of three-years' duration and enroll altogether about 1,100
students. The Escuela Nacional de Agricultura is being expanded and equipped
under the first Bank education project. With an enrollment capacity of 450
students, it will graduate annually about 130 middle level technicians and a
limited number of agricultural teachers.



APPENDIX A
Page 4
Teacher Training
16.       During the 1960's an unplanned expansion of primary teacher train-
ing took place. Seven public and 46 private training schools were operating
and about 40% of total secondary school enrollment was in teacher-training
courses, producing graduates far in excess of the demand. In 1968, the
Government consolidated all public primary teacher-training schools into one
(Ciudad Normal) and phased out all private schools. This action has been
completed and at present primary teacher training is part of a broad teacher-
training institution where teachers for the third cycle and secondary education
are also trained.
17.       Training for teachers of grades 1-6 is provided in a three-year
course at the upper secondary level (grades 10-12). The curriculum for this
program has been satisfactorily updated and includes general education
subjects (40%) and professional subjects (60%). In view of the prevailing
unemployment of teachers, no pre-service training courses were offered
during 1969-1971, except for physical education teachers. In 1972, the
training of new basic education teachers (cycles I, II and III) was resumed,
reaching in 1973 a total enrollment of 207 students. No training courses
have been offered yet for secondary teachers. Further, Ciudad Normal has a
regular program for the upgrading of teachers for the first and second cycles
as well as short courses for the training of third cycle teachers, school
directors and supervisors.
18.       Projections for the next ten years indicate that the country will
need by 1981, 13,650 teachers for the first and second cycles of basic edu-
cation, almost the same number as at present (Annex 6). This estimate is
based on the assumption that the proportion of teachers working in two shifts
will increase from 16% in 1973 to 65% in 1981, which is reasonable in view
of the large expansion of enrollments in rural areas, where most teachers
welcome this arrangement in view of the attractive additional pay. On this
basis, the annual need for newly trained teachers would be only about 400,
who will be trained in Ciudad Normal (Annex 7).
19.       For the third cycle of basic education, teachers are needed in four
areas: science, humanities, physical education, and industrial arts and home
economics. Teachers in the first three areas are trained in two-year post-
secondary courses (grades 13-14), and teachers in the last area will receive
a one-year intensive course. About 300 new teachers per year are needed up
to 1981 and Ciudad Normal will train 260 of them in pre-service courses and
the remaining 40 through upgrading courses (Annexes 7 and 8).
20.       Secondary teacher training for general education subjects is mainly
the responsibility of Ciudad Normal, but it has not offered such courses
since its establishment. The National University maintains a department of
education for training secondary teachers, but the total output has been



APPENDIX A
Page 5
insignificant. The private university started a teacher-training program in
1971 with an enrollment of 10 in science and mathematics. It is estimated
that there will be a total of 100 graduates in the period 1973-1981.
21.       In view of this situation, the Government has decided to implement
by 1974 a training program in Ciudad Normal in coordination with the univer-
sities so that the demand for academic secondary teachers can be met. By
1981, the annual need for new secondary teachers in science, humanities and
physical education has been estimated at about 80, of whom Ciudad Normal
would train about 60 and the universities the remaining 20 (Annexes 6 and 7).
The program will be offered as a two-year course for students who have
completed two years of university studies and for teachers trained for the
third cycle of basic education. The Government is working out a program for
the training of specialized, technical teachers.






APPENDIX B
Page 1
EL SALVADOR
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Planning the School Network
1.        The school location study, made in connection with the proposed
project was based on the concept of the school network, consisting of basic
education schools of different size which, together, offer all nine grades of
basic education. The location and size of schools within each school network
had to meet the following objectives:
(M)  all children should receive at least four years of basic
education;
(ii)  all children-including those in rural areas--should lhave
the opportunity to continue their education beyond the
first four grades;
(iii)  young children--say, ages seven to eleven--should receive
education near their homes, preferably within a radius of
two kilometers walking distance; older children could walk
longer distances or use public transportation.
School Types
2.        A school network consists basically of three types of schools.  Type
I is a two-classroom school which would offer the first four grades of basic
education to 160 students and would be staffed with two teachers, both working
on a double shift. Type II, a three-classroom school, would offer six grades
or the first two cycles of basic education, enroll a maximum of 240 and be
staffed with four teachers. The core of the network would be the unified
school, or escuela unificada (type III). This school would offer nine grades,
or all three cycles of basic education, enroll a maximum of 400 and be staffed
with six teachers. It would be surrounded by satellite schools of the first
two types.
3.        Children who have successfully completed the first four grades of
basic education in a two-classroom school, can continue in grades 5 and 6 at
a nearby three-classroom school, and, subsequently, in grades 7-9 at a nearby
unified school. Graduates from unified schools can receive further education
at a comprehensive secondary school, which serves more than one basic education
school network.
School Layouts
4.        Accommodation schedules and layouts for the three types of schools
are based on standardized units, which are grouped according to size and pur-
pose. A school's accommodation comprises learning areas, a multipurpose area



APPENDIX B
Page 2
with a variety of learning and community functions, and a standardized toilet
bloc. The type I school includes two classrooms and the type II school, three.
The type III school includes three classrooms, a combined library-classroom,
and a laboratory and workshop. To the extent possible, all facilities will
be used in double shift.
5.        The use of standardized units will provide flexibility and facilitate
later extensions. Type I, for example, could be extended to type II; and a
four-, five- or six-classroom school could be obtained by combining types I
and II. The unified school is a combination of a type II and a laboratory/
library/workshop unit. To facilitate extensions for the two- and three-class-
room schools, the multipurpose area and toilet blocs are identical for all
three types.
6.        The classrooms and the library-classroom have a net area of 52 m2
and offer 40 student places each; the laboratory and workshop, 52 and 70 m2
with 20 student places each. Storage facilities are provided per learning
area: storage walls for classrooms and multipurpose areas; and storage, pre-
paration and stock rooms for specialized learning areas. A television receiver
placed in the storage wall on a revolving stand would serve two or more learn-
ing areas. The storage facilities contribute to noise insulation. The multi-
purpose area, which could be enlarged by means of movable partitions, is to
serve a variety of functions such as formal and nonformal education and train-
ing, meetings, and expositions.
School Needs
7.        The location study was based on a 1971 survey of existing facilities.
The circuit supervisors of the Education Ministry played a key role in this
survey. Together with the school principals of their circuit, they filled in
a questionnaire for each basic education school in their circuit, private as
well as public. In this way, extensive data were collected on the use, quality
and quantity of existing school facilities in all 100 school circuits. These
basic data were carried over in symbols on school maps, which also give informa-
tion on population density, thus showing existing imbalances between population
density and available school capacity.
8.        Next, the enrollment projections for 1981 were calculated on pro-
jected population growth and planned enrollment ratios. The population pro-
jections by circuit for 1981 were based on the 1964 census and the preliminary
results of the 1971 census; the enrollment ratios by circuit for 1981, on
those of 1973 and on desired increases. The Ministry plans to increase the
average enrollment ratio for the first two cycles of basic education from 64%
of the 7-14 age group in 1971 to 81% in 1981. To equalize opportunities, the
1981 enrollment ratios were projected along a sliding scale: the lower a
circuit's ratio is at present, the larger the projected increase up to 1981.
For example, the lowest, average, and highest enrollment rates would increase
as follows:



APPENDIX B
Page 3
Zone 9        Zone 5         Zone 1
Enrollment rate, 1971                50.8%          63.6%          80.1%
Increase, 1971-1981                  22.5%          17.5%           9.6%
Enrollment rate, 1981                73.3%          81.1%          89.7%
9.        Finally, the required number of student places by circuit was calcu-
lated by comparing the existing capacity with the school capacity needed to
reach the target enrollment rate by 1981.
School Location
10.       To determine the actual location and size of new schools and school
extensions, the Education Ministry developed specific criteria, which empha-
sized the expansion of school capacity in thus far neglected rural communities
(Annex). DlAE personnel and school supervisors studied the school maps and
questionnaires, and adapted the theoretical model of the school network to
the specific circumstances of each catchment area. A preliminary list of
project schools was prepared showing how the expansion needs in each circuit
could be met.
11.       Subsequently, field visits were made to the locations of all proposed
new and replaced schools, to verify each proposal as well as some of its
underlying assumptions, such as: school-age population in the catchment area;
geographic features, like rivers and mountain ranges limiting the accessibility
of the area; quality and size of existing facilities; actual and official
enrollment, etc. Where necessary, the preliminary proposal was modified.
The final list of project schools, included in the proposed project, reflects
the findings of these field visits.
Site Selection
12.       Sites would be selected according to criteria on size, accessibility,
topography, availability of services and possibility of ITV reception. Since
the rural schools would operate as development nuclei, their sites would be
centrally located with regard to catchment area and due consideration would
be given to the possibility of locating facilities for other rural develop-
ment agencies on or near the school premises.






APPENDIX B
Annex
EL SALVADOR
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Criteria for the Location of Basic Education Schools
I.   Criteria for the establishment of new schools in rural areas.
(i)  the catchment area of a proposed new school will contain at
least 50 children of age seven or a total population of at
least 1,600 within a walking distance of three kilometers from
the proposed school location; and
(ii) no other basic education school, which is not being fully
utilized, will exist within a walking distance of four
kilometers of the proposed site for a new school.
II.  Criteria for the              of:scholt sf
Schools that are rented or in bad condition will be replaced by new
facilities when their replacement is economically justified.
III. Criteria for the extension of existing schools
(i) extensions of schools in urban areas will be limited to
workshops and laboratories;
(ii) extensions of schools in rural areas will consist of at
least one workshop and laboratory or two classrooms;
(iii) a school will be extended by a workshop and a laboratory,
only when the total enrollment in grades 7-9 of basic
education is at least 100 in 1975, and when this
enrollment can be expected to increase in future years;
and
(iv) the schools proposed for extension will be selected in such
a way that in each of the school zones (consisting of ten
circuits) at least ten workshops and ten laboratories will
be established.






APPENDIX C
EL SALVADOR
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Rates of Return of School Replacement
1.        The selection of basic education schools for replacement under the
proposed project has been carried out on the basis of a cost-benefit analysis
of schools which are actually rented and/or in bad physical condition. For
each of these schools a comparison has been made between actual operating
costs, including urgent repair work, and the operating cost in a new school
building, including interest and amortization on the investment. The interest
rate had been set at 10% to reflect the estimated opportunity cost of capital
in El Salvador. On this basis, 299 schools have been selected for which
replacement by new school buildings would be a sound investment. Basic data
for these schools are as follows:
Number of student places                    22,300
Number of classrooms                            767
Student places per classroom                  29.1  2
Average space per student place               0.97 m
Enrollment capacity (double shift)          44,600
Number of teachers (double shift)            1,023
2.        The financial rate of return has been determined for all schools
together, by comparing the actual costs in the existing schools with the
estimated costs of catering for 44,600 students in the proposed new schools
(Annex).  The actual costs (alternative B) comprise direct teacher costs
and other operating costs, including rent payments of 0 114,000. The costs
of the proposed new schools (alternative A) comprise investment costs during
the four-year construction period and the direct teacher and other operating
costs during the expected lifetime of the schools. The difference in operating
costs as a result of replacing the existing schools would constitute a budget-
ary saving of 0 1.3 million per annum. The most probable average lifetime of
the schools would be 40 years and the financial rate of return 13.3% over this
period. Taking into account their minimum lifetime of 30 years, the financial
rate of return would be 13.0%.
3.        The economic rate of return is based on a comparison of the costs
of the proposed new schools (alternative A) with the costs of the existing
schools when standards in these schools are upgraded (alternative B) so as
to equalize education benefits in both alternatives. The additional costs
of quality improvement in existing schools would include essential repair
work of the school buildings to provide for adequate safety and lighting,
and a reduction of the number of student places per classroom to provide
1.3 m2 per student place, a minimum pedagogic standard. Taking into account
the costs of these essential quality improvements, the direct operating costs
of the existing schools would be 0 2.8 million per annum higher without
replacement. The economic rate of return would be 30.2% over a 40-year
period, and 30.1% for the minimum lifetime of 30 years.






EL SALVADMk
Alternative Cost Estimates for  1chool  Replacement
(in '000 Colones; prices of 1973)
A.  Costs in Proposed Project Schools
Number of Students                                              22,300        36,600       44,600        44,600
Number of Teachers                                                 372            610         744           744
Investment Costs                        1,189      14,328        2,711         1,284           -            -
Direct Teacher Costs                                             1,602         2,627        3,204        3,204
Other Direct Ooerating Costs                                       201            329         402           402
Total Costs                             1,189       4,325        4,38 51       4,240        3,606         3,606
B. Costs in Existing Schools
WITHOUT Quality Improvement
Number of Students                                              22,300        36,600       4h,600        44,600
Number of Teachers                                                 511           839        1,023         1,023
Investment Costs                         -            -            -            -              -            -
Direct Teacher Costs                                             2,200        3,613         4,405        4,405
Other Direct Operating Costs                                       258        -_42?           516           q16 .
Total Costs                              -            -          2,458        4,036         4,921         4,92l
C. Costs in Existing Schools
WITH Quality Improvement
Number of Students                                              22,300        36,600       44,600        44,600
Number of Teachers                                                 680         1,115        1,360         1,360
Investment Costs                          123         448          280           133          -             -
Direct Teacher Costs                                             2,928         4,801        5,856         5,856
Other Direct Operating Costs                                       28235,86                                51,86
Total Costs                                                        2 3586     5,357          637
Financial Rate of Return  (B - A):  13.30/0 over 40 years and 13.-0% over 30 years
Economic Rate of Return   (C - A):  30.2%/o over 40 years and301 1% over 30 years
in






I 00               I IeATtOA Io ooo                      t ) 4 0t                                                                                                          00110
Odoocttet,  octotedot   ~~~(e)                      (7,          (8)           (I           t    I.rcoetooodetl±± llet                     Ootpo
u.-    -d                                   7:1                                                                                                                      26                             6 ~~~~~~~ttesy  tpodsoe  d±.oo  tt)DhIo ricr  olee  etoet  robeet  e  o2t4teI.
,z                                                                                                                                                                                                           1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tte Pttpt  Ottootdtret±olet Sodoe trteot0  eoe  3rto  dceo
totto.oeoderottoteoeLooc  cod  Oceorlb                     0~~~ ~~~~~               ~~~970  0.4    0,0  tI            0343000T4                                                                              0                 01                            40
the eoetyets ef rebeltoteeceoc  Oeoede                    0~~~~~~~~~~19710   21.4     .700             3            tt                     4.o               225It                              C            0                 200                                         0
of ed.oootttoot teoelopeteto  be-  ceetecoy, tederel tepoWo  tOo)  61.6   2,030            oo              as                   1,0                 0. e 0            et             00           61 0             26              01 9t903
0-to   otoeothloo    o-        Oot                                  90       134              000              N                  t300.                                                    ot                         to1               20             0I0100
-0th  b -t of 1 thIehtl e10                                                    00.            40.43            Nt              tO0200 909eIIItO                                                                                        4                tO           e4             23
Oteettt  0  te  COlo,t2 ohtt Ooledtteoo                     90        It)            000              90              I4                   I.                 93.                0              34           tO                 tO             1000 
th= 1o otot,    Co-k 40e0 2-
ettcoIooe   tohcoh                 2.  lettet                          1000       S3.0 0         I,D2 2t          90                                                      124.1            14.  O3                        05               22             tO              I              314
0000- Ote   eo    ttr        0.   Ott,tt                         190        3 3.0            1.30            "I 0            00                                      29 1.  t           01             35           09                0000N3
tottooc  Otee oootoeeetooty Or  4~~.  Allett                        719        13.3              306           4                34                   - .  4             0.  0              t             40            to               10              00                           0
opoteOtotol    3.  Ceteoroto         0000         t~~     ~      ~~~~~~.0  100     7                        3           .0               00.                 04            40             t               2               27
tor.   0  tO  480d of ttte    doto    t.  0.00.10 1                                  1.900                          .C4.  N                                                  0.07 0                            46             4 010                           30             I            ..
the fe)1oe.4o~~~~~ qooltlto.otoec  7.  chat            1900         3.0~~~~~~         00             0             I3                   4.0                14.10               00            4e0                                            30
ettold  4o botot It eted±  0.  Ceoge 080                   0070        0.0             300~~~~11   400 0               4                   4.0                 -4.                 ot           46             3102
tt.   OOht75t.          toot       too~               ~~~~    ~ ~                   ~ I00  3-            4   0              1060                              31                              e             34            tOI
1) Ol7oer0ot  ee Otjoet t  the  1.  Icho                  1900          .50            630            3000            110                   3.4               tO  0               70            40"tO                          00tOINI
ttetttt1,  000001 000 oot-fteeclo   12.  teo ID totr,oo                      4.  M0            0                                                  I 0 t  .          I 0.                04            46           0120
~~h. fil.,eeotI970                                                00  0    0         70           tO               3                    4.t               30.3400                                          4
-ooeoo  etolorfet    0    6t  ttItct                             900        C.0              040            10               C                     .5               017)  0                           04 1                                            01
eltetoocotor otoheecroodero  00.  torooro          1970       10.5              000            20               0                   4.19               t7.4               94             00           01 04I                            it4 540                       002  1  3 
icd    coedee   o  tpo(20.    4.   tori                            172        331                10           ..                33.I9D                                    .8               34 0           7             4               1                ob 
-ocd.Ootle -ottl-            C9.  Ottge                            9t9        3.9              0300          tO              11                    3.3               20.1                430           40             90              000             0000
-ooe)o                                   o    treOea                           90         10               400            27              4                    3.                19tO                30            st            30                                21t         2o22
teohotoet. toteotrotol,  e4oltoh-    Cc.   Olc9eI07                              0.              713             03                                    .                  400               4  0           C             4It                              ot          2o
Oh-felC                                        1000       10.0                0            1                0A                  3.  t               90t               7              44             2               02                           C                  
Oro -reoo  I.te..    Ot             1025   Oelocoeo-         o           beta        0.11 0             635  0       3                0                    0.9               27.0               00             50            tO                               23I          10              t
33 J .o.o                     tall7,       1.9l C          -0  0          0               704.                                   0.4                 M0             I 0          4                                1            .1
50  'CoOtto oceotOIhoOrto     ~~~~34.   1tlt                        60        500'00A                                          00060.0                                                    0               0             9000102
cd±etealoo"  (Cole. 4 etO  0)  30300ereote     1063         0.00            4300           CC              tO                   0.4               09.0                00             31           03                9              00            100             1541  6  22  I
tetooccoclltoptrel  cod re-  00   OtoebOcO  coO  Tohogo   0071~~I      1.0             007             0             4                     4.4               10.0                00             33           49               01              2It91
0  c    )  cc 110   -oal70r         3    C       i                       0000       21.0              0e             9D40 it                                .00              10.0                 03           00           19               01              0490                          30
fttl-tleolotcceopotpe.bcOe   ,~~1 oh 00200                           93          .               260     70 58                                                         21 ~ .             29 0           30             7               2913                         29t 00          31
cohol,otIIc   od  rtrce       j44     tt                            0001       lo.t6t            4500           002            10                     .                 0.                 OC             0732C00                                                     0               t
by teoct.  They crc otoco   44   sereerelo  COOC  20.4    900            94             40                    4.0               00.7                00            03            39               31              10           10              09~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~soL5  2  2  Il
Cote   0400 f  _eo            40.  Co,Dc                           1901     I3.t 0I            I110          20        9        20 00Aht                               ..0                               70          0                     9           0  Atl        04              24
toOc  01.8.. toe..eootIIbo     ci~~4.  Io e.c1971                             I..o                40           s                                      .0                3C                070            39           130               20              000
000.ooatooe eod cteobloceeoei  174.  Tro                           097        2041  0           090I 0         367             ic                    3, 000                                               3           23                 0             30 0           3              339
lrtoClaeet 20g.coee           ~~~~~~~40.  00307                                  .7             320            2l              II0.                                    16.                0003                        37320100
OOIqOIOOIC 208 hl0heo  rhoo  50.  JoCteot                 1900~~~~~~~~~~7  0.0         250           3300A                                 4.6               17.4               00340                        33                               00                           41
th0toc0eCo0cccdcoto            oh ~~~~~51                           1001      31.4  0            M3  P         0               13.0                 3-                 1.                1000             0           46               4O              30            00             000
coo etodetots  $0012 Icoloetoc  73.  octcoeoe  1072    00.0  o           310 0          00             32                    1.0               20.)                Ot I          32           37 0               2              tO           00`             IC 7'  'I  34  e 
olco tot Ototococ Ot teoto.     5   00   0                         000 1      44.0,7             9005          30               1                    .                  0.                 07                                                                                         D dt0t4
30.  Phbltppttfe                               4972       31.  0              8040         6 0               .0                 4.0                2D9.              119 1           30           71                 0             00            10            43
30.   7topt                        10             t              90004          03I            00  12                                  107                 02            03            40.2                                          0               7
29. - h yto                                     540             30                t                                   .                10.                948            40            0                 40                           04
jI'   oecotbeobC                     to          5.00              910e         10                63                  1.00               9.40              I190           410            1                3010                       ..               10
01700022       -                    197cC                                       70             10                    4.0                 1.0               I.0           4070                             4             20            00             191
OldIco                                           35             tO                    4.0                17.5               74.  3~~~~~~~~~~54  0       Ittb0                                           53             00
10020                                            0~      ~       ~         ~         ~~~~              ~~~~        ~       ~~      ~     ~~       ~~~~5  0  3.0  04.3  00  30 0            0           10               0
C  Nofettttoble                                  0-lOIN                    0cceotoebgoooo~~~~~.eeotccoo 7196tocI eOS3                                     -)9)t)04):)    OOO0cloo
I tlDe8tt-teeeedee4 1909                                                                    7      oIt21
Oc19007                     -aLedlo0                                                 ..I-.atotot  cltt  (1) - Ott  & 0030:                     --9100Ottet -l etO
7-197                0      d000  0000






EL SALVADOR
Enrollments and Teachers, 1971
%         Teachers in
Total         Male          Female         Public         Private   Private    Public Schools
BASIC EDUCATION
First and Second Cycle
- day courses                       535,113        277,542        257,571        511,705        23,408      4.4         13,708
- evening courses                    27,241         17,768          9,473         27,209            32      0.1
Total                               562,354        295,310        267,044        538,914        23,440      4.2
Third Cycle
- day courses                        51,504         27,236         24,268         35,894        15,610      30.3
- evening courses                     8,706          6.576          2.130          3.223         5,483     53.5
Total                               6=.2a=2        3=3=32          2=6,38 29     =093                       35.0            766
SECONDARY EDUCATION
(day and evening courses)
Academic                              13,760          8,335         5,425          6,759         7,001      50.9
Accounting                             7,517          5,606         1,911          1,037         6,480      86.2
Agricultural                              90             77             13            90           -         -
Arts                                     346            293             53           346
Commercial                               700            331           369            700           -         -
Industrial                             1,043         1,020             23            736           307      29.4
Pedagogic                                 46             28            18             46           -         -
Secretarial                            4,923            -           4,923            442         4,481      91.0
Total Secondary Education
- day courses                         22,210                                       8,420        13,790      62.1
- evening courses                      6,215            .             ..           1,736         4,479      72.1
Total                               28,425        15,690         12,735         10,156        18,269      64.3            270
HIGHER EDUCATION
Teacher Training                         157                                         157                     -
Social Work                               82                                          82
Technological                            310                                          310
Agricultural                             232                                          232
Health                                   280                                          280
Total Non-University                                   ..      .       .              Wl,I          -        -
University                            12 392           ..                           .5.3.           809     14.6
Total                                 1=3453                                      11,644         1,809      13.5
Source: ODEPOR, Ministry of Education
April 1974






ANNE X
EL SALVADOR
Population and EaroUlment. 1971 and 1981
Forml Education           Nonformal
Age                Partici-   Total        Pu7lic     Education
Group   Population  pation   Errollment  Enrollment   Enrollment
1971: Actual
Kindergarten           6      115,600    23.5/%    27,170        22,656          -
First hnd Second      7-12    590o30O    ?%0? 7     535sI13 ,119705           27,241
Cycles
Third Cycle          13-15    242,300    21.3/%    51,504        35,894        8,106
Secondary            16-18    217,900    10.20/0    22,210        8,420       6,215
Post-Secondary       19-21    193,100      0.5 %      1,061       1,061          -
(non-university)
University           20-24    296,000      4.2%      12,392      10,583          -
1981: Projected
Kindergarten           6      167,000    24.0 %      40,000      33,000       62,000
First and Second      7-12    864,000   104.0%    900,000       860,000      54,000
cycles
Third Cycle          13-15    359,000    34.5/%   124,000       100,600       32,000
Secondary            16-18    319,000    17.1%       54,400      20,900       12,300
Post-Secondary       19-21    276,000      0.8 %      2,300       2,300
(non-university)
University           20-24    414,000      6.0O%     25,000      20,000
Source: ODEPCR, Ministry of Education, and
mission estimates.
April 1974



EL SALVADOR
Enrollments in Basic Education, 1971-1981
(in thousands)
1971                1973                 1977                 1961
First and Second Cycle !
Grade  1                      180.6               191.1                186.0                178.0
2                     109.0                121.3                163.0               175.0
3                      84.5                 91.9                141.0               173.0
4                      68.1                 76.0                118.0                159.0
5                      53.3                 60.8                 78.0                113.0
6                      39.6                 47.1                 62.0                102.0
Subtotal Urban                 319.9                344.7                419.0               475.0
Rural                  215.2               243.5                329.0               425.0
Subtotal Public                511.7                559.5                713.0               860.0
Private                 23.4                28.7                 35.0                40.0
Total                          535.1                588.2                748.0               900.0
Third Cycle /
Grade  7                       27.4                41.0                 47.9                 55.0
8                      17.7                 29.4                 39.4                53.0
9                      15.1                 22.0                 32                  48.0
Subtotal Urban                  58.9                 86.9                110.0                139.0
Rural                    1.3                 525                _10.2               j70
Subtotal Public                 39.1                 69.8                 90.2                117.0
Private                 21.1                22.6                 30.0                 39.0
Subtotal Day                    51.5                  78.4                98.8                124.0
Night                    8.7                 14.0                 21.4                32.0
Total                            60.2               =22=                  1202                16Q
Grand Total                    595-3                 680.6               868.2              1,056.0
t Excluding evening courses
i Including evening courses
Source: 1971 and 1973: Ministry of Edciation Statistics; 1977 and 1981: mission estimates.
April 1974



,ANNE 
EL SALVADOR
Investment Needs for Basic Education. 1971-1981
First and     Third Cycle
Second Cycle                   Total
abs.     %   abs.   9   abs.         9
1L971
Public enrollment 5
- urban                              296,500   58  34,600   96  331,100    60
- rural                              215,200   42   1,300    4  216,500    40
Total                               511,700  100  35,900  100 547,600   100
Students per classroom                     59.6         55.5
Number of classrooms                       8,590          650         9,240
1981
Public enrollment 5
u rban                              435,000   51  89,300   89 524,300    55
- rural                             425,ooo  49  11,300  11  436,300    45
Total                               860,000  100 100,600  100  960,600   100
Students per classroom                        70           70
Number of classrooms needed               12,290        1,440        13,730
1971-1980
Additional classrooms needed               3,700          790         4,490
Replacement needs                          2,530          180         2,710
Total classroom construction          6,230          970         7,200
Student places per classroom                 40            40
Number of student places needed
- urban                               97,000   39, 28,000   72  125,000    43
- rural                              152,000   61  11,000   28  163,000    57
Total                               249,000  100  39,000  100  288,000   100
Student places provided under project
- urban                               7,000   14   3,000   43  10,000    18
- rural                              42,000   86   4,000   57   46,0OCK    82
Total                               49,000  100   7,000  100   56,000   100
DELy students only
April 1974



EL SALVADOR
Teacher Needs, 1973-1981 i
ACTUAL,  1973                         PROJECTED, 1977                        PRQJECTED,  1981
Students b     PTR/%    Teachers       Students -    PTR/%      Teachers    Students          PTR/%     Teachers
(x 1,000)                              (x 1, 000)1,
A.  Teacher Requirements
1. Basic Education, Grades 1-6              588.2          43.6      13,500         748.0        55.4       13,500        900.0          66        13,650
Basic Education, Grades 7-9               92.4          62.8                     120.2        56.2                     156.0          50
2. - Science and Humanities                               (100%)      1,470                       (89%)      1,900                      (79%)       2,470
3. - Practical Activities                                 ( 0%)        -                          (11%)        240                      (21%)         660
Secondary Education                       35.0          40,0                     48.4         40.0                      66.7          40
4. - Science and Humanities                               ( 51%)        450                       (51%).        620                      (51%)         850
5. - Other Subjects                                       ( 49%)        425                       (49%)        590                      (49%)         810
Total                                                             15,845                                 16,850                                 18,440
1973 Stock          Surviving         Required        Additional Teachers Needed,
B.  New Teachers Needed, 1971 - 1976                                 of Teachers         in 1977           in 1977                  1973-1977
1. Grades 1-6                                                        13,500               12,000            13,500                   1,500
2. Grades 7-9: - Science and Humanities                               1,470                 1,300            1,900                     600
3.      "      - Practical Activities                                  -                     -                  240                    240
4. Secondary:  - Science and Humanities                                 450                   400               620                     220
5.      "      - Other Subjects                                         425                   375               590                     215
Total                                                             15,845               14,075            16,850                   2,775
1977 Stock           Surviving         Required        Additional Teachers Needed,
C.  New Teachers Needed, 1976 - 1981                                of Teachers          in 198].           in 1981                 1977-1981
1. Grades 1-6                                                        13,500               12,000             13,650                  1,650
2. Grades 7-9: - Science and Humanities                               1,900                1,780              2,470                     690
3.      "      - Practical Activities                                   240                  220                660                    440
4. Secondary:  - Science and Humanities                                 620                   550               850                     300
5.      "      - Other Subjects                                         590                  520                810                     290
Total                                                             16,850               15,070             18,440                  3,370
a/  In public and private education
b/ Day and Evening Students



EL SALVADOR
Teacher Supply, 1973-1981
Bauic          Basic 3ducatqtpn, Qradb 7-9            SecondLry J  C4tigU
Education,     Science and -      Practical          Science and _
Grades 1-6     Humanities         Activities         Humanities         Others        Total
A. 1973 - 1977
1. Ciudad Normal
1973          40             100                                   49                 -          180
1974          80              25                   -               25                 -          130
1975          40             140                  120             45                  -          345
1976         280             140                  120              50                 -          590
a/
2. Others~
1973         360              40                   -               15                 55         470
1974         320             125                   -               30                 55         530
1975         360              30                   10              15                 60         475
1976         120              40                   10              15                 60         245
Total                             1,600             640                 260             235                 230       2,965
In Teaching Force,1977               94%             94%                 92%             94%                 94%         93%
Additional Teachers Available   1,500               600                 240              220                215       2,775
B. 1977 - 1981
1. Ciudad Normal
1977         400             140                  120              50                 -           710
1978         400              140                 120              60                  -          720
1979         400             140                  120              60                  -          720
1980         400             140                  120              60                  -          720
2. Others -
1977           90             40                   -               20                  70         220
1978          60              45                   _               20                  80         205
1979          -               4.5                  _               25                  80         150
1980          _               50                   -               25                  80         155
Total                             1,750             740                 480              320                310       3,600
In Teaching Force, 1981              94%             93%                 92%              94%                94%         94%
Additional Teachers Avaflable   1.650               690                 440              300                290       3,370
a/  For public and private education.
b/  Including physical education.
c/  Previously unemployed teachers and upgrading courses for grades 1-9;
Universities and other post-secondary institutes for Secondary Education.
April 1974



EL SALVADOR
Teacher Training College "Alberto Masferrer"
Enrollments and Graduates by Program, 1973-1981
1 9 7 3                           1 9 7 7                         1 9 8 1
Enrollment   Graduates            Enrollment   Graduates          Enrollment   Graduates
PRE-SERVICE TRAINING
First and Second Cycles                  176           40                   1,270       400               1,270          400
Third Cycle
-  Science and Humanities                68           65                    250        120                 250          120
-  Practical Activities                  -             -                     120       120                 120          120
Third and Fourth Cycle
-  Physical Education                   132           75                      80        40                  80           40
Fourth Cycle
-  Science and Humanities                -             -                      70         30                 80           40
Total                                    376          180                   1,790        710              1,800          720
IN-SERVICE COURSES -/
First and Second Cycles                   -                                   100                           100
Second Cycle (ITV)                        -                                   120                           120
Third Cycle                              401                                  100                           100
Fourth Cycle                              _                                    40                            40
School Directors                          81                                  120                           120
Supervisors                               -                                    20                            20
Total                                    482                                  500                           500
Grand Total                                  858          180                   2,290        710              2W30O           720
a/  After completing two years of higher education.
'b/  Courses of varying duration, mainly during school vacations.
April 1974



ANNEX 9,
EL SALVADOR
Education Expenditures 1966-1981
(in '000 Colones) al
19 6 6          1 9 7 1            1 9 81
Amount    %      Amount    X       Amount      %
Expenditures by Level
I and II Cycles         411,000    56     52,000    48      941,000    45
III Cycle                10,000    14     15,100    14      27,000      13
Secondary                 9,000    12     14,700    14      31,000     15
Higher                   11,000    15     22,100    20      47,000      22
Other                     21500     3      4 900      4     11,000     a
Total                    73;O   100    10T8,00   100    210,000    100
Financing by Source
Ministry of Education   57,400    78      83,600    77    162,000       77
Other Public              2,800     4      2,800      3      3,500       2
Private                  13.300    18     22.400    20      44,500     21
Total  J                 73,5     l      108,800   100    210,000    10(
Gross Domestic Product        2,110,000        2,681,000         4,470,000
Central Government              245,000           323,000          693,000
Expenditures
Central Government's
Share of GDP                 11.6%              12.1%
Share of Education in Central
Government Budget:
- Ministry of Education      23.5%             25.8%             23.47o
- Other Ministries            1.1 i             0.8%              0.5k/o
Total                        24.6 %            26.6%             23.92%
Total Education Expenditures
as proportion of GDP:
- public                       2.9%              3.2%              3.7%
- private                      o.6%              0.8%              0.9%
Total                          3.5%               4.0%             4.60/0
a/ 1966 and 1971 in current prices; 1981 in prices of 1971.
bl including external assistance on loan basis; excluding grants.
Source: ODEPOR, Ministry of Education, and mission estimates.
April 1974



ANNEX 10
EL SALVADOR
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
School Types in Basic Education
New Schools  Replacements ExtensionB    Total
SPACES
New Classrooms                            300           129           79          508
Workshops/Laboratories                      1            25           99         125
Total Expansion                         301            154          178         633
Replaced Classrooms                      -               6            -          767
Total Number of Spaces                  ID1            921          178
Total Number of Student Places       12,040         36,840        7,120      56,ooo
SCHOOLS
A. New Schools
Two classrooms                        130            194          -           324
Three classrooms                       12             73          -            85
More than three classrooms
without workshop/laboratory            -              7          -              7
with workshop/laboratory               1             25          -            26
B. Extensions
Classrooms                              -             -            22           22
Workshop/aboratory without
classrooms                                           -            81          81
Workshop/laboratory with
classrooms                            -              -            18          18
Subtotal                             143            299          121         563
C. Workshops                               -             -            146         146
Total Number of Schools               143            299          267         709
April 1974



EL SALVADOR
SECOHD EDUCATION PROJECT
a/
Summary of Project Cost
(in '000 Colones)
Number of                              Construction                                                                                               Total
Student  Staff       Site       Academic &   Staff                                       Technical   Special         Project
Schools  Spaces  Places   Houses  Development   Communal   Housing   Total   Furniture  Equipment  Assistance  Programs  Administration  in '000 a  in '000 US$
1.     Basic Education
1.1    New Schools                 143      301   12,040       100       1,851          4,484       873    7,208        417          462                                                  8,087      3,235
1.2    Replaced Schools            299      921   36,840        80       4,056         13,092       698   17,846       1,368       1,745                                                 20,959      8,383
1.3    Extended Schools            121      178    7,120        -          592          3,473        -      4,065        652       1,532                                                  6,249      2,500
1.4    Workshop Equipment          146       -       -          -         _              _           _       _           401       1,569                                                  1,970        788
Subtotal                 709    1,400   56,000       180       6,499         21,049    1,571   29,119        2,838       5,308                                                 37,265    14,906
2.     Teacher Training              1       14       500       -           52            350        -        402         40         303        636         681                           2,062        825
3.     Nonformal Training                                                                                                          2,002        636         681                           3,319       1,327
4.     Project Management                                                                                                                                                 2,500           2,500       1,000
and Professional
Services
5.     Preparation Posaible                                                                                                                                                 500              500        200
Third Education
project
Total in '000 a                                                6,551         21,399    1,571   29,521        2,878       7,613      1,272        1,362          3,000          45,646
Total in '000 US$                                              2,620           8,560       628   11,808      1,151       3,045         509         545          1,200                      18,258
a/ Cost is in January 1974 prices and excludes contingencies
April 1974



EL SALVADOR
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Contingency Allowances
(in '000 US Dollars)
Technical        Project Admin. &
Construction      Furniture            Equipment          Assistance        Special Programs        Total
Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign    TOTAL
Total Project Cost
Excluding Contingencies        7,085    4,723        403       748       609    2,436         76      433    1,396        349    9,569    8,689    18,258
Physical Contingencies
Percentage                     (5.0)    (5.0)    (7.5)    (7.5)        (10)      (10)       (0)      (0)      (7.5)     (7.5)      5.7       6.4        6.0
Amount                           354       236        30        56        61       244      -0-      -0-         105        26       550       562      1,112
Total Project Cost               7,439    4,959        433       804       670    2,680         76       433    1,501        375   10,119    9,251    19,370
Including Physi.cal
Contingencies
Price Contingencies
Percentage                      (23)      (26)      (24)      (30)      (23)      (29)      (20)     (31)      (23)       (29)   (23.0)    (27.6)      (25.2)
Amount                         1.711    1,289        104       24 1      154       777        15       134       345       109      2,329   2,550       4,879
Total Project Cost               9,150    6,248        537    1,045        824    3,457         91       567    1,846        484    12,448  11,801    24,249
Including Contingencies
April 1974



EL SALVADOR
Project Implementation Schedule -/
Year                            1974                     1975                    1976                      1977                   1978             1-979
Quarter                  1     2    3      4      1     1    3       4     1     2     3     4    1       2     3     4     1     2     3      4     1     2     3      4
PHYSICAL FACILITIES
Civil Works
Site Selection,
Acquisition, Surveys  -x                     x     x     x       x     x
Preparation of            Phase   I   x      x
Tender Documents          Phase  II                      x      x
Phase III                                         x     x
Tendering, Bid Evalua-    Phase   I                x
tion, Contract Awarding   Phase  II                                    x
Phase IIIX
Construction              Phase   I                      x       x     x     x
Phase  II                                               x     x      x     x
Phase III                                                                              X      I     K
Liability Period          Phase   I                                                x     x     x     x
Phase  II                                                                        x    I       I 
Phase III                                                                                                 I     I      IC    X
Furniture & Equipment
Preparation of Lists
a-ddTender Documients                  x     x     x             x.   x      x           I     I     I
Tendering                 Phase   I                      x
Phase  II                                               x
Phase III                                                                        x
Mamnfacturing, Delivery, Phase   I                               X     x     x
Installation              Phase  II                                                      x    x     x
Phase III                                                                              x      x     x
Liability Period          Phase   I                                                x     x    x      x
Phase  II
Phase III                                                                        x    x       x     x
J  Assuming loan signing on July 1, 1974 and effectiveness per October 1, 1974.
April 1974



Year                              1974                      1975                      1976                     1977                      1978                      1979
Quarter                    1      2     3      4     1     2      3     4      1     2      3     4     1      2     3      4     1      2     3      4     1      2     3      4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Teacher Trainling
1 expert Science Teaching (2 m.yr.)                                      x      x     x      x     x      x     x      x
1 expert Industrial Arts (2 m.yr.)                                       x      x     x      x     x      x     x      x
I expert Practical Subjects Teaching
(2 m.yr.)                                                                                               x     x     x      x     x      x     x    x
Unallocated (1 m.yr.)
13 fellowships (6.5 m.yr.)                                                       x     x      x     x      x     x
Non-Fonral Training
1 expert  Prlncipal Advisor (4 m.yr.            x     x      x     x     x      x     x      x     x      x     x     x       x     x      x     x
1 expert Consultant in Evaluation
Techniques (0.5 m.yr.)                            x                         x                                            x
1 expert  Artisan Techniques(3 m.yr.                         x     x     x      x     x      x     x      x     x    x        x     x
iUnallocated (I m.yr.)
20 fellowships (5 m.yr.)                                      x     x     x      x     x      x     x      x     x    x        x     x    x       x
Project Administration                               x     x      x     x      x     x      x     x      x     x     x      x      x     x      x     x
April 1974



ANNEX 14
EL SALVADOR
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(in '000 US Dollars)
Accuzulated    Undisbursed
Year          Qurte X           Disbuirsements         Disburseameta     Balance
1974             3                   -                       -           17,000
4                 300                     300           16,700
1975             1                  800                  1,100           15,900
2               1,200                   2,300          14,700
3               1,200                   3,500           13,500
4               1,500                   5,000           12,000
1976             1                1,200                   6,200          10,800
2               1,300                   7,500           9,500
3               1,400                   8,900            8,100
4               1,500                  10,400            6,600
1977             1                1,400                 11,800            5,200
2               1,400                  13,200           3,800
3               1,600                  14,800            2,200
4               1,500                  16,300              700
1978             1                  400                 16,700              300
2                 300                  17,000
a! Assuming loan signature around July 1, 1974.
April 1974






EL SALVADOR
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
1973
BASIC EDUCATION                                      SECONDARY EDUCATION                           HIGHER EDUCATION
FIRST CYCLE             SECOND CYCLL__]            THIRD CYCLE
BACHILLERATOS
ACADEMIC
PEDAGODIC                   NON-UNIVERSITY
CIUDAD NORMAL
TEACHER TRAINING)
NAVIGATION S FISHERY
COM    E                              UNIVERSIDAD CATOLICA |
KINDERGARTEN                                                                                             I
= > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TO JDES_
|  NON FORMAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                            A
GRADES        1        2        3       4        5        6        7       8        9            19       11      12                1        2        3        4        5
AGE           7        8        9       10       11      12       13       14       15           16       17      19                19      29       21       22       23
HEALTHB~nk-971EIRI
E ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ol ECONOMICS)                                               I






EL SALVADOR
EDUCATION PYRAMID
ENROLLMENT IN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS-
1973                                                                                                                                  LwaI and
Gnds TOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Tal N aap
6      1.4                                                                                                                        1.3  0.1
5      2.1                                                                                                                        1.9  0.2
4      3.3                                                                                                                      2.7*110.6
4    ~~~~3.37                                                                                            6                                                                                                                      236       IG ER 2/
3      3.5                                                                                                                       2.8{0.7                                                                                                                                   S."3
2  0.1                                                                                                                  38        1.3
1      8.2                                                                                                                   0.9          2.3
12     s.3                                                                IOYS                                                                                                                GIRLS
11    11.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       35,0    SECONDARY
10    17.1                                                                  9Y6                                                                  7.5                                            ISE
9     22.0                                                                                                                                         9.9
8     29.4                                                                                                                                             1 . 1 3.2                                                                                                 9244    THIRD CYCLE
7     41.0                                                                                             22.7                                                  1E3
6     47.1                                                                                         26.9                                                      202
5     60.B                                                                                  32.2  w     ':' ,.             .              :                              28.2
4     76.0                                                                                                                                                                          37.2                                                                                  FIRST
588.2    AND
3   gi.9  WE                                                                                                               45.3                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECOND
3    121.3                                               61.0 06e3                                                                                                                                                                                                         92%
1    191.1    97._,.:"'''I: 93.5
K     30.2                                                                                                       1435. 257                                                                                                                                       30.2      I.KNRSAT TtN
I   I   I          _l           I           I           I            I          I          ~    ~ ~~I  I  I                     I            IIIII 
90                     70                      50                      30                      10           0          10                      30                      50                       70                      90
E/ En-oll,nn includnd ove-age p,pils Fianne, in lho-sande
2/ l3lnc.a.iniyen -d-indnon.un,oe,eieycouy ...
enrfllmnnt diatr,bution hV gade and -e ls eslimared.






. P5T Jo Fhd'e   Wo  |                    E9'W                     t                                                                                                 JAMAICA
140  T EM A  A   Metaun    )g  H       N  D   U  R  A  S               ZL SALVAA             A -- 
G U A T E M A L A                                                                                                                                                                                     PCFCPNM
OCEAN       RCOSA
fth          a   e eop - th/ o t
@t- P.I                                                                                                                peto
T-ch,co ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     Cootorro            ,Aoo 
EL  SALVADOR.
_13b151 SECOND    EDUCATION    PROJECT                                                                                                                  El StfI   Poerl        Mrtrtptl                 L ,,-/ 
?    School Sopervision Zones                          |                      7                                                                 -~ ~->    P           ~-~~                   mporl    Gfo
Paved Roads                                                              -q                                                                                                                      Fan seeR
All Weather Roads C
-.--t-+    Railroads                                                                                /      F
-.-.-    International Boundaries                                                                                   / o    oC 0          
_    -    Rivers                                 ,,, ,    ,   1   ,                                                                                                 A        N
43 °°                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS| 
90A00'       89-45'                  e9'30'                  89-15'                   @9-09'                  8E!45'                   e8-30'                  g8-l5'                  88-00'                   87-45'  < eo
13- 30'  Lo, C6b...s                      C... .                                                                    C.."~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100845    -r0 0
915 00,  89 45  89 30             89 15                    89 00                   88. 45'                                          88.15~~~~~~~~S
I  I            I                        I                      I                        I                                                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iq dM



