CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1007 ES
Loan Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 14, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1007 ES
Loan Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 14, 1974


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, date.d     June  14, 1974, between    REPUBLIC   OF   EL
SALVADOR (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION A ND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof and,
in Section 6.02(i) thereof, of the words "or in the Loan Agreement for the purposes
of Section 7.01" (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have tht following
meanings:
(a)   "DAE" means Direcci6n de Arquitectura Educativa of the Ministry
of Education of the Borrower;
(b)   "FOCCO" means Programa de Fomento y Cooperaci6n Comunal por
Esfuerzo Propio y Ayuda Mutua, a development agency of the Borrower;
(c)   "FSVM" means Fundaci6n Salvadoreha de Desarrollo y Vivienda
Minima, a private, non-profit institution established in June 1970 to promote
lower-income housing in the territories of the Borrower;
(d)   "General Basic Education Curriculum" means the curriculum  for
geneial basic education emphasizing manual arts, industrial arts and home economics
as established under an internal rego  ion of the Ministry of Education of the
Borrower dated March 15, 1974;


﻿4
(e)   "ODEPOR" means Oficina de Planeamiento y Organizaci6n of the
Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
(f)   "Rural Area" means the area of an administrative subdivision known
as canton with less than 5,000 inhabitants; and
(g)   "Urban Area" means any other area not included in subparagraph (f)
hereof.
ARTICLE H
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seventeen million dollars ($17,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed under the Loan Agreement; provided, however, that, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories; and (b) under Categories I and IV(a) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement until the staff referred to in Section 3.07(c) hereof have been appointed
and commenced their assignments.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods and services
(other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured on the basis of international
competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such other
late as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of seven and
one-fourth of one per cent (7-1/4%). per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. If and when the Bank shall from time to time request, the
Borrower shall execute and deliver Bonds representing the principal amount of
the Loan as provided in Article VIII of the General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Ministro de Hacienda of the Borrower and such other
person or persons as he shall appoint in writing are designated as authorized
representatives of the Borrower for the purp6ses of Section 8.10 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry
of Education with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, educational, architectural and engineering practices and
with due regard to economy, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (a) use the student capacity of the basic
education schools included in the Project on a double-shift basis; and (b) expand
teacher training enrollment in accordance with a plan to be furnished to the Bank,
for review, within three months after the date of this Agreement or such other
date as the Bank shall agree.
Section 3.03. Unless the Bank agrees to later dates, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank for review:


﻿6
(a)   within six months after the date of this Agreement (i) the syllabi for
the General Basic Education Curriculum; and (ii) a plan for the carrying out of
Part C of the Project, including the selection of candidates for fellowships, the
award of such fellowships and the program of studies for the recipients of such
fellowships; and
(b)   within twelve months after the date of this Agreement, a plan for
the carrying out of Part B. 1 of the Project.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Parts B.l and 2 of the Project the Borrower
shall: (a) evaluate on a full-time basis the implementation and results of the
non-formal rural training program; (b) furnish to the Bank, for review, semi-annual
reports of such evaluation; (c) offer such program during its pilot phase in the
Departamentos of San Miguel and Morazdn until December 31, 1977, or such other
date as the Bank shall agree, and, thereafter, extend the content of such program
and its application to all the territories of the Borrower on the basis of the preceding
evaluation; and (d) cause Direcci6n de Educaci6n Permanente y de Adultos of
the Ministry of Education to collaborate closely with FOCCO.
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall,
in the carrying out of the Project: (a) employ (i) consultants to supervise the           -
construction of the buildings for the educational institutions included in the Project,
and (ii) educational specialists to provide the technical assistance under Part C
of the Project, all acceptable to the Bank, and to an extent and upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) assign qualified staff in adequate
numbers to work as counterparts and support the services of such specialists, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.06. (a) In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ contractors acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.
(b)   The Borrower shall carry out the construction works in accordance
with standards appropriate to the specific functions of the educational facilities
included in Part A of the Project.
Section 3.07. During the carrying out of the Project the Borrower shall:
(a)   maintain DAE and ODEPOR with the functions and responsibilities
specified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)   maintain in DAE     a procurement section adequately staffed and
organized;


﻿7
(c)   assign, on a full time basis: (i) to DAE a Director, a Chief Procurement
Officer, a Chief Architect and a Senior Educator seconded by Direcci6n de Tcnico
Pedag6gico of the Ministry of Education of the Borrower, and (ii) to ODEPOR
a Project Coordinator, all appointed in consultation with the Bank upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
(d)   provide DAE and ODEPOR        with such powers, facilities (including
transport and communication facilities) and resources as shall be required by them
to fulfill their duties in respect of the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for approval,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to examine
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall construct the Project schools in the
locations chosen in accordance with the criteria set forth in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement, and specified in the list of even date herewith agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank, as such list may be amended from time to time in
accordance with such criteria and with the prior concurrence of the Bank.


﻿8
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall: (a) unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
select sites for the Project schools in accordance with the criteria specified in
Schedule 7 to this Agreement; and (b) take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
construction (and operation) of the Project schools before commencing final design
work for such schools and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall: (a) implement the General Basic Education
Curriculum; and (b) provide all Project schools with adequate equipment, including
TV sets in the number required for the carrying out of subparagraph (a) hereof.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall take all such action, including the granting
of all such necessary authorizations, foreign exchange permits and other approvals
as shall be necessary to ensure the timely importation of the goods required for
the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.14. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a)   not later than June 30, 1975, construct at least 30 of those housing
units included in Part A.4 of the Project;
(b)   before starting construction work under Part A.1 and 2(a) of the
Project, furnish to the Bank: (i) the criteria to select the locations for the housing
units referred to in sub-paragraph (a) hereof, and (ii) the principles and procedures
for evaluating the benefits of such housing units, all satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)   during construction of the first 300 schools included in Part A.1 and
2(a) of the Project evaluate in accordance with the principles and procedures
referred to in sub-paragraph (b)(ii) hereof the benefits of such housing units;
(d)   not later than December 31, 1976 furnish to the Bank, a report of
such evaluation satisfactory to the Bank;
(e)   until confirmation that such report has been received by the Bank,
not start construction work for the remaining schools included in Part A.1 and
2(a) of the Project; and
(f)   if the findings of such report so justify it, construct the other housing
units included in Part A.4 of the Project, giving priority to the communities where
schools included in Parts A.1 and 2(a) of the Project are located.


﻿9
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower and the Bank
that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan or the Bonds
by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b)   To that end the Borrower (i) represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets as security for any external
debt except as otherwise disclosed in writing by the Borrower to the Bank, and
(ii) undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien
shall be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost to the Bank
or the holders of the Bonds, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Borrower shall promptly
inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c)   The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for payment of the purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in
the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(d)   As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets" means assets
of the Borrower or of any of its political subdivisions or of any agency of the
Borrower or of any such political subdivision, including the Banco Central de
Reserva de El Salvador or any institution performing the functions of a central
bank for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall operate, or cause to be operated, the
educational institutions and facilities included in the Project in accordance with
sound administrative and educational policies and practices and with due regard
to economy.


﻿10
(b)   The Borrower shall at all times employ, or cause to be employed,
qualified administrators and teachers in adequate numbers to staff the educational
institutions included in the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (a) adequately maintain or cause to be
maintained the buildings, furniture and equipment of the educational institutions
included in the Project and make or cause to be made all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof in accordance with sound technical and administrative practices;
and (b) provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources (including teaching materials and text books) required
for the foregoing.
Section 4.05. In connection with its undertaking under Sections 3.01(a) and
4.03(a) of this Agreement, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall within the second year after the date of this Agreement and every
year thereafter until completion of the Project, review and promptly send to the
Bank for its comments:
(a)   the enrollment plans and targets for: (i) the basic and secondary
education levels in order to ensure that such plans and targets are within the
Borrower's financial capacity and that the objectives of enrollment expansion in
Rural Areas and improvement in quality and efficiency of education at these levels
are achieved; and (ii) pre-service and in-service courses in teacher training programs
for basic and secondary education, to fulfill the Borrower's objectives of meeting
additional teacher requirements and quality improvement of the teaching force in
the most efficient manner; and
(b)   an evaluation of the effectiveness of the schools in Rural Areas in
performing their function as centers for community activities and rural services,
such as health and agricultural extension, provided by the Borrower.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall compensate equitably local communities
participating in the construction of Project schools. The criteria to determine such
compensation shall be formulated by the Borrower in consultation with the Bank
before construction of Project schools starts.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Bank shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower
and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party:


﻿11
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any
part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Loan. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrow-r, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower oi       any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the educational system of the Borrower, and the administration, operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Bank shall promptly inform each other of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof or the
performance by either of them of its obligations under the Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Bank to visit any part of the territories of the
Borrower for purposes related to the Loan.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan
and the Bonds shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories; provided,
however, that the foregoing shall not apply to taxation of payments under any
Bond to a holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is beneficially
owned by an individual or corporate resident of the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The Loan Agreement and the Bonds shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration thereof


﻿12
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories and
the Borrower shall bear the cost of any such taxes, if any, imposed under the
laws of the country or countries in whose currency the Loan and the Bonds are
payable or laws in effect in the territories of such country or countries.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls
and moratoria of any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Bank, at its option, may
by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Loan and of all the Bonds
then outstanding to be due and payable immediately together with the interest
and other charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such principal, inter-st
and chaiges shall become due and payable immediately, anything to the contrary
in the Loan Agreement or in the Bonds notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date August 13, 1974, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 11.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Ministro de Hacienda and the Ministro de Educacion of
the Borrower are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 10.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿13
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
3a Avenida Norte y 13a Calle Poniente
San Salvador
El Salvador
and
Ministerio de Educaci6n
Biblioteca Nacional
San Salvador
El Salvador
Cable address:
Ministro de Hacienda
San Salvador
and
Ministro de Educaci6n
San Salvador
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿14
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
By /s / Francisco Bertrand Galindo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Gunter Wiese
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.   Civil works                                      62% of total
expenditures
(a)  Part A. 1                 1,600,000
(b)   Part A.2,                5,300,000
3(a) and 5
(c)  Part A.4                   400,000
II.  Equipment and                  3,900,000          100% of foreign
furniture under                                  expenditures,
Parts A and D of                                 and 85% of local
the Project                                      expenditures
III.  Technical assis-                400,000         85% of total ex-
tance                                            venditures
IV.  (a)   Project admin-             800,000    )
istration, pro-                       )
fessional serv-                       )
ices and Part                         )
E of the Proj-                        )    62% of total
ect                                   )    expenditures
(b)   Special pro-              300,000    )
grams under                           )
Parts B.1 and                         )
3 of the Proj-                        )
ect
V.   Unallocated                    4,300,000
TOTAL        17,0000


﻿16
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories II and III on account of
expenditures incurred after May 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $200,000; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Loan will be
withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Loan then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Bank by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Loan;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under Categories I(a) and (c), II,
III and IV shall increase, and if in the case of Category I(b) such increase shall
be caused by price escalation, the percentage set forth in the third column of
the table in paragraph I above in respect of such expenditures shall be applied
to the amount of such increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated


﻿17
by the Bank, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated
amount of the Loan, subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as
determined by the Bank, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan
as in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Categories I or
IV shall increase and no proceeds of the Loan are available for reallocation to
such Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿180
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project will provide basic education to Rural Areas; expand teacher
training capacity; replace basic education schools and help introduce the General
Basic Education Curriculum in Urban and Rural Areas; and establish a non-formal
rural training program.
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.    Design, construction, furnishing and equipping of:
1.   New schools in Rural Areas
about 130 schools (for the first four grades of basic education) with
an aggregate capacity for about 10,400 student places; about 13 schools
(for up to nine grades of basic education) with an aggregate capacity
for about 1,600 student places.
2.    Replacement schools
(a)   in Urban and Rural Areas
about 194 schools (for the first four grades of basic education)
with an aggregate capacity for about 15,500 student places; about 99
schools (for up to nine grades of basic education) with an aggregate
capacity for about 17,500 student places;
(b)   in Urban Areas
about 6 schools (for up to nine grades of basic education) with
an aggregate capacity for about 3,900 student places located in the
settlements built by FSVM.
3.    Extensions to existing schools in Urban and Rural Areas
(a)   about 99 workshops, and laboratories, and about 79 classrooms
with an aggregate capacity of about 7,100 student places for
about 121 basic education schools; and
(b)   about 146 workshops with a total capacity of about 2,900
student places for about 146 basic education schools.


﻿19
4.    Housing units for school staff in Rural Areas where adequate housing
facilities for such staff are not available.
5.    Six classrooms, four laboratories and four workshops at Ciudad Normal
with an aggregate capacity for about 500 student places.
B.    Special programs
1.    Establishment, operation and evaluation of a non-formal rural training
program during its pilot phase in the Departamentos of San Miguel
and Morazdn.
2.    Expansion of such non-formal rural training program.
3.    Establishment and operation of an in-service teacher training program.
C.    Engagement of specialist services and provision of fellowships as detailed in
the attached Exhibit for: (a) improvement in curricula and school administration;
(b) upgrading of educators and administrators of the educational system; and (c)
assisting the Borrower in the establishment, operation and evaluation of the
non-formal rural training program, and in the training abroad of supervisors for
such program.
D.    Purchase and utilization of equipment for Part B.1 and 2 hereof.
E.    Preparation of a project to assist the Borrower in the further implementation
of structural reforms of the educational system.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


﻿20
Exhibit to Schedule 2
Specialist Services and Fellowships and
Approximate Period of Services
Specialists         Fellowships
Field                                 Man-Years      Number      Man-Years
(estimated)
1.   Teacher Training                                  13           6-1/2
Science Teaching                     2
Industrial Arts                      2
Practical Subjects                   2
Teaching
To be determined by                  I
agreement between
the Borrower and
the Bank
2.   Non-Formal Rural Training                         20          5
Principal Advisor                    4
Evaluation Techniques              1/2
Artisan Techniques                   3
To be determined by                  1
agreement between
the Borrower and
the Bank


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in dollars)*
December 1, 1984                                       195,000
June 1, 1985                                           200,0
December 1, 1985                                       210,000
June 1, 1986                                           215,000
December 1, 1986                                       225,000
June 1, 1987                                           235,000
December 1, 1987                                       240,0
June 1, 1988                                           250,000
December 1, 1988                                       260,000
June 1, 1989                                           270,000
December 1, 1989                                       280,000
June 1, 1990                                           290,000
December 1, 1990                                       300,000
June 1, 1991                                           310,000
December 1, 1991                                       320,000
June 1, 1992                                           335,00
December 1, 1992                                       345,000
June 1, 1993                                           360,000
December 1, 1993                                             370,000
June 1, 1994                                           385,000
December 1, 1994                                       400,000
June 1, 1995                                           415,00
December 1, 1995                                       430,00
June 1, 1996                                           445,000
December 1, 1996                                       460,000
June 1, 1997                                           475,000
December 1, 1997                                       495,000
June 1, 1998                                           510,000
December 1, 1998                                       530,00
June 1, 1999                                           550,000
December 1, 1999                                       570,000
June 1, 2000                                           590,00
December 1, 2000                                       610,000
June 1, 2001                                           630,000
December 1, 2001                                       655,0
June 1, 2002                                           680,000
December 1, 2002                                       705,000
June 1, 2003                                           730,0
December 1, 2003                                       755,000
June 1, 2004                                           770,000
*  To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿22
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions or on the redemption
of any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section 8.15 of the General
Conditions:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption                 Premium
Not more than four years before
maturity                                       3/4%
More than four years but not
more than eight years
before maturity                              2-1/4%
More than eight years but not
more than fourteen years
before maturity                                  3%
More than fourteen years but
not more than twenty
years before maturity                        4-1/2%
More than twenty years but
not more than twenty-six
years before maturity                        5-3/4%
More than twenty-six years but
not more than twenty-eight
years before maturity                        6-3/4%
More than twenty-eight years
before maturity                              7-1/4%


﻿23
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
I.    Contracts Subject to International Competitive Bidding
A.    Contracts for Civil Works
1.    Whenever practicable, the civil works shall be grouped to form one or more
economic bid packages.
2.    With respect to any contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Contractors shall be    prequalified. The   Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed
and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such additions to
or deletions from the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for            4
its comments (i) a list of all contracts for civil works required for carrying out
the Project, indicating the estimated value of each contract and the forecast
timetable for bids and awards of such contracts. The Borrower shall have the option
of awarding to one contractor one contract in respect of some or all the institutions
and facilities, or separate contracts in respect of the various institutions and facilities
to different contractors; (ii) the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications
and other bidding documents; and (iii) a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding. The Borrower shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the reasons for the intended award. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures


﻿24
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   If the contract shall be awarded over the Bank's reasonable objection,
or its terms and conditions shall, without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ
from those on which bids were asked, no expenditures thereunder shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(e)   Two certified copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
(f)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked, provided that
any proposed change in a contract involving a price increase of 10% or more of
the contract sum or more than $25,000 equivalent, whichever is less, shall be
deemed to be a material change for purposes of this subparagraph (f).
3.    In respect to any contract for civil works estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank promptly after the execution
of any such contract and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of any such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
B.    Contracts for Furniture and Equipment
1.    Items shall be grouped so as to permit bulk procurement as shall be consistent
with appropriate technical and procurement practices. Insofar as practicable,
contracts for such items shall be for not less than $5,000 equivalent.
2.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall send to the Bank for its approval
the following:
(a)   lists of all items required for the Project and the proposed grouping
thereof, showing the specifications and the estimated unit price of each item and
the total price of each category of items. The list shall identify all items. Items
shall be indexed, coded and numbered for identification with the educational
institution, courses and space for which they are required. Amendments to such
list shall also be sent to the Bank for approval; and


﻿25
(b)   draft standard documents for inviting tenders, forms of contracts and
a description of the method to be used for inviting bids on an international basis,
including the proposed advertising procedures. Bidding documents shall specify that
bidders must bid for at least 85%, or such other percentage as shall be agreed
with the Bank, of each package, and that the Borrower may make awards for
less than one package if judged more economical.
3.    The Borrower shall send to the Bank, after bids have been evaluated, a
summary and analysis thereof, and obtain the Bank's approval before awarding
a contract. In case of a contract to be awarded to other than the lowest bidder,
the Borrower shall send to the Bank a brief justification by DAE of the proposed
award.
4.    Promptly after bids have been evaluated and the contract has been awarded,
the Borrower shall furnish the Bank with the following:
(a)   a certificate signed by the Director of DAE that the goods contracted
for are in accordance with the quantities and specifications in the list apploved
by the Bank under paragraph B.2 above; and
(b)   two conformed copies of the contract awarded, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
C.    Supplemental Rale on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
supplied goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided. Bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods. The cost to the
Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their distribution, use or installation shall be taken into
account in the evaluation of bids in accordance with    paragraph 4.7 of the
Guidelines for Procurement.
2.    For the purpose of evaluating bids for goods included in Categories I and
II of the table set forth in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, price
shall be determined and compared in accordance with the following rules:
(a)   the term  "Central American Bid" means a bid submitted by a
manufacturer established in the territories of the member countries of the Central


﻿26
American Common Market for goods manufactured or processed to a substantial
extent (as reasonably determined by the Bank) in such territories; any other bid
shall be deemed to be a "Non-Central American Bid";
(b)   the price under a Central American Bid shall be the sum of the
following amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)       freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such goods to
the place of their distribution, use or installation;
(c)   for the purpose of comparing any Non-Central American Bid with any
Central American Bid, the price under a Non-Central American Bid shall be the
sum of the following amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. (port of entry) price of such goods;
(ii)        half the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods
into the territories of the Borrower which generally apply to
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified in (i)
above, whichever shall be the lower; and
(iii)      freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such goods from
their port of entry to the place of their use or installation.
3.    The invitations to bid shall clearly indicate the margin of preference to be
granted.
II.   Contracts not subject to International Competive Bidding
In respect to any contract for furniture and equipment for less than $5,000
equivalent, the Borrower may procure such goods under such contracts in
accordance with the normal procurement procedures of the Borrower. The aggregate
cost of the goods to be so procured shall not exceed $300,000 equivalent. The
Borrower shall submit to the Bank for its approval prior to the execution of any
such contract, a list of the goods to be procured thereunder and shall make such
modifications in the said lists as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after the execution of any such contract and
prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application of withdrawals of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of the contract.


﻿27
SCHEDULE 5
Functions and Responsibilities of ODEPOR and DAE
ODEPOR will be responsible for, inter alia:
(a)   coordination with all the agencies of the Borrower in respect of the
execution of all aspects of the Projrct;
(b)   overall planning and programming of Project execution and monitoring
progress against plans;
(c)   selection, briefing, administration, coordination and supervision of the
technical assistance program under Part C of the Project including the
provision of counterparts and support services;
(d)   supervision and coordination of the execution of Parts B and E of
the Project by the responsible entities of the Ministry of Education
of the Borrower;
(e)   supervision and coordination of the preparation of the plans and syllabi
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(f)   supervision and coordination of the preparation of detailed lists of
the furniture and equipment required for Parts A and D of the Project;
(g)   supervision and coordination of pre-service training, appointment and
in-service training of teachers for the facilities included in the Project;
(h)   monitoring the supervision of the implementation of the General Basic
Education Curriculum in the schools included in Part A of the Project;
and
(i)   preparation of quarterly progress reports for the Bank.
2.    DAE will be responsible for, inter alia:
(a)   planning and programming the execution of Parts A and D of the
Project, and monitoring progress against plans;
(b)   exploration and  promotion of community participation in the
construction and operation of the Project schools in Rural Areas;


﻿28
(c)   selection and acquisition of sites for the facilities to be constructed
under Part A of the Project;
(d)   selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of the consultants
referred to in Section 3.05(a)(i) of this Agreement;
(e)   briefing and coordination of the architects and engineers for, and
review and approval of the design of, the facilities to be constructed
under Part A of the Project;
(f)   award of contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment, including
the preparation of bidding documents, the analysis of bids and the
making of recommendations regarding the award of such contracts;
(g)   coordination and supervision of receipts, distribution, delivery and
installation of the furniture and equipment under Parts A and D of
the Project in consultation with the respective executing entities;
(h)   coordination of the work of the consultants in charge of supervising
all civil works and acceptance of the completion certificates for these
works;
(i)   keeping of records, including financial records of the execution of the
Project, and preparation of quarterly progress reports on its activities
related to the Project for the Bank;
(j)   preparation of guidelines on use and maintenance of school buildings,
furniture and equipment, including teaching materials, included in the
Project; and
(k)   management of funds for the Project, authorization of payments and
preparation of applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿29
SCHEDULE 6
Criteria for the Location
of Basic Education Schools
1.    Criteria for the establishment of new schools in Rural Areas (Part Al of
the Project)
(a)   the catchment area of a proposed new school will contain at least
50 children of age seven or a total population of at least 1,600 within a walking
distance of three kilometers from the proposed school location; and
(b)   no other basic education school, which is not being fully utilized, will
exist within a walking distance of four kilometers of the proposed site for a new
school.
2.    Criteria for the replacement of schools (Part A2 of the Project)
Schools that are rented or in bad condition will be replaced by new facilities
when their replacement is economically justified.
3.    Criteria for the extension of existing schools (Part A3 of the Project)
(a)   extensions of schools in Urban Areas will be limited to workshops
and laboratories;
(b)   extensions of schools in Rural Areas will consist of at least one
workshop and laboratory or two classrooms;
(c)   a school will be extended by a workshop and a laboratory, only when
the total enrollment in grades 7-9 of basic education is at least 100
in 1975, and when this enrollment can be expected to increase in
future years; and
(d)   the schools proposed for extension will be selected in such a way that
in each of the ten school zones of the Borrower at least ten workshops
and ten laboratories will be established. For the purposes of this
sub-paragraph "school zone" means an administrative division
established by the Borrower for school supervision.


﻿30
SCHEDULE 7
Criteria for the Selection of Sites
for Basic Education Schools
1.    Location
Sites will be centrally located with regard to the catchment area, offer
acceptable receipt of educational TV programs of the Borrower, be serviced by,
or of easy connection to, water and electricity networks, and be well ventilated
and far from possible sources of noise. Preference will be given to a location adjacent
or close to other facilities used for community development, and due consideration
will be given to the possibility of locating facilities for rural development agencies
of the Borrower on or near the school premises.
2.    Size
Sites in Rural Areas will measure not less than 1,500 m2 for two or
three-classroom schools, and not less than 4,000 m2 for a nine-grade school. Ratio
between length and width of a site will be not more than three to one.
3.    Con tourlines
Sites will preferably be flat. If such sites are not available, due consideration
will be given to contourlines in view of cost of site development and sun protection.
4.    Accessibility
Sites will be easily accessible by road or pathway, and due consideration
will be given to geographic features such as rivers, streams or mountains. Sites
for nine-grade schools will preferably be serviced by public transportation.


