Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6964-LSO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LESOTHO
LAND HM1E9wNT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
March 15, 1988
Southern Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division
Thbi document has a restddted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization|



CURENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Lesotho Maloti (M)
USS 1.00  - M   2.00
M4K 1.00 - US$ 0.50
SDR 1.00 * M
WEIGRTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
/-



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS
DAO:      District Agricultural Office
DDC:      District Development Council
DLUP:     District Land Use Planner
DMO:      District Planning Officer
DPS:      Deputy Principal Secretary
DS:       District Secretary
GOL:      Government of Lesotho
ILUP:     Institute of Land Use Planning
LAPIS:    Lesotho Agricultural Production and Institutional Support Project
LCRD:     Land Conservation and Rangeland Development Project
LIPA:     Leso'dho Institute for Public Administration
LPMS:     Livestock Products Marketing Service
HOA:      Ministry of Agticulture, Cooperatives and Marketing
MOP:      Ministry of Finance
MICARD:   Ministry of Interior, Chieftainship Affairs and Rural Developmeut
MOP:      Ministry of Planning, Employment and Economic Affairs
MOW:      Ministry of Works
NUL:      National University of Lesotho
RMD:      Range Management Division
RMP:      Resource Management PlaLs
RMWG:     Resource Management Working Group
RSA:      Republic of South Africa
SACU:     Southern Africa Customs Union
SADCC:    Southern Africa Development Coordination Co£afereuce
SAIA:     Swedish Agency for Local Authorities
3IDA:     Swedish lnternational Development Authority
SOB:      Statement of Expenditure
VDC:      Village Development Council
WDC:      Ward Development Council
Tbh document has a restricted distribution and may be used by tecipients only In tho performance
of their official dutl Is contents may not othbrwis be discloed wibout Wod Bank authaion



LESOTRO
LAND MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary                                       i
I. PROJECT AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A.  The Project Background ....................1...  0           1
B.  The Sectoral Background .........................I...        1
Economic Setting     I............................... 
Agricultural Sector       ............................  2
State of the Land Resource ..............3......       3
Government Policies for Land Management    ........   4
Bank Group and Donor Strategy and Assistance  ...      5
II. INSTITUTIONS AND POLICY FRAMEWORK
A.   Institutions  600000000000..00000000000000000000000000      6
1*  The Chiefs             6...............     ......      6
2.  Ministry of Interior, Chieftainship Affjirs
and Rural Development        6.........................  6
3.  Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and
Marketing                  ...... .                    7
4.   Village, Ward and District Development Councils.       8
B.   Land Policy Framework ....................o...              8
1.   Land Tenure *     ...................................  8
2.   The Land Act       9..........................oooo.    9
3.   The Land Husbandry Act .........................    10
C.  Weaknesses of the Institutions and Land Policies and
their Impact on Resource Management and Erosion Control  11
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Rationale and Objectives ....................    11
B.   Summary Description 60006606000006066900000000000....      12
C*  Detailed Features                   ...................    13
1.   Land Policy Implementation        .....................    13
2.   Institutional Support to Ministry of Interior 00    13
3.   Institutional Support to Ministry of Agriculture    14
4.   Resource Management       s............................    1
D.   Implementation Period and Phasing .      ...................    16
E.   Cost Estimates .....O*00006@6000000000000000606600.   16
Note: This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission that
visited Lesotho in April/May 1987 and comprised Messrs* J. ter Vrugt
(IDA) R. Noronha, T. Jackson (consultants), Mesdames L. Atu (IDA)
and D. Jansen (consultant).



- 2 -
P.   Financing ........................                          17
G6   Procurement ..........t.................... .........    18
Ho  Disbursement .............  ........*...   ..............    19
I.   Accounts and Audit .....       .............................    21
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   General Outline of Project Organization
and Implementation ........               .......     0    21
B.   Project Management  ...................................    22
C.   Executing Agencies and Institutional Support  ..*o    22
1.   MICARD and Land Policy Implementation *oooooo.oooo. 23
2.   MOA and Resource Management Planning *      .........   23
D.   Training, Technical Assistance and Studies   .oo**.*    24
1.   Training under MICARD ...........................      24
2.   Training under MOA .....       ........................    25
E.   Resource Management         .................................    25
1.   Plan Imptementatiou Overview ...........................    25
2.   RMP Planning Process .oo..........................     26
3.   Formulation and Preparation of Community RMPs *.    27
4.   Formulation and Preparation of Summer Grazing
RMPs ...........................                       27
5.   RMP Implementation * ........................          28
F.   Project Monitoring, Studies and Reporting *****..***..      28
G.   Funding Mechanism for Plan Implementation ...*........      29
H.   Self-help and Cost Contribution       e......................    30
I.   Environmental Impact ....................*...........    30
J.   Role of Women in Agriculture .......................    31
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS
A.   Benefits and Justification         1..........................    3
B.   Risks ....................................0.....o.0.    31
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                    32
CHARTS
1.   Ministry of Interior, Chieftainship Affairs and Rural Development
(MICARD) - Organization Structure.
2.   Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Marketing (MOA) -
Organization Structure.
3.   Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Markseting (MOA) -
District Agricultural Office (DAO).
4.   Resource Management Planning Process.
5.   Schematic Representation of Project Organization and Activities.
TABLES
1.   Project Cost Summaries: lA, IB, IC and lD
2. Land Policy Support: MICARD - Headquarters: Department of Lands,
Surveys and Physical Planning.
3.   Institutional Support:  HICARD - Districts.



-3-
4.   Institutional Support:  MOA - Readquarters:  Institute of Land tpee
Planning.
5.   Institutional Support:  MOA - Districts:  Resource Management Working
Group (RMWG).
6. Implementation Cost for Indicative Community Resource Management Plan
(RMP) in the Lowlands (AEZ - A).
7.   Implementation Cost for Indicative Community Resource Management Plan
(WMP) in the Foothills (AEZ - B).
8.   Implementation Cost for Indicative Community Resource Management Plan
(RMP) in the Mountains (AEZ - C).
9.   Implementation Cost for Indicative Summer Grazing R'source Management
Plan in the Mountains (AEZ - D).
10. Implementation Cost for Indicative Community Resource Management Plan
(RMP) in the Sengu River Valley (AEZ - E).
11.  Phasing and Implementation Cost for 47 Resource Management Plan in
seven districts.
12. Unit Costs.
13.  Yinancing Plan by Category of Expenditure
14.  Summary Accounts by Year including Recurrent Costs
15. Financing Plan by Summary Accounts
18.  Schedule of Disbursements.
17. Financing Plan by Project Component
ANNEXES
1.   The Land Resources
2.   Institutions and Policy Framework
3.   Terms of Reference - technical specialists
4.   Resource Management Plan Preparation
5.   Resource Inventory Methodology
6.   Institutional Support
MAPS
1.   Lesotho - Base Map, IBRD 14282R
2.   Agro-Ecological Zones, IBRD 20635
3.   District and Ward Boundaries, IBRD 20634



LESOTHO
LAND MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Sumary
Borrower:           The Kingdom of Lesotho
Executing A&ge :   Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Marketing
(MOA) and Ministry of Interior, Chieftainship Affairs
and Rural Development (MICARD)
Amount:             SDRll.; million (US$16.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms, with 40-year maturity
Project
Description:        Thte proposed Project will be part of a long-term
program for land management and erosion control, to
enhance agricultural productivity, to be carried out
through newly-elected village, ward and district
eouncils. To this end, the Project will strengthen (a)
MICARD through technical assistance, training and
logistical support to enable them to assist the
councils, and (b) MOA's Institutv, of Land Use Planning
to enable it to put together working groups in the
districts to help local communities to prepare and
implement land management plans. The Project will
finance land management subprojects (such as pasture
improvement, conservation works, tree planting)
approved by the district councils. The Project will
also provide assistance in the further development of a
land policy for the Kingdom. The total cost of the
Prcject is estimated at US$20.2 million (with foreign
exchange component of US$8.4 million or 42%), of which
as much as 64% will be for institution building.
Benefits and        Economic benefits from the proposed project would come
eRsksi:             from the reduction and arresting of soil erosion and
land degradation, and improved livestock management
practices. These are expected to result in higher
agricultural yields and production. It is not possible
to quantify these benefits; they will accrue over a
long pjriod. The project will contribute very
substantially to institution building through
developing the capacity in local bodies to formulate
and implement critically important resource management



- ii -
plans, and strengthening government institutions to
enable them to assist local bodies. At the end of year
6, it is expected that 47 resource management plans
will have been prepared and a great number of them
under implementation. It is expected that, based on
this experience, villages and districts will be able to
generate their own development plans in future.
Possible risks include: (a) inadequate response to the
project from the local villagers; (b) the failure of
GOL to provide key staff positions in a timely manner;
and (c) the difficulty of changing long-established
land use patterns within the relatively short time
frame of the project. These risks will be miaimized
by: (i) basing the project on experience already gained
in preparing resource management plans through the
Institute of Land Use Planning (ILUP); (ii) continuing
the ongoing sectoral dialogue on policies towards soil
erosion and land degradation, and on aid coordination;
(iii) initiating a substantial promotional effort among
local communities; (iv) providing for conservative
targets of the numbers of participating councils; and
(v) appointment of key staff as condition of
effectiveness.



- iii -
Estimated ProJect Cost
Local     Foreign      Total
-------(US$ million)--- --
Investment Cost
Civil works                         1.7          0.7         2.4
Vehicles                            0.5          0.7          1.2
Equipment                           0.1          0.1         0.2
Technical Assistance                0.2          2.3          2.5
Training/Studies                    0.6         -            0.6
Incremental Recurrent Cost
Salaries/allowance                  1.6          -           1.6
Vehicles and equipment              0.7          0.8          1.5
Buildings                           0.1          -           0.1
Resource Management Plans              3.1          2.1          5.2
Total Baseline Costs                   8.6          6.7         15.3
Physical Contingencies                 1.2          1.1          2.3
Price Contingencies                    2.0          0.6          2.6
Total Project Cost                    11.8          8.4        20.2
Financing Plan
Local     Foreign      Total
--- ----------US$ million-
GOLl/                    2.3        1.9         4.2       20
IDA                      9.5        6.5        16.0       80
Total                   11.8        8.4        20.2      100
Estimated IDA Disbursements
FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95 FY96
--- -------------US$ million--                   - …
Annual              0.6   1.4   1.6   1.9   2.1   2.4   2.4   2.2   1.4
Cumulative          0.6   2.3   3.6   5.5   7.6  10.0  12.4  14.6  16.0
1/ Including SIDA's technical assistance.



- iv -
Rate of Return:     Not applicable
NaPs:               IBRD No. 14282R
IBD No. 20634
IBRD No. 20635



LESOTHO
LAND MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
I. PROJECT AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      The Project, for which an IDA credit of US$16.0 million and a
grant of US$1.9 million from the Swedish International Development
Authority (SIDA) are proposed, aims at improving the management and
conservation of land and water resources through participating local
development councils. The Project concept evolved from the 1986
Agricultural Sector Review. An identification mission took place in August
1986.   In discussions between the Agriculture Sector mission, the
identification mission and Lesotho and USAID officials, it was concluded
that the major issues and challenges facing the country's agriculture
sector relate to the management and conservation of land and water
resources, and would require both technical and policy solutions such as
those in this proposed Project. Following a request from the Ministry of
Planning, an IDA preparation mission visited Lesotho in January 1987. The
Project, which was appraised by IDA in April/May 1987, will build on the
experience of the Ministry of Agriculture in land use planning in Lesotho
and will be an expansion of on-going resource management planning
activities of the Institute of Land Use Planning (ILUP).
B. Sectoral Background
Economic Setting
1.02      Lesotho is a small, mountainous country with a surface area of
30,433 sq kms entirely surrounded by the Republic of South Africa (RSA) and
dependent on it for paid employment (mainly in the gold and coal mines),
imports (up to 95%), transport access, revenues from the Southern Africa
Customs Union (SACU) and membership in the Common Monetary Area (CMA).
1.03      In the 1970s, Lesotho's economy appeared to be robust - GDP grew
at an annual average rate of seven percent per annum until the late 1970s.
This was mainly the result of increases in remittances by Lesotho laborers
in RSA, which reached a level of about 50% of Lesotho's total GNP in 1984.
Since 1980/81, however, domestic economic growth has stagnated. As a
result of closure of the national diamond mine, sluggish manufacturing, and
stagnation and decline in real agricultural value added, due in part to the
drought but more fundamentally to tte low relative returns to agriculture,
real GDP in this decade has increased by only 0.5 percent per annum
(1980-85), although in 1985 it increased by 3 percent alone.  Imports have
been financed mainly from worker remittances; during the past decade
between 112,000 and 125,000 Basothol/ have worked in RSA.  In recent
1/ Basotho, Mosotho, and Sesotho are respectively the people, the
individual citizen and the language of Lesotho.



- 2 -
years, the numbers of Basotho workers employed in RSA mines have been
declining. Further, tariff revenue from SACU, which presently constitutes
about 60 percent of total GOL receipts, is anticipated to decline as RSA
places greater emphasis on indirect taxation and seeks to reduce its
compensatory payments to other SACU members.
1.04      Increasing growth rates of the population also present a
problem. Preliminary results from the 1986 Census indicate that Lesotho's
population of 1.6 million is growing at a rate of 2.6 percent per annum
(compared with 2.3 percent between 1966 and 1976). New entrants to the
labor force are expected to rise from 20,500 per annum between 1986 and
1990 to 25,600 between 1995 and 2000. Today approximately 220,000 Basotho
already constitute a "residual" labor force for whom employment in
agriculture is the only available opportunity. Agriculture, however, does
not at present offer a sufficient livelihood for the vast majority and is
even less likely to do so in the future if present land use practices
continue.
1.05      As one of the least developed economies in the world, with
limited potential for generating domestic revenues, Lesotho depends almost
entirely on external assistance to finance its development program.
Grants, mainly from bilateral sources, constitute about 60 percent of total
external capital assistance, and the balance consists primarily of loans on
soft terms. Of all the donors, IDA is the largest single source of
multilateral assistance.
Agricultural Sector
1.06      Lesotho is primarily a pastoral country with five agro-ecological
zones (see IBRD Map #20635 and Annex 1, Land Resources). Agriculture has
been a high-risk, low-yie1d occupation mainly due to poor land quality and
a harsh climate. Since 19a8 Lesotho has been a food importer. About 13.0
percent of the land Is classified as arable, and of this only about 4.0
percent is classed as land with strong potential for high value crops such
as vegetables and fruit trees. Most of the arable lands are found in the
lowlands, which are also the areas with greatest population growth and
density. Notwithstanding the limitations which the lack of abundant arable
land imposes, the development of a sound land policy and protection of the
land resources, would make agriculture in Lesotho a viable alternative
source of income.
1.07      Despite the low level of returns from agriculture, an estimated
84 percent of the population live in the rural areas and about 70 percent
of Lesotho's labor force receive some income from agriculture. The
agricultural economy thus provides an important socio-economic base. In
the past decade, agriculture's share in GDP has declined. In 1986, it
accounted for only 21 percent, as against 33 percent of GDP in 1975. An
estimated three-quarters of the total agricultural value-added is generated
by livestock production.
1.08      Althotgh the decline in agricultural production (see Annex 1,
Tables 1-2) over the past decade can be explained partially by the drought
in the early 1980s and an unusually erratic rainfall pattern, yields had
already begun to fall from their peaks by the mid-1970s. This decline was
caused in part by the increased migration from the rural areas at that
time.



1.09      About 90 percent of Lesotho's rural areas are rangelands and
livestock is the major socio-economic asset. The total livestock
population was estimated in 1985-86 at about 1.03 million standard animal
units (see Annex 1, Table 1.4). While livestock are an asset, their
numbers, coupled with the prevalent communal grazing systems and the
present state of the land resources, now constitute a threat to all
agricultural lands in Lesotho and are the major cause of land degradation.
Better management of the range and livestock movements would considerably
reduce land degradation.
State of the Land Resource
1.10      Out of a total land area of about 30,433 sq kas, about 13 percent
is arable, while the remainder of the country is dominated by plateau and
mountains rising to elevations of 3,400 m, and consists principally of
rangelands used extensively for grazing. The arable lands are mainly
located in the heavily populated low-land valleys on lower and gentle
middle slopes with variable soil depths and sandstone outcrops. This
rather poor and erodible land is subjected to continuous cropping in summer
and overgrazing in the winter. The hills and mountains have shallow soils
supporting generally poor rangelands, which are often overgrazed by the
livestock sent up from the valleys for summer grazing, causing serious land
degradation in many instances. Concern over the adverse effects of land
degradation in Lesotho has been expressed since the early part of this
century. In response, the Government since 1935 has continuously supported
eonservation programs, with particular emphasis on structural measures /
to combat soil erosion in cropland. However, it is now generally accepted
that these programs had only limited success in reducing erosion. Many
communal structures have not been maintained, and with increasing human and
livestock populations, degradation of the land resource has continued.
This environmental degradation has had serious ecological and economic
effects in the form of rapid siltation of reservoirs, diminished
groundwater yields and streamflows, and declining crop and range yields.
On the other hand farmers on their individual plots on the arable land, do
apply contour ploughing and try to maintain long-established terraces.
1.11      Serious soil erosion occurs throughout the country as a result of
the erodibility of the soil types and steep slopes, the rainfall intensity,
and exploitative land use. Crop rotation is rarely practiced, while most
crop residues are taken off the land for fodder and most of the manure is
used as fuel, instead of being incorporated into the soil. The most
severely degraded areas in the country are in the densely populated
Lowlands, and the Senqu River Valley (with notable examples in the areas of
highly erodible 'duplex' soils in the vicinity of Mafeteng and Quthing).
In addition, sandstone-derived soils both in the Lowlands and Senqu River
Valley give rise to serious, though less dramatic gully erosion.
2/ Structural measures are measures which lead to a change in land profile
such as graded terraces. Structural measures (sometimes referred to as
mechanical or physical mnasures) usually involve the movement of soil
or stones, but may also arise from soil accumulation due to grass
buffer strips.



- 4 -
1.12      The basalt-derived soils of the foothills and mountains of
Lesotho, though more resistant to erosion, are also subject to continuotvs
degradation, due in large part to poor vegetative cover and relative
overstocking (estimated at 2.7 times the relative carrying capacity).
Severe but localized erosion also takes place along stock routes and around
cattle enclosures, watering points and dip tanks.
1.13      While gully erosion is visibly evident, sheet and rill erosion
are considered the dominant processes causing soil losses from both
cropland and range areas. Denudation of the range lands by continuous
grazing, only accelerates these processes. Wind erosion also is evident in
the lowlands, being most severe in the Makhaleng lowlands and the dissected
Molteno plains in the driest southwest part of the country.
1.14      No erosion status inventory has been completed to indicate the
extent, degree and distribution of erosion throughout the country. An
assessment of erosion hazards is currently under preparation by the
Geography Department of the National University of Lesotho (NUL). If not
properly addressed, conditions in the rural areas are likely to decline
within the next generation, because of high population growth, while in
drought years, relief programs will become increasingly necessary if food
shortages are to be avoided.
Government Policies for Land Management
1.15      Perhaps the greatest development challenge facing the Basotho is
to establish satisfactory long-term changes in land management and tenure
at minimum social cost. In the long run, population growth in itself would
render it impossible to continue to give all Basotho equal access to land,
as is provided under traditional laws. In recognition of the problems
involved, the Government has enacted a set of laws (mainly the Land Act,
1979 and the Land Husbandry Act, 1969, both discussed in Chapter II), to
encourage better land management by communities and to limit the pervasive
soil erosion and land degradation. There is a continuous dialogue between
the Government and the donor community to improve the government's land
policies. As a result a Land Policy Review Commission was established
(para 2.11) in early 1987 while a National Soil Conservation Policy and a
National Watershed Management Plan are being prepared (para 1.18) with
donor assistance. Both the traditional chiefs and the Development Councils
agree on the need for improved land management and fully support the
government's efforts through the MOA and MICARD in the preparation and
implementation of balanced community land use plans, of which a number of
plans have been prepared, while the first two plans are already under
implementation. Further evidence of government's keen interest in
conservation issues is the conference on environment to take place in April
1988. At which time the land management, conservation and related issues
will form essential topics of discussion between the Government, the
international community at lar6e, donors and local authorities.
1.16      There are essentially two methods for dealing with the
deteriorating land situation - first, by a reduction in human and livestock
population pressures through resettlement and destocking, and second, by an
improvement in productive capacity through improved land and livestock
utilization, in particular through proper range management and animal
husbandry practices. The current degradation of the range and the loss in



- 5 -
productivity and quality of stock, due to poor nutrition, requires urgent
action. For this to occur, individual livestock holders must perceive the
social costs associated with current communal free-for-all grazing
practices and be able to benefit from individual decisions to destock while
at the same time improving the quality of the livestock. GOL has started
decentralizing its authority to the District Development Councils by
encouraging them to define their own development plans and providing them
with the initial planning capacity needed through District Planning
Officers and Land Use Planners. Local grazing associations and locally
elected village development councils are now responsible for land
Lanagement and grazing control within defined boundaries. Councils have
the authority to raise grazing fees for development purposes. Another
example of this authority is the recent increase in livestock trespass
fines and impoundment fees, which are important steps toward strengthening
ongoing land management efforts. Movement toward greater commercialization
of quality livestock is also attempted by the importation of improved
cattle to upgrade local breeds and the opening up of competition in
livestock marketing by local and RSA buyers.
Bank Group and Donor Strategy and Assistance
1.17      The Bank Group's strategy, of which the proposed Land Management
and Conservation project is a part, involves continued assistance to
Lesotho in relieving constraints to development and improving crop and
livestock productivity in its agricultural sector. The strategy emphasizes
support for improvement of land management practices and the policy
environment to enhance agricultural development and reduce land degradation
and soil erosion. The proposed project would build on existing experience
in Lesotho in dealing with villagers and in the preparation and
implementation of realistic resource management plans. In addition, such a
strategy would lead to a better, more informed use of physical resources.
1.18      Other donors (e.g., SIDA, FRG, ODA, USAID) also support the
strategy on land resource management: SIDA, by providing tecinical
assistance to the Institute of Land Use Planning In preparing 10 pilot
Village Resource Management Plans (RMPs), one in each district. The first
plans developed with SIDA's assistance are now under implementation;
however, ILUP's present staff and SIDA's current resources do not allow an
expansion of this pilot program, therefore SIDA will increase its technical
assistance to ILUP in support of the project and provided as a grant to
GOL; ODA, through its support of the Forestry Division of MOA; USAID,
through its LAPIS project, supports the Crop and Field Services of the
Ministry of Agriculture by providing training and financial support (in
particular for intensive horticultural crop production near the urban areas
in the lowlands) and assists the Government of Lesotho in preparing a
National Soil Conservation Policy; PAO is also involved in resource
management planning and assists the Government in the preparation of a
National Watershed Management Plan, while UNDP together with IBRD is
coordinating a case study for a pilot phase for National Resources
Management and Economic Development.
1.19      The Bank Group's first operation in Lesotho (a US$4.1 million
credit for a highway construction project) was approved in 1966, a few
months before the country (then known as Basutoland) became an independent
kingdom. To date, IDA has provided 16 credits, totalling US$ 109.5



million, which have financed four projects for highways, two for
agriculture, four for education, two for industrial development and one
each for water supply, urban development, and health and population. The
most recent credit provides technical assistance to the government for
preparation of the detailed engineering aspects of the Highlands Water
Scheme. In addition, IDA acted as executing agency for UNDP-financed
technical assistance to strengthen the Government's development planning
organization and to prepare the Highlands Water Engineering project. IDA
is also supervising an agricultural marketing and credit project on behalf
of the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFkD). IFC has
made one investment of US$330,000 in a quarrying operation.
1.20     'Lesotho's prformance in implementing IDA-assisted projects has
been generally satisfactory. Most projects, particularly those in the
education and highways sectors, which constitute the bulk of the Bank
Group's portfolio in Lesotho, have been implemented efficiently. The last
agricultural project, however, encountered serious problems due to
ineffective coordination within the government, delays in appointing
project staff, budgetary constraints and inappropriate policies and
strategies. The proposed project takes into account the lessons learnt,
and has built-in safeguards against these types of problems.
II. INSTITUTIONS AND POLICY FRAMEWORK
A. Institutions
2.01      Numerous institutions and ministries are involved in the
supervision and administration of the use, allocation and transfer of
land. The most important of these are: (a) the Chiefs (the traditional
system); (b) the Ministry of Interior, Chieftainship Affairs and Rural
Development (MICARD) and the Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and
Marketing (MOA); and, (c) most recently, the Village, Ward and District
Development Councils. Detailed descriptions of the relevant institutions
are presented in Annex 2, part A.
The Chiefs
2.02      The Chieftainship in a powerful institution for continuity and
change in Lesotho. There are in total some 1,200 gazetted chiefs. They
are hierarchically ordered with the King at the apex, followed by principal
and ward chiefs, village chiefs and head men at the lower level. Of the
1200 chiefs, there are 22 principal and two ward chiefs for 10 districts
and 24 wards. Each principal chief is also chief of a ward. Areas
controlled by the principal and ward chiefs (IBRD Map #20634) coincide or
are within district and ward boundaries. The appointment, tenure, and
rights and duties of chiefs are governed by the Chieftainship Act of 1968.
As the chiefs are chairpersons of the Development Councils (para 2.05),
they are in a position to play an influential role in Lesotho's development
plans, including the implementation of the proposed Project.
The Ministry of Interior, Chieftainship Affairs and Rural Development
(MICARD)
2.03      MICARD is headed by a Minister, assisted by a Principal Secretary
and a Deputy Principal Secretary, and has three Directorates -



- 7 -
Couicils and Chieftainship, Lands and Housing, and Citizenship and Aliens
(see Chart 1). Most senior MICARD staff are in the capital, while district
representation is weak due to a lack of sufficient staff and poor housing
and transport conditions. These development constraints will be addressed
under the Project. The Directorate of Councils and Chieftainship has two
departments: one responsible for rural development and the supervision and
guidance of chief and development councils, and the other for local and
urban administration. Local administration is the responsibility of the
District Secretary (DS), who is the Government's highest ranking civil
servant at district level, and who coordinates the activities of other line
ministries. He is therefore a crucial link between the GOL, the Chiefs and
Development Councils. His office, however, is in need of greater planning
and &.X ounting capacity. The Directorate of Councils and Chieftainship
also has various sections dealing with civil works, soil conservation and
village water supplies. The Directorate of Lands and Housing has two
departments: one for Lands, Surveys and Physical Planning and the other
for Housing. The Lands Division of the Department of Lands, Surveys and
Physical Planning, is responsible for administering the Land Act sf 1979
and the Valuation and Razing Act of 1980, but lacks the resources to
efficiently implement land policies. These constraints will be addressed
through the Project.
The Ministry of  griculture_, Cooperatives and Marketing (MOA)
2.04      The Ministry is headed by the Minister of Finance who has a
senior advisor and is assisted by a Principal Secretary and a Deputy
Principal Secretary in charge of Administration. Reporting to the
Principal Secretary are the Head of Planning and six Technical Directors
responsible for Technical, Livestock, Crop, Field Services, Marketing and
Cooperatives. The organization of the Ministry is set out in Chart 2,
while Chart 3 shows the organizational linkages in the District
Agricultural Office. Although the Ministry is represented down to the
village level, it has only limited staff at the district and village levels
to cgrry out its prograums. Furthermore, lack of proper housing and
facilities at the field level exacerbates the problem. In the Department
for Technical Services, separate divisions and sections deal with
Conservation, Soils, Engineering, Forestry, and Land Use Planning. In the
Department of Livestock, separate divisions and sections deal with animal
production, livestock marketing, veterinary services and range management.
The Range Management Division (RMD) has received substantial long and short
term technical assistance from USAID since 1981 under the Land Conservation
and Range Development Project (LCRD). Under the Project, both ILUP and RMD
with technical assistance through the Project, will have important roles in
the preparation and implementation of the RMPs.
2.05      The Institute of Land Use Planning (ILUP) and SIDA.  ILUP is a
division within the Department of Technical Services, and was established
in 19bi with technical assistance from the Swedish International
Development Authiority (SIDA) and continues to be substantially supported by
SIDA. Its objectives include the provision of a permanent land use
planning service in particular at community levels and the provision of
in-service and formal training (para 4.15) to develop a dynamic land use
planning capacity at national and district levels. National and district
ILUP staff is presently supported by five SIDA financed long-term
expatriate technical experts. Ten community based resource management



-8-
plans (RMPs), one in each district, are in various stages of preparation,
while the first plans are being implemented through grants from SIDA's
small project funds. ILUP's basic grassroots approach requiring direct
participation of the local community in preparing the first RMPs will also
be applied under the Project, building on ILUP's practical experience in
community level land use planning. However additional technical assistance
will be required to expand ILUPs present capacity in rasource management
planning in support of the proposed project (Annex 2, paras 1.37-1.39).
Thus, the Project is not starting from setatch but is built on ILUP's
substantial experience and lessons learned thereby increasing its chances
of success.
Village, Ward and District Development Councils
2.06      Development councils which were established in the 1960s to
assist Government in reaching its development objectives, until 1986,
consisted mainly of political appointees. However, in 1986 as a result of
the Development Councils Order No. 9, the entire membership of councils at
village, ward and district level is elected, with the exception of the
chairman, who is the chief. MICARD is responsible for implementing the
Development Councils Order. The establishment of the councils represents
the first step toward the gradual delegation and decentralization of powers
down to the village level. The goal is to enable villages to develop and
implement plans and programs to manage their own resources, according to
their own priorities and needs. The association of chiefs with the
councils provides the potential for a common approach to the solution of
local, ward and district problems. The link with the technical ministries
at district level, through the District Secretary (DS), provides the
necessary medium for technical assistance including assessment of plan
viability. The councils and the staff of the DS and line ministries have
had only a limited experience in the development of land management and
conservation plans, and therefore the Project will assist them in the
formulation of realistic and achievable programs which will be consistent
with national policies.
B. Land Policy Framework
Land Tenure
2.07      Under the traditional legal system referred to as the Laws of
Lerotholi, land is considered to belong to the nation or to the Basotho
people as a whole. Traditionally all land and associated rights of use are
vested solely in the office of the King as guardian and trustee on behalf
of the nation. The authority to allocate rights to land use is delegated
directly to different levels of chiefs. Village chiefs have authority to
open and close arable and grazing lanis in the area surrounding the
village, while the principal and ward chiefs control the opening and
closing of mountain grazing lands. This distinction is becoming unclear as
population density in the mountains has increased and the traditional
patterns of transhumance from winter lowland grazing to summer mountain
grazing have been overlaid with interseasonal movements within the
mountains themselves. Rights to cultivate land are allocated to individual
farmers, while grazing rights are communal.



-9-
2.08      Village lands.  In the past at the end of the growing season,
private rights to the use of arable land would lapse and the fields would
be open for communal winter grazing of crop residues. Traditionally all
crop residues were used for communal grazing. However, after the Range
Management and Grazing Control Regulations of 1980, individual farmers can
now decide whether to keep all residues for themselves or leave it on the
land and permit communal grazing of it. If the arable land is also used
for (irrigated) legumes or fodder in the winter, the crop owner has to keep
the village livestock off the land himself. Fencing is still rare.
Gardens planted on the residential site are considered private property
year round and are usually fenced off in the peri-urban areas. Although
there are no individual rights to rangeland, there are some area and time
restrictions on grazing, termed "leboella," to set aside winter grazing
reserves to meet forage needs during lean winter months, when other
resources are exhausted. The principal chief decides on the date on which
the bulk of the village livestock should be sent up to the mountain grazing
areas, and fields are closed for further grazing in order for ploughing and
planting to take place. In making this decision, the village chief confers
with the principal chief who opens mountain areas for summer grazing
purposes.
2.09      Mountain Grazing: "Motebong" or "Thabeng".  Once the mountain
ranges are declared open for summer grazing by the principal chiefs,
grazing takes place without the degree of restriction that appears within
the village range. Cattleposts, each consisting of a stone kraal and shed
for the shepherd, are owned individually for a farmer's lifetime as long as
he uses them, and are inheritable. The area around the shelter and kraal
is grazed communally. Through the widespread practice of mafisa
(usufruct), many stock-owners send their stock away to the care of other
owners and their herdsmen. Within any area, cattleposts belong to
residents from widely dispersed villages. Movement of livestock is
restricted by traditional law within each ward, but widespread mafisa of
livestock to relatives or other owners in the mountain has tended to
circumvent this restriction. While principal chiefs occasionally close
various ranges for regeneration, the mechanism existing under the
traditional system for systematic planning and enforcement of rotational
grazing of mountain pastures has become less effective, due to the
increased numbers of cattle and livestock owners, making enforcement more
difficult to carry out. Within the traditional political structure, the
Principal Chief assisted by his "range riders" who supervise the range,
represent the only authority determining use of the mountain rangelands.
2.10      Current legislation governing the rules regarding land
allocation, acquisition, transfer and use is embodied in the Land Act of
1979 and the Land Husbandry Act of 1969. (See Annex 2, part B). The former
Act is administered by MICARD and the latter by MOA.
The Land Act (1979)
2.11 The Land Act, which recognizes customary land use and the traditional
role of the chiefs, covers the allocation of lands, both in the urban and
rural areas, although it is mainly applied in the urban areas. The Land
Act introduced changes in the traditional land tenure system such as (i)
sharing of power by a Chief with the Village Land Committee in the
allocation of land; (ii) entitling relatives to inherit arable land in the



- 10 -
absence of a will; (iii) allowing allottees to lease the land. Leases can
then be transferred or used as collateral for loans with prior permission
of the Minister of Interior. By introducing these changes, the Act
legalized a land market while Amendment Order No 29 of 1986 allowed
provisions for compensation on acquisition, thus recognizing the monetary
value of land and opening the possibility for changes in the traditional
communal land tenure system. However the Commissioner of Lands, who is
responsible for implementation, has manpower and budgetary constraints and
as a result only a limited number of leases have been prepared, mainly in
the urban areas. The Project will increase the numbers of staff handling
leases and land registration. Regulations regarding the use and management
of agricultural lands prepared in 1985 have remained in draft.
Consequently, the Chiefs have continued as de facto controllers of land
allocations. General dissatisfaction with the adequacy of the Land Act has
resulted in the establishment of the Land Policy Review Commission with the
Commissioner of Lands as secretary. Although its terms of reference mainly
relate to urban areas, the Commission is also required to "advise on
measures of environmental protection" and "to undertake a broad review of
the existing land tenure aystem". The recommendations of this Commission
have been piepared and are being considered by the government; in order to
be implemented properly, additional manpower and equipment resources, which
the Project will provide for, are required.
The Land Husbandry Act (1969)
2.12      The Land Husbandry Act controls the use of land, in particular in
the rural areas. It empowers the Minister of Agriculture to rake
regulations regarding the beneficial use of agricultural land, with
specific reference to soil conservation, erosion prevention, control of the
numbers and species of livestock and grazing areas, and management of the
existing flora. The Minister subsequently has delegated his powers and
responsibilities to the Chiefs through the Range Management and Grazing
Control Regulations of 1980 which confirm the powers of the Chiefs with
regard to rangelands and are intended to strengthen their powers through
the provision of technical assistance by MOA, or the District Agricultural
Officer (DAO) at district level. However, implementation of the Land
Husbandry Act and the Regulations has been poor because of a lack of human
and financial resources available to both the Chiefs and MOA. More
importantly, there is a very substantial difference between private and
public benefits in the use of the communal pastoral lands of Lesotho, which
is a root cause of weak enforcement of laws and regulations. The problem
has been compounded by the lack of involvement of the land users in the
formulation and implementation of most schemes. The result has been
continued overgrazing and land degradation. Under the Project, through
participation In the development of resource management plans, the
villagers will become more aware of the importance of positive land
management practices. A related policy under the Land Husbandry Act is the
National Soil Conservation Policy which is being prepared by the
Conservation Division in MOA with the assistance of USAID, emphasizing the
need for the integrated use of both biological and structural measures,
relying primarily on labor intensive construction activities within an
overall watershed framework. The Project will also address the erosion
problem, but with an emphasis on grass roots participation by encouraging
village development councils to formulate conservation measures within the
larger context of village land use a-ad development plans.



- 11 -
C. Weaknesses of the Institutions and Land Policies and their impact on
resource M4anagement and Erosion Control
2.13      MICARD, through its Department of Lands, Surveys and Physical
Planning, is responsible for administering the Land Act while MOA, through
its Departments of Technical and Field Services, including ILUP, is
responsible for implementing the Land Husbandry Act. However, neither
ministry has sufficient technical staff and financial support to see to it
that the land policies described in paras 2.09 throutgh 2.11 are made
effective through proper resource management and erosion control
practices. Absence of individual land ownership under customary land
tenure on the one hand, and options for individuals to have legal land
leases (inheritable and to be used as collateral) under the Land Act on the
other hand, have created an ambiguous situation which led to discontent and
a review by the Land Policy Review Commission. Recommendations by the
Commission regarding land registration and strengthening of the Department
of Lands, Surveys and Physical Planning will be reviewed by IDA and
implemented under the Project. The above mentioned ambiguity and the fact
that the land users have not baen involved in the past in the formulation
of resource management systems, have made it impossible for MOA to
effectively implement the Land Husbandry Act which specifically deals with
land use. The recent establishment of elected village, ward and district
development councils, linked both to the indigenous organization (the
Chiefs) and to the Government, now provides the medlum for the development
and implementation of a common program to deal with the deteriorating land
resource- The common recognition that arable lands are scarce and that
there is no more land available for agriculture should impel
reconsideration of the inefficiencies of present tenurial systems.
Recognition of the finiteness of the range resources and the extent of
their degradation should enhance the development of an integrated livestock
management program on a national scale, combining resource improvement
together with quality improvement of livestock and encouraging active
marketing in improved livestock to provide the necessary incentives.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale and Objectives
Project Rationale and IDA Involvement
3.01      In Lesotho, soil erosion and land degradation are approaching
crisis proportion. Previous measures to arrest this deteriorating
situation have not been particularly successful, partly due to a fragmented
approach to the problem and lack of consensus among land users. This state
of affairs has also resulted in decreasing agricultural productivity.
Therefore, the rehabilitation and maintenance of the land resource is a
prime concern of the Basotho; the Project will support the Government's
efforts in that direction. IDA's sponsorship of the Project will enable it
to support a basic and very critical institntion building activity at the
grassroots (i.e., the councils), which will lay the foundation for
developing sustainable resource management programs. IDA will thus be
involved in strengthening a democratic process, by bringing together all
the parties interested in land conservation, viz. the people, the chiefs
and the government. IDA will also play an important role in assisting with
the coordination of donor activities on conservation and land management in



- 12 -
the country. The Project will also be an essential part of the continuing
dialogue between the Bank and GOL to devalop a viable land policy which, in
addition to conserving the coun_ry's natural resources, aims to (a)
increase incentives for improvement of the livestock herd with higher
offtake rates; (b) extend comercialized agriculture; and (c) encourage the
continued development of a land market.
Project Objectives
3.02      The broad objectives of the Project are to improve land
management and to halt resource deterioration, and thereby improve
productivity. As part of a long-term program, the Project aims to support
and strengthen the newly formed local councils in preparing and executing
land resource management plans. This is sought to be achieved through
strengthening the capabilities of MICARD and MOA to assist the councils.
The Project aims also to support land policy implementation.
B. Summary Description
3.03      The project is a continuing pilot phase of a long term program
for land management and conservation. Out of thit estimated 290 clusters of
villages in Lesotho as a whole, 47 (or about 16%; see Table 11) will be
involved In this pilot phase. The Project will comprise the following
components:
(i) Land Policy Implementation. (a) Provision of technical
assistance for further development and implementation of the
recommendations of the Land Policy Review Commission; and (b)
provision of additional manpower to the Office of the
Commissioner of Lands, Surveys and Physical Planning to improve
its capacity to carry out land registration under the Land Act.
(ii) Institutional Support to MICARD and MOA. (a) Strengthening of
MICARD to provide administrative and planning support to the
local government administration at district level; and (b)
strengthening of MOA, including the ILUP, to enable it to provide
the technical inputs needed for a participatory planning process
and in subsequent RMP implementation by providing additional land
use planning capacity at the district level.
(iii) Reqource Management. Preparation and implementation of about
forty village based community Resource Management Plans (RMPs)
and about seven mountain summer grazing RMPs (para. 4.16 ) in
seven districts, with the participation of Village, Ward and
District Development Councils.
The Project will be implemented over a period of nine years. The
institution building aspects of the Project for land policy implementation
and support to MICARD and MOA will be completed at the end of year 6, while
the Resource Management Plans will be implemented through year 9.



- 13 -
C. Detailed Features
Laud Policy Lmlementation
3.04      The Project will provide for six manmonths of consultancy for an
internationally recruited Land Policy Advisor at a cost of US$9,000/month
to provide such assistance as GOL, and MICARD in particular, may request to
work out the implementation of the recommendations of the Land Policy
Review Commission. This Advisor will also be available to assist in
drafting any proposed legislation, or amendments or additions to current
legislatiorn in the light of the Commission's report and GOL's views on it.
In addition, provision has been made for strengthening of the office of the
Commissioner for Lands, Surveys and Physical Planning to increase its land
registration capacity through the provision of office and camping
equipment, vehicles (one car and one motorcycle), and incremental salaries
and allowances for the increased number of staff.. Total base costs over
nine years are estimated at M620,000. Detailed costs are set out in Table
2.
Institutional Support to MICARD
3.05      Within MICARD, strengthening is needed through the appointment
and training of the District Planning Officers (DPO) to provide assistance
in plan formulation and integration; advise the District Secretary on the
coordination of the activities of the line ministries; and liaise
effectively with the Chiefs and Development Councils through the Assistant
District Secretary. To support the Project, an additional accounts clerk
position will be created in each district and financed under the Project.
The duties of these clerks will be the maintenance of accounts and the
disbursement of funds against approved items of expenditure. These clerks
will be under the supervision of an accounts officer designated for this
purpose at MICARD Headquarters. The Project makes provision for an
internationally recruited Planning and Training Advisor at a cost of
US$9,000/month for the first three years to train the District Planning
Officers, and assist in the training of the Chiefs and District Development
Councils. Average annual base cost of the local training component has
been estimated at M21,000 per annum to train 7 district planning officers
in the first three years of the Project and the 7 district development
councils and their chiefs, starting from year 2 of the Project. Short-term
special external training for the DPOs and their local trainer to the
equivalent of M345,000 is also provided (Table 3). A local management and
training consultant or institute will train the chiefs and council members
in the conduct of meetings, simple minute-taking and reporting, accounting
procedures, and public administration concepts and methods. To support all
the above activities, each district will be provided with two vehicles, two
motorcycles, and seven to ten houses for various levels of incumbent NICARD
staff, depending on the need. Vehicles and motorcycles will be replaced in
year 4 or 5. Various types of equipment, salaries and allowances will also
be financed under the Project. Total base cost over nine years of the
MICARD project component is estimated at about M7.2 million. Detailed
costs are set out in Table 3.



- 14 -
Institutional Supgort to MOA
3.06      A Resource Management Working Group (RMWG) of incumbent subject
matter specialists will be established in each district under the
leadership of the District Agricultural Officer (DAO). This group will be
responsible for the technical aspects of RMP plan preparation and the
supervision of implementation through assistant level field staff located
in or near the communities involved. The creation of RMWGs will form part
of a comprehensive program of institutional improvements at the district
level. Procedures for selection of villages and the formulation, approval
and implementation of RMPs will be strengthened and accelerated through the
development of improved linkages between the MICARD and MOA district level
personnel, the councils, and the RMWGs, all coordinated by the district
Secretary (Annex 6, para 10). Additional support is provided for special
technical assistance (18 manmonths), studies (M350,000) and training
(M170,000) as needs arise and within the context of the Project (Table 4).
With the arrival of three more resource planning specialists, the Institute
of Land Use Planning (ILUP) will provide additional technical support
through the District Agricultural Office. This support will be an
expansion of what ILUP has already been doing in terms of training of
subject matter specialists and preparation of RMPs. It will assist with
the establishment of RMWGs, their training, supervision (including
monitoring and evaluation of progress and methedology), and liaison with
various technical divisions in MOA and MICARD whose staff will be required
to assist in RMP preparation and implementation.
3.07      ILUP already receives support from the Swedish International
Development Authority (SIDA), but to enable it to carry out the project
tasks effectively, SIDA would increase its technical assistance as a grant
to GOL, with an additional three resource planning specialists with
experience in various fields of expertise, e.g., land use planning, soils
and land suitability, socio-economic evaluations, agro-forestry, and
livestock and range resources. Assurances were obtained at negotiation
that the Government of Lesotho will seek to sign the grant agreement with
SIDA not later than September 30, 1988 (para 6.02(g)). Under the project a
grazing management specialist will also be recruited, initially for one
year and subsequently for two months per year for the next five years.
Various short term consultancies for resource monitoring (6 manmonths),
communication (6 manmonths) and erosion status mapping (4 manmonths) to
assist the National University of Lesotho (NUL) will also be provided (see
Annex 3 for Terms of Reference). Total base cost of the erosion status
mapping study is estimated at M225,000. The Project will provide the
necessary transport and equipment for all the specialists, including a
training budget for local support staff. Recurrent costs for local staff
and vehicles and equipment are also included in the overall project cost.
Total base costs including recurrent costs over nine years of the MOA/ILUP
project component are estimated at about M6.5 million. Detailed costs are
set out in Table 4.
3.08      To support the RMWG's activities in the seven districts, the
Project will provide housing for 7 senior land use planners and upgraded
housing facilities for 47 incumbent junior MOA staff, office/storage
facilities, vehicles and motorcycles (including replacement in the fourth
year), horses, incremental salaries, equipment, and the necessary recurrent



- 15 -
costs for incremental staff and maintenance of vehicles, equipment and
project buildings. Total base costs over nine years of the RNWG project
component are estimated at about 5.9 million Maloti. Detailed costs are
set out in Table 5.
Resource Management
3.09      Resource Management Plans (RMPs).  With the participation of the
Village Development Councils (VDC), technical Resource Management Working
Groups of MOA/ILUP (see para 4.16) will identify village development
options and assist the VDCs in the preparation of an action plan involving
an integrated package of measures directly related to land use, land
resource conservation and improved crop and livestock productivity.
Wherever possible 3 to 4 contiguous village areas will be considered
together as one cluster unit with one overall action plan. Measures will
also include, range management, water supply, agro-forestry, and road
access. This action plan will form the basis for an overall RMP for the
cluster village area. The development options will be discussed with the
local chiefs and communities at the earliest'atage to find out which
options are preferred, taking into account village willingness and capacity
for implementation. The working group will also discuss the development
options with appropriate technical departments in MICARD and MOA to ensure
that the planned activities are compatible with district and national
development plans and that the financial and technical resources are
available to give the required levels of support for implementing the IMP
(see Annex 4, paras 13-14).
3.10      The Project will provide funding to implement those activities
directly related to land resource management and improved land
productivity, and considered beyond the financial capacity of rural
residents. Such activities will involve (see Annex 4, para 17):
(a) fodder supply/rangeland: closure of rangeland with limited
fencing, provision of ox carts; rangeland improvement through
seeding and vegetative propagation of fodder species;
(b) cropland: limited fencing to exclude livestock and water supply
for communal gardens; certain agricultural inputs, such as seeds
and simple equipment to improve production practices;
(c) agroforestry: establishment of tree nurseries to serve a group of
villages and the planting of trees including fruit trees;
(d) conservation: off-farm soil conservation inputs and tree planting
activities of multi-purpose species, and nurseries.
(e) infrastructure: improved water supplies, access roads, meeting
halls, local marketing infrastructure and demarcation of village
and natural boundaries; and
(f) unallocated: for unforeseen activities, e.g., livestock breed
improvement, extra training or other needs such as limited liming
of arable and grazing lands to increase productivity.



- 16 -
The estimated average base cost will amount to about 250,000 Haloti
(US$125,000 equivalent) per community RMP and about 50,000 Maloti
(US$25,000 equivalent) per summer grazing RMP. These costs are based on an
assessment of the physical and human resources in each agro-ecological
zone, togethtr with an estimate of development activities that are
considered relevant to the problems of the area and feasible, given the
limited human and financial resources available, as shown in Tables 6-10.
Total estimated base cost over nine years for this component is 10.4
million Maloti (US$5.2 million) as shown in Table 11.
D. Implementation Period and Phasing
3.11      The project implementation psriod has been set at nine years;
institutional assistance and training are designed to be implemented over a
period of 6 years, while the 47 RMPs will be implemented and disbursed by
the end of nine years. The Project, which builds on on-going experience
(paras 2.05 and 3.03) will begin in the more remote districts with limited
development activities and finally cover 7 of the 10 districts. Mokhotlong
aDd Qacha's Nek will be the first two districts, followed by Mohale's Hoek
and four other districts. In years 3 and 4, respectively 2 and 3 more
districts will be covered.
3.12      Plan implementation in the Mokhotlong and Qacha's Nek districts
would commence in the second year, following the training of the relevant
DPOs (para 4.13) and RMWGs in year 1 (para 3.06). Each RMP will be
implemented over a four-year period. On the basis of implementation
capacity, the following phasing has been assumed (Table 11): two IMPs in
year 2; an additional six RMPs in year 3; a further 11 RMPs in year 4; a
further 14 RMPs in year 5; and a final 14 RMPs in year 6, making a total of
47 RMPs.
E. Cost Estimates
3.13      Total project costs, exclusive of taxes and duties, over nine
years are estimated at US$20.2 million, including US$2.3 million for
physical contingencies and US$2.6 million for price contingencies. Price
contingencies account for 17 percent of base costs. Project costs include
incremental recurrent expenses for nine years of a total of US$4.5 million,
including contingencies. The foreign exchange component for the Project is
US$8.4 million or 42 percent of total project cost. Of the total cost,
US$13.0 million, or 64 percent, is for institutional support to MICARD and
MOA, and 36 percent for RMP itplementation (US$7.2 million).  Considering
Lesotho's lind locked situation and the pilot nature of the Project,
physical contingencies of 15 percent have been assumed for all civil works,
vehicles and equipment within the overall project cost. Price projections
and exchange rates are based on Bank estimates of international and
domestic inflation and the assumption of purchasing power parity over the
long run. Project cost estimates are summarized in Table 3.1 below and
detailed in tables lA-ID.



- 17 -
Table 3.1  Prolect Cost SumrY by Expenditure Category           X of
Base
Local   Foreign  Total      Local   Foreign  Total  FE X   Cost
…-----M  million ------     ------U84mii.ion …
Investment Cost
Civil Works                3.4       1.5     4.9        1.7       0.7     2.4    30      16
Vehicles                   1.0       1.2     2.2        0.5       0.7     1.2    57       7
Equipment                  0.2       0.2     0.4        0.1       0.1     0.2    47       1
Technical Assistance       0.5       4.5     5.0        0.2       2.3     2.5    90      16
Training/Studies            1.1      0.1      1.2       0.6        -      0.6    10       4
Incremental Recurrent Cost
Salaries/Allowance         3.2        -      3.2        1.6        -      1.6     -      10
Vehicles and Equipment    1.4        1.7     3.1        0.7       0.8     1.5    54      10
Buildiags                  0.2        -      0.2        0.1        -      0.1      5      1
Resource Management Plans   6.1        4.3    10.4        3.1       2.1     5.2    41      34
Total Baseline Costs        17fT   :3.                    83        67    15.3  441o
Physical Contingencies       2.6       2.0     4.6        1.2       1.1     2.3    44      15
D.ice Contingencies          10.6      5.4    16.0        2.0       0.6     2.6    23      17
Total Project Cost          30.3      20.9    51.2       11.8       8.4    20.2    41    132
F. Financine
3.14      The financing plan of the Project will be as follows:
Table 3.2 - Financing Plan
Local    Foreigs    Total       %
---us$  million----
COL              2.3       1.9        4.2      20
IDA              9.5       6.5       16.0      80
Total           11.8       8.4       20.2     100
3.15      The Government will provide about 20X or US$4.2 million of total
project costs to cover 501 (US$2.3 million) of incremental staff salaries
and operating costs, and 50% (US$1.9 million) of technical assistance
including studies and training costs through a grant from SIDA. IDA credit
of US$16.0 million would finance-about 80% of the total project costs.
This will cover the balance 501 of incremental staff salaries and operating
costs (US$2.2 million), technical assistance, studies and training costs
(US$1.9 million) and 1001 of all new capital expenditures (US$11.9
million). The detailed financing plan for the various components is shown
in Table 15.
3.16      The Government will annually make available the necessary budget
resources for further allocation to the districts and implementing
agencies: the Department of Lands, Surveys and Planning and the Institute
of Land Use Planning. The Ministry of Works will receive allocations
through MICARD for civil works construction under the Project.



- 18 -
3.17      Half of the operating costs of incremental staff, vehicles,
equipment and civil works All be financed by GOL under its standard
procedures and salary structures. GOL therefore ensures that adequate
Government counterpart funds are made available to the Project without
interruption by making the necessary provilion in the Annual General
Budget. Assurances to this effect were obtained at Negotiations (para
6.02(a)). Detailed annual summary accounts including operating costs are
shown in Table 14.
G. Procurement
3.18      Items financed by IDA will be procured according to IDA
guidelines as elaborated in paras. 3.19-3.23 below. Where procurement of
similar items is concerned, the project coordinator will ensure reasonable
standardization of such items, irrespective of the source of faiance.
3.19      Civil Works.  The staff houses and buildings to be constructed
under the Project will be too widely scattered in the districts and will
individually involve too small a sum to attract foreign bidders. All civil
works and associated installations for the above activities estimated to
cost US$ 3.1 million, will therefore be carried out by private contractors
wherever possible and in the more remote areas and scattered places where
local contractors may not be interested or available, by the Ministry of
Works (NOW) through force account. All works to be carried out by private
contractors will be awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB) in
accordance with GOL procurement procedures. Assurances have been obtained
during negotiations that GOL will adopt LCB procedures acceptable to the
Association, incorporating provisions for participation of foreign firms,
public bid opening, award to lowest evaluated responsive bidder, which
does not necessarily offer the lowest price quotation (para 6.02(i)). A
standard version of civil works bidding documents will be used.
3.20      Vehicles, equipment and spare parts, estimated to cost US$1.6
million, will be procured over the first six years of the Project.
Given Lesotho's land locked location, its dependency on the RSA economy,
the rather small size of contracts to be awarded, and the relatively low
expected annual disbursements, LCB procedures (in which representatives of
foreign firms could participate) acceptable to IDA will be used. Vehicles,
spare parts, motorcycles, equipment and materials will be grouped in
contracts, wherever practicable, and if the aggregate value of any such
contract exceeds US$100,000, it will be subject to ICB. Specialized
equipment and spare parts may need to be procured directly from
manufacturers after obtaining quotations from at least three qualified
manufacturers. Items costing less than US$20,000 each ann needed urgently
for project implementation will be purchased by "prudent shopping" with at
least three price quotations. The total value of items purchased this way
are included in the overall LCB estimates in Table 3.3 but should not
exceed US$0.25 million without prior IDA agreement.
3.21      Technical Assistance, Consultancy Services and Training.  The
selection and employment of internationally recruited experts and
consultants, to carry out various studies and training to the amount of a
US$1.9 million grant from SIDA and US$1.9 million from IDA will be in
accordance with SIDA and IDA guidelines respectively. All training
programs will be reviewed by IDA.



- 19 -
3.22      Resource Manaaement Plan Investments to a total of US$7.2 million
could be in any or all of the above expenditure categories depending on
Village Development Council decisions on the type of RMP to be implemented
and will be subject to the procurement procedures as described in the
preceding paragraphs. It is estimated that about half of all items will be
procured locally through LCB and prudent shopping, while for about US$3.6
million for infrastructure such as water-supplies, access roads, meeting
halls, local market structures, conservation structures, etc, will be built
by private contractors. Where private participation is not available or
not forthcoming MOW will use force account.
3.23      IDA-financed contracts for more than US$250,000 and US$100,000
equivalent for civil works and vehicles/equipment, respectively, will
require IDA review of procurement documentation prior to award of
contract. Other IDA-financed contracts will be subject to post-award
review. The following table summarizes procurement methods for different
expenditure categories:
Table 3.3: Procurement Method
ICB      LCB     Other       NA      Total Cost
=-- - ------…in US$ million------
Civil Works                           1.1       2.0                    3.1
(1.1)    (2.0)                  (3.1)
Vehicles & Equipment         1.1      0.3       0.2                    1.6
(1.i)    (0.3)    (0.2)                  (1.6)
Technical Assistance,                           3.8                    3.8
Training & Studies                          (1.9)                 (1.9)
Operating Cost                                           4.5           4.5
(2.2)        (2.2)
Resource Management                   3.6       3.6                    7.2
Plans                             (3.6)    (3.6)                  (7.2)
Total                        1.1      5.0       9.6       4.5        20.2
(1.1)    (5.0)    (7.7)    (2.2)        (16.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed
by IDA.
H. Disbursement
3.24      The proceeds of the US$16.0 million IDA Credit will be disbursed
over nine years as follows:



- 20 -
Table 3.4 - Disbursements
Proposed
Amount           Disbursement
US$ million               X
Civil works                 3.1              100X (of expenditure)
Vehicles                    1.4              100% (of expenditure)
Equipment                   0.2              100% (of expenditure)
Technical assistance        1.1              100% (of expenditure)
Training/Studies            0.8              100% (of expenditure)
Operating costs             2.2               50X (of expenditure)
RMPs                        7.2              100% (of expenditure)
Total                   16.0
3.25      Disbursement for all expenditures will be against full
documentation, except for operating costs and contracts for civil works by
force account and goods and services costing less than US$20,000 each,
which will be based on statements of expenditure. Expenditures under the
RMP implementation fund will be processed likewise (para 3.10). Supporting
documentation for statements of expenditure will be retained by the
borrower for IDA review. The statements of expenditure will be subject to
special audit each year (para 3.29). The proposed allocation of the IDA
and SIDA credit against expenditures is shown in detail in Table 15.
3.26      The Project has a major technical assistance component.  The
disbursement period over nine years coincides with the Bank profile for
East Africa technical assistance projects. Measures to help ensure
punctual disbursement include the employment of project accounting clerks
in the districts and a specially designated senior accountant in the
Ministry of Interior. The estimated disbursement schedule for the IDA
credit is shown below, while a detailed schedule is given in Table 16.
Table 3.5:  Estimated IDA Disbursements by Fiscal Year
-~~---------- US$, milllon--- - -    --
FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95 FY96
Annual              0.6   1.4   1.6   1.9   2.1   2.4   2.4   2.2   1.4
Cumulative         0.6   2.0   3.6   5.5   7.6  10.0  12.4  14.6  16.0
3.27      Special Account.  To ensure that funds for the Project will be
readily available when needed and, to reduce the number of disbursement
claims to be processed, a special account will be established in US
dollars, at the Bank of Lesotho.  Upon project effectiveness, US$0.5
million will be deposited by IDA into this account to pay for any
expenditures to be financed by IDA. Further deposits by IDA to replenish
the Special Account will be made against withdrawal applications supported
by appropriate documents. Withdrawal applications will be prepared by
MICARD and counter signed by the Ministry of Finance.
3.28      The Project is expected to be effective by July 1, 1988,
completed by June 30, 1997 and closed by December 31, 1997.



- 21 -
I. Accounts and Audit
3.29      Each district accounts clerk will maintain separate accounts of
the funds and expenditures for which he is directly responsible under the
Project (para. 3.05). These accounts will be submitted to the supervising
accountant in MICARD headquarters every three months. Accounts of funds
and expenditures for ILUP and at MICARD headquarters will likewise be
maintained by ILUP and MICARD, respectively. The project accounts
maintained by ILUP will be submitted to the supervising accountant in
MICARD headquarters every three months. Accounts for civil works under
force account by the Ministry of Works (MOW) will be maintained by MOW
while Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) will be prepared by MICARD. Summary
accounts will be reflected in the biannual progrites reports. The accounts
will be audited annually by the Auditor-General, who has the capacity to
carry out this work in a satisfactory and timely manner. Audits will be
required to make specific reference to, and comments on, SOEs and the
supporting documents and transactions handled through the Special Account.
The report of the Auditor-General, together with the audited accounts, will
be submitted to the Bank within nine months following the end of each
fincal year. Agreements to these arrangements have been obtained at
nigotiations (para 6.02(h)).
IV. PROJECT IMPLEM1NTATION
A. General Outline of Project Organization and Implementation
4.01      Project implementation will be reviewed and coordinated
respectively by a Review Committee and a Project Coordinator - the Deputy
Principal Secretary of the lead ministry, MICARD3/. Committee members
will be designated senior staff from the Ministries of Planning, Finance,
Agriculture and Interior, and the Project Coordinator. At the national
level, the Department of Lands, Surveys and Physical Planning of MICARD and
the Institute of Land use Planning (ILUP) of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) will be the main institutions involved in implementing the Project.
The Divisioin of Lands will deal with the land policy issues, and ILUP
through its :esotce planning specialists will deal with technical land
management issues and the formulation and preparation of village resource
management plans (RMPs).
4.02      At the district level, the District Secretary (DS) as the highest
local administrative officer of MICARD and the District Agricultural
Officer (DAO) as the most senior technical officer of MOA will assist the
District Development Council and the Chief (who is the chairperson) in the
evaluation and implementation of RMPs. Technical assistance and training
will be coordinated from MICARD and MOA headquarters and will be directed
towards the DPO, the District Development Council, the principal and ward
chiefs and the technical Resource Management Working Group (RMWG) in each
of the selected districts.
4.03      The RMWG will assist the village development councils of those
villages interested in participating in the Project in the formulation and
preparation of the RMPs. After the review process at the district and
national levels, the approved RMPs will be implemented by the villages
3 A schematic representation of the project organization and its
activities at various levels is provided in Chart S.



- 22 -
themselves with technical assistance from MOA field staff and financed
under the resource management plan implementation fund. The Review
Committee at the national level will give the ultimate approval which RMPs
will be financed. MICARD will be responsible for providing the funds to
village level.
4.04      An erosion status study and three monitoring studies will also be
included in the project design in order to measure the impact of the
Project.
B. Project Management
4.05      At the National level, an inter-ministerial Review Committee will
be established, comprising senior representatives of MICARD, MOA, the
Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Planning, Economic and Manpower
Development. The members of the Review Committee will be identified both
by designation and name. The representative of the Ministry of Planning
will chair the Committee. The Committee will review RMPs and summer
grazing management plans approved by the District Councils and District
Secretaries to determine whether they are consistent with the criteria for
VDC selection and plan content, and whether they conform to the national
plan and the national conservation strategy. The Committee will meet
quarterly during project implementation. Overall project coordination will
be the responsibility of the Deputy Principal Secretary of MICARD who will
be a member of the Committee as well. Establishment of the Committee wXith
membership and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA will be a condition
of effectiveness (para 6.01(a)). A three-year in depth project review by
the end of project years 3 and 6 by the Review Committee and IDA will
evaluate overall progress and remaining implementation schedules including
the identification of additional districts and staff. Assurances were
obtained from the Government to this effect during Negotiations (para
6.02(e)).
4.06      At the District level, overall responsibility for project
implementation and coordination will rest with the District Secretary
(DS). The DS will be assisted by the Assistant DS (who is responsible for
liaising with the chiefs) and the DPO. The goal of the Project will be to
gradually introduce planning capacity in the councils so that all
development activities (including those assisted by donors) in the district
will ultimately be integrated into an overall District Development Plan.
Criteria for selection of sub-projects for IDA funding and procedures for
channelling of funds through the DS, for disbursement to councils and line
ministries staff at district and lower levels, will be prepared by the
Review Committee by September 30, 1988. Assurances were obtained from the
Government to this effect during Negotiations (para 6.02(f)). The criteria
for selection to be used by the district councils for the approval of
financing selected RMP's will include inter alia technical soundness, cost
effectiveness, community's participation and consistency within the cluster
villages and with the district's and national development priorities.
C. Executing Agencies and Institutional Support
4.07      Two Ministries - MICARD and MOA - will be the main beneficiaries
of project assistance in the form of institutional support for grassroots
participatory planning (Annex 6). Both ministries will be strengthened at
national and district levels: MICARD to increase its land registration
capacity and MOA to assist village development councils in the formulation,
preparation and implementation of Resource Management Plans.



- 23 -
MICARD and Land Policy Implementation
4.08      There is a need for land tenure reform (para 1.15).  The first
step toward gradually assuring access to land will be to consider the
recognition and legalization of informal leases which can be used as
collateral or transferred (Bank's Economic Memorandum of May 28, 1987). An
estimated 20,000 plots4/ in the rural areas have been converted to such
leases. It is likely that the Land Policy Review Commission will recommend
that these leases be formally recognized and registered and that thie
recommendation will be accepted by GOL. With assistance from the Project
and the Chiefs, the Department of Lands, Surveys and Physical Planning will
be able to investigate, survey and demarcate about 14 plots per day. This
part of the land registration program will be completed over a six year
period.
4.09      The Land Policy Advisor, provided under technical assistance by
the Project, will assist GOL in the review and implementation of i.s land
policies, including follow up of the recommendations of the Land Policy
Review Commission.  Village, ward and district development councils (VDCs,
WDCs and DDCs) should become more effective in regulating livestock
movements, to reduce land degradation and encourage farmers to invest more
in crop production and animal husbandry. To this end, MICARD and MOA will
draft regulations to enable the councils to raise and administer
development fees and clarify and confirm to IDA the role of development
councils in controlling access to land in the context of the implementation
of RMPs. Assurances have been obtained that regulations satisfactory to
IDA will be prepared and introduced by April 1, 1989 (para 6.02(d)).
4.10      At district level the District Secretariat will be strengthened
with a District Planning Officer (who will be trained by a Training Advisor
under Technical Assistance) and an accounts clerk who will assist the DS in
the coordination and financial administration of all resource management
and development planning. Both the DPO and the Rural Development Assistant
in the field will whenever necessary assist the District Agricultural
Officer in his task to coordinate RMP planning activities.
MOA and Resource Management Planning
4.11      The Maseru-based ILUP is the main institution in MOA for the
project and is already preparing 10 village level land use plans
nationwide, which will serve as models for the Project. Consequently, to
ensure land use planning skills to develop realistic community level
resource management plans, the ILUP will play a crucial support role for
the district-based activities envisaged under the Project. However there
is insufficient senior staff available in ILUP to assist the project.
Therefore three Resource Planning (SIDA) and one Grazing Management
Specialist (IDA) will be internationally recruited to assist in the
training of local staff and in the preparation of RMPs under technical
assistance. The Grazing Management Specialist will be seconded to the
Range Management Division but liaise with ILUP on a day-to-day basis on the
grazing management aspects of the RMPs. For MOA the training, technical
assistance, livestock monitoring and studies will be channelled through
4/   Mission estimates based on discussions in the field.



- 24 -
ILUP (paras 4.15). Resource and village response monitoring and the
erosion status mapping will be sub-contracted to the National University of
Lesotho (paras 4.30 and 4.32).
4.12      At the district level, the administrative aspects of
community resource management planning will be the responsibility of the
District Agricultural Officer (DAO). With the assistance of the newly
appointed Senior Land Use Planner, the DAO will establish a resource
management working group (RMWG) of subject matter specialists, including
the Land Use Planner, which will be responsible for the technical aspects
of Resource Management Planning. MOA/ILUP will appoint or contract Senior
Land Use Planners and Land Use Planners in accordance with the phasing of
the Project. Availability of these planners in the first two project
districts will be a condition of project effectiveness (para 6.01(b)).
D. Training, Technical Assistance and Studies
Training under MICARD.
4.13      DPO Training.  For the first three years of the Project, an
internationali'.y recruited planning and training specialist will be hired to
carry out the training of the District Planning Officer (DPO), and to
assist the local training institution in formalizing a training program for
chiefs and district development councils (para 4.14). The skills required
by DPOs will include the ability to (a) discuss needs, priorities and
resource allocation with VDCs, WDCs and DDCs and their constituent members;
(b) assist and guide in the formulation of village, ward and district
development plans; (c) work as a member of a multi-disciplinary team at the
District level to assist the DS in coordination of activities; and (d)
foster the development of planning skills in VDCs, WDCs and DDCs. In the
first year of project implementation, the specialist will traln two DPOs
for the two districts where plan implementation will commence in the second
year of the Project, savrting with Mokhotlong and Qacha's Nek districts.
He will also be responsible for developing appropriate training materials
during this initial period.   During the second year of consultancy, the
specialist will (a) provide initial training to three more DPOs; (b) train
a local successor selected by MICARD after 18 months, who would continue
the DPO training program; (c) continue the ongoing process of supervision
and training for those DPOs who were trained during the previous year; and
(d) participate in the training provided to RWHGs by ILUP, to avoid
duplication of training and to more fully integrate the planning process.
During the final year of the consultancy, the specialist will (a) revise
the training materials appropriately; (b) closely supervise and assist in
the training provided by the selected local successor; (c) continue
inwrolvement in the training of RMWGs; and (d) conduct such follow-up
in-service training for DPOs as may be necessary to continue the process of
upgrading skills. Short-term special external training courses for the
DPOs and their local trainer will also be provided. Assurances have been
obtained at negotiations for the recruitment of the DPOs by September 30,
1988; and that the above DPO training program will be prepared and
initiated by April 1, 1989 (para 6.02(b)).
4.14      Training of chiefs and district development councils will be
scheduled to commence in the year prior to plan implementation in their
districts. The training program will be developed by the Lesotho Institute



- 25 -
for Public Administration (LIPA I(which has already carried out some
training of chiefs and councils in the past) with assistance from the
Swedish Association of Local Authorities (SALA) and the MICARD planning and
training specialist (para 4.13).
Trainig under MDA
4.15      Training of Land Use Planners and RMWGs will be provided by
senior ILUP staff and technical assistance personnel (para 1 06), which
will be provided with adequate qualified ILUP counterpart staff. Under the
ongoing ILUP activities, there is a continuous training program for Land
Use Planners and subject matter specialists, which will be further extended
under the Project with the arrival of three additional resource planning
specialists provided by SIDA. To build a multi-disciplinary te"i
capability as rapidly as possible, RHWGs will be the initial focus of
training courses (para 4.13). Seminars will also be conducted to introduce
district level MICARD staff to community planning objectives and
techniques. These seminars will be conducted jointly with the training
specialist employed to train DPOs in MICARD. Further RMWG's training will
include short formal courses in particular fields: land resource
appraisal; land use planning and management; range resources distribution;
land suitability for fodder crops; techniques of fodder conservation and
rangeland improvement; land conservation techniques; land suitability for
forestry; livestock ownership and seasonal occupancy; regulations governing
access to crop and,-rangeland; methodology and results of the 1986 National
Census; community plan component programming, assessment, and monitoring
and evaluation. There is a special need for the development of
communication skills by the RMWGs and other MOA field extension staff to
effectively communicate and motivate communities (Annex 6, para 2 d).
Under technical assistance the Project will provide a total of six
manmonths of communication training in year 1,2, and 4 (see Annex 3 for
TOR). As the needs arise and within the context of the Project additional
funding is provided for special technical assistance, studies/surveys and
training (para 3.06). Scholarships are adequately provided for under
on-going SIDA funding.
E. Resource Management
Plan Implementation Overview
4.16      Under the Project, some forty Community RWMs, which will include
winter grazing, will be prepared and implemented.  Formulation and
preparation will be done with the assistance of each district's Resource
Management Working Group (RMWG) and ILUP. Each group or team will consist
of the district land use planner and three subject matter specialists in
the field of conservation, range management and crop and livestock
production, and will be headed by a senior land use planner. The group
will operate under the auspices of the DAO. Implementation will be carried
out by the Village Development Councils themselves with the technical
assistance of the various technical field divisions of MOA. Each of the
RMPs will comprise clusters of three or four contiguous villages interested
in participating in the project. In addition, about seven Summer Grazing
RMPs will be prepared for the higher mountain rangeland areas
(agro-ecological zone D), where there is little human settlement (and a



- 26 -
system of seasonal occupancy by migratory herds is practiced under the
customary control of the Principal Chiefs). Summer Grazing RMPs will be
prepared for groups of about four contiguous summer grazing posts. The
total area covered would be about 275,000 ha, (representing all five
agro-ecological zones in seven districts). Three specific processing steps
relating to resource management plan preparation are given in Annex 4 and
highlighted in paras 4.17-4.20.   Chart 4 pictures the Resource Management
Planning process.
RMP Planning Process
4.17      The process includes three steps which require: a) specific
village selection criteria, b) making village aware of their development
options, and c) the collection of specific data. Criteria for selection of
suitable villages will be established by the DS and DAO with the assistance
of the RMWGs. The people of the selected villages will be made aware by
the RMWG, through an awareness campaign of their potential and
possibilities in participatory planning to prepare and implement their own
resource management plans (RMPs), with the assistance of MOA and NICARDO
Relevant village specific data will be collected through an inventory and
rapid survey.
4.18      Criteria for District and Village Selection.  The Project will
initiate activities in two districts,reaching seven districts altogether
during the project life. At appraisal, Mokhotlong, Qacha's Nek and also
Mohale's Hoek were selected and agreed upon for inclusion in the Project.
The ranking of additional districts ana c;immencement date of activities
will be decided upon by a Review Committee during implementation.
Similarly, the selection of contact villages for inclusion in the planning
program will be decided at district level by the District Secretary, in
consultation with the District Agricultural Officer according to
certain selection criteria (see Annex 4A for details).
4.19      Awareness Campaign.  The approach of this campaign has been
successfully applied by ILUP in the preparation of the first 10 RMPs and
with the assistance of NGOs wherever possible. After selection of the
villages, ILUP, through local government and NGOs contacts and the
districts' resource management working groups (RMWG), will inform local
communities about the potential of participatory planning, making clear the
types of development options that could be considered and the kinds of
inputs that local people will be expected to contribute. Particular
attention will be given to the willingness of the local communities to
participate in the planning process and subsequent plan implementation.
Where appropriate, the communities' willingness to contribute will need to
be ascertained. Planning will not commence until the community has agreed
to all these issues in principle (see Annex 4B for details).
4.20      Collection of Data and Inventory.  Once several clusters of
villages have been selected, a program for planning activities will be
drawn up by the District Secretary in liaison with the DAO. MOA will
provide the technical inputs for plan preparation (pars 4.17). In
addition, the Village Chief and VDC members will be asked to facilitate the
inventory and provide general information on land use systems and
constraints (see Annex 4C for details).



- 27 -
Formulation and Preparation of Community RMPs
4.21      After the identification of develolment options, an integrated
package of measures and action plan directly related to land resource
conservation and improved productivity (inr&uding measures in the fields of
crop husbandry, range management, water supply, agro-forestry, and village
access roads) will be prepared. This will form the basis for the Community
RMP for the area (see Annex 4D for details). The development options will
be discussed with the local chiefs and neighboring communities at the
earliest stage to discover which options they prefer, taking into account
motivation and capacity for implementation.
4.22      As a result of the investigations and deliberations, the RMWG of
the district will prepare the Community RMP which could include the
following: (i) delineation of village boundaries; (ii) principles by which
the VDC would manage the resources within the area; (iii) components for
implementation; (iv) rules and regulations governing the use of land by
community members and the need for raising various fees for village
development purposes; (v) preparation of a phased and costed plan of
action; and (vi) identification of local contributions (paras 4.35-4.37).
4.23      Plan Documentation.  The plan documentation will comprise a
simple synopsis of the planning rationale, an enlarged aerial
photograph/mosaic showing measures to be undertaken in the village area,
and a list of plan components specifying objectives, GOL contributions
(mainly finance, equipment and technical assistance), community
contributions (mainly labor and some finance), work programs with annual
targets, and requirements for technical and financial monitoring. A wall
chart will be maintained to show individual compor^nt targets, commitments
and attainments on an annual basis. All RMP documentation will be on file
at the District Agricultural Office and ILUP.
Formulation and Preparation of Summer Grazing RMps.
4.24      The measures proposed for summer grazing (see Annex 4E) are
technically simple, requiring the closure of poor quality rangeland for
recuperation and subsequent grazing under controlled management. However,
the process of arriving at a consensus as to the use of that land for
improved management is complex. It is very important that there be
agreements on the management of summer grazing, including the use of
grazing fees since access to these resources is an integral part of the
livestock system in Lesotho.
4.25      MOA staff will make initial visits to all 22 Principal Chiefs to
discuss their views concerning land resource management, and to investigate
summer grazing problems. This will be followed by an outline inventory of
summer grazing resources and utilization and the selection of sumer
grazing areas for further investigation and planning. This selection will
be based on the interest of the Principal Chief and herdsmen in
implementing grazing management, the type and quality of grazing areas, and
access arrangements. Where possible, summer grazing areas will be selected
which are connected directly to Community WPs under preparation to
maximize the benefits of improved grazing management in summer and winter
areas concurrently.



- 28 -
4.26      A Summer Grazing RMP will be prepared and discussed with
herdsmen, animal owners and the Principal Chief. Possibilities for
reallocating summer grating posts for the exclusive use of herds from a
single village or group of neighboring villages will also be discussed.
During these discussions, areas to be set aside as closures will be agreed
upon, and the methods and responsibilities for follow-up carefully
defined. In addition, systems regulating access to improved pastures
following closure will be agreed upon.
RMP Imlementation.
4.27      It is envisaged that the planning and implementation of each RMP
will require a period of four years. The first year will involve the
training by the RMWG of the village development council and the chief, and
the actual planning and approval process, including the demarcation of
village and natural boundaries. Implementation of other activities will be
carried out over the remaining three years. The phasing and implementation
schedule (see Table 11) assumes that each District RMWG will complete one
RMP in its first year of operation, and two RMPs each year thereafter.
During the first project year, start-up and training activities will
commence followed by planning activities in Mokhotlong and Qacha's Nek
Districts in Project year 2, extending to seven districts by Project year
4. The implementation of all 47 IMPs will be completed in Project year 9.
F. Project Monitoring, Studies and Reporting
4.28      Three types of monitoring and one independent study are envisaged
uiader the Project: (a) physical and financial monitoring; (b) resource and
village response monitoring of RHPs; (c) livestock monitoring; and (d) an
erosion status study. Except for the physical and financial monitoring,
the above activities will be carried out under short term consultancies as
described in the Terms of Reference, Annex 3, and in Annex 6, para 21.
Regular supervision and three year periodic project reviews by IDA and the
Government will also be part of the project monitoring (see para 4.05).
4.29      Physical and financial monitoring.  This type of monitoring is
regularly undertaken in all governmental activities and reflected in
biannual progress reports. An auditor of the Auditor General's office at
MICARD headquarters will audit the project accounts each year under
governmental procedures which are acceptable to IDA. Audited accounts will
be submitted to IDA within nine months following the end of each fiscal
year (para 3.29).
4.30      Resource and Village Response Monitoring.  The project period is
coasidered insufficient to allow a meaningful assessment of project impact
on resource rehabilitation or sustenance at the national level. Resource
monitoring of project activities will therefore be restricted to individual
RMPs (Annex 6, para 21c). As part of the Land Use planning activities, a
simple pre-plan erosion survey will be undertaken by the RMWG, which will
include in-field assessment and discussions on resource management and
project participation with farmers. With the assistance of the ILUP based
resource monitoring specialist NUL will design and follow-up with a similar
post-implementation erosion and village response survey to determine to
what extent conservation plans were actually adopted. Resource and village



- 29 -
response monitoring will be conducted in a combined survey by the Geography
and Sociology Departments of NUL. The data will be analyzed at the
district level to identify relative changes within those villages which
have adopted resource management plans and those which have not.
4.31      Livestock Mbnitoring.  A major goal of the Project is the
development of sustainable integrated livestock management systems (Annex
6, para 21a). Thus, the Project will aim not merely to increase and
improve grazing resources but also to improve livestock quality at the same
time encouraging higher offtake rates. The internationally recruited
grazing management specialist seconded to MOA's Range Management Division
(RMD) will liaise with ILUP and review in the first year a variety of
organizational systems for livestock management and control and the role of
the chiefs in regard to summer grazing. It is therefore necessary to
monitor closely the impact of the Project on livestock populations and
condition. With the assistance of ILUP and RMD, impact monitoring will be
carried out during two months annually from year 2 to 6 by the grazing
management specialist.
4.32      Erosion Status Study.  At the national level, a mapping of the
erosion status is needed to establish the baseline status of erosion. Such
a mapping will provide the basis for prioritizing more vigorous
conservation activities. This mapping, with limited surveys on the ground,
will be undertaken by the Geography Department of the National University
of Lesotho (NUL), interpreting satellite images, with assistance from an
internationally recruited erosion status specialist. The mapping will be
completed by Project year 2 and will facilitate the link between the
current ongoing formulation of a National Soil Conservation Policy and
subsequent conservation plans.
4.33      Reporting.  Records of progress in implementation and
disbursements will be prepared in 6-monthly progress reports by the Project
Coordinator with the assistance of ILUP and the Senior Accountant at MICARD
headquarters. Approved RMP plans will be monitored and reported on
separately by the District Secretariat, and reports filed with the Project
Coordinator for IDA review (also see para 4.23).
G. Funding Mechanism for Plan Implementation
4.34      The Government will provide the necessary budgetary resources to
fill and maintain the positions within MOA and MICARD, newly created and
existing, to implement the Project. RMP project funds will be channelled
through MICARD to the DSs for disbursement against items of expenditure in
plans that have been approved both by the District Development Council and
the Review Committee. The DS will be assisted by an accounts clerk
(bookkeeper) who will maintain separate accounts for the Project and who
will be supervised and guided by a senior accountant specially designated
for this purpose at MICARD headquarters. Assurances have been obtained for
the establishment and filling of an accounts clerk position in each
District Secretary's Office by September 30, 1988 solely for the purpose of
implementing land use and development planning under the project and for
designating a senior project accountant from the Accountant General's
office seconded to MICARD to supervise these clerks (para 6.02(c)).



- 30 -
R. Self Help and Cost Contribution
4.35      Local communities will be expected to contribute through their
labor to the implementation of their respective plans. The extent of this
contribution will depend on the type and nature of the activity to be
carried out; e.g., it has been assumed that up to 20% of the cost of
village boundary demarcation or fencing are labor costs and should be borne
by the communities themselves, while infrastructure works such as access
roads and water supply carried out by contractors will be wholly financed
by the Project. Based on model plans, the communities' labor contribution
could amount to an average of about 20% of the cost5/ of plan
implementation.  However, given the flexibility inierent in the proposed
participatory approach to planning and the drafting of regulations, this
figure will vary according to the specific items eventually adopted for
inclusion by each VDC in its plan. The Project does not include villagers'
labor as possible cost contribution in the financing plan.
4.36      Where VDCs have to raise funds (in addition to mobilizing labor),
development fees and cesses may be used. There is legal authority for the
VDC and DDC to raise funds for development purposes. Specific provisions
on this matter will be contained in the Regulations to the Development
Councils Order which are being prepared by MICARD and will be introduced by
April 1, 1989 (para 4.09). With regard to summer grazing areas, however, a
major portion of the costs will be recovered from the users. These costs
could be recovered by either a direct charge by the VDC or a system of
permits under which every household in the relevant VDC would have a permit
to graze an agreed number of animal units. Collectable fees etc, as a
result of changes in land legislation and VDC's decisions would accrue to a
village development fund, which would be used for other capital intensive
activities.
4.37      Where individual on-farm works are undertaken, the individual
allottees will have to obtain their own credit (for example, for inputs)
under the normal existing facilities. RMWGs would, however, assist by
notifying other concerned divisions in MOA of the estimated credit and
input requirements and verify whether those inputs would be available as
needed.
1.    Environmental Impact
4.38     The Government sees this project as a major effort in resource
conservation and improvement of the environment. Sustained improvement of
the environment is at the heart of this Project which, if successful, is
expected to be part of a long-term program for land management towards
environmental enhancement. The core activity under the Project will be the
preparation and execution of Resource Management Plans, which will aim to
arrest soil erosion through effective land and livestock management
practices, inter alia by physical methods (such as minor earthworks) which
are environmentally neutral, at worst; and by controlling access to grazing
end arable lands physically or through systems of rewards and penalties. A
key feature of the Project will be the involvement of local bodies in
determining area-specific rules for access to land and in preparing
5/   The estimated cost of self-help labor has not been included in the
implementation costs of the resource management plans.



- 31 -
Resource Management Plans based on democratic consensus. The deterioration
of the rangeland in Lesotho is approaching crisis proportion. A project of
this nature is an innovative approach to arresting the environmental crisis
and, in the longer run, to reversing the process of land degradation.
Although based on some limited experience, the Project will be a pioneering
effort at improving the environmental and the human condition in a rocky,
arid land. It may thus become a precursor of such efforts in other
countries with similar physic.al attributes and environmental dilemmas.
J. Role of Women in Agriculture
4.39      Due to the fact that about 40 percent of the total Basotho male
labor force finds employment in the Republic of South Africa, an extra
burden has been placed on the women to feed and educate their families, in
particular in the rural areas. It is estimated that about two thirds of
all rural households are de facto headed by women and provide the bulk of
labor inputs in all field activities.  These households are very much
dependent on remittances from relativea working abroad or in the urban
areas. Although women are elected in the development councils and some of
them are chiefs, they are still under-represented in the village
organizations. The Government of Lesotho is very much aware of this
situation and employs a relatively high number of women in its services
including for higher positions. Through the Project's grassroots approach
of making village communities more aware of their potentials, it is
envisaged that more women will be involved in the decision process of
improved land use planning and management.
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
5.01      About 64Z of the project cost will go to institution building to
introduce resource planning and management at the district and village
levels. The institution building benefits cannot be quantified but are
expected to have a majur and lasting impact on Lesotho's efforts to
conserve resources and develop the laad. The financial and economic
benefits will derive from a reduction and arresting of land deterioration;
from land development; and from improved livestock management practices.
They will translate into increased crop and livestock production. There is
not yet enough data to allow meaningful quantification of such financial
and economic benefita. Since the project introduces new concepts for land
management conservation and development, the demonstration value would
represent a further intangible benefit. Project design envisages ultimate
countrywide coverage by rasource management plans, that will transform the
presently overgrazed, deforested, eroding countryside into more productive
agricultural land, both for crops and livestock. The project will, in
addition, through overall district development planning, lay the foundation
for a suitable framework for donor coordination so that benefits from donor
assistance can be optimized.
B. Risks
5.02      The Project is inherently difficult and complex, involving the
often conflicting rights of land users in a fr&eework of increasing
population pressures and declining quality of the land resource. The
Project faces the following risks:



- 32 -
(a)  the difficulty of changing long-established land use patterns
within the relatively short time frame of the Project. It
should, however, be borne in mind that the Project has been
designed to be the initial part of a longer-term program for land
conservation and management and, as such, will have limited and
flexible goals for achieving changes in the usage of grazing and
agricultural lands. The Project will also be part of an ongoing
sectoral dialogue on policies towards soil erosion and land
degradation;
(b)  inadequate responses from the development councils and local
governments, and possible shortfall in the targets for the
preparation and launching of RMPs. To minimize these risks, the
Project will initiate a substantial effort among local
communities and chiefs. Personnel involved in this effort will
receive, under the Project, considerable training, not only
technical but also in communications and leadership. Moreover,
the Project has been based on the experience of ILUP in preparing
ten RMPs, so that it will not be starting from scratch.
Flexibility will characterize the Project, in terms of
organization and targets of participating councils and RMPs to be
prepared. Project monitoring is intended to assist in periodic
redirecting of design and goals of project components; and
(c)  failure of MICARD and MOA to provide the needed personnel and
expertise to assist local bodies. To guard against this risk,
IDA will fund a part of the recurring personnel expenses; GOL has
been asked to commit itself to recruitment of key Project staff
in a phased manner; and valuable training will be provided.
Again, the Project will remain flexible to the extent necessary
to adjust to the emerging realities of the personnel situation in
Lesotho. Some of the key staff needed to initiate the Project
have already been identified. Recruitment of key staff in the
first two Project districts is a con4ition of project
effectiveness (para 6.01(a)).
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECOMHENDATIONS
6.01      The following are conditions of effectiveness:
(a)  the Government will establish an inter-ministerial Review
Committee comprising representatives of the Ministries of
Finance, Planning, Interior and Agriculture, who will be
nominated by name and designation (para. 4.05);
(b)  the Government will appoint Senior District Land Use Planners and
District Land Use Planners at NOA in the first two districts
(para 4.12 and 5.02).
6.02      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) the Government will make adequate budget resources available
beginning in FY 1988-89 to maintain incumbents' and fill
established and new posts of MOA and NICARD project staff in the



- 33 -
Districts down to field assistant level (para 3.17);
(b) the Government shall create and fill the position of District
Planning Officer in MICARD by September 30, 1988 and provide
adequate training for the DPOs to prepare them for the new tasks
in accordance with the phasing of the Project, the DPO training
program will be prepared and initiated by April 1, 1989 (para
4.13);
(c) the Government shall by September 30, 1988 create and fill a
district accounts clerk position in MICARD per participating
district and designate a senior project accountant from the
Accountant-General's office seconded to MICARD t) supervise these
clerks (para 4.34);
(d) the Government shall prepare regulations satisfactory to IDA by
April 1, 1989, containing detailed provisions on the powers of
councils to raise and adrinister development funds and clarify
and confirm to IDA the role of development councils in
controlling access to crop and grazing land in the context of the
implementation of the RMPs (para 4.09);
(e) the Government will review project implementation with IDA, at
the end of Project Years 3 and 6, and as a result of these
reviews decide on the remaining implementation schedules. (para
4.05);
(f) the Government shall prepare by September 30, 1988, (i) criteria
for selection of subprojects to be financed under the Project,
which will include inter alia technical soundness, cost
effectiveness, participation of the comunitty and consistency
within cluster villages and with the districts' and national
development priorities; and (ii) procedures for the channelling
of funds through the District Secretary for disbursement to
councils and line ministries staff at district and lower levels
(para 4.06);
(g) the Government and SIDA will have signed and delivered the SIDA
grant agreement by not later than September 30, 1988 (para 3.07);
and
(h) project accounts will be audited annually by the Auditor General
and the audit report which will make specific reference to, and
comments on SOE's and special account transactions will be
submitted to IDA within nine months following the end of each
fiscal year (para 3.29);
(i) GOL will adopt LCB procedures acceptable to the Association (para
3.19).
6.03      Subject to the above assurances, the proposed project would be
suitable for IDA credit of SDR 11.7 million (US$16.0 million equivalent) to
the Kingdom of Lesotho on standard IDA terms with 40-year maturity.



LESOTHO
LAND MANAGEMENT & CONSERVATION PROJECT
Ministry of ilnterior, Chleftalnship Affairs, & Rural Development (MOI)
|Principai Secretary|
Planing Unit 
Iirel     fl                            Directorate Directorate
councas &                                'Lands &                    C00zenshP                w
CNfeftaI hip                              Housing                      & Alierns
.       ~~Deputy Drctor
Local 8 Urban
Admkotration
Fin,e~                   Rural De Councils              Local & tkban         Comm 0ner for           Director for
Personnel        (Vilage. Ward & Districts)         Administration       Lands. Swvey &           Inmation
Tranot                     ProjectDrectn                 in Ten Districts      Physical Planing
Movable & lnmovabl              Field Operatons             Other Than Maseru                              Commissioner
Property 8 Cebbrations           DCiectw of H                                                                for Refugees
Information      ~Consefvation & Gardensietr fHmn
Pits"                   Vilage Water Supply           Maseru Municipal      _
Pitsoa       ~Apppra  Technwobgy Section 
Coordination
kw/'w31279 1



LESOTHO
LAND MANAGEMENT & CONSERVATION PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives & Marketing (MOA): Organizational Structure'
EFI]
Minitter of State
Pnncipal Secret"r
Project Ptanning (icludes
Coordinaftion Montoring & Evaluation)
Deputy  rinc~al  Department of       Department of Crop     Depatment of         t5oiiecnt of           Department of        Department of Field
8ecret aryw             Fortbyn              sevc     C;mre                            Ser )c-e DL            Cooperatives           Services DFS
Fiance/Accoumnts       ConsTetbn           Technical     ions                        Vt y Servbes             CoopevesExtension Through the
unit TO)Marketing                    WtnySriesCoeaie                                  i=strc Agiutua
Adinistration           Foresy                 Crxops               Seice           Animl Prodton        Lesotho Coperative         Offices (DAOs
4LPMB)                                      oo                    Rsac
Personnel         Institute of LResearyIchwMagoon
Trainin            Uepwt                     rtinUve.tpck~ Products                                                            Lesotho,AlUltural
|__________    8ADCC Coo            ln             l                                                                                      Ch3 
Utdt kio                                                                                                     Nubtrion
Agrictural information
Note: Although  er Are plans ao ro       tbe miy. the msiWon was dvid to
ue flue elsistn  StrUCture, presented here
2 Soulewn Africa Devskopmnt
Coordnaton Conference (SADOC)
Sod and Watw Conservation Land Utlzabon Prnoam
Co _rdnaton Unit (Lesotho)                                                                                                            ktsw31279-2



LESOTHO
Land Management & Conservation Project
Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives &  Marketing (MOA): District Agricultural Office (DAO)
District Agriciitural Officer
r4 -  Personmel Officer
District Extenion Officer                                                                Extension Aents
|   Diirit Crp   ffter |
-Techia Operations Urdt
-Farms Mactnry
w
District Uivestock Officer                           .omevestock Assistants
- Field Marketin
- Veterinay Clhic
-Poultry/Pbse
District RandgUe Oftice                                                           Grzn  Coto  uevsr
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cnevto Asitat
DttitbZ y Of_usr   sitn



LESOTHO
Land Management & Conservation Project
Steps In Resource Management Planning Process
District Deveopment Council
Ward Devlopmwnt Council WOC                 Resource Management Working Group (RMWG)                     District Secretary
Vilage Development Counca VoC                                                                     District Devopment Committee DDC|
PRankig of Oitricts an Yiages AccordhS to seWction Criwal
PanComponsAeness Ca
Aree in Pricncen    nept and Conit
of Participative Land Use Pgnnb
Iventiony of - Natural Resources
d  Homan Resources
_Prospects & Consetraints
PrpmDvlpment Optknsw. 
|Discuss Options vis-a-vis Conmmumty Resowreas &4ises; Dscuss Options vis-a-vis Central Giovernment Resore 
Prepare Resource Management Plan
- Plan CopoorPnts
-  Rules Concivens Larnd Use
- Phas8 and CostkV
- kIentification of Local Contribution
- kIentification of Managewment Respoitffy
- Settbment of Bourdary Imsse
Fhal Approval by Pro*ct Review Committee|
Plan~~ ~~~~ A"ctOf Funds for Impbonntation |{
| -Mobin of Activities. vis-a-vi Plan Tarebt|



LESOTHO
Land Management & Conservation Project
Schematic Representation of Project Organization/Activities
REVEW COMMITTEE
Mhom of interior, Cheftanship                  Rep. from Ministries of                Ministry of Agriculture.
Affairs & Rural Deb (MOI)                     - Finance                         Cooperatives & Marketing (MOA)
- Interior
Dept of Lands. Surveys & Phys PlafL            - A      re                        Dept. of LiWstock Services
- Survey & Reg. of Informal Leases                                                  Range Manaement
- [Sstock Products Marketin  Service
Dept. of Local & Urban Administration                                             Dept of Technical Services    UP ST|
- Inst. of Land Use Plan.     - Chie Land Use Plne
- Conservation (SADCC)        - Dep. Chiet Land Use Pulwan
- Forestry            - ~~Three Senior Land Use Planes 
- forestry                    - Carogapte
Department of Field Services                                 j
TRAepnG                                                                                                             RESOURCE UGMT SPECIALISTS
- plan prepartion                                                                                                   - soi & tan suittitAty assess
- manageent skils                                                                                                   - soecononics
- conduct neetings                                                                                                  - monitoring t evaluan
- mamitn ot records                                                                                                 - 6vstc & rang. resources
- bookkeeping & acots.                                                                                                                                 W
District Development Couca               RES. MGMT WORK. GRP.
Dist. SecretaryD                                                         Dist. Agicultural Officer
Asat. Dist. Secretary                                                       Sub~ject Matter Specialist   TRAilING
Dist. Planring Officer                                                      - Land Use Planring         - land resource appraisal
Dist. Rural Dev. Officer                                                    - Conservation               - land use planning
Accounts Clerk                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- range management
Accounts Clerk                  Ward Development Council                 - Range Management            (odder crops
Rural Dem Assistant                                    ~~~~~~~~- Forestry            - bwlvsock ownershi
Field Assstants       s&w,$np' grazing
fid Assistants              _ WOre  coCiw ni. access to land
- txtension                 - sil & moisture coonservation
VLLAGE DEV COUNCLS (x4)                       - Conservation               - coITnaumicabon & motnr skis
COMMUNITYRESOURCE  ~4T PLANS       - Forestry
COMMEURTRAZING  RE.CE MGMT PLANS              - Range Management
RESOURCE -Af4AGEMENT PROCESS             - crop & fodder production
- Saection Citeria                       - rangean razing management
- Data Collection                          social fwestry                            STUDES
- Plan Preparation & Approval            - conservation works                        - Vilage Response Moriaring
- Funding & kmpementabon                    infrastructure (water, roads.              (Natonal Unverssty ot Lesotho NUL
meetin  hails boundries. tc.)  -Dept. of Rural & Urban Planning & Sociologyl
meeting_ha_s__boundaries._etc.)              Erosion status
- Resource MonitornOg
(NUtL. Dept of Geography with Techrical Assistant
- Graztig Management & Instubotins (Technical Assastant)  I 
Note Fundino allocations would e isbrsed through the District Secretary
to the respective roe ministries



LESOTRO
LAND MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
TABLE 1A:  Project Components by Year
(MALOTI '000)
Omse Costs                                      Total
1      2       3       4       5       6       7      8       9       MALOJTI  (US '000)
=_ 8= ===  == === e   =  === = 
A. NICR NEAOMRTERS INSTITM1OAL S R                127.8  116.3   49.8   893   49.8   4N.B    46.8   46.8   46.8    623.2             311.6
Pt  IICR DISTRICT INSTITONL SUPPORT             1,223.2  963.3 1p409.2  873.2  M8   710.0   375.6  375.6  366.2  79220.0    3610*0
C. MA EADURTERS/ILUP INSTITUTIOL SUPPORT  29176.4 1t054*0  927.0  824.2  613.2  655.1  121.1  121*1  121*1  6,513.2  3&256*6
D. MOA DIS5RICT/R116 INSTITUTIONAL SWPORT         586.6  821*5 19193.7  913.4   9495   480.5  314.3  314.3  298.4  5,862.1   2,931*1
E. RESOUtCE NA ENT PLA IIFPLEREATION                  -    0.7  246.1  811.0 1s667.3 2M509.9 2935.9 1,734.0  475.2  10,30O.1   5,190.1
Total AINE  COSTS                                46114.0 2,955.8 397158 3,511s. 4,203.6 4.4053 3,793.7 2.591.8 1307.7 30,59.7  15299.3
Phiwical Continmncies                            617.1  443.4  557.4  526.7  630.5  660.8  569.0  188.8   196.2  4,589.8   2W294.9
Price Contin*ncies                               176.0  520.6 1,170.9 1,532.0 2.357*0 3,016.0 3Mt73M? 2,558.2 1,465.7  15970.1   2,616.5              o
Total PROJECT COSTS                               4,907.1 349197  5,444.1 5,569.7 7191.l B8002.1 7,536.4 59538.7 29969*6  51,158.5  20210*7
== ==e= == == == e== =e = ==
Foreign Exchange                               2MO0  2t037*5 24193 2t2716 2836.3 3428.5 2685.4 1,902.0  875.9 20,856.6   8,367.8
Febvwry 22, 1988 14:05



LESOTHO
LAND MANAGEENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
TABLE 1B: Project Cost Summary
(Mll0I '000)                                  (9$ '000)
Z Totl                                      Z TOta
2 Foreiun Bas                                  Foreian  Im,.
Local  Foreign  Totl  E       _hmne  Costs   Local  Forei*i  Totl  Ehane    Costs
a = ==  =      =__ ==   ==_== =
At NICAR IEADRER   INSTIIUTI0NAL SUPPT             390.7   232.5   623.2         37       2    195.3   116.3   311.6          37      2
D. NICAB DISlhICT INSTITUTIONWL SUPPORT          4,3925*  29827.S 7M220.0        39      24  2,196.3 1,413.7 39610.0          39      24
Co IOA WANVRTJERT /IlUP INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT   200867 4,504.5 64513#2          69      21  1W043 2,252.3  34256.6           69      21
9. NOA DISTRICUtRINW  INTITUT11ONAL SUP"RT       4P198.1  19664.1  5,862*1       28      1   2W,099.   832.0  24931.1         28      19
Et RESOURCE MANAOENENT PLAN I9PLEIENTAtION       6i124.3 46255.8 10P380.1        41      34  34062l 2,127*9 5190.1            41      34
Total DASELIJE cOST!                              17t114.2 13,484.4 30,599.7       44    100  8S557.t 6,742.2 15299*3           44    100
PtWsical Continkencies                          2,567.1  2,022.7  4t589.8       44      15   1v213.6 1sO113 2t294.9         44      15
Price Continrgnies                             10M620.5  5,349.5 15,970.1       33      52  2,002.2  614.3 24616.5           23      17
Total PRMJECT COSTS                               30,301.9 20,856,6 51,158.5       41    167 11,942.9 8,367.8 20t210.7          41    132
F           = =- =s 2                           = =    =   = 1=4
Fet.wrsir 22, 1988 14:05



LESOTHO
LAND MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
TABLE IC: Suimmry Account by Project Component
(MALOTI '000)
NICR                              ND,              MA                                    Physical
WIEA1MR        KICRD DISTIUCT WEAILGUTEILUP  DIStRICAR             IIiOLrE                Continrinces
INSufl  INSTITUIIW.    BIWITUTUI NUKNm  IW  I NI
SUPPORT        SUPPRT           SU               SUPPORT     IL ENWAnTON   Total         I  _Ant
I. INVESIY  CO¢SW
A. CIVIL VORWS                           -          2.094.O                 -        24760.0               -  44054.0  15.0  72B.1
. VWHICLES                            66.0          1,223.8             350.0          597.5               -  2,237*3  15.0  335.6
C. EBUIPIENT                           59.5             1.0              20.0          231.1               -    401.6  15.0   60.2
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              108.0            64B.0          46248*0               -               -  5004.0  15,0  750.6
E. TRAININ  NO STUDIES                   -            470.*6            805.3              -               -   19275.9  15.0  191.4
F. RESRMOCE  _AiM       PL               -                -                 -              -         10.3B0.1  10300.1  15.0 1557*0
Total IIETNT COSTS                      233.5          4527.4            5423.3         3p598.6         10,380*1 24,152.9  15.0 3,622*9
II. RECW         COSTB
A. SALARIESIALNIANWCES               270,0         1.133.5             481.5        1.265.0                -  3,150.0  15.0  472.5
D. UEIOLE AND EGUP"ENT DIN           119.7         19477o5             606.4          694.0                -  3     6099.6  15.0  464.9
C. DUILDIN6 U                            -            91.6                 -          114.5                -    196.2  15.0   29.4
Total RECLURENT COSTS                   389.7          2692#6 1.069.9                   2t273.5               -  6445.8  15.0  966.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                     623.2          71220*0           6,513.2        5.862.1         10,330.1 30,598.7  15.0 4,569.8
Physical Continsencies                  93.5         1.003.0             977.0          8.3            t,557.0  4,599.8   0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies                   291.3         3&209#1             1.835.9       2,861.5          7,772.3 15,970.1  13.0 2,083.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                    1t008.o         11512.2           94325.9        9602.9         190709.5 51,158.5  13.0 6h672.8
=   =      = 3                 =_       =-                                           =      =
Foreign Exchange                      319.8          4.170,0            6p247.4       2,474.6          7,645.0 20,856.6  13.0 20720.4
February 22, 1968 14:05



LESOTHO
LAND MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
TABLE ID:  Sur             Accounts Cost Su
(VAon I   )                               (U$ i00)
Z total                                  I Tdod
Z Foreign D                                 Fou    h
Local  Foei*n  Totl  Excban    Costs   Loal  Forei2n  otal  Eb_   CWsts
--- -= ==  = -  -    =_I
I. INWEY  COSIS
A. CIL lRS                    3,397*8 1,456,2 4.854,0       30     16  1698.?  729.1 2,427.0         30      16
9. VEHIClES                     953.8 l,233.5 2,237.3       57      7    476.9  641.7 111o.?         57       7
C. EUIPHENT                     212.5   199.1   401.6       47      1    106*2   94.6   230.6        47       1
D TECHIICAL ASISTANCE           500.4 4M5M3.6 5S0           90     16    250.2 2P251.8 2,502.0       90      16
Et TR N  ANID STUDIES         1,148*3   127V6 19275,9       10      4      742   63*8   638*0         10      4
F RESOURI£CE  AMIENT PLMA     6124.3 4.2558 1040380        41     34  3,062.1 2,127.9 5,190.1       41      34
Total IIWEST101t com            12iW.1 11915.8U   24152.      49     79  6.168.5 5907.9 12076.5        49      79
Phwsieal Contigencies         1,950.6 17.4m  3622.9         49     12    925.3  986.2 1,811.5        49      12
Price Contingtocies           7168.5 46434*4 11,602.9       38     38  1367.6  501.7 1900*4          27     12
Totl INCLUDAIN CNTINGENCIES     21.356.1 18,022.6 39,373.8     46    129  8461*5 7,295.* 15,757*3       46    103
==  =   =_ =   = ==  =_ 
II. RECOUDWN COSTS
At SLAURIESIALLUUANCES       3,150.0       - 3,150.0        -      10  1,575.0      -1,575.0          -     10
8. YEHICLE AND EQUIPENT OtN   19440.8 1,658.8 3,099.6      54      10    72A.4  929.4 1,549.8        54     10
C. BUILDIN6 0tf                186.3    9.8   196.2         5       1     93.2    4.9    98.1         5      1
Total RECURRENT COSTS            4.7m77,  1t668.6 6445*8       26     21  2,388.6  834,3 3,222.9        26      21
Phlsical Continsencies          716.6   250.3   966.9       26      3    358.3  125*1   493.4         26      3
Price Contirnmncies           3.452,0   95.1 4,367.1        21      14    634.6  112.6   747.1        15      5
TOtl INCUD   CONTINGENCIES      8,94.7 2,334.0 11,779.7        24     38  3,381*4 1,072.0 4453.4        24      29
==  =             I=   =    =    ==  _= .=  ==
Total  lIIE COSTS                17t114.2 1348.4 30598.7        44    100  8,557.1 6,742.2 15,299.3      44    100
Pbssical Contingmncies         29567.1 2,022.7 4589.8        44     15  1.283.6 1011.3 2W294.9        44      15
Price Contingencies           l0.S05 593495 15,70.1          33     52  2,002.2  614.3 24616.5        23      17
Total PROJECT COStS              30.301.9 208566A 5115895       41    167 11,642.9 837.8 20t210.7        41    132
--- =   = = == ==    -



tAND MW*OU1T AWD ONSEVATION 1ROJCT
TABLE 2-  Lad Polcy and Institutional Support;  NICARD - Ueadquarters: Department of Lads, Surmea, and Physical Plantni
hnmtitv                                          lasP Cet,4                                BS  Costs in s
dAt    1   2   3   4   5   6   7   9   9  Totaltost   1   2   3   4   5   6   ?   e   9  Total  1   2   1   4   5   6   7   e   9  Total
- -          -        -       a. mU          - h. ma..        m    m            ..n       am      _ _U  a. eU mh m_  . n.m....... ma a __
A. UII
4SWAP   1  I ---2 2 25.0                                                                                - -- 0-             .012.¶ - - 12.5 --- 25.0
TIQ.E            Wl             I    --I…2  9 9.0-  -0.0…-                                                               -      .e40  -  - 4.0  -            - -     - -.0
9ob-Tow ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~3* -omT                                        - 3. -. - - -- ohOt.5 - - to. -  -- - - - 33,
9t-Ttl WIDE                                                                          3.           35.0-- - -                4 6.0 U.S        -16.5 -33..0IL
B. ElUIPEllt
eFmICE    tis             Kt        t   -    -   -   -   -   -   -    -   1  3.5  3.5    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  3.5 .e   -   -   -    -   -   -   -   -  t1.
D  E01REUT                UI       1   t   t   t   t   t   -   -   -    6    3   3.0  3.0 3.0 3.3.0 3.0   -   -   - 19. O .5 tl.5h t1.S14514   -   -   -  9.0
CPIISEUiH                  UT       t   ---2  6.5 6.5-   - 6.5…-- - - -130 3.3   -   -23.3-6.
tNWA                    ME          t    -  - -  -  - - -  2 12.5 12.5512.5-.- -  - -  -   20. 6.3 6.3  -                                                                2-  5
LMPU          W           I I    3   I   -   -   -   -    -   -   -    6  t.5  4.05 4.0   -    -   -    -   -   -: - t2.0  VA  h0   -    -    -    -    -    -    - t5.0
.~~~ -       - - - - - - - - -
h sToal TEOn   AITM                                                                   PAU 4.0    o   -    -    -    -   -    -   - 10.  27.0 V  -    -   -    -    -   -    - 54.0
Totl IWISIllT CtSTS                                                                     112.5  69.5 30 42.5 30 3.0   -   -   - 23.5 56.3 34.9 1.5 2t.3 1.  2.   -   -   - 1                        I
U~~~~~~.N._._i, WE   . _.5.._ 
n.   19I  i la Cam1
A. SESO AOSOWM
S UWTR                             -   I   1   I   t   I   I   I   I    9    7       -  70   0 7.0   70 7.07.0  7.0 ?.0S I        - 2.5 a53.35 J .Sa   J.S 3.   3.a 2h0
LSU VMM    /a            PA        -   I   I   I   1   I   I   I   I    9   I1       - t.011.011.0 1.0 U  11.0U11.01.0   o        - *.5 5     s  45.5a5 .5  S5.5 a5 44.
1W5I'T          ltMM     PA        -   I   I   I   I   I   t   t   I   e    7    -  t0 74 ?       0 7.07.0 7.0 7.0  7.0 56.0    - aS35 3S Ls 3.5   3. t 3          L5  210
FIS  ASSIST19 lb         PA        -   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I        6.5     -  6.5 hs6.5 6.s 6 54  6.5 6.5 6.  52.0    -  3 3.3 3.3 3.3 3.3 34  3.3  .3  26.0
IMm                      PA        I   I   I  1 1   1   1 1   1           9    2   2.0  2.0 2.0 2.0     242.0 202.02.0 190       1.0.0 .0. 11.01 1.0 .   1.0 1.0  9.0
9hTotl S 49 As 1M.11                                                                  2.0 33.5 33.5 33.5  S3.5  33.5  J3.513as20.0  1.0 16.  16.9 164 16.9 146 t  . 1. 1et.0
9. MMIa.! MS EUDHU. 0.5
4 D SEWI                 P*        I   I   t   I   t   I   1   1   1    9  6.3   6.3 6    6.36.33 .3 6.3 6.3 6.3 6.3 s7  3-2 32.2 23.2 32  .2 3W  2    3.2 24
rnU.E                    PA        I   I   I   I        I   I 1 1   I9    2   2.0  2.  2.0 2.0 2.02.0 2.0 2.0 2.019.    1.0u1.0l .01   1.0l            M  I. u 1e 0 t.   9.0
WFIEi swm                PA        I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   1   9  2.5  2.5  2.5 2.5 2.  2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 22.5  1.3 1.3 .IJ            1.3 131.3 1.3 1.J I.3
PMINN                    PA        I   I   I   I   I   1   I   I   1    9  2.5  2.5  2.5 2.52.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 22.5  13              3 1.13 t.31.3 1*l 13 14    t-3 U11
9t-TW I;    MS EWII  1M                                                              13.3 133. 13.3  13.3 13.3 13.3 13. 13.3 19.7  6.7 67 6.? 6. 6.7 6.7 6.7 6.7 6.7 59
Teotl fr IMm  CT                                                                         15.J 46. 46.9 469 46.9 46. 46.9 464 46.9 31297  7.7 234 23.4 3.4 23.4 3.4 2.4 3.4       t94 1.9
=   -M  m    -    ma--- mm  OM   -  =m a       0 -      saw -  M      mm      m  a
Totebl127.W 116.3 -49 993 49.9 49.9 46.9 46.9 46. 625.2 43.9 3.2 24.9 44.7 24.9 249 234 3.4 3.4 311.6
h. iintssn    mic
re MtUK9 FIlLAS MIES
Fiww 2U  S90  1340



- 44-
PM-
UNA 3t  Ilanuttjm  bwettt  NIOWM O  taete)
us  I  2       1  4  * i   t I   t A I ct adI    I   I   4  1    7 t  I  9 t7lt
am-                         - Msw                        m       m ~      m       mm          
1.    - l
mirnniim t*t  atl                              *           a   'i. -n   us *                         u  t.  nstZ  
ImtIIIIWin              ml -IX**         * a a                      *                *  *  *          *3  * 1.
niUUit Wm              am       14  4  4  - . .  .            14    *74  19464.S    .         *  *. W4
FtA  Ull_ _m                                                            *aa  am.. uu us.,      *       621
2. wMad ama
WmNPVW Wm               a        I I                       2   34    .34  04   .-                    1.94
,I,, 1*1WIE                   * a II-                          19   -3    340 I- ..   .. 
mPat       -f ali                   a    *  *     --   * 2         *  34   3443           - -        344s t
_4t1 91L   111                             *W   35. 343                                            '''X 0'X4  * '  ''4 
Mt-rb*m*                -      2                       *  2 n34  364                                 -414
UWRlEhIlus NVS                 2                      .*1             42 4  12412414  ...  .54
3. .__ 
mfttd  11 1                    Is                          Itt                                       Itt Wu   -*11
m_i=                    36w VW  t  2                                a m 2  3  -   3  3 4  ** 54 4   -  * -4
_ mlwwwl                 m    2 24 2       4 2"N44                               t4 a444   .  .  . _4
WTICId CM=/a  4  34tU                                              S  .* Om  am4am            * .   . 4
4 -.1tlOM WAN             BP    2 2   1 *       3  . . . I t    X   I" %A   4 I" IS Nu   .  .  .O
: w                       "1 owm  VI P    * I  I 3  3    - 14     a 1  4 .   4 *e .   IN   X.  -  -      4
.I I -    P                           I      Ia                      14 -  a    - 2L  34343434   .  .   .34
I    f/it                  1             U  tt 12  . . . 4- O.    *4  1        4 144 044. VA  .  .  .44
2*-TddNM                                                         04a3  22      =A W
uFU3 S1M,lWt              3m    221.                               S  14-334. t
M .M1 iaU
3.walWt imt WIIT                   X                                      "A   I"   .  .  .  .  .  . -"
iift    _                   0    Xt1---              t             114 N4  tl4 *    -----
a    1212ta1to   " WA WA ...   .   . =                                .  . _
te IN      3d              2p4 4    4 3.                                       WA  .  .  .  .  ..
11-~~~~ tlt
L.inu
KNMW           FIi      2431   -  7  777           3    7,   -14 I 34 *.*.3.*.*.3.4M
co=U a a   m              PA      It 60        In 141      41          43   54 OM Nd Nd  .d .6 .4 4
t_-e    1                                                              WA4 MA U3 U3 -34 SW   .  .  . -t UA--
L,. fw a'm
I I03 WV                          a477 7  7   7 7 7             6      1743   U.44144.4 414 60 441444 36
tm wc~                                       _-                                        am     l     l t tm^  ^ bt -*4#
41m wm                    13    a 4 71  7  7 7 I I a9   44  343A2  4444146544614 NA44.HA 564
Wm                                      v  a W    a 1    *  1 *   37* 41 t  I    - LI  64  . 4  43 43 44   ?1/t4
lgml                      tI  I  I  I I I I N                         Le I"  v* V4 *  Mt44 VA4 t4 P4 IF4 VA tP4
No                              a 3611  1t    24   7  7 I I I a             4           U434   so$ 4rt it &I 4   D   v,$
361                       13    247777777 , "3                   4   tat 1    4 . 4  4       .  .141414
3-ted  -    nim                                                        3.2            tt-LI 3.71676.3673.3371
on I   P I~~~~                                       - SU  SU MA VA 343.9.464 .44  -   4
I_34 $tt  -                                                                Lt2  14149.4 94 ,4 94 14 -4
tdd llitaw=l cm                tl4 I                                               4 =l M   "   AmmN Jbow
TM                                                                           gm 1^40  tUM4                7# td
to R"tlI   MTI            Iwmmfw~                         m=m       mmmm
'sm uinuiwmwigruiwwsum    m m                                           u     i uw.n .
F*m Do  Fun12*3
hOM _MM OMI lt1t_t4 _



- 45 -
6.4ltw                           3 * bsti
~~~~~~~~~~~~*At 
366  tI 34 t              3  1 A9tu*al  1   3   3* I              9Iu
*~~~ --                       --      --       -S                       -  -  e5  m  _  mm .  __
4UItI                  UN    1**                   *  143-  4    *  -*36 -   Jl
t*4
M4SUh      1l4                                                          -IlS-5
_~~~~~f                2 .. . . . . . . .    2 40  0.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
WM      t 2w S.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . *A
C.    I law
on Raw "M - to                2 Ut2 .- .-   -  - . . a *   I                          - .  .  . 
am 43*3               3W   U   2 2   2 a    *           a  am4  1* 3 U4  1 *4
_1_ti M  ,   - PC           I I    . . 2              A  a   "  V4  .  .  . 3"
Imms1=m3               5 1    2 -a               * I        U U   a*  44   -4  .  .      * . t.N
goo       m $M v                       ----                          *---                   MA
URiiWWJ z     S   0   3 t2   3   &  .   .   . . t  a   t4 MA4           .  .  .  .  ..  .M"
goo- Ma                              . . . .  ...  S3     l43 g    . . .  .     ..  . am
i/_ t I A        No    - I - I - I - t  -  3 a                     SU        tu   .  .  . 
=M =uM                MM    I         I=I . *   *  *  -           -              * .         4
usaumim,iVnMu,. .. .  .  . .   ,i.                          ..          ....    .  . A
9*5W 31363,5615                                              344 4    444464   54  .  .  . M"-
FM""           _          is   1 i s i -        * -   D      #.     L s                  .  ta4
wn A                  gas   * I aa a a *         - -    M5       ,4   U.3    .        * . . *"
.IAIS _            u3t6**               ww-                 4   -             -       * -5m
ytiium aiM                           .   .. ..       .4 34   .  .4 .1   .  .4  .  .  . OM
g.10o5033.    MI.13
md     cm                          _ou   tAJt mt "Li *  -                          - t -    -- *m-
twoini a m
Wb,~~ a 
IW           IS    11       11      11         334 &4Ls144413
amM _   V                                                  24 1      4 M4  4  41 4O
Wu              N
Wm M                  1    2 1    1   7 1 7            M     .   34 O444444   344 &I  r.
36.Taj 631 aM O                                              34  M. 3.1 M. Si* $LS Us a.s 3.1 04
UhsUaguumam      S   2M     2 2         2 2 2 a  S  44  444   4444444    164 ...   Os
04  0470.4944904    9 .6O  4946 "4
-~~                                                       
Idal im                                                     128.3 314 314 34 Uhl 31 MA 31 04 1.*3.9
54 d_t""WlleI                                               2.54 A    a4 U4 *M 54 U4 a4 34 63.
WM  e I Sa   cm  sws-                              mmam     m m        mm
Aom MUE 118 we
U. MU 1314 ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    A  M    OL  A U3H   U  UM
Idd                                                                mow  UL qt4   tS   t   t2t4 #S   t2t mot2mt
ut~~                                             ~    ~~~~~ - -   -- __
2, 34S MA 5 M 9t2t4 t42h 31444 M IM4
Vb W 4LnZ
dt U _~~~~~ --------- ,
Nu- tmin   4U1aumm      . Wo                                                  tWt
tUd wig----I"  _ _
A UUmmmmuusmm.ssgm.~94 QIA2stp 1 25 
h   =11h9 1L              ^           _   W 
h ISUN 1183 aIZ"5
h sus        z            s    m  unim  mm
PdwtM 5469 5324



- 46 -
LIISOTIIO
LMD MAACt    AMD COUSEVATlON PSOJECT
TALK St  Institutiosl Support: 31A - Districts, Resource mnmseoat Working Group
34dt   1    2    J    4  5    6  7    9    e  TOW llt bn        I   2    3    4   t   6         7   *   *  T3el
1. LImE
s£nhORSTMIbfEI                      6Eo       -     12                      -       3      ?1.5        44.05 la.    .                           2 .    .     . - 14.5
.UIURiFUIITMPUU                        N      .   1   4   6       -        -               7       - 17.1   70.0 .15,-            -   -        2W9.5
UfllfI                              >EE       -    1  2   -    -    -    -    -    -   J     9    - 9.06 e                                       2. 0
5*20311 LIU~~~~~~~~~~S   - ~ ~                                                9t.0  231, e0. 305 le.9    *   -         
2. FWNUI N
s)s1          s W                             - m         -   -    -    -    -    -   2    S.5    - 69J   S9t   -           -     -    -    -    -
UMSotINS                             lEN     .-   I   1   4 4      -    -   -    -   12     22    - 22.0  66.06.se.0    -    -   -   -244.0
711 3                                E1a          I   I  -    -    -    -    -    -   2    11.5    - 115                 -    -   -              25.0
9*-rd FOWIU  - 3                                                                                      .   .  167.0 SS.0 -6.               -   - *4.
1.mrm WANu
SPIN*T  61                          E1        2                                - -    -  2    121.  243-0      -        -    -    -    -     -    -  24
163n975      W m                     to       2   4   4   4   4   -   -      -        -6 136.0 2.  272.02 m.e .              -   -   -   -124.0
II1l                                tAo      2   4   4   4   4      - -           1        16 32.0 64.0  64.0 64.0 6 0-    *                   n
rtih-to    ltW 1651 19413                                                                         413.0 336.0  36.0 21.0 336.0          -*   - 1.75.0
~-tab  CPAL  m a                                                                                   411.0 W5.0  734  51. 52W.0    -   -    -   - 270.40
46516T1m                               LOW      2   2   3   2   2   3   -   -   -   14         25  50. .0 24    75.0 30.0  0.0 5.0 -   -       - 7.
1111b                                  faW      -1  3   6            10   -  -   -   e          6o - .o   24.0 46e 0640 o0.0    -           -    -  2 Me
mm it                                  EM       -  2  6 1       14 1 4   --           47      0.5    -  .0    3.0  .7.0  .40    -           -  2   23.5
b-tTotsl    LW1W                                                                                   7 .0  5 s4     .        ,-532 4    -    --    1 9.$
FMI 91w1 nwit                           Vt   2 2 3  - -                                7   2.5  .0 5.0  7.5- -1 - 
CeW_WIUIT                               ST      2   2   3   -   -                     7       6.5  13.0 U330   19.5                              . W
gm l¢   HI E                            Vr      2   2   3                              7      1.-  13.0  30    4.5                .                  .5
KM  mW   2 2 3 - - - - - -                                                                      o M            3 o s.  . .       .           . . .  5S
_ u V  DI                                UT     2   2   3   -    -   -    -    -    -   7       2   4.0  4.0   6.0    -    -             -     -    - 0
cam                                     U7      2   2   3   -    -   -                         1 -    -      t3o . 0 . 04.0    -    -    -    -     -    -
Pm - 0  , AUI                          0 -      -2 61 3414    --- 7                           0.3       -6      O 33.3 4*.2 4.2    ---   4.         3
*-Tot al                                                                                           u6.0 626   4.6  L33  42  4.2    -   -            M 23.1
I no aw cum                                                                                         neo Met V  MSe 44 U.2  ..-  -  -                .
mI ruM             UIK PA              9P       2   4   7   7   7   ?   7   7   7   t         17  34.0 66  l.0  33919.01lit03Alth0119.0 Met119.0  "3.
a13                                    PA       2   4   7   7   7   I   7   7   I   5             12.0 244   42.0 42.04 3,.0 .0 42@ 4.0 e           40
0d E           S      E                                                                            4.0 92.0  1. e4 16.  6.0 6.0 3.                    e 1.0 12.
4a111                                  PA      2  4    7         7 7    7 7  7  7   5        6J  12.6 25.2   44. 44.14. 44.1 44.t 4.3 44.1 3.5
UIUCIUE4                                        -   1   4  It  V  222   222120               1,.    - 1.4    5.6 140 23.3  .6A 3       3. 6      166 AA  .0
N4      -2   6 19  3n       45  45  4   242            1    -  2.0    6.0 1.03   4 .0 6.    0 450 45.0 22.0
UF3WU                                  PA       2   4   77    7  I           7   75a         2    se5  t1.e   17.5 t.5t 7174  v 17,17.53  .5  137.1
M-Tal mmW     lM i    1M 7.6 3                                                                                  75.2 VA 411    4  7  .4 3 .-4373.4  09.0
EUn Nam                                             - -             -            -                   -    3    w  .7 T0 1.   15.9 1   15.    -  U44
hatOJ  513WhIDUK                                                                                       * 32.3  36.  21.0 1593.91.  sl.9    -   14
I mo       a6m                                                                                      a1.6 1t4.9  3. 277.6 J. 3143 314.3 314.3 .4 227
_ - _ - m.m m  m -
NMh Ql.5 ltIJ U. 90.1 41e*3  31.3 4 J^.J S Ks
-   mm mm    
MM 1           FOR 615 IM  LO I661 S1  RMil  w911a3MMW lIN? 5231357v5. 366075  MM  UUU113               33M55OK17mm  IML 51  1           113am   M  a" a
- lEU 
MMN  3UfB    16 1tV13 I RP 1W I tWirA l. IJI           CM  FO11R NMU.
we          3n346



- 47 -
LO
LADMANDEN AMD COIUVA2ION PROJEC
TABLE 6t   IVlpltmutatUi    Cost for Inictive comV                   ity  1Reso e
PAnagement ?lan tu the Lowland (ARZ-A)-
Laud:     anira      laSO na      ;op .4hatnt          4050 14 YCO  etb  1010 inhattats San)
ranp        30 h         Wlatien denty:t    S1  r s4. ke.
lvesk ha    Uv     on ita        2020
hentity                                   Cost 1"? 11OS
unit Cot                                                                                         FE         fE
tes llait          N1100         1       2        3       4                 1       2       3        4             hercet   Cot
otatl                                     Total
IOfrasttrattms
kcs rob                 I       kg            3.5                2       4                       0.0      7.0    14.0      0.0    21.0           40     3.4
ete hvpply (all/lpue) 2                       7.0                1        1                2     0.0      7.0     7.0  0 .0    14.0              0      7.0
wting hals              3       en            9.0                1                         1     0.0      9.0     0.0      0.0     9.0          201    1.3
bson"ryd c.             4        o km         0.1       3        3                         *     0.3      0.3     0.0      0.0     0.4           70t    0.4
kb-o                                                                                           0.3    23.3    21.0       0.0    4.4                  I.
Fencing                 5       km            1.5               10       11               21     0.0    15.0    1.5        0.0 o   1.5           70M   22.1
scorts                  6                     0.7                4                         4     0.0      2.3     0.0      0.0     2.0           IOt    0.3
-w=tel                                                                                         0.0    17.6    I.S        0.0    34.3                 22.3
-Croplaid:
Fecing                  7       ke            1.5               10       10               20     0.0    15.0    15.0       0.0    30.            70   21.0
cofal garden            S       /villa"       3.4                2       2                 4     0.0      4.3     L.I      0.0    13.S           d5i    a.
kb-total                                                                                       0.0    21.3    21n.       0.0    43.4                 29.3
Ibreeds                 9        clustar      7.7                I                         1     0.0      7.7     0.0      0.0     7.7           40    3.1
Est lisbe              10       ha            1.0               12       IS      is       40     0.0    120    U.0    15.0    40.0                        O 2.0
kb-0tota                                                                                       0.0    19.7    1L0       15.0    47.7                  L1
evatio rks                t       ha            7.0                1       1        2       4      0.0     7.0      7.0    14.0      .0            0 10.0
allw
etetl AlIenated                                                                                    0.3 O    9.6    79.3    29.0   1t932                  74.9
alected  10Ut                                                                                      0.0     9.0      7.9      2.9    19.3                  7.5
MATL Do3 CmT                                                                                       0.3    9.4    97.2    31.9   218.0            3. 01 32.4
fstal Cotipec   3                                                                                  0.0    14.3    13.1       4.1    327
bta
1. BUM   e eatisl ro   d ty  10   /  be e ssrNke      5i aire       timn ts efor vegwg 30  " rn    h3 s  d mo g # cofs roei  mele
A1lew      e 4 ha ef aitiol me  reed to lint sith misting netwi.
2. _ee   ued  fer 1 ater point  ry 5 ha (m S "be asn  401 Area   swistieg  theor reoirlI m  point pr 4170 ha
3. Illoe    r t  etig "    ell w l    ste of fdd r villas
4. Villap bo_deie  to be ewked 1stoealeb  at 400 a isteals
L. kWd e fing 10t d ragnd
6.   llene    fer I neut per villg  to ir    crop rsie   _gspnt
7.  aIh    e fencing 201 of rable lend
3.  Mlmm, fer I coma) garde  (fence  per villop
9. Allone   for 1 nrry or   de
10. esss the plating et of tre apac    en 10 la w  villap, tdodidg deWre  es
11. Off-fee conevatio   _mr  (stoe drain, 1 liew   e of lly pr 1500 be)



- 48 -
LOJO NMIWI m  c       ancu Pu                                                (
Lef.t M1..                                         5190 14       0th 010 loltts WI
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~tlk
ertc.                          lemy    iii h        ':                                   7                       i 1 
letd Odi in         1    U.S  14                                                                               0
9~~~~~~W                gai b                         2t      3 t1           21     O g                                   F: t  t  t'  
Imfragtruct U m)           a7.0                          i                                     -:    -t       -:     1-1
upX ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 7.   jl.'  *1M
i guZ   8t  talW   tX                2       2              tX    geo    t8°    to        H gg     .2
-tol                                                                                   0.0    17.0l l          0.0 16.                2.3
*   ~                     . 4   
26.7
hb-'-_ta1          10                                                                          16.0  __   - .-U.   X  21  M0     Al k 83o
7.?             16                              .      37    2.
&abtul                                                                                         20.0           24.0    47.? .             6L1
Cowatossort            tt      is           7.*              1       2    ..2        1     0.0    7.0  .14.0    14.0   3LO             0     LO
daii
tal Iluctd                                                                                         9 .7   101.2    3     23.?.
;IMaocta  ;:ozi                                                                                   10 *ot l.0   10.1    i.e    ii.           __
MulL  *a                                                                                  U0   10.7Y  111.4   41.8  213.3  *           XW   37.
sIeal  ~l.p7  2                                                                            0*.0   16.5   16.7    6.3   39.5
ntu.
a  f .tom  qriga814b   lmCKS       .ini
*II  .r~d !I             I                                        ntUtt  Ibi|*o f9 ur *o Irqurl  1 m  pta pw  1  ha 
;02r         a-{}  p~~1ru.rr                a 11ena. n
I,f..aaaJ~  .                           Uta. ,     ,*



- 49 -
Table It    emu         ot "I I'l"cativ       nty  _tco
iInague  tln anm the Nhn~ at  ll-C)i
Londi   rdb'#        30 ha        ',pglatlona          4290 14        uit 107 iabltmnts #nl
T r;.,t      n21  ha      PopltIdtie   ity        3 per q. b.
*tl      4,,,m *    t  b      U          rt uta
Totst 13      8120ha                   totestosopmlsq. 761
Osot 19073.00
lates _e it _                    1       2        3       4                1        2       3        4             PUcltt    cut
Total                                     Totil
kcets 'ade              I       Ft            7.0                4       6               It      0.0    24 j.0            9.0    70.0          40    23.0
Nater Stl  (/pop)                 3 .5 1                                 1                2      ° 0.0                    0.0      7.0          0      3.5
ata tigas                  o a           1501                                                                         11. g.  .  .04    15,0  L0o3
.onaY doew.             4       10ke          0.1       3      4.5                               0.      lis      0.0     0.0      0.3         71,   0.5
btous                                                                                         0.3    47.0    4.5        0.0    92.                 35. .0
Rangoland:
F'ci';                 S       to            1.5               10      13       16      39      0.0     Io0      9.     24.0      4.3         701   41.0
OUcarta                 6      H              0.7                4                -       4      0.0     2.8      e.o     0.0      2.3         10S    0.3
S*-setot                                                                                       0.0    t7.0    19.1    24.0       1.3                41.2
oplahndz
,Venl'q                 7       to            1.5               t3                                . 16  0.0  1.  10        07 24.0                    16.
foda garden             8       Jvitlag       3.4                2       2                4      0.0     6.0 6.3          &I                   62 36.3
Si-total                                                                                       0.0    13.3    1.3       0.0    37.6                 25.b
Iqro4oreetryt
rurin                   9       Icluster      7.7                                                L I  0.8  7.7    0.0     0.0      7.7         4       3.1
fttai.     t           to       ha            1.0                6       I        7      2       0.0     6.0      7.0     7.0    20.0            2    1.0
kaa-otul                                                                                       0.0    13.       7.0     7.0    27.7                  4.1
CnslovatHon arks         11      te             7.0                1       1        1       3      0.0     7.0      7.0     7.0    21.0           Ot    0.0
Total Wtated                                                                                       0.3   104.3    97.3    n.0   240.4                  106.0
l"laste  101)                                                                                     0.0    10.4      9.8     3.3    24.0                 10.6
TIM so                                                                                             0 O.3   1Z4.7   107.6    41.3   26.4        ".m   116.6
Physical toettiqeny to1                                                                            0.0    17.2    1.l       6.      39.7
L'. iatvedooptieal roaddniyo  0slgh  suo    ardy awt#Uthereforn requirt" 36alqk to   me mmco  roudi anabe
aCa.ance of I km of                          wha aemlg  3 aleadotom*           tonu  rgilg  a    on pr30h
2. ?m# a lonee fort I uater-t'nnto ta    mpntW30h
3. 1;awace for 1 mutqhl  e  lstro  orvlae
4. 7tPlag  boundarie to Dowh    stoalat)a  0    nevl
3. Ba sda isfeclu  2020  r  asead
6. A!'nuenwco for I agcart prvlaet  orv  rprsdeeqss
7. bud             202ria       of s.r    ln
t     %         s s:  I a on           d      Ai
- *-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .l
4. '. o'mp  forl   teI    *reIteFh      o     e
70.   uss te Patig                                 r villt ieclod            a r m
41.   -iars conswvUa msern   wstrer drans, 11           ha      ly pr      h



LESOTH0
LAID  MIIT  AD COIIlII POJECT
Table 9: lpleetatimn Cost for Indicative   _e Brazing
Nllamaget Plea in the  Notaim  (AEZ-0)
Total odel area      400 ha I    Livestock uits:  Sasonal
hantity                                     Cost 1987 11000
Unit Cost                                                                                           FE        FE
Otes   Unit         31  00        1        2        3       4                 1        2        3       4              Percent  Cost
Total                                       Total
Ragelaud:
Fnting                   I       km             1.5                9       10       10       29      0.0    13.5    15.0    15.0    43.5             70M    30.5
Sub-total                                                                                          0.0    13.5    15.0    15.0    43.5                    30.5
Total Allocated                                                                                       0.0    13.5    15.0    15.0    43.5                    30.5
Unalloated (O1)                                                                                        0.0     1.4      1.5      1.5      4.4                 3.0
TMTA LBC COST                                                                                          0.0    14.9    16.5    16.5    47.9           70.02   33.5
Physital Contingency 152                                                                               0.0     2.2      2.5      2.5      7.2
Notes:
1. Based on uisting Braing Asociation Area



- 51 -
LBOM
LM SWAM          13 OUSUAOnf PRMW
1AL 10: Iwlmeuttio  Cost for Ilaetiv. Coemglty Grem
IPIA In the SOu  ives Valle  (hAZl-)
Uani    arabl        7o ha       Padatimt             U470      S at 2it  0 la"  bI itite Oak)
rasp       lE  h          o4tios diity:         0  w  ag. ka.
Iotali o ea         9340 hi      tim t unts:          3120
lntity                                    cost  1m  I'
bit ct                                                                                          E        F
Not"   unit         1010        1        2       3       4                I        2       3'      4             Ptr=     tat
Total                                    TOWa
Iufrastructures
kcms rads               I      kh            4.7                4       4               10     0.0    19.8    2L2        0.9    47.0         402   1L9
Eatrs Su y tolIPap) 2                        7 l.0              I       1                2     0.0      7.0     7.0     0.0    14.0          50      7.
at $s0l wial                   m             3.5                1                        1     0.0      3.5     0.0     0.0      3S          U       1.L
Ihati  hadls            3       a           11.0                1                        1     0.0    11.0      0.0     0.0    11.0          201    2.2
madary u_t.             4      10 k          0.1       4        4                        8     0.4      0.4     0.0     0.0      0.9         701    0.4
SI-totl                                                                                      04      0.7   352         0.0    74.3                30.3
Fuscig                 S      kb            1.5               12      14       14      42     0.o    19.0    21.0    24.0       S0          70144.1
ucrts                   4      a             0.L                4                        4     0.0      2.9     0.0     0.0      2.9         la     0.3
Itotd                                                                                        0.0      0.#    2l.0    24.0    U.1                  44.4
Craplads
Fancin                  7      kb            1.5                5       9               17     0.0    12.0    13.       0.0    2L5           74   17.9
cm"lg dm                S      Ivillop       3.4                2       2                4     0.0  L.9   O.5           0.0    13.4          45    .9
kb-tota                                                 .                                     0.0    19.9    20.3      0.0    39.1                27
Agro-Farestryt
rnait                   9       kclusr       7.7                I                        1     0.0      7.1     0.0     0.0      7.7         401     l
Fstabliskat            10      ha            1.0               14      20      24       40     0.0    16.0    20.0    24.0       0.0          a2    3O
o-total                                                                                      0.0    23.7    20.0    24.0    47.7                   L1
Cusuwatiln uu s          It       i            7.0               2        3       4       t      0.0    24.0    21.0    J.0    3.O             02    0.0
alle
Totd allat                                                                                       0.4   11.    117.5    7.    311.9                  107.5
haloatid (10V                                                                                    0.0    11.0    11.0      7.*    31.2                10.?
TOTU Bo  cm                                                                                      0.4   129.3   129.3    I.    34.1            WU   119.2
Pyital Catilgy 10                                                                                0.1    19.5    1.4    12.5    1.5
1.  I"   aoaptial road dsity of U  aqt ks  iqg 201 adray nistiig  thao   reiriqg 0 aug ki of -    -s read; mid
alnauof6*h  t4 auitimlada  roat,aeaIbmiUt qootnt .
2.  aIul  ad fdr I eat  piett    y S   125100 ha) _ gg 15 are    mist til           afwro requdring I _  post pa VW  ha
3. Alle  f  I tastoag  all wr dest  of fir vil1as
4. Villap bm_wrln to be id ristowathl A uo  a Itavds
L. kWd    a fidg 201 of riplud
L.  llnu         fr I mact Wpr villap to I1m  erop rod. napat
7. _ad a aIsg2l M of ahlo Ind
S. 31mm  for I cta            gad. (faid) wr villa
9.  1aml   . far I     ypr idol
10.  _ma the Platin   out of trw  pcis m     IS a    par ha W  i llp,    didWng Ir I.
11. Off-faa couwvatiu mo sn Iitwg drdn, I           l i  kmof oll pr W10   ha



- 52 -
LESOTHO
LA:1D MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Table 11: Phasing and Implementation Costs for 47
Community Resource Management Plans in 7 Districts
PeoJ.0"Y.                                                   a ,  3    4      a       6       7        0          TOT 
ltiltriot 
2~~~~~~~
4~~~~~~~
1~~~~~~
8sgb^AeI               47               1       4       7        7       I       7        I       7
pIala. g.g,.ag. ('l&u. of aft)                      I       I       U       14      14                               47
sc t i   0110910
faWapI,jp.ei              a~~~~~~~~ a                                       *
5                                       24      34 1     4 1      4
0                                               14       14 4   #4
Zqi.nosasteft.~    CgO
n  C        I             0.8   14.7   17.6    41.6                                       51W.4
An  a       1             0.4   19.6   199.8   91.0                                       34.1
&A-6641       1              0.7   14.6    6.9    1.4           0       0       0        0      .37
11~~~~~~~~ -                                                                             -      -        -   .  4. @t.
Nt ..    aft            AM  A      I                      0.6   197.1   144    63.9                               43611.0
C                             0.6    M.    918. O6.6                                  M6.0
a                               0    14.9    1.       1.                               47.9
It                            0.4  :111.6   1.        91.A                             86.1
6th-tubS      0                0     1.60    n.8   96.4   167.5         0       0        0   _ 61.0
Nut4 I .                AU  A      4                               1.1 * 064.4   8.    11.                        67.0
a      I                              0.0    19.4    M         6.60                    MA.
C      2                              0.0    MA.4    15.3      6.                      M.0
o     t                                 0    1.6    83.       66.0                     96.6
a      1                              0.4   119.0   11.8 :     6.4                    811.1
Sub-646.5    11                0       0     2.0  1666.    94.1   4314          0        0  560111.1
__-                                            -- o.o    -.   .      ao
Next 4 of               AU  A                                              1.0   89.    36.1   191.4             186.0
a                                          0.9   561      641    1311.4           78.6
I                                          0.9   364   938.1    96.61             56.111
0W1    14              0        0       0       0      a.     6     .0   0             95.0
a      1                                      0.4   13.:   23.8    l 96.6             $84.1
Saib-te_   e4                  0       0       0      8.7  1.7  114.9    8W7             0 4n 66.&
Msht 14 EWe             M   A       6                                              1.0 816 S      56.1M  191.4  286.0
6wl  C"bi  O  4                                        1.2   410.6   448.0   147.1  163.9
C      1                                               0.0   16.4   28.1    96.6    M6
0C1                                            *.      0.0    29.6    96.      1.0    96.6
.646s5  14           0      ~~       ~~      ~~0  0  0  8.0 13.6   1 1174  M  475.11  21965.4
MOAL OMS COST                                     0.7   146.1   031.0  157.8  1669M      16.0 9111784%?.0   478.1 14810.1
phy,sleaI csatolge..p (uB                         0.1    58.9   I11.    10.1   876.8   446.4   386.1    71.8  385.0
A LMA                  Lm.Pme4
O   _   t4IIIe                   64       9
C  64- bols  '0viIIse.rn.)       as       9
J aetteamer    Sse         A        7 I/
£t so"" Bwt  Yolk1s              66       4
Tebl                        690     47
1.  1w1          vae     ..sml .



- 53 -
LESOTHO
LAND fANAJIENt AND CON8ERVATION PRMJECT
TABLE  12:   Unit Costs
--- F.E.-         -Financing %--
Unit              Total Cost                    Local   Central
Unit    Cost N   uantity 11  N'000        2     Cost N   Conn.    Govt.
1. BUILDINGS
a. Lowlands t AEZ-A)
Housing                  sq a
Senior                  sq a        650.0      110        71.5       302    21.5               1002
tntnudiate              sq 0        500.0       80        40.0       301    12.0               1002
Junior/Fiuld            sq a        350.0       50        17.5       302     5.3               IO00
Office/Store             sq a        600.0       l5         9.0       301     2.7               1002
Heotinq Hill             sq a        350.0       25         8.9       202     1.8       102      90l
b. Foothills (AE-B,E, and Sengu
- - - - River Valley)
lluing                   sq a
Senior                  sq a        812.5      110        99.4       302    26.8               1OOS
Intermdiate             sq a        625.0       80        50.0       302    15.0               1002
Juniar/Field            sq a        437.5       50        21.9       302     6.6              I1OS
Office/Store             sq a        750.0       15        11.3       301     3.4               1012
Wleting Hall             sq *        437.5       25        10.9       202     2.2       102      902
c. ountains (AEZ-C)
Housing                  Sq a
Senior                  sq a       1105.0      11o       121.6       302    36.5               1002
Intwaadiata             sq o        950.0       10        6.0        30Z   20.4                1002
Junior/Field            sq *        595.0       50        29.9       302    9.9                0OO2
Office/Store             sq *       1020.0       15        15.3       302     4.6               1002
Weeting Hall             sq a        595.0       25        14.9       201     3.0       102      90t
1. ACCESS ROAD (kg)
a. Lowlnds MEN-)
lao'                     day            5^       00      30QQ.0
ng p                    ou           a      6I         75.0
Sub-Total                                              3075.0
Tools I Equipmnt               12                         461.3
TOTAL COSTII(N                                         3536.3
RMIUIDETO                                              3500.0       402  1400.0       202      902



- 54 -
TABLE  12:   Unit Costs  (Continued)
b. Foothills (AEZ-8 and E)
.  , .... .
Labor                    day             5      800      4000.0
Drainage                 allow          85        1        95.0
Sub-Total                                              4095.0
Tools tI Equipuent             15X                        612.8
TOTAL COSTIKW                                          4697.9
ROWUDED TO                                             4700.0       40D  1880.0       202      90Z
C. ountains (AEZ-C)
Labor                     day             5     1200      6000.0
Drainage                 allow         100        1       100.0
Sub-Total                                               6100.0
Tools I Equipment               15Z                        915.0
TOTAL COSTIKN                                            7015.0
R EUNED TO                                               7 ?000.0     40Z  2900.0       20Z      SO0
III.  VATER SUPPLY
A. Borehole
Dorehoielhaadpuup sitingallow                            350.0
Construction/drilling   allow                           3300.0
Equipmont/works         allow                           1200.0
Labor                   day             5      200      1000.0
Sub-total                                               50
Allowance for dry sites       20                        1170.0
TOTAL COST                                              7020.0
ROUNDED t0                                              7000.0       501  3500.0       201      802
b. Spring DOvelopueit
Noamry/construction    allow                            2250.0
Equiput/tools           allo                             750.0
Labor                   day             5       60       300.0
Sub-total                                              3300.0
Hand tools                     5l                        165.0
TOTAL COST                                              3465.0
ROUNDED tO                                              350O.0       152   525.0       601      401



- 55 -
TABLE 12:   Unit Costs  (Continued)
IV. BOUNDARY DEMARCATION
(10 kin)
Earthworku/stone      cu a          2.5        40       100.0      nil      nil       1OO%       07
V. FENCIN6 (per ka)
materials              allow                            1350.0
Labor                  days            5        20       100.0
TOTAL COST                                            1450.0
RDUNDED TO                                            1500.0       7C2  ,050.0        20?      80X
VI. COMMAL 6ARDENS
A.5 ha)
Fencing                 a              1.5      300       450.0
Pup                     la           2500         1      2500.0
Land preparation        days            5        75       375.0
TOTAL                                                     3325
ROUNDE  TO                                                3300       65?  2145.0        75?      252
Vil. NURSERY COSTS 11 HA)
(5000 se dlings/yr)
Storte                a              SO        12      1500.0
Fencing               a              1.5      400       600.0
Water supply          allow                            2500.0
Land preperation      days            5       250      1250.0
Tools and equipent   allow                             1500.0
TOTAL COST                                         7650.0
ROUNOEO TO                                         77006.-      40?  3060.0       10Z       90Z



- 56 -
TABLE 12: Unit Costs (Continued)
VIII. TREE ESTADLISHE
(I ha)
Labor                days           5       90       450.0
Snsdlings            la          0.15    2000        300.0
Fntcing on 50        a             1.5     200       300.0
TOTL COST                                         1050.0
RUNDD TO                                          1000.0       52   50.0        502     501
11. CiSRYVATIN WOS
(I linear  )
Sully control/check dm
Labw                   days           5    1000       5000.0
Tools and utrials            15X                       750.0
Storwlcut off drains
Labor                  days           5      250.    1250.O
TOTAL COT                                           7000.0
Notes:
1. Includn Snqu Rivr Valley



- 57 -
LESOTHO
LAND AMGEMEIT AID CONSERVATION PROJECT
TABLE 13: Financing Plan by Category of Expenditure
(US$ '000)
SGOUn OF
IDA           LESOTHO         Total
Local (Excl  Duties I
Aount    I    Awont    I        Amount    Z    For, Ewh.      Ta)         TM$
A. CIlE NM!                     3.099.8 100.0       0.0   0.0   3.099,8  15.3        865.8       2t233.?         -
a. VEHICLES                      1420.8 100.0         -     - 1,420.8   7.0          ?78.7         642.1
c. EMUIET                         247.2 100.0       0.0   0.0     247.2   1.2        11O.?         136.5         -
0. TEMICIL ASSISTNMCE          1U0423  34.7  1,963.3  65.3   3.005,   14.9        2969,3           3.3           -
E. TRAINI l SANDIE                795.8 100.0         -     -       795.6    3.9      74.6         721.3         -
F. SMAI*IE  / ALLDMWEES               -      -  2,223.9 100.0   24223.?  11.0            -       24223.9         -
S. VEHICLE A   EDUIFIEWT 01N   2M094.4 100.0        0.0   0.0   2,094.4  10.4      1.065.       1,026.5         -
N. DUILIINS 01                    135.1 100.0      0.0   0.0     135S1   0.7          6,1         120.9         -
I. ESIJURE NISEENEWT PLMN       7.188,1 100.0       0.0   0,0  7,168.1  35.6      2t786*8       46401.3          -
Total Disbwsuunt                 16.023,5  79.3  4p167.2  20.7 20P210#7 100.0        8.367,1     U11842.9          -
Fd rbvv 22. 1988  14S05



LESOTRD
LAND MNADIT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
TABLe 14: Sumary Accounts by Year
totoWs Ifloitdim CmUi,igwis                                               Toutls laludm Caltogmeie
(NLITI '000)                                                                (lBS '000)
1      2      3      4      S       6      7      8       9    Tol        1      2       3      4      S       6      7      8      9    Totl
Maz= zMm=         mmm                          mm                     ~mm ===
to DIESI -    Cam1
A. CWIL VICS                lt06   1.310,5 2.019.3 1 .3 1,49.3        -      -      -       - 7174.3   513.4  601*1 863.0  554.4  567.8          -      -      -       - 3.9.8
B. EHICLES                    448.2  255.9  472.5  806*2  594*6  952.5       -      -       - 3,429.9   224.1  117.4  201.9  329.1  231*4  316.9        -         -   - 1420.8
C. EWIPT                      159.2  139.1  200.4   20.5   12.4   13.3       -      -       -   545,0    79.6   63,8   35.7    9.4    4.9    4.9        -      -      -   24762
Do TEMICL AISt?INE          I.737,9 1456.2 1,256.1  754.1  759.1  03*4       -      -       - 6,84?77   WS .9  666.0  536.6  307.6  25.4  323.6         -      -      - 3,05.6
E. TRADII AIM STUEB         1.214.8  114.8  74.3   72.9   9.0  107l7         -      -       - 196)2*4   607.4   52.7   31.7   29.7   34.2   48.0        -      -      -   795.8
F. IESIltCE _AV JENT PUW         -    0.9  363.0 1,290,9 245i.6 49M17 5.815.9 3,6925 10.3 19,709*5          -    0.4  1.1  526.9 1111.1 1,71.91 202.4 1,251*7  362.3 7,13.1
Total I9WE9IENt COMSS          4.567.0 3,277,4 4.,5.7 4.303.0 5768.9 6479.5 5,815.9 3,692*5 1.066.8 39,378, 2,2935 1,503.4 I,874.2 17.3 22447 2,40. 20.4 1251.7  362*3 15757.3
II REm nE  COSTS
A. SALMIES/LOE               160.6  348.6  532.0   6*2  712.8  727  916.1  973.2  94*3 5,96.             0.3  160.0  2487  2719  27.4  283.5  299   296*0  316.7 2,223.9
B. WHICLE 1N EI1PN  0        159.5  258.2  431,9  53.1  664.4  M77  852.9  917.9  966*4 5,576.t    79.8  113.5  160.6  217.6  259.5  294.3  302.4  311.1  327.6 209"4.4
C. JUILIND 0t1"                 -   353   44,5   67,4   44.9   481   51.5   55,2'         -   347.0       -   16.2   19.0   27.5   17.5   17,9   18.3   19.7         -   135.1 
Total REDENT MMTS               320.1  642.3 1,058.512667 1,422.2 1602*5 1,720.5 1,46.2 1,900.7 117M9      160.0  294.6  452.3  517.0  553.4  595.7  610.1  62S  644.3 4.453.4
mm===mm= _===                                                                                    m =   = _ _           _ _=== m_== mm
Total PROJECt COStS             4,907.1 3,919.7 5,444.I S5,69.7 7t . 8,082.1 756.4 5538.7 2.969.6 51,1S.  2,453.5 1.7Y8.0 2,326.5 2273.*3 2.M.1 3004*5 2,6725 1977t.5 1006.6 204210.7
Fmbrui                                                   m  =3== _                              = _ _  ==:                                      == : _ _
Febur 22. 1998 14$05



- 59 -
LESOTHO
LAND MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
TABLE 15: Financing Plan by Summary Accounts
(US$ '000)
G6VERNElNT OF
IDA         LESOTHO        Total
Local (Excl. Duties I
Asunt   I   Aownt   I    Amount   2   For. Exch         TAeX")     Taxes
I. INESWTENT COSTS
A. CINIL VOWRS               3,09.9 100.0      0.0  0.0  3,099.8 15.3        865.8      2Y233.9
D. VEHICLES                  1,420.9 100.0       -    -  1,420.8  7.0        778.7        642.1        -
C. EQUIPN                      247.2 100.0     0.0  0.0    247,2  1.2        110,7        136.5        -
n, TECDNICAL ASSISTAE        1.O42,3 34,7 1#963,3 65.3  3,O05,6 14.9    2.679.3           326.3
E. TRAINING AND STUDIES        795.8 100.0       -    -    795.8  3.9         74.6        721*3        -
F. RESOURCE iAEH    PLN      79188,1 100.0   - 0.0  0.0  7M188O  35*6   2W786W         46401.3        -
Tota INEM N CS                 13m374.0 87.5 1,963,3 12*5 15757*3 7830    7,295.9          8t461.5
11, RECRREN COSTS
A. LtARIESLLOVNS                  -    - 2,223.9 100.0  2,223.9 11.0            -      2,223.9        -
s VEHICLE AND EIPMENT GIN  24094#4 100,0      0.0  0.0  29094*4 10.4    1,065,9        1.0Q2.5        -
C. BUILDINB OUI               135,1 100,0     0.0  0,0    135.1  0.7         6h1         128.9 
Total RECU T COSTS              29229,5 50.1 2t223#9 4.9  4,453.4 22.0    1,072.0          3,381.4        -
Total Disbuvunt                 16.023.5 79.3 4,187.2 20.7 20,210.7 100.0    8,367.8       11.842,9        -
=3333= 3:113   33131 33mans=                   -       usu.m.mu  mm=
Februav 22. 1989  14:05



- 60 -
LESOTHO
LAND MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
TABLE 16: Disbursement by Financier by Semester
(US$ '000)
IDA      LEYNO      Total
Aaont        AwOUnt  AmnO't
1          998.2        228,6 1U226.8
2           998.2       2284.  1.2264,8
3          628.2        270.8   999.0
4          628.2        270,8   89f.0
5           84.7        317,6  tlU6.3
6           845.7       317.6 1,163,3
7          868.8        267.9  1.136.?
0          868.8        267.9 19136,7
9         11124.1       275.0 1399.0
10         1,124,1       275.0 l13990
'i        1W2i9.6        2M2e7 1.502,2
12         1121906       292.7 1,502.2,
13         1.191,5       144.7 14336,2
14         1119165       144.7 1,336.2
15          79.8         148.0   930.8
6           70.8         148.0   933,8
17          345.0        158.4   503.3
18          345.0        158.4   503.3
Total           16o023.5      49187.2 20.210.7
FebnmAv 22. t9W 14S06



LESOTHO
LAND NANAG T AND CONSURVATION PRODJCT
TABLE 17: Financins Plan by ProJect Components
(US$   '000)
NUErIIET tF
IN          LESOTHO        Total
-    -   -" -ocal 1 b. xUMis a
burt   2        0a    2    hmont   2   For. xeh#    Ta.)         Taxes
A. NICARD WA RTES INBTI ILS                    219.4  345     MI.S 4.S    4099  2.0         139.6        270*4       -
Do NICARD DISTRICT INSTITUTIONAL SUR         3902.9 629    804.3 17.1  4,707.1 23.3    19725.4         2,991.7       -
C. PM IADOUARE/LU  INSTITUTII    SUR    1,724.8 42,9  2,299.5 57.1  4,023.3 19.9    2.699.?            14323.5
D. 1DA DISTRICT/RW  ItSTITUTIUINL SUPPORT    2PM9.3 77.0    694.0 23.0  3,662.2 19.2    1016.2         2MM66.0       -
E. RESRCE NA0001t PLAN IIIPNETATIO           7.160.1 1O.0      9.0 0.0  7,196.1  35.6    2,736.9       4401*3        -
Total Disbursmunt                             16,023*5 79.3  4.107*2 20.7 20.210*7 100,0    8,367#0     11 442.9       -             °t
Februm 22. 1M   14:05



- 62 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 10
The Land Resources
1. The Nature of the Land Resource
1.        Lesotho contains five agro-ecological zones (A through E) which
are distinguishable in terms of geology, slope, soil and climate (Map IBRD
20635, #3), and in terms of land use patterns for crop production and
grazing.    Table 1.1 summarizes these characteristics.  Over half the
total land area falls within Mountain zones C and D. Substantial tracts of
gentler topography are confined to the Lowlands (Zone A). Even there,
however, more than half the area is rockland or contains soils too shallow
for cultivation.
2.        Below about 1800 m (Zones A and E), rocks are predominantly
sandstone and grit with some areas of mudstone and shale. Basaltic lava
flows of the Drakensberg Beds occupy almost all land above 1800 m (Zones B,
C and D). These two parent material groups are radically different in
terms of topography, soil and susceptibiiity to erosion.
3.        The sandstones and grits at lower altitudes are frequently
massive and contain less nutrients. Soils are coarser in texture, less
fertile, much lower in aggregate stability and highly susceptible to
erosion. Frequent exposure through cultivation or heavy grazing leads to
surface soil crusting. This reduces permeability, and causes la eral run
off and sheet erosion. The basalt rock is generally friable and contains
high levels of nutrients. Medium to fine textured, fertile soils have
developed in the limited areas of the Mountains and Foothills where the
topography allows. These soils are normally freely permeable, and
relatively high levels of aggregate stability mean that they resist
erosion. Even in areas where soil cover has been removed, the friable
nature of the rock allows plant roots to penetrate and a vegetative cover
can become rapidly established. These characteristics of the basalt are
considered to account in large measure for the absence of catastrophic
levels of erosion in the Mountains.
4.        Almost all precipitation falls in the period October to April,
and amounts vary with altitude, as shown in Table 1.1. Substantial
proportions of annual rainfall occur as high intensity storms, often with
hail, particularly in the dry southern Lowlands and Foothills. Low
temperatures limit the crop growing season throughout Lesotho. In
addition, frost becomes a hazard of rapidly increasing severity above 2,000
a. Above 2,400 m, the growing season is too short for annual cropping and
Zone D is largely reserved for seasonal grazing by transhumant livestock.
5.        In spite of recent advances in land resource inventory, reliable
figures on the distribution of cultivable land at national, zonal and
district level are still not readily available in Lesotho. Estimates of



63               AlNE 1
Table 1.1
tijiigg 
4f         I t    n   *1 a
X    o  i  a   s11    i
:l  |   q   |p     I
S    <_}aga
dxl~~~~~~~ I3 IS I|| {
JJ1  Q Z           
"4        1  1}0i          1
j~~^ 
Ii]ti   I   I   ii
iiXa ,*.. 
|s~~i Ii 1 Q fl!
41! 1H Ui N2



- 64 -
Annex 1
Pag-e 2 f 10
cultivable land in Table 1.1 are derived from a variety of indicative
sourcesl/.
6.        Most cultivable land in the Lowlands lies on the lower and gentle
middle slopes of broad valleys (Table 1.2). In spite of the gentle slopes,
cropland is mixed with roughly equal areas of land which are uncropped
because of very shallow soil, sandstone rocklands or danger of erosion.
(Soils originating from sandstone are highly susceptible to erosion.) The
broad Lowland cultivated valleys are separated by steep-sided, often
flat-topped hills, dominated by very shallow soils and rockland supporting
poor quality rangeland.
Table 1.2: Percent Cropland Class
Slope Class                            0-19%   20-34X   351 and
Wabove
Lowlands                                 97        2      1
Foothills                                92       7       1
Mountains (village areas)                61      30       9
Source: Lesotho Census of Agriculture LAA, 1979
7.       In the Foothills and Mountains (Zones A and C), the frequency and
distribution of cultivable and uncultivable land differ. First, because
the topography in the mountains is much steeper; secondly, the basalt soils
of the mountains are more resistant to erosion.  Thirdly, much of the
basalt has a characteristic appearance resembling a series of steps where
quite substantial areas of gentler topography alternate with steep rockland
slopes, cliffs and escarpments. Within the areas of gentler topography,
the deeper cultivable soils are concentrated on concave slopes which are
often steeper than adjacent land with shallow uncultivable soils. This
characteristic of the basalt landscape means that cultivable land is
reasonably evenly distributed throughout Mountain Zone C, and there is
little discernible decline in density with increasing altitude up to the
2,400 m limit. This pattern of landscape and soils continues into Mountain
Zone D, but frost prevents normal cropping and the dominant land use is
seasonal sumo4r grazing. Maize planted in sheltered valleys often fails as
a source of grain, but provides valuable stover to feed livestock in winter
time.
1/ A number of broad land resource studies with mapping scales of
1:125,000 and 1:250,000 contain information on the general distribution
of landforms, soils and land suitability but they provide little
indication of the actual percentages of cultivable land occurring
within their mapped units. The Institute of Land Use Planning has
recently made significant progress in this field, but this work is not
yet complete.



- 65 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 10
8.        Almost all land which could be cultivated for annual food crops
is presently within the cultivation cycle. Important implications are:
(a)   there is limited scope for expanding the area under annual food
crops;
(b)   rangeland is being encroached upon by expanding settlement and,
to some extent, by cultivation2/;
(c)   the need to use every small parcel of cultivable land for
cropping has led to the development of intricate patterns of
cropped land and grazing areas which require careful sampling to
estimate the percentage area of each type;)/ and
(d)   the lowlands and the foothills (Zones A, B and E) are more
susceptible to erosion than the mountain areas (Zones C and D),
which are thinly covered by short (1-2 feet high) vegetation
species anchored in a shallow layer of soil and weathered rock.
2.   State of the Land Resource
9.        Concern over the adverse effects of land degradation in Lesotho
has been expressed since the early part of this century. In response, the
Government has continuously supported conservation programs since 1935,
with particular emphasis on structural,/ measures to combat soil erosion in
cropland. However, it is now generally accepted that these programs have
not succeeded in reducing erosion. Many structures have not been
maintained, and with increasing human and livestock populations,
degradation of the land resources has continued. This environmental
degradation has had serious ecological and economic effects in the form of
2/ Conflicting statistics and varying technology do not allow clear
quantification of rangeland encroachment by cultivation. The 1986
national census records 9 percent of Lesotho as cropped land. In
contrast, the USAID Land Conservation and Range Development (LCRD)
project range survey estimates 26 percent, and Combs and Hunter (1987)
have used this figure to present a picture of cropland expanding at the
expense of grazing land. Mission investigations suggest that 26
percent is an overestimate resulting from a generalised delineation of
cropped areas at the 1:50,000 mapping scale, and a failure to sample
actual cropland and non-cropland within these areas.
3/ ibid.
/ The term structural refers to measures which lead to a change in land
profile such as graded terraces. Structural measures (sometimes
referred to as mechanical or physical measures) usually involve the
movemeui$ of soil or stones, but may also arise from soil accumulation
due to grass buffer strips.



- 66 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 10
rapid siltation of reservoirs, diminished groundwater yields and
streamflows, and declining crop and range yields.
10.       Serious soil erosion occurs throughout the country as a result of
the erodibility of the soil types and steep slopes, high elevation,
intensity of rainfall and exploitative use of land through practices which
leave the soil unprotected from the erosive impact of intense rainfa11l.f/
Crop rotation is rarely practiced, while most crop residues are taken off
the land for fodder and most of the manure used as fuel, instead of being
incorporated into the soil. The most severely degraded areas in the
country are in the densely populated Lowlands, and the Senqu River Valley
(with notable examples in the areas of highly erodible 'duplex' soils6/, in
the vicinity of Mafeteng and Quthing).   In addition, sandstone-derived
soils both in the lowlands and Senqu River Valley give rise to serious,
though less dramatic gully erosion.
11.       The basalt derived soils of the foothills and mountains of
iesotho, though more resistant to erosion, are also subject to continuous
degradation, due in large part to poor vegetative coverage and relative
overstocking (estimated at 2.7 times the estimated carrying capacity).
Severe, but localized erosion, also takes place along stock routes, around
cattle enclosures, watering points and dip tanks.
12.       While gully erosion is visibly evident, sheet and rill erosion
are considered the dominant processes causing soil losses from both
cropland and range areas. Wind erosion is not well documented but also
occurs in the lowlands, being most severe in the Mahkaleng lowlands and the
dissected Molteno plains in the driest southwest part of the country.
13.       No erosion status inventory has been carried out for Lesotho to
indicate the extent, degree and distribution of erosion throughout the
country.7/ With a high population growth rate, conditions in the rural
areas are likely to become intolerable within *he next generation, and in
drought years, relief programs will become increasingly necessary if food
shortages are to be avoided. There are essentially two methods for dealing
#f Sheet and rill arosion are primarily a function of the temporal
relationships between rainfall erosivity and degree of ground cover.
6/ Claypan soils with a sharp differentiation between the A and B
horizons (Maseru, Sephula and Tsike series).
7 An assessment of erosion hazards in Lesotho is currently under
preparation by the Geography Department of the National University of
Lesotho (NUL), based on a combined assessment of factors Including
slope, soil erodibility, vegetative cover, rainfall intensity
(erosivity) and human influences. The preliminary map suggests that
the steep terrain of Lesotho has distorted the results, indicating the
greatest erosion hazards in the mountains - a revision of the
methodology, originally developed in Zimbabwe, is being considered.



- 67 -                     Annex I
Page 5 of 10
with the deteriorating situation - first by a reduction in human and
livestock population pressures through resettlement, family planning and
destocking and/or second, by an improvement in the productive capacity
through improved land utilization, in particular through proper range
management and animal husbandry.
3.   Present Land Use Patterns
Crops
14.       The Lowlands, Foothills and the Senqu River Valley show similar
crop ratios, with maize accounting for about half of cropped land, and
sorghum for a further 30 percent (see Table 1 of this Annex for details).
Wheat is more suited to Mountain Zone C while sorghum is better suited to
the protected valleys and lowlands. Although much of the Mountains is
poorly suited to maize, the maize percentage remains high, at Just under
half, partly due to an increasing use of short season highland maize
varieties. More importantly, Basotho have a dietary preference for maize.
In addition, both sorghum and maize are clearly recognized as dual purpose
food and fodder crops, particularly in the Mountains where farmers do not
expect high grain yields.
15.       There are little data on specific fodder crops.  Areas producing
fodder are known to be small, although apparently increasing around Maseru
and other urban centres in response to local fodder demand for dairy and
slaughter animals. In addition, some mountain villages grow fodder barley
on up to seven percent of their fields. It is thus reasonable to conclude
that most farmers in Lesotho are aware of the fodder value of both grain
crop residues and specific fodder crops, even if they appear to use these
sources inefficiently at present.
16.       Data detailing recent changes in area, production and yield for
the five main crops - over a period from 1974/75 through 1985/86 - suggest
that total cropped land has changed little (+0.2X), although maize and
sorghum have expanded, primarily at the expense of wheat and beans (see
Table 2 of this Annex for details). Land that has recently gone out of
arable production because of severe erosion can be observed in places,
particularly in the Senqu liver Valley and parts of the Lowlands. This
leads to the hypothesis that further marginal land is being substituted for
lost areas of arable land. There is, however, insufficient evidence at
present to support this hypothesis. In contrast, yields have fallen quite
dramatically, at mean rates between 6 and 13 percent per annum (see Table
2 of this Annex for details). The main reason for this is undoubtedly poor
rainfall distribution. However, yields were already falling from their
peaks in the mid 1970s.8/ This decline can be explained in part by labor
8/ IBRD. Lesotho, Country Economic Memorandum, 1987.



- 68 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 10
shortages and untimely farming practices following the sharp rise in mine
employment and increased wages at that time. It is, however, more likely
that actual yields have fallen because of continuous loss of organic
matter, nutrient depletion and sheet erosion of topsoil, processes whose
effects are accentuated in times of low rainfall. Erosion is likely to
have occurred in greatest measure on the sandy, more erodible soils of the
Lowlands and Senqu River Valley, a view supported by the low fallow
percentages (15 to 18X) in these two zones (Table 1 of this Annex) which is
hardly sufficient to maintain production on poor soils where the use of
fertilizers is minimal and any organic residue is grazed off by livestock.
Rangeland and Livestock
17.       Table 1.3 summariz.s arable and rangeland areas in relation to
human and livestock populations. Rangeland occupies 91 percent of rural
land in Lesotho. This figure includes negligible areas of woodlots
covering 62 square kilometers, mostly in the Lowlands and Foothills.
The vast majority of rangeland is unimproved grassland and shrubland. An
estimated 45 percent lies in Mountain Zone D. Use of this zone is confined
to summer grazing when cattle, sheep, goats and a few horses and donkeys
are brought up from the lowlands and foothills into the mountains between
October/November and April/May. The remaining 55 percent of rangeland in
Zones A, B, C and E is termed village grazing. The summer migrations also
serve to remove animals from the vicinity of cultivated land during the
cropping season since arable lands are usually not fenced. A substantial
number of sheep and goats remain in the mountains throughout the year.
Cattle are used throughout Lesotho for ploughing and their movement to the
summer grazing is frequently delayed until ploughing is completed.
18.       With regard to grazing tenure, right of access to village grazing
is in theory at least controlled by Village Chiefs within the boundaries of
their domains.  Areas exempted are access tracks to allow passage of
migrating herds along which animals on trek are allowed to graze and
water. In addition, animals are denied access to cropland until harvest is
complete. Right of access to summer grazing is by virtue of customary use,
and is in theory controlled through the Principal Chief. An individual
summer grazing post comprises a mountain dwelling and a kraal. The summer
pasture hinterland is limited to land within daylight access of the kraal.
19.       This dual system of range utilization means that customary users
of a single summer grazing post come from quite widely scattered villages,
often in different agro-ecological zones. Likewise, livestock owners from
a single village send animals to a number of different sumer grazing
posts. This poses obvious problems with regard to overall management of
the grazing resource.



- 69 -
Annex 1
Page 7 of 10
Table 1.3: Land, Human Population
by    ro-cological Zone
AGRO-ECOLOGICAL      RURAL AREA     LAND UNDER CUL-  PERCENT   RANGELAND
ZONE               (WmZ) a/   TIVATION (km2) b/  ARABLE       (k2)c/
A. Lowlands             6452            1490            23         4962
B. Foothills            3225            541             17         2684
C. Mountains
village areas     5096 d/          529             10        4567
D. Mountaina
summer Grazing   11892 e/           nl            nil       11892
B.  Senqu River
valley             3CS3            261              8        2822
LESOTHO TOTAL          29748           2821              9        26927
DISTRICT
Butha 8uthe             1744             105             6         1639
Leribe                  2754            424             15         2330
Berea                   2120             326            15         1794
Maseru                  3980            463             12         3517
Mafeteng                2087             531            25         1556
lohale's Hoek           3505            396             11         3109
Quthing                 2900             155             5         2745
Qacha's Nek             2333             85              4        2248
Mokhotlong              4065             161             4         3904
Thaba Tseka             4260            176              4         4084
a/  98% of total land area, LCRD range survey.
/ Source 1986 population census, preliminary results.
c/ Source Bureau of Statistics data, 1985/86.
d/ Mission estimate, 30X village areas and 702 summer grazing in the Mount
e1 Seasonal occupancy associated with summer grazing.



- 70 -                     A      
Page 8 of 10
20.       Table 1.4 lists present livestock numbers by species and agro-
ecological zone, and Table 1.5 summarizes changes in animal numbers since
1960. The percentage contribution of animal types is similar in the
lowlands and Foothills with cattle accounting for more than half of total
animal units* There are more sheep and goats than cattle in the Mountains,
with both categories contributing a third of total animal units. The Senqu
River Valley contains substantially more goats than elsewhere, probably
reflecting the particularly low quality of rangeland iAn this zone.
Table 1.4: Distribution of Livestock by Species
and Agro-Ecological Zone, 1985/86
Agro-Ecological
Zone                   Cattle    Sheep    Goats   Horses  Doneys- Total
Numbers        169500   237100   181600   26100   28000          -
A Lowlands  Animal Units  144100    40400    30900   26100   19600  261100
v A.Us.            55       15        12       10       8      100
Numbers        114000   110300   217300   18500   19900          -
B Foothills Animal Units   96900    18800    36900   18500   13900  185000
v A. Us.           52       10        20       10       7      100
C Mountains Numbers a/    192200   940400   427600   48100   51500            -
(village Animal Units  163400   159900    72700   48100   36100  480200
areas) 2 A.Us.            34        33        15      10        8     100
I Senqu     Numbers         48900   103800   151600   10300   11060           -
River     Animal Units   41600    17600    25800   10300    7700  103000
Valley    X A.Us.            40        17        25      10        7     100
TOTAL     Numbers        524600  1391600   978100  103000  110500          -
Animal Units  446000   236700   166300  103000   77300 1029300
X A.US.            43       23        16       10       8      100
_/   Numbers include sheep and goats which often remain in the mountains
after the summer grazing period is officially closed.



- 71 -                      Annex I
Page 9 of 10
21.       Table 1.5 indicates that total animal units a/ have been
increasimg steadily since 1960. The sharpest increase occurred during the
mid 1970z. and was stimulated by rises in mine wages during that period.
Smallstoak numbers are somewhat variable, but goats are increasing faster
than sheep, a trend which has continued since the 19709.
Table 1.5: Changes in Animal Numbers, 1960 to 1986
Year_Cattle                        Shee       Goats      Horses      ank. s
Mean                    356000    1398000    765300    84800         56200
1960/61 to 1967/68
Z Annual                 +3.1       -1.2        -0.5     +1.6        +3.8
Change
1964 to 1976
Mean                    530100    1197600    720100   104400         90900
1974/75 to 1979/80
1979/80
Z Annual                 +0.4       +1.6        +3.9     -0.1        +2.7
Change
1977 to 1983
Mean                    544300    1311700    905400   104100        106800
1980/81 to 1985/86
Source: Bureau of Statistics and Combs and Hunter (1987).
a/  Cattle - 0.85 units; sheep and goats - 0.17 units; horses   1.0 units;
donkeys - 0.7 units.



- 72 -                    Annex I
Page 10 of 10
22.       LLvestock in Lesotho generate a variety of valuable products.
Cattle provide draft power, milk, and dung for fuel. Sheep produce wool
and goats, mohair.  Cattle, sheep and goats produce progeny and meat.
Further, livestock, and cattle ln particular, have a social value in
Basotho society.
23.       Low productlvity in the livestock sector La attributable in large
measure to low amounts of fodder available per animal. Estimates of
present livestock carrying capacity for Lesotho vary very widely according
to assumptions used in their calculation - from a high of 395,000 AU to a
low of 147,000 AU. Mission estimates, which take into account crop
residues and fo&er crops, lead to the conclusion that Lesotho appears to
be overstocked by a factor of about 2.7.
24.       Differences between sandstone (Zones A, B and E) and basalt
(Zones C and D) rangelands havb important implications with regard to crop
residues and fodder crops. Mountain Zone C contains only 10 percent
cultivable cropland, and the range carrying capacity during the summer
months is high, a: least in relative terms.  In contrast, the Lowlands
contain 23 percent cropland, and range carrying capacity is exceedingly
low. This means that crop residues and fodder crops form a much larger
percentage of total winter fodder in the Lowlands than in the Mountains.
25.       Range condition is not uniform within each agro-ecological zone.
In part this is attributable to local differences in soil depth, type of
soil and climate and to local differences in range management. Striking
examples of different grazing impact occur in the Mountains where grazing
has been set aside under special management for Grazing Associations, but
it is by no means confined to these areas. This suggests that some Chiefs
are still capable of controlling grazing.
26.       Local differences in quality of range are significant in terms of
carrying capacity within individual village grazing areas. In the
Mountains, unpalatable shrub is particularly common around settlement sites
where the ground is constantly disturbed. Carrying capacity of these areas
is exceedingly low. Provisional estimates suggest that carrying capacity
of unimproved, good quality range on similar soils is 6 to 15 times
greater. The potential benefits in fodder output are substantial and could
be realised over a reasonably short period with proper range management
practices. In the Lowlands, longer periods are likely to be required to
achieve similar benefits because of the higher erodibillty of sandstone and
grit soils in overgrazed land.



ANNEX 1
-73-                                Table 1
LESOTHO
Land Management and Conservation Project
table 1: Area Planted to Five Major Crops and Fallow
by Agro-ecological Zone, 1985/86
Agro-
gcological
Zone              Maize   Sorghum   Wheat   Beans   Peas   Fall-ow  Total
(a)
A Lowlands   ha    70930    34360    11030   6780    3550   22350   149000
% total    47       23        7       5       2      15      100
-2 crop     56       27         9      5       3       -        -
3 Foothills  ha    29250    16010      2160   3470    1050    2160    54100
X total    54       30        4       6       2       4      100
X crop  -56         31        4      7        ^       -        -
C Mountains  ha    24570     4940    16750    720    3800    2120    52900
(village
areas) . X total .. 46        9       32       1       7       4      100
%crop      48       10       33       1       7       -       -
D Mountains  ha      nil      nil      nil    nil      nil     nil       nil
(summer
grazing) Z total              -        -       -       -       -        -
(b)    Z crop               -        -       -       -       -        -
I 9enqu      ha    11590     6830      1660    890     430    4700    26100
River
Valley   X total    44       26         6      3       2      i8      100
Z crop     54       32        8      4   *2           -        -
Total        ha   136340    62140    31600  11860    8830   31330   282100
Z total  .48        22       11       4       3      11      100
X crop     54.      25       13       5       4       -        -
a/   Mission estimate based on area studies.
bJ   Production in protected valleys of maize, wheat, sorghum and peas is
included in AEZ C.
Source:  Bureau of statistics, average values 1980/81 to. 1986/87, awarded
to conform to 1986 National Census figures for cultivated land per
AZZ.
4                                               4                                   4



- 74                               ANNEX 1
Table 2
LESOTHO0
Land Management and Conservation Project
Table 2: Changes in Cropped Land and Yield 1974-1986
Maize    Sorghum    Wheat   Beans    Peas    Total
1974/75      114500     58500     46900   19600    9400   248900
to
1979/80
Area      1980/81      137500     63400      30800   12000    8700   252400
Planted     to
(ha)      1985/86
X change      +3.1      +1.3      -6.8    -7.9      -1.3    +0.2
per annum
1974/75      103100     56400     45200   10900    5700
to
1979/80
Produc-   1980/81      87200      37800      15500    2900    3300
tion       to
(tons)    1985/86
2 change      -2.8      -6.4      -16.3   -19.8    -8.7
per annum
1974/75         901       963       964     558      612        -
to
1979/80
Yield     1980/81         634       595        502     244     375        -
(kg/ha)     to
1985/86
X change      -5.7      -7.7      -10.3   -12.9    -7.8         -
per annum
Source: Bureau of Statistics



- 75 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 20
Institutions and Policy Framework
A. Institutions
1.        Numerous institutions and ministries are involved in the
supervision and administration of the use, allocation and transfer of
land. The most important of these are: the chiefs (the traditional
system); the central Government represented by the Ministry of Interior,
Chieftainship Affairs and Rural Development (MICARD) and the Ministry of
Agriculture, Cooperatives and Marketing (MOA); and, most recently, the
Village, Ward and District Councils.
1. The Chiefs
2.        The Chiefs are a powerful institution for continuity and change
in Lesotho. they are hierarchically ordered with the King as paramount
chief, followed by principal and ward chiefs, and hea4men at the lowest
level. There are 22 principal and 2 ward chiefs. Each principal chief is
also chief of a ward. The Government only recognizes those chiefs whose
appointment has been approved by the King in accordance with the advice of
the Minister of MICARD and published in the Government gazette. There are
some 1,200 gazetted chiefs. / (The areas controlled by the principal and
ward chiefs are set out in IBRD Map No. 20634). There are, however, other
non-gazetted chiefs who have influence and authority and whose involvement
in the project would also be necessary.
3.        The recognition of, appointment, tenure, succession to and the
rights and duties of chiefs are governed by the Chieftainship Act of 1968.
The act specifically does not covar the rights and interests of chiefs
relating to the allocation of land, or other interests in land except as
provided by land laws. Thus, the rights of chiefs relating to land fall
within the provisions of the Land Act of 1979 (insofar as this Act controls
the allocation and revocation of land) and the Land Husbaudry Act of 1969,
with regard to the use of lands. (See paras 1.51 and 1.53 of this Annex).
4.        In theory, every adult Mosotho male was entitled on marriage to
be allocated three pieces of arable land for cultivation. This entitlement
lapsed on death, although there was usually provision to allow the widow
and minor children to continue to cultivate a portion of the land of the
deceased, and abandonment (deemed if the lands were not cultivated) in
practice to five consecutive years. Therefore, the lands could be
reallocated. Land allocated for residence and attached gardens, unlike
arable lands, became the property of the allottee. In theory, land
allocations were made by the principal chief; in practice, this power was
delegated to village chiefs. The believe in the right of a Mosotho male to
be allocated lands persists despite evidence to the contrary. Population
and urban growth, as well as erosion have reduced the available arable
lands. From 1969-70 to 1986, the percentage of rural households who had uo
land has increased from 12.7 to 25.4.



- 76 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 20
5.        The control and management of rangelands followed different
principles. Access to rangelands, in theory, was not a matter of right for
every Mosotho but one of the grant of permission by principal chiefs. A
distinction was drawn between winter and summer rangelands with access to
the former being controlled, in practice, by the village chief and, to the
latter, by the range warden and cattlepost owner. Thus, in most cases,
chiefs, or other agents at the local level, determined access.
"Management" of the range, particularly the summer range, was mainly
limited to announcing the dates when the range would be open, or closed, to
grazing. In theory too, the chiefs were empowered to determine the numbers
of livestock that could have access to the range and could impound animals
illegally quartered on the range.
6.        The powers of chiefs have been curtailed by legislation and
changes in the political structure of Lesotho. They are now cequired to
associate with village development councils (where there is no village land
committee) in land allocation decisions. Further, the options of chiefs to
manage and control access to rangelands have also been limited by
legislation. Access to rangelands is free of charge and it is difficult to
exercise controls over the number of grazing permits that are issued.
Staff shortages have exacerbated the problems of grazing control resulting
in overgrazing and degradation of the land resource.
7.        Despite the curtailment of their powers, many chiefs still wield
considerable influence and power. Recent studies of village councils under
earlier regimes show quite clearly that unless the chief is actively
involved in decisions with regard to proposed development projects, these
are rarely successful. Any attempt, therefore, to control use and access
to rangelands, or to develop schemes for land management and conservatioa
must involve the chiefs, both as leaders and partners.
2. Ministry of Interior, Chieftainship and Rural Development (MICARD)
8.        In 1986, the former Ministry of Cooperatives and Rural
Development was abolished and the Department of Rural Development was
transferred to MICARD. NICARD, headed by a Minister, a i'rincipal Secretary
and a Deputy Principal Secretary, has three Directorates - for
Councils and Chieftanship, Lands and Housing, and Citizenship and
Aliens.2/ The organization of the Ministry is set out in Chart 1.
Directorate of Councils and Chiettainship
9.        This Directorate, with a Deputy Principal Secretary in charge,
has- two wings: one responsible for the former Department of Rural
Development and the supervision and guidance of chiefs and the councils;
2/   The Directorates of Administration and Citizenship and Aliens are not
discussed further.



- 77 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 20
and the other, for Local and Urban Administration. At the District level,
adsministration is the responsibility of the District Secretary who is
assisted by an Assistant District Secretary (ADS), the District Rural
Development Officer (DRDO), two Execative Officers (where the District has
both an ADS and DRDO) and other support staft. The ADS is a key executive
who is the liaison between the chiefs in the district and the administra-
tion. The staff of the former Department of Rural Development extends
below the district level. At ward level, there is the Senior Rural
Development Assistant (Snr. RDA) and, at the village level, a Rural
Development Assistant (RDA) for every three to four villages; in practice,
nearly half tme established posts remain unfilled as a result of attrition,
transfer, or failure to fill vacancies. The chronic understaffing at
higher levels does not permit adequate supervision or guidance of the lower
levels. At the lower levels, staff shortages result in limited contact
with the villagers.
10.       The Civil Works Section (CWS) of the Directorate of Councils and
Chieftanships is charged with overall responsibility for coordinating the
planning, improvement, construction and maintenance of minor and feeder
("non-gazetted") roads. In practice, CWS has been responsible for the
Feeder Road Program (FRPj which is part of a larger Food for Work Program
(FWP) supported by the World Food Program (WFP) and Catholic Relief
Services (CRS). The assistance is principally in the form of food aid.
FRP has been the main means of extending the minor road system and, since
1968, more than 2,500 km of roadworks have been carried out. Selection of
roads is determined by the District Development Councils (DDC). Recently,
guidelines were introduced for selection in order to limit and prioritize
the roads proposed for improvement. There is, however, little maintenance
and many roads have deteriorated severely. The Fourth FYDP recognizes
these shortcomings and places emphasis on overcoming the backlog on
maintenance and a policy defining maintenance responsibilities for the
ungazetted network is to be published shortly. The present WFP support has
been extended to March 1988 and is likely to continue thereafter. It was
agreed that rural roads proposed in the context of resource management
plans could be supported through the WFP project. As in the case of water
supplies, the feeder or access roads proposed would be coordinated through
the respective DDCs.
11.       The Soil Conservation Section3/ was established in 1973 to
promote village level conservation activities principally in the Lowlands,
but also more recently in Qacha's Nek District in the Mountains. Headed by
the Conservation Officer, support staff includes six technical officers,
one record keeper, 19 foremen and some 3,800 laborers engaged in food for
work activities. The main field activities include gully control through
3/ The section also includes one certificate level horticulturalist
assistant post amongst some ten vacant posts, comprising the proposed
Communal Garden Sub-section.



- 78 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 20
the construction of small check dams and tree planting, diversion furrow
construction and grass planting. These activities are carried out at over
50 project sites.
12.       The Village Water Supply Section (VWSS) is responsible for the
provision of domestic water for rural communities, utilizing technical
assistance and self-help labor. Over 30% of the rural population now have
improved water supplies and the target in the Fourth ?YDP is to rai6e this
to 60X of the rural population by 1990, at an estimated cost of N 20
million. Rural water supplies proposed under the project would be
accomodated within this program. In practice, the VWSS would act as
contractors to the project. The work programs are determined at District
level and would need to be coordinated through the District Development
Council.
Directorate of Lands and Housing
13.       This Directorate has two departments, one under the Commissioner
for Lands, Survey and Physical Planning; and the other, under the Director
of Housing. The Department of Lands, Surveys and Physical Planning was
established in 1975 to implement the Administration of the 1973 Land Act.
Its functions continutd under the Land Act of 1979. The Directorate has
three divisions: Lands, Surveys and Physical Planning. All three
divisions are understaffed and need to be strengthened.
14.       The responsibilities of the Lands Division include adamnistration
of the Land Act, 1979 and the Valuation and Rating Act, 1980; the issue of
leases and licences, the maintenance of land records, collection of
revenue, and the processing and negotiation of leases (all under the former
Act). Under the latter Act, the Division is responsible, among other
matters, for the preparation and maintenance of Valuation Rolls. In
addition, the Division is responsible for land acquisition. It has been
difficult for the Lands Division to carry out its mandate under the Land
Act and register all residences, which were required to be registered
within six months of enactment. A mitisterial directive limited the
activities of the Lands Division in regard to registration of leases and
titles where there is a transaction (that is, where the leaseholder intends
to obtain a mortgage, or transfer the lease).  Even here, there is a
significant backlog despite improvements over the past years.  Furthermore,
the Division has not been able to collect all the ground rents. Over the
past six years, the amouvt outstanding is about 40 percent of the rents
due.
15.       The ISur yDivision is charged with the supervision of surveys,
and the provision, safeguarding and maintenance of National Mapping and
related records.  Under the Survey Act, 1980, ail requests for land or air
surveys or the charting of maps have to be sanctioned by this Division in
order to maintain uniformity of standards, maintenance of records and the
avoidance of duplication.



- 79 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 20
16.       The Physical Planning Division is responsible for overall
physical development plans which are implemented through the Town and
Country Planning Act of 1980. Bilding permits and planning permissions
are granted by this Division. In recent years, the Division has been
placed in charge of preparation of the National Settlement Policy, which is
being prepared in collaboration with the Institute of Land Use Planning
(ILUP) in MOA.
Village, Ward and District Development Councils4/
17.       The establishment of village or district development councils is
not new in Lesotho. These councils were first established by the
Development Councils Order in the 1960s and consisted mainly of political
appointees. Since 1986, however, under the Development Councils Order No 9
of 1986, the entire membership of these councils is elected (with the
exception of the chairmen who are chiefs) to assist the Government in
reaching its decentralized development objectives. MICARD is responsible
for implementing the Development Councils Order.
18.       There is a three-tiered structure.  At the lowest level is the
Village Development Council (VDC), comprising seven members, all elected by
the inhabitants of the area falliug within the jurisdiction of the village
chief. At the next two higher levels, election of ...4mbers is indirect.
The Ward Development Council (WDC) comprises twelve persons elected from
members of constituent VDCs; the District Development Council (DDC) has 15
members, elected from among the members of constituent WDCs. At each
level, the village, ward or principal chief is ex-officio chairman of the
council. Thus, there is a melding of the indigenous organization with the
formal councils.
19.       The powers of a VDC include:  (a) the planning, formulation,
implementation and maintenance of developmetc activities within its
jurisdiction; and (b) the raising of revenues for the VDC's local
development activities. WDCs are, inter alia, responsible for collating
VDC development proposals and monitoring the implementation of VDC
projects. The powers of the DDCs are similar to those of VDCs, but on a
wider scale. In addition, DDCs are required to consult with the Central
Planning and Development Office (CPDO) in the Ministry of Planning and
other appropriate ministries in matters relating to development planning,
through the District Secretary.
20.       VDCs, WDCs and DDCs are linked to MICARD and other line
ministries at the district level through the District Secretary, who also
acts as secretary to the DDC. Further, the District Secretary (DS) is not
only
4/ The original Development Committees Order called the councils
"committees". This was amended by a subsequent order to read
"councils" listead of "committees".



- 80 -                     Annex 2
Page 6 of 20
designated the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the district, but is also
required to coordinate the activities of other departments in the district
and to preside over meetings of departmental heads. Thus, the district
level staff of the ministries can act as a team.
21.       There are 10 DDCs, 32 WDCs and 1,084 VDCs.  The number of WDCs is
greater, by eight, than the number of traditional wards, since those wards
which crossed over some district boundaries were split up in order to
prevent a confusion of authority in the implementation of the Order.
Elections to all councils were conducted in 1986-87. A significant number
of 'hiefs were elected as members of these.
22.       The establishment of the councils is the first step towards the
gradual delegation and decentralization of powers down to the village
level. The goal is to enable villages to develop and implement programs
and plans to manage their own resources, according to their own priorities
and needs. The councils, however, are weak and most lack planning
capacity. They do not yet have the ability to assess the economic and
financial viability of the plans which they may formulate. Further,
cooperative ventures have not been common in Lesotho; most have been
initiated by forward-looking chiefs. The association of chiefs, and their
election also as members of the councils, now provides the basis for a
common approach to the solution of local, ward and district problems. The
link with the technical ministries at district level, through the DS,
provides the necessary medium for technical assistance and the assessment
of plan viability. It would be necessary to strengthen the capacity of
both the councils and the staff of the DS and line ministries to enable
them to formulate programs which would be consistent with the national
policy.
3. Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Marketing (MOA)
23.       The Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Marketing absorbed
the Cooperatives Section of the former Ministry of Cooperative and Rural
Development in November 1986. Although the organization and the existing
structure, as shown in Chart 2, is presently under review, and may undergo
some changes, a proposed reorganization would not hinder project actions.
The Ministry is presently headed by the Minister of Finance, who has a
senior advisor for agriculture.
24.       Reporting to the Principal Secretary are:  (a) the Head of
Planning (including Monitoring and Evaluation), (b) six Technical Directors
and (c) the Deputy Principal Secretary in charge of Adminstration
(responsible for Administration, Personnel, Accounts, Training and the
Lesotho Agricultural College). The four Technical Directors are
responsible for:
(a) Technical Services, including conservation, forestry, the
Institute of Land Use Planning and a formal link with the
SADCC Coordination Unit.



Annex 2
- 81 -                     Page 7 of 20
(b) Livestock Services, including veterinary services, animal
production and range management.
(c) Crop Services,5/ including Technical Operations Unit (TOU)
which administers the Food Self-Sufficiency Program (FSSP),
crops, machinerg and irrigation.
(d) Field Services, / including extension, research, nutrition
and agriculturat information.
(e) Marketing Service, including livestock products marketing
(LPMS).
(f) Cooperatives, including the Lesotho Cooperatives College.
At district's level all six service functions are coordinated by the
District Agricultural Officer (DAO). The DAO's office organizational links
are presented in Chart 3.
The Technical Services Departmedt
25        The Department has a key role in the management and conservation
of the land resources of lesotho, through its divisions of Conservation,
Forestry7/ and the Institute of Land Use Planning.
26.       The Conservation Division comprises one administrative and four
technical sections: Planning0/, Soils, Engineering and Nature Conservation
and National Parks. The Conservation Division is responsible for providing
advisory technical services to protect the nation's land resources through
recommended and appropriate conservation and land use practices to insure
sustained productivity. Since independence, the Conservation Division has
received considerable donor support. Currently, the Division is being
assisted by USAID, under the Land Conservation and Rangeland Development
Project (LCRD), likely to be extended until 1988. Technical assistance
includes a planning advisor preparing the groundwork for the formulation of
a National Soil Conservation Strategy.9/
27.       The Planning Section conducts planning at two levels, within
area based projects: (i) Area Conservation Planning Units (CPUs)
comprising 500-3000 ha are subject to soil survey and subdivision into
#/   Crop Services and Field Services departments are not discussed here;
these are being assisted through the USAID-supported LAPIS project.
6/   ibid.
7/ Until December 1985, Forestry was a section within the Conservation
Division, although most forestry activities were concentrated within
the Woodlot Project.
8/   Including extension and training.
!(   Further short-term technica} assistance inputs from the USDA Soil
Conservation Service are planned from June 1987, to help develop an
overall Soil Conservation Strategy.



- 82 -                    Annex 2
Page 8 of 20
conservation treatment units for appropriate conservation measures. A
Village Conservation Committee is elected through the Village Development
Council to involve and inform local people of activities. To date, some
23,000 ha have been planned on eleven Area CPUs out of a target total of 25
CPUs covering 50,000 ha. (ii) On-Farm Plans are carried out within CPUs
through District Agricultural Offices, drawing on one or two subject matter
specialists to form a small planning team. Preseutly, six of these teams
have completed over 225 on-farm plans covering about 560 ha out of a target
total of 1200 plans covering 3,000 ha.
28.       The Soils Section provides soil survey information to individuals
or institutions. In particular, the section undertakes (i) soil survey
mapping and classification, and has completed work on about 85,000 ha out
of a target total of 150,000 ha; (ii) soil interpretations and evaluation
to expand on a recent publication entitled Benchmark Soils of Lesotho which
would be regularly updated as more soils data become available through the
National Soil Survey of Lesotho, scheduled for completion over the next
decade; (iii) on-site investigations, usually to evaluate suitability for a
specific purpose, e.g., irrigation. The Soils Section responds to some 100
site investigations each year, usually on areas of less than 5 ha. These
surveys are conducted by soil scientists whose specialized interest often
goes well beyond the relatively simple requirements of resource management
plans. The demand for the section's services exceeds their capacity and
there is a considerable backlog of outstanding work.
29.       The Engineering Section is responsible for constructing
structura, conservation measures such as terraces, diversions, waterways
and other structures. A 1984 review indicated that over 11,000 ha had been
protected. A substantial, but aging, fleet of mechanized equipment is used
for this purpose. Since 1983, more attention has been given to labor
intensive practices with substartial food aid assistance.
30.       The Nature Couservation and National Parks Section is responsible
for the protection and conservation of the country's wildlife resources
including the flora and fauna. This section was formed only recently with
limited resources in terms of staff and facilities.
31.       On-gonL  PLroects   There are many projects in Lesotho with
conservation elements in one form or another. The Conservation Division's
activities are concentrated in the Lowlands within thirteen area-based
projects in seven Districts.  However, in addition to these areas, food for
work activities are also carried out at 15 other project sites, including
six in the Highlands. In total, some 1850 workers are involved in FFU
activities within the Conservation Division.
32.       One of the more important of the on-going projects is the Farm
Im rovement with Soil Conservation (FISC) project, which is an experiment
in employing a participatory approach towards conservation. A mixture of
agricultural inputs and cash is provided in exchange for work on



- 83 -                     Annex 2
Page 9 of 20
conservation measures to encourage increased production*10/ The project,
initiated in 1985 and located in the Mohale's Hoek District, iB supported
by the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA). The project is
executed at district level through the District Agricultural Office. Some
Conservation Division field staff have been assigned to this project, but
there is little headquarters involvement. So far work has been confined to
the Lowlands and Foothills, but extension into the Highlands is expected to
follow. A horticultural specialist is developing a nursery to encourage
the introduction of fruit and other multi-purpose tree species. The
University of Lesotho (NUL) is conducting some in-field experiments on soil
and run-off losses.11/ This project is being viewed with considerable
interest by GOL aiddonors alike, as the first to attempt a participatory
approach to reducing degradation through improved land use and supportive
conservation practices.
33.       There remain, however, some doubts over the prospects for long-
tert maintenance of structures which are built through "once only" cash or
input incentiNes. It is assumed that subsequent maiatenance
responsibilities would be taken over voluntarily by the farmers following
their participation during construction. This conforms with the Fourth
FYDP assumptions that the provision of agricultural inputs (such as
fertilizer) to raise production would encourage individual farmers to
relate conservation measures with increased output/income. In this way, it
is believed that farmers would then take voluntary responsibility for their
subsequent maintenance. The success of this approach,however, is not
certain. Firstly, the FISC experience clearly indicates a preference for
community works for which cash or food payments are made. There is no
direct link with on-farm production in these circumstances. Secondly, the
adoption of individual in-field conservation measures, which are rewarded
with farm inputs, has been poor. It would, therefore, seem unlikely that
most farmers would take any greater interest in long-term structure
maintenance than they have previously.
34.       The Forestry Division was officially established in March 1987,
out of the former Forestry Section within the Conservation Division and
the Lesotho Woodlot project. At headqaerters, the Division comprises one
administrative and four technical sections, namely, Planning and
Management Research, Extension and Expansion, and Afforestation and
Projects.1 / Headed by the Chief Forest Officer, headquarters, regional
1O/ Works requiring community participation such as diversions, gully
control or tree planting are paid in cash whereas individual on-farm
work is translated into inputs such as seeds, fertilizer, etc.
11/ In collaboration with the University of Uppsala, Sweden.
.L? While this organization was in place at the time of the mission's
visit, a new structure had been prepared, including a new Social
Forestry Section.



- 84 -                     Annex 2
Page 10 of 20
and district staff include seventeen professional foresters, 31 technical
officers and some 36 support staff.
(a)    The Planning and Nanagement Section has overall responsibility
for the preparation of long-term management plans and annual
plans of operation.
(b)    The Research Section is responsible for all applied forestry
research and is conducting species trials to determine the most
suitable species for different altitudes and varying site
conditions. Emphasis is shifting from Eucalyptus to Coniferous
species to broaden the base of the forestry program.
(c)    The Extension and Expansion Section is responsible for
encouraging forestry development through community participation,
individuals or the State.
(d)    The Afforestation and Projects Section is responsible for all
forms of afforestation including community, conservation and
production forestry. The major forestry project in Lesotho is
the long running Lesotho Woodlot Project (LWP) which comenced
activities in 1973 with support from ODA and is presently being
integrated into the Forestry Division.13/
35.       The achievements of LWP have been considerable.  Some 7,000 ha of
plantation have been established in over 320 woodlots, mostly in the
lowlands and foothills. A further 11,000 ha are under Forest
Reservations. Nine nurseries have been established for distribution of
seedlings. A national forest service has been established and a draft
Statement of Forest Policy has recently been formulated,
36.       The Forestry Division has put forward a new forestry proposal for
possible donor assistance. Termed the Iesotho Forestry Development Project
(LFDP), this proposal effectively marks the end of the LWP and the
beginning of a new project in support of the Forestry Division. The
proposal covers the three-year period from 1987 to 1990 and comprises five
subprojects, including one on Social Forestry. All the subprojects, except
for social forestry, are being assisted by ODA.
37.       The Institute of Land Use Planning (ILUP) is a new division
within the Department of Technical Services, and was rostablishad in 1981
with technical assistance from SIDA. Its objectives include: (a) the
development of a central land use planning capability which can carry out
national level macro-planning of agricultural land use; (b) the provision
of a permanent land use planning service which can carry out micrw-planning
at District and community levels; and (c) the provision of in-service and
13   It should be noted that LWP has dominated the Division's activities,
accounting for some two-thirds of its staff.



- 85 -                     Annex 2
Pagi 11 of 20
formal training to develop a dynamic land use planning capacity at Nstional
and District levels within Government. Implicit in these objectives is
also the need to maintain continuous liaison with a wide variety of GOL
Departments and Divisions in MOA and NICARD. ILUP has been supported by
substantial outside donor assistance (mainly from SIDA).
38.       ILUP has concentrated on six main fields, viz., staff
recruitment, staff training, planning at National, District and community
levels, and provision of equipment and support services. Since February
1987, implementation of some community level plans has commenced through
grants from a small project fund.
(a)    Staff recruitment.  Present and proposed ILUP technical staff
are:  one Chief Land Use Planner, one Deputy Chief Land Use
Planner (post not yet established), 11 Senior Land Use Planners
(posts not yet established), 10 District Land Use Planners, one
Agricultural Economist, one Rural Sociologist and supporting
staff. These staff are presently supported by five SIDA-financed
long-term expatriate technical assistants: one Support Team
Leader, one Agricultural Economist, one Resource Management
Specialist, and two Soil Surveyors.
(b)    Staff training, both formal and in-service, has been emphasised.
Formal training includes overseas post-graduate fellowships for
senior staff. To date, however, only one fellowship has been
taken up by the Chief Land Use Planner. At the outset, it was
intended that all 10 District Land Use Planners (DLUPs) should be
graduates. However, only diplomates were appointed. Funds were
allocated to provide additional training to upgrade these DLUPs
to professional status. Unfortunately, no DLUP was accepted by
the National University of Lesotho (NUL).
(c)    It is intended to post Resource Management Specialists into the
field on a regional basis. These technical assistance positions
would be provided by SIDA to match the recruitment of the Senior
Land Use Planners.
(d)    National level planning.  ILUP is currently engaged in the
production of a National Land Use Plan for Lesotho. This
document is intended to focus on broad policy and economic issues
which relate to resource management and land use. ILUP is also
working with the Department of Physical Planning in MICARD on the
National Settlement Policy.
(e)   'District level planning   ILUP is also engaged in the preparation
of District Land Use Plans. The major output to date has been a
series of District maps, mostly 1:125,000 scale. These maps
cover climate, landform, soils, land suitability, human
population and agricultural support services. Guidelines for
District level data collection have also been published, but



- 86 -                     Annex 2
Page 12 of 20
little analysis or written work has been completed for the
District plans. Some of this district level work is done in
cooperation with the National Settlement Plan Project in MICARD.
(f)    Community level planning.  Since 1985, ILUP has focussed
iucreasing attention on community planning and this now absorbs
some 90 percent of the institute's energies. The main objective
at the community level has been to develop an appropriate
methodology to ensure genuine popular participation, to the
extent possible, to implement the plan in a time-efficient
manner, within the constraints imposed by the staffing
available. Ten plans are currently being produced, one in each
District. The first community plans were published recently and
are now being implemented. Guidelines have also been prepared
for village inventories and presentation of plan components for
funding.
39.       The basic grassroots approach employed by the ILUP is similar to
that proposed in this project, including recordirg of problems and
constraints perceived by villagers, discussions of possible solutions,
development of an inventory of resources and land use, plan preparation and
submission for approval. The project proposal aims to build ou this
practical experience in community level planning.
40.       ILUP's Headquarters in Maseru is generally well equipped.
However, some of the District Offices do not yet have all the items they
need, including all relevant maps, aerial photographs and reports,. For
overall use a national coverage by natural color aerial photography is
available (dated 1983 at a scale of 1:80,000).
41.       SADcC.141  Soil and Water Conservation and Land Utilization
Program, CoordiniEion Unit  Lesotho).  Soil erosion is recognized as a
threat to the agriculture and economies of the SADCC Member Countries and,
in 1981, it was decided to develop a specific regional program devoted to
soil and water conservation. In 1985, a Coordination Unit was set up in
Lesotho (Maseru) within MOA to implement the above program, with financial
and technical atsistance from GOL and SIDA. Recognizing common regional
trends in environmental degradation, the program's specific objectives are:
(i) to improve government performance in relation to soil and water
conservation and wise land use; (ii) to avoid conflicts of interest that
may arise out of environmental degradation; (iii) to develop policies and
practices based upon involving the people in conservation activities; and
(iv) to integrate relevant disciplines and the contributions of the various
concerned institutions in solving problems of conservation and land
utilization. Several regional conferences have been held. It is, however,
too early to assess the impact of the program.
14 Southern Africa Development Coordination Conference.



-87 -                     Annex 2
Page 13 of 20
De2artent of Livestock, Animal Production,
Veterinar Services and Rage Mana esent
42.       The Range Management Division (RMD) comprises one Administrative
and four Technical Sections -- Grazing Management, Rauge Inventory, Range
Development and Field Operations.   eadquarters-based technical staff
comprises five graduates, three diplomates and one certificate holder. In
1986, a further 14 staff (seven graduates and seven diplomates) were
attending long-term training courses. District technical staff comprises
2 Range Management Officers (RMOs), 7 Range Technical Officers (RTOs),
1 Senior Range Assistant (SRA), 2 Range Assistants (RAs) and 62 Grazing
Control Supervisors (GCSs).15/  Each district, with the    _ption of Berea
and Qacha's Nek, has an RMO or an RTO. In addition, RMD has been provided
with substantial long- and short-term _echnical assistance since 1981 under
the LCRD project. On project completion in 1987, there are plans to
transfer technical assistance responsibility for RMD to the LAPIS project.
43.       RMD and LCRD have together been active in six main fields:   (a)
Range Survey and Analysis; (b) Range Policy and Regulations;            (c)
Sehlabathebe Range Management Area (RMA); (d) Range Improvement and
Development; (e) Socio-Economic Analysis of Sehlabathebe (RMA); and (f)
Training. This work is dicussed below insofar as it is relevant to the
project.
(a)    Range Survey and Analysis   This four-year survey involved field
investigations and air-photo interpretation of the entire
country. Fieldwork has been completed, and the RMD/ LCRD team is
now involved in 1:50,000 mapping and data analysis. A useful
series of manuals o. methodology and other technical issues has
been produced. Provisional results indicate a national
sustainable carrying capacity of between 147,000 and 255,000
nimal units according to assumptions of dry weight and
utilization. These figures are lower than most estimates, the
difference at least in part being accounted for by (a) an
apparent overestimate of cropland area and (b) the exclusion of
crop residues in calculating the fodder base. The results are to
be presented on a quadrangle basis conforming to the present
1:50,000 map series of Lesotho and it is hoped that the results
will also be made available on the basis of District and Ward
boundaries. In addition, boundaries between village areas and
summer grzsing could also be delineated on these maps. The Range
survey has also laid out 21 small exclosures in typical range
sites througout Lesotho. These sites are to be monitored
annually to determine range production in the various mapped
units. The results would be very useful for comparison with the
15/ 1 RTO and 2 GCSs are attached to the Mphaki Livestock Project.



-88-                    Annex 2
Page 14 of 20
community range exclosures proposed in the project, and ILUP
wo'zld monitor the findings.
(b) !tWe Policy and Regulations. RMD/LCRD have produced a nutmber of
papers on present regulations governing range access and
recommendations for amendments for Inclusion in a national
grazing antd land use policy including the levying of grazing fees
which would be 0.1 Maloti for sheep and goats and 0.5 Maloti for
cattle, horses and donkeys. Progress in this field would be
reviewed by the proposed ILUP resource management specialist
(livestock and range) and the proposed consultancy (grazing
management and institutions).
(c)    Sehlabathebe RMA represents RMD/LCRD9's main venture in the field
of practical grazing management. It takes the form of a Grazing
Association covering 33,000 ha in Qacha's Nek District (Zones C
and D). In 1983, the Principal Chief of Qacha's Nek designated
the RMA as an area set aside for the exclusive use (cropping,
winter and summer grazing) of defined groups of people. This
resulted in the exclusion of other livestock owners who had
previously customarily used Sehlabathebe for summer grazing. The
management ha3 focussed on a rotational grazing system using two
pairs of summer grazing pastures, and a single winter grazing
area. The current stocking rate is about 20 animals per km2.
Although no accurate figures exist on seasonal occupance of
summer grazing, it is estimated that current stocking rates in
Zones C and D as a whole are more than twice the intended
stocking rate. Sehlabathebe RNlU is said to have achieved
significant progress, both in persuading livestock owners to
adopt improved grazing and livestock management practices, and in
improving the range resource. Unfortunately, there is little
analysis of this in terms of comparative benefits over unimproved
situations, or over the situation before the Grazing Association
was established. The question is whether the Sehl¶bathebe INA
model is replicable. Apparently, local owners had suffered
substantial livestock losses due to drought prior to and during
the second year of the project. It was thus a relatively easy
task to impose low stocking rates. Similar results would be more
difficult to achieve in more heavily stocked surrounding areas.
In addition, problems of trespass in the RMA's summer grazing,
particularly by excluded graziers, continue. The Sehlabathebe
RMA approach, however, contains general technical and
institutional parallels with the system of community range
management proposed in the project, and continuous liaison with
RMD/LCRD would be maintained in order to capitalize on experience
gained.
(d)   RAe improvement and development.  Range seeding and unpalatable
shrub control experiments are underway at Sehlabathebe with a
range of perennial grasses and legumes. Evaluation of benefits,



-89 -                     Annex 2
Page 15 of 20
however, has been hampered by grazing impact.  With regard to
shrub control, it has been foun that reduction in stocking rates
allows grasses to recover and compete successfully with
unpalatable shrubs.16/ RMD/LCRD also plan to assess the benefits
of controlled shrub burning and hand pulling of shrubs. No
systematic analysis of the benef ts of these measures is as yet
available.                       8
44.       Livestock Peoducts Marketing ServWce (LPNS) is a division of the
Department of Livestock Services. Established in 1978, it is a successor
to the Livestock Marketing Corporation (LMC). LPNS was established because
LMC was inefficient and overcharged farmers. The object±ve of LPMS is to
assist farmers in the marketing of livestock and livestock products and to
monitor all livestock imports and exports to RSA. There are no
restrictions on private buying and selling within the country.
45.       For live animals, LPMS services include a series of saleyards and
a small feedlot near Maseru. An abattoir which was commissioned in 1985
operates more or less independently. LPMS organizes and conducts auctions
which, until 1985, were limited only to large stock. Since 1986, the
auctions include sheep and goats. Permits are required by persons wishing
to purchase livestock at auctions in order to prevent speculation. The
major purchasers at saleyards currently are the Maseru feedlot, independent
butchers and an abattoir. Since 1985, LPMS has auctioned an average of
2,000 cattle annually. Although this is a low figure, there appears to be
growing interest in using the facilities of LPMS; in 1986, an estimated
5,00G cattle were auctioned by LPMS, including those for export to RSA.
Most sales of livestock within Lesotho, however, take place in the informal
market and a 1985 survey of a sample of householes estimated overall saien
at some 27,500 &nimals. It is difficult to obtain accurate figures of
sales of animals since many transactions fall within ceremonial transfers
in connection with marriage.
46.       Animals can only be legally imported into Lesotbo' after the
prospective importer has obtained an import license from the Department of
Livestock Services. Annual imports were as high as 55,000 but are now
restricted to some 5,000 animals of improved breeds. The cost of an import
license is apparently no hindrance to those who desire to import animals
since the demand for licenses far outstrips the capacity of LPMS to provide
suitable animals from RSA. It is nevertheless difficult to determine
whether the import fee results in the limitation of imports by poorer
sections of the population. There is, however, no follow-up of animals
imported for slaughter to determine whether or not they have been used as
intended. Nor is it possible to control the informal movement of animals
between Lesotho and RSA.
16/ LCRD 1981 - 1986 review, page 17.



-90 -                     Anne% 2
Page 16 of 20
47.       LPMS is also involved in wool and mohair marketing through a
network of Government woolsheds, although it competes with private buyers
in this field. At present, it is estimated that LPMS purchases about 60
percent of the wool and mohair. Small farmers prefer to market the
commodities through private traders for two major reasons: (i) traders pay
farmers sooner; and (ii) Government woolshede are not locatel in the more
remote areas. LPMS also advises Government on the gazetted prices to be
paid for wool and mohair after consultations with the RSA wool and mohair
farmers' associations.
48.       Like most other G-overnment institutions, LPMS is hampered by
staff shortages - LPMS only had 40 staff against 80 established positions.
If LPMS were strengthened, it could play a greater role in market
monitoring of livestock sales, and preventing abuse through the
establishment and maintenance of marketing standards, a role which it has
played with some success in wool and mohair marketing.
The Administration Department
49.       Training facilities.  Lesotho Agricultural College (LAC), which
is administered and financed by MOA and is affiliated with NIL, provides
certificate and diploma level instruction in the field of agriculture and
forestry for some 160 students. LAC produces around 80 to 100 graduates a
year, of whom about 70 percent receive certificate" and the rest diplomas.
Under the USAID-supported LAPIS project, funds will be provided to support
LAC through technical assistance, some infrastructure improvements and
further training opportunities overseas. LAC offers no specialized
training in either range managcsant oi conservation. Some aspects of these
are included within the general agricultural courses. Although MOA used to
employ all the LAC graduates, since 1982, It has placed a freeze on
employment, and most graduates are now absor1,ed by donor-sponsored
projects. In addition to LAC, the National teachers Training College
(NTTC) offers both formal and non-formal training in agricultural
education.
50.       National University of Lesotho (NUL) has no degree program in
agriculture. The Geography Department, however, offers two degree courses
under the Faculty of Science and anothe five courses under the Humanities
and Social Sciences in which elements of land use planning are covered,
especially the course in applied enviro  ental sciences.  There is no
specific degree level course for land use planning.  In 1983, a post-
graduate certificate in land use plannin 4,as initiated, producing seven
graduates by 1985.  However, due to the fViancial constraints, none of
these graduates were employed by GOL, and the course was suspended.
B.  Land Policies
51.       Land policy in Lesotho has been characterized by frequent changes
and tensions between the formal (Government) and the traditional indigenous
(Chiefs) authorities.  This is underst   able since land and land tenare



- 91 -                    Annex 2
Page 17 of 20
sy3tems are vital and sensitive issues. Further, the transition from
traditional to a more formal bureaucrat    ystem is not easy.  Current
legislation governing the rules regarding land allocations, acquisition,
transfer and use is embodied in the L    Act of 1979 and the Land Ustabanery
Act of 1969. The former Act is administered by MICARD; the latte, by MCA.
52.       The Land Act, which covers both urban iad rural areas, introduced
significant changes to the traditiona       tem.  The most important of these
were: (i) the sharing of power to allocate land by a Chief with the
Village !and Committee; (ii) the introd   ion of a system of succession to
ara',le land under which, in the absence of a will, the relatives of a
deceased allottee were entitled to succ    to the land; (iii) most
importantly, the provision auder the Act, that an allottee could apply for
a lease of the land allotted and, thereafter, could transfer the lease or
obtain a loan using the land as collateral with the prior permission of the
Minister of Interior. Thus, even though there were fetters on the freedom
of transfer (designed mainly to curb changes in the use of agricultural
land, say. to commercial or industrial purposes) the Act legalized a land
market. Further, by Amendment Order No 29 of 1986 of the Land Act which
wcs deemed to have come into edfect on January 20, 1986, there is now
recognition that all land in Lesotho has monetary value in its provisions
for compensation on acquisition and where Special Areas are declared. The
Act also confirmed the traditional rule that land used for residence and
gerden were private property and provided for registration of these lands
within six months from the date the Act came iato effect.
53.       The Land Act came into effact in June 1980 and was soon beset by
problems in implementation. First, the Commissioner of Lands, wlo is
responsible for implementation, has been continuously hampered by a lack of
available resources -- insufficient manpower and an inadequate budget.
Further, also as a result of the lack of resources, the Act has been
applied mainly in the urban areas and with some difficulty. Consequently,
the Chiefs have continued as de facto controllers of land allocations. For
the allottee of lands in the rural areas, this dual exercise of authority
has only increas;ed insecurity and confusion as to the powers of each.
There have been numerous, undocumented transfers of land, particularly in
the urban and peri-urban areas. Regulations regarding agricultural lands
prepared in 1985 have remained in draft. The draft regulations are, in any
event, complex. Further, in peri-urban areas (particularly around Maseru),
informal leasing arrangements of land are increasing whereby allottees hand
over possession and management of their lands in return for compensation
which, at times, includes employment. These arrangements do not fall
within the purview of either the sta ate or traditional rules. Despite the
problems in implementing the statute, the number of lease applications
filed (which are only in respect of impending land transactions) are an
'ndication that a land market exists in Lesotho and is growing. Over a
period of six years, as of August 1986, the Commissioner had received 4,911
lease applications for urban lands and had issued 2,411 titles. There have
been only five applications from rural area, but an informal market
flourishes, particularly in peri-urban areas. The result is that



- 92 -                    Annex 2
Page 18 of 20
"informal" transactions are not monitored and that only those with
influence (who are secure in tho knowledge that the transaction would not
be challenged) enter into these. In addition, the State is not in a
position to control these transactions or to obtain any revenue from them.
54.       While the Land Act covers the allocation of lands, the Land
Husbandry Act controls its use. Under this Act, the Minister of
Agriculture is empowered to make regulations regarding the beneficial use
of agricultural land, including regulations relating to soil conservation,
for the prevention of erosion, the control of the numbers and species of
livestock and the areas where they may graze, and for the proper management
of trees and other natural flora. The powers extend to the delegation of
powers and responsibilities on to Chiefs. The regulations are contained in
the Range Mnasgement and Grazing Control Regulations of 1980 (referred to,
hereafter, as "the Regulations"). The Act and the Regulations confirm the
powers of the chiefs with regard to rasrgelands and are intended to
strengthen ti se powers through the provision of technical assistance by
MOA.  An amendment in 1986 has further strengthened the Regulations but, at
the same time, introduced requirements some of which may be difficult to
implement. First, the amendment clarifies that any person coming within a
grazing area is "under the complete authority" of the village, ward or
principal chief, as the case may be, for as long as the livestock remain in
the area of their respective jurisdictions. Second, the agricultural
officer is to annually determine the "carrying capacity" of each section of
the grazing area and to maintain a record of the stocking rate. In
determining the numbers of livestock that can be permitted to graze, all
livestock, including those below one year, are to be included. This is
l.ikely to be difficult to implement. Third, the fines for trespass and
impoundment have been raised five-fold and chiefs are now entitled to
receive 70 percent of the fines collected for payment to the persons
effecting impoundment (as opposed to the previous 30 percent). These fines
increase with every subsequent offense. Fourth, there has been a dilution
in the authority of the agricultural officer In that his advice, approval
or decision (where required) is no longer "final" but not to be "unduly
disregarded". Finally, the amended regulations still retain a provision
which is contrary to both traditional rules and other provisions of the
Regulations: Regulation 8 (1) provides that "grazing of cattlepost areas
shall be communal" and that no Chief can restrict their use only to persons
within his jurisdiction. In practice, the rule, which was designed to
provide grazing for persons without access to summer pastures, is rarely
followed although it could create an obstacle if a person with sufficient
authority desired to follow the rule. Implementation of the Land Husbandry
Act and the Regulations has been poor -- the combined effect of the same
lack of resources on the part of both the Chiefs and MOA. More
importantly, the failure to associate the land users in the formulation and
implementation of schemes has rendered enforcement impossible. The result
has been continued overgrazing and land degradation. The project would aim
to remedy this by actively associating those entitled to herd their
livestock on pastures with the Chiefs and Government through the Councils.



93 -                       Annex 2
Page 19 of 20
55.       General dissatisfaction with the Land Act has resulted in the
establishment of a Land Policy Review Commission.  The Commission comprises
representatives of various professions with the present Commissioner of
Lands as Secretary. The Commission took evidence from interested persons
throughout the nation and should complete its deliberations before the end
of 1987. The terms of reference of the Commission relate mainly to the
vorking of the Land Act in urban areas and recommendations for necessary
amendments. But the Commission is also required to "advise on measures of
environmental protection" and "to undertake a broad review of the existing
land tenure system".
56.       National Settlement Policy.  As the Fourth Five Year Development
Plan notes, settlement in Lesotho and public investment in settlements has
been uncoordi'ated and haphazard. There has been a concentration on the
economic and financial aspects of planning to the detriment and neglect of
both physical and environmental planning. It is intended that these
omissions would be rectified in the fourth plan and that productive
investments would be more equitably distributed throughout the nation. For
this purpose, the Division of Physical Planning (DPP) in the Directorate of
Lauds, Surveys and Physical Planning of !ICARD is preparing a National
Settlement Policy. The background work for the formulation of this policy
commenced in January 1986 with technical assistance provided by SIDA. The
purpose is to: review the spatial distribution of major economic
activities and new investments; assess growth potential of variou6 regions
(and sub-regions); identify the types of growth centers (settlement
structures) which would support balanced regional development; and
recommend the types of public and private investments which would encourage
the development of these centers. The National Settlement Policy is
intended to provide a framework for decision-making to be used by the
Government and all councils, with regard to both the types and location of
facilities and development projects. The association of ILUP with DPP
should allow the program to develop both physical and socioeconomic
criteria for assessing aettlement policies.
57.       Lesotho has a Natioual Soil Conservation Strateg  based on four
principles: (1) gathering basic data (soil surveys and land inventories)
for sound land use planning; (2) protecting the Nation's prime agricultural
lands (through conservation methods and prohibition of conversion of these
lands to other uses); (3) developing and presenting proposals for new
legislation which will provide authorities with the powers to carry out a
well-balanced conservation program in cooperation with land t'sers and other
ministries; and (4) creating public awareness and providing motivation
towards a national conservation program (e.g. through continuing education,
leadership training and other courses, and the development of guides which
can be used as classroom texts). The strategy emphasizes the integrated
use of both biological and structural measures, relying primarily on labor
intensive construction activities and within an overall watershed
framework. Farmer participation would be ensured through the ase of
elected conservation committees at the village level. The Conservation
Division of MOA is preparing a more detailed National Soil Conservation



- 94 -Ane2
Annex 
Fs-g    of 20
Policy with the assistance of USAID. Although Government recognizes and
accepts the need for farmer participation, in practice, the village
conservation committees have seldom been involved either In plan
formulation or implementation. They are viewed more as agents for
decisions made by the Conservation Division. In general, however, the main
elements of the conservation strategy set out above are sound and would be
followed under the project.



_ 95 _                   Auue  3
Page 1 of 8
TERMS OF REFtRBNCE
Position:          Resource Planning Specialist (ILUP)
Duration:          Three years.
guaifications:    The Resource Planning Specialist should have a degree in
agriculture or a related subject and have at least seven
years' experience in natural resources inventories and
rural land use planning. He should have a minlmum of
three years' professional experience (preferably in
Lesotho, or southern Africa), and have some knowledge of
socioeconomics and/or farm systems surveys while
experience in those fields would be an asset.
Duty Station:      The duty station would be Maseru, but with frequent
visits to project areas in the field.
Duties:            The Resource Planning Specialist would be posted to the
lnstitute of Land Use Planning (ILUP) of the Department
of Technical Services in the Ministry of Agriculture,
Cooperatives and Marketing (MOA). He would:
-       ^assist the Chief Land Use Planning Officer and
staff of ILUP in the development of a methodology
for the participatory approach to resource
management planning at village level. This task
would include the preparation of field
questionuaries.
assist with the in-service training of staff for
resource management planning and assist with the
preparation of training manuals and other teaching
materials.
assist with the supervision of resource management
activities, and in the light of experience gained,
recommend adjustments to the methodology.
prepare a manual describing the agreed methodology
for land resource management planning.
liaise and work with the District PlanniLg and
Training Specialist in MICARD and the District
Planning Officers and provide relevant land use
plans as part of ti's overall districts development
plan.



- 96 -                   Ats 3
Page 2 of 8
Notes
live Resource Planning Specialists are required for the project,
each with primary qualifications outlined above. However, individual
spocialists would have special fields of experfeonce
-   land use planning advisor
- soils and land suitability assessment
-   socioeconamics/sonitoring and evaluation
-.  sgroforestry
- livestock and range resources under communal management
systems



97                    Awnx 3
Page 3 of 8
TERMS OP REPERENCE
Position:          Grmi"ag )haagmst Spectilist (Ramge Imagspmut
DLVIsion)
Duration:          22 man-months (12 months in Project Year 1 and two
months in each subsequent year).
Qalifications:    The Grazing Management Specialiot should have a degree
in agriculture or related subject and have at least
seven years' experience in natural resource monitoring.
He should have a minimum of three years' professional
experience, preferably in Lesotho, or southern Africa.
g!YL! Staiont      The duty station would be Maseru, but with frequent
visits to project areas in the field.
Duties:            The Grazing Management Specialist would be responsible
to the Chief Range Management Division of the Department
of Techiacal Services in the Ministry of Agriculture,
Cooperatives and Marketing (WOA). He would among
others:
-     prepare a report for the Chief Land Use Planning
Officer of ILUP concerning information about
grazing management, patterns of transhumance,
ownership of cattleposts and the role of chiefs as
regards to summer grazing.
-     Topics to be covered in the report would include:
areas of sumer grazing, arrangements for granting
access to individuals possessing livestock but
with little or no access to summer grazing,
systems for regulating timing of transhumance,
estimates of the proportion of livestock using
summer grazing and trends, confirmation of these
trends, location of kraals and cattleposts and
systems of management and control, and problems
and constraints affecting livestock husbandry in
sumer grazing areas.
-     develop guidelines in conjunction with the ILUP
Resource Mbnitoring Specialist (livestock and
range resources) for the inventory work required
for planning Summer Grazing RMPs.



Anves 3
98 -                  Pag 4 of 8
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Position:          Resource Mobitoriag Specialist (ILUP)
Duration:          Six man-months (2 months in each of Project Years 1
and 2 and a final two months in Project Year 6).
ualifications:   The Resource Monitoring Specialist should have a degree
in agriculture or related subject and have at least
seven years' experience in natural resource monitoriag.
He should have a minimum of three years' professional
experience, preferably in Lesotho, or southern Africa.
Duty Station:      The duty station would be Maseru, but with frequent
visits to project areas in the field.
Duties:            The Resource Monitoring Specialist would be responsible
to the Chief Land Use Planning Officer of the Institute
of Land Use Planniug (ILUP) of the Department of
Technical Services in the Ministry of Agriculture,
Cooperatives and Marketing (MOA). He would:
-     assist the Geography Department of NUL, in
conjunction with SADCC, to prepare a national
erosion sta.us map and report presenting the
extent, degree and distribution of erosion in the
country.
define the objectives and determine the
methodology to enable meaningful monitoring of
resource degradation at the Resource Management
Plan level.
The process should aim to determine the extent and effectiveness
of conservacion practices before and after implementation of individual
RMPs.



-99 -                     Annex 3
Page S of 8
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Positions           Comumications Specialist (IW?)
Duration:           Six months over a period of four years, it Years 1, 2
and 4.
9guafjitionjs       The Communications Specialist should have a basic degree
in communications or a related discipline. The
Specialist should have had extensive experience in
training and developing methodologies for communicating
with and motivating groups of, and individual villagers
in developing countries. Previous experience in
sub-Saharan African countries is essential.
Duty Station:       The duty station would be Maseru, but it is expected
that a major part of the duties of the Specialist would
involve field visits to the project areas.
Duties:             The Communications Specialist would be posted to the
Institute of Land Use Planning (ILUP) of the Department
of Technical Services in the Ministry of Agriculture,
Cooperatives and Marketing (MOA). Re would:
-     assist the Chief Land Use Planning Officer in
training Resource Management Working Groups
(RMUGs) in communicating the goals of the project
so as to evoke community response.
-     develop a training methodology and a manual
adapted to sociocultural conditions In Lesotho
which would enable RMUGs to provide continuity of
contact with councils and constituent residents in
the absence of the Specialist.
-     field test the training methodology and make such
revisions as may appear necessary.
-     train one of the trainees, or such other person
who may be deemed fit with the consent of MOA.
in subsequent visits, assess the training
methodology and the performance of the trainees
and trainer and make such amendments to the
training program and such recommendations as may
be necessary.



Annex 3
- 100 -                 Page 6 of 8
TERMS O REFERENCE
Position:          Distriet Plauing and traling Specialist (MICARD)
Duration:          Three years.
Qualifications:    The District Planning and Training Specialist should
have a degree in Social Sciences/Development Economics
or Social Geography/Agrlculture with Economics as a
minor; together with extensive experience in local level
plan formulation with local participation; and training
personnel in plan design, appraisal, implementation and
evaluation. Preference will be given to a candidate
with additional training in comunications, experience
in leading multi-disciplinary teams preferably with
field experience in Africa,
Duty Station:      The duty station would be Maseru, but a major part of
the Specialist's work would involve field visits and
location at district headquarters.
Duties:            The District Planning and Training Specialist would be
posted to the Ministry of Interior, Chieftainship
Affairs and Rural Development (MICARD) and be under the
supervision of the Deputy Secretary, Chieftaiaship
Affairs. The Specialist would be required to train
District Planning Officers (DPOs) in formulation,
appraisal, implementation, nonitoring and assessment of
local level development plans (at the village, ward and
district level) and to prepare a curriculum and training
manual for the further training of DPOC. Inter alia, in
the course of the assignment, he would:
-     train DPOs in interview techniques, sampling
procedures, writing skills, basic economic
analysis.
-     train DPOs in the preparation of village, ward and
district development plans, incorporating ILUP's
land use plans when available; the selection of
criteria for ranking of village and ward
development plans inter se, and the formulation of
a dietrict level plan through reconciliation of
the lower level vlllage and ward plans.
-     develop and prepare, in coordLuatLon with ILUP,
criterla and procedutes for the rankLig of plans
and monitorLig overall development plan
implementatLon.
-     prepare a curriculum and m&nual for training DPOs
within the first twelve monthe of the assignment.



-101 -                   AnneX 3
Page 7 of 8
-     select a trainee, after a period of about 18
sonths, or such other person as the Specialist
may deem suitable and with the concurrence of
IICARD, for further training in order that the
candidate can take over further training of DPOs.
-     supervise and assist in the training given by the
trained candidate.
-     prepare a final and complete revision of the
curriculum and training manual In the light of
experience.
-     liaise and work with the Resource Management
Specialists in ILUP of the Department of Technical
Services In MOA so as to coordinate with the
training of District Land Use Planners under the
project and derive thx maximum benefit therefrom.
The Training Specialist would also coordinate with local
training institutions such as LIPA and with outside
training institutes like SALA in the preparation and
execution of a training program for chiefs, village,
ward and distrLet councils.



- 102 -                  Annex 3
Page 8 of 8
TERMS 0 REFR ENCE
Position:          laud Policy Advisor (KICARD)
Duration:          Six months in two years.
QualLfications:    The Lend Policy Advisor should have a basic degree in
law and, preferably, a degree in the social sciences.
The Advisor should have had extensive experience in
advising governments on land tenure and land policy and
a thorough knowledge of land tenure systems in
sub-Saharan Africa. Preference will be given to a
candidate who has worked in Lesotho.
Duty Station:      The duty station would be Maseru.
Duties:            The Land Policy Advisor would be required to advise the
Government of Lesotho and, more particularly, the
Ministry of Interior (MICARD) on land policy and land
tenure. Inter alia,. the Advisor would:
analyse and assess the impact of the Report of the
Land Policy Review Commission.
fin the light of the analysis and assessment of the
Rview Commission, advise the Government on the
amendmentst or modifications to existing land
legislation, if necessary, and/or draft new
legislation for the consideration of Government.
examine and make recommendations on the
institutional arrangements necessary for giving
effect to the advice.



- 103 -                     Annex 4
Page 1 of 13
LESOTHO
LAND MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PLAN PREPARATION
1.        The Resource Management program is divided into two areas of
activit;:  (a) Resource Management Plans (RMPs) which include winte:
grazing; and (b) Summer Grazing RMPs. The project would fund the
implementation of Community RMPs formulated with the assistance and
participation of Village Development Councils (VDCs) and the residents of
the selected villages. Under the project it is expected that some 47 RMPs
would be prepared over a period of six years. The coverage has been kept
relatively modest for two reasons:
(a)    The process of involving people is necessarily a slow one for it
involves the protracted discussion of alternatives, the weighing
of costs and negotiations between participants with differing
views; and
(b)    The plans have to be tailored to the unique needs and available
resources in each village which extends the time involved in
planning.
2.        Whenever possible, the plans would be drawn up for groups of
about four contiguous villages. The main reasons for this is the need to
group together villages with common boundaries, and overlapping grazing
areas such that a comon approach and plan would be essential.  In
particular, village boundaries would have to be agreed mutually, and the
widospread problem of grazing trespass across these boundaries would be
addressed at the outset. In addition, planning would be more readily
rationalized within the framework of larger watershed areas. Furthermore,
assistance in planning could be provided more efficiently to groups than to
individual villages, and the village group approach would allow for a check
of consistency in indevidual VDC plan content. In practice, it is expected
that the number of villages comprising a contiguous group for planning
would vary somewhat, perhaps between two and six villages. On this basis,
a provisional figure of four has been selected for project design purposes.
3.        In order to arrive at an indicative cost of project support to
implementation of Community RMPs, models (groups of four villages) have
been developed for each of the permanently settled agroecological zones
(Zones A, B, C and E). Each model is based on an assessment of the
physical and human resources in the Zone, together with an estimate of
development activities that are considered relevant to the problems of the
area and feasible with the limited human and financial resources
available. It should be emphasized that these models are based on mean
values for village area, cropland, rangeland, human population and
livestock. Actual conditions and potential for village-level development



- 104 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 13
are likely to vary. The relevant data are listed in Table 1.1. The aim of
resourcs managesent planning would be to provide guidance and support to
local communities to improve the management of thelr resources. In many
cases, the resources (partlcularly the grazlig resource) are under pressure
and the comunity mwld need to take actlon to relleve that pressure.
Summer graxlng management plans for Zone D are dlscussed In paras 21-28 of
thls Annex.
Mle 1.1: 'we'VflI lm. aa1 Ind.lad.   _    habm  xlsanawd UK Eod
b1m uwl (w of fiavl"ms) ad ownlruchWlm m
74jx.Yno   Vifi  Ambe  It mm             p  Ural Ral Ham  &an  Ar* lad  AiSml  kolUdS per Adml UlM
74w            Am    tld Y ArMfs leAd  PAati bs-     Pr kf  pwo Uite 3/ nrtmlaA               r dn r
A. tnds          490    150    23    30    4             8        0.28                          0.50
IL bodis         5060    85      17   4210   5190       its       0.16     2M       fi          0.56
co "Maliml        1m     so      1D   72)    429         53       0x                aI          1.78
D. ft  uRh       GmO    790       8    M0    66          to       0.12     32D       3          0.8
Om Bua, M~ p*atLa ms, pwThtray =sdta..
3Smcs lowEan oi aof tisetes don, ISOM
A. Crlterla for Selectlon
(i)    Ranking of Distrlcts
4.        Generally, project activlties would not be limlted to any
partlcular zone. Project phasaing aims to start activltles in WokhotlonC
and Qacha's Nek Dlstricts initially, reaching seven Districts durlug the
project llfe. The ranklng of distrlets accordlng to comencement date
would be decided at implementation based on the following crlterla:
(a)    Representatlveness:  The selected dlstrlets should contaln
respresentative aress of all agroecologieal zones to ensure that
the lnitlal planlnig and management approaches are repllcable in
other DLstricts.



- 105 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 13
(b)    Other Projects:  Some districts contain other major ongoing
projects which might overlap with this project's initiatives.
These merit careful examination to ensure proper coordination.
Areas which are already committed to effective resource
management under other projects may be excluded initially
although liaison with the management of these projects would be
essential and information about project progress and monitoring
data would be obtained.
(c)      stitutional Capacity:  There should be adequate capacity at
district level to support the preparation and implementation of
RMPs.
(1i)   Selection of contact villages
S.        Once the districts have been chosen, the selection of village
groups within the districts should follow guidelines listed below. The
first activity of the RMWG would be to prepare a ranking of villages in the
District to determine their priority for inclusion in the planning
program.  This ranking should be based on a rapid assessment of the
situation in each village with regard to:
(a)    Interest of local community:  assessment of local communities'
records in participation in self-help and other development
projects and their willingness to join in association with
neighboring villages.
(b)    Land  pressure:  using densities of human  and livestock
population, taking into account the extent and quality of arable
and grazing resources.
(c)    Land degradation:  related to both land pressure and to
susceptibility to erosion; to be assessed independently on the
basis of extent of erosion, status of conservation measures, and
status of the rangeland.
(d)    Infrastructure:  assessment of current access roads, water
supply, etc., giving higher priority to villages with least
infrastructure.
This selection process would enable an initial ranking, following which an
awareness campaign would be conducted through the VDCs. In situations
where a VDC has been contacted and does not recognize the need for a
resource management plan, or where this is considered a low priority, the
village would be relegated to a lower position on the list and contacts
would be initiated with the next village on the list.
B. Awareness Campaign
6.        The objective of this campaign, which would follow the selection
of suitable village groups, would be to inform local people about the



- 106 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 13
potential of participatory planning, making clear the types of development
options that could be considered and the kind of inputs that local people
would be expected to contribute. The campaign would be carried out through
local Government contacts and the RMWG team, and would culminate in direct
discussions with the VDCs. Particular attention would be given to the
willingness of the local communities to particirste in the planning process
and, more importantly, in subsequent plan implementation. It would be made
clear at this stage what types of resource management activity may need to
be arranged by the local communities, what manner of action may be needed
from individuals, and what meaaure of contribution could be provided from
Government funds. Where appropriate, the communities' willingness to
contribute would need to be ascertained. Planning cannot commence until
the community has agreed to all these issues in principle.
C. Collection of Data and Inventory
7.        Once the village group has been selected for planning and a
program for planning activities has been established, RMWG would assemble
the necessary materials and equipment. Most important at this stage are
topographic maps, aerial photographs (both contact prints at 1:20,000 and
enlargements at 1:10,000), and simple survey equipment.
8.        The planning process would start with a rapid survey of the
village's natural and human resources, land use systems and livestock.
This would be carried out by RMWG together with the local Extension
Assistant and/or Livestock Assistant. In addition, the Village Chief and
VDC members would be asked to facilitate the inventory and provide general
information on land use systems and constraints.
9.        The emphasis during the inventory would be on three main aspects:
(a)    outline mapping of natural resources and present land use;
(b)    informal discussions on crop and livestock production systems
with key informants, with particular emphasis on problems
perceived by villagers in the use of their land resources;
(c)    household surveys on a limited scale as required to record human
population, livestock population and seasonal occupance.
This initial survey, which would be an extension and refinement of the
discussions during the awareness campaign, would take about three weeks per
village, and will not be exhaustive. The objective is to provide
sufficient information to form the basis of the initial RMP and its various
components. The data gathered would relate to: village institutions, GOL
support, village boundaries, land units and soils, cropping patterns and
constraints, conservation and agroforestry; livestock, range and fodder,
population and village infrastructure. Much of the information collected
during the inventory would be through discussion with the Village Head, VDC
members and villagers and RMWG should explain clearly why the information



- 107 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 13
is required. Details regarding the scope of the resource inventory and the
methodology for obtaining the required data are set out in Annex 5.
10.       The experience of ILUP in the preparation of village-level
resource management plans in all ten districts forms a basis on which to
build an effective RHWG capability at the start of the project. Progress
would, initially, be slow. For this reason, the first project year in each
District has been set aside for RMWG training, followed by planning for a
single group of four villages in year 2. Thereafter, RMWGs should be able
to organize and divide the work between team members more efficiently, and
achieve the proposed rate of planning for two four-village groups per year
from Project Year 3 onward.
11.       In view of the outline nature of the initial inventory, it is
likely that further village level survey work would be necessary during
project implementation. The need 'to take full account of existing data --
District level information on climate, landform, soils, land suitability,
human population and infrastructure -- which ILUP already has, is
emphasized. 1986 National Census would provide further useful data on
human resources and rural activities. In addition, ILUP and several
area-based projects have carried out systematic household surveys in
various areas which can be used for comparison and extrapolation. Two
particular fields likely to require further survey and evaluation in
selected representative villages as the project proceeds are:
(a)    household socio-economic studies to determine the impact of the
RMP on income distribution, investment and employment
opportunities, equity, etc.; and
(b)    surveys of the livestock sector to enable the integration of the
project activities promoting increased fodder supply into a
comprehensive program of activities for the improvement of the
livestock sector as a whole.
D. Preparation of Resource Haua ament Plan (RMP)
12.        RMWG would now investigate ways to address problems and allocate
priorities. Development options would be identified. An integrated
package of measures would be prepared directly related to land resource
conservation and improved productivity, including measures in the fields of
crop husbandry, range management, water supply, agroforestry, road access,
etc. This would form the basis of an overall RMP for the village area.
The development options would be presented to the local chiefs and
communities at an early stage to find out which options are preferred by
them, taking into account their willingness and capacity for
implementation. It is likely that time would be required to arrive at a
consensus of opinion within and between communities. The planning team
would also discuss the development options with appropriate technical
departments in MICARD and MOA to ensure that the planned activities are
compatible with District and National plans and that the financial and



- 108 -                      Annex 4
Page 6 of 13
technical resources are available to give the required levols of support
for implementation of RMPs.
13.      As a result of the investigations and deliberations, RHWG would
prepare an RMP covering all the following major topics:
(a)    Delineation of village boundaries.  This would describe the
agreements reached regarding any disputes concerning village
boundaries, together with appropriate conditions attached to such
agreements. The method of boundary demarcation in the field
would be identified, and a date would be set by which the agreed
boundaries would become effective.
(b)    The RMP would describe the principles by which the VDC would
manage the resources within the village area including an outline
of tt-e expected benefits. The elements of this plan would need
to address the aain land utilization problems, including
overgrazing and soil erosion. The plan would specify a number of
components for implementation. These could include grazing
schemes, range improvement, agroforestry, gully control,
conservation of arable land, development of water supplies or
feeder roads, according to the particular requirements of the
area.
(c)    Rules and reg lations governing the use of land by commuoit4
members to identify the ways in which rights to rangeland, arable
land, woodland and other natural resources would be allocated to
individuals (or groups), and also the conditions under which such
rights could be revoked. It would also specify the rights of
residents who do not own livestock; the rights of women who farm
the land; and the rights of access by non-residents to range
and/or arable land.
(d)    Preparation of a phased and costed plan of action.  This would
indicate the timing of activities required for plan
implementation, and the anticipated requirements in terms of
equipment, labor, technical support and finance for individual
plan components.
(e)    Identification of local contributions.  This would identify which
activities would be financed or carried out by individuals or the
community, and which activities would require outside assistance.
Once the RMP has been approved by the VDC, it would be submitted through
the Ward Council to the District Council for approval and inclusion in
the District Development Plan.
RMP Components
14.       The location and timing of plan components need to be carefully
determined. For some components (water supplies, access roads) the



- 109 -                       Annex 4
Page 7 of 13
relevant technical departments should make these decisions. Other
activities such as establishment of grazing schemes and woodlots need to be
started and timed with close cooperation between technical staff and local
commities.  The local Agricultural Extension Agent and/or Livestock
Assistant would be involved both in plan preparation and assisting
implementation.
Components to be funded
15.       The project would only provide funding for RMP activities
directly related to land resource management and improved land
productivity by organized groups of villagers, and considered beyond the
financial capacity of the individual rural resident. Thus, the provision
of improved farming (fertilizers, seeds, tools) and veterinary inputs to
individuals not participating in an 141P are seen as individual activities
which are the ongoing responsibilitier of the Extension and Livestock
Assistants, and their technical deparcments at District and National levels
and would not be funded under the project. Substantial support for credit
and improved supply and use of inputs is currently being provided by the
major Lesotho Agricultural Production and Institutional Support (LAPIS)
program, and this project would not therefore be involved in any further
financing in this respect.
16.       It should however be noted that Lesotho's main erosion problem is
sheet erosion in areas lacking adequate vegetatitve cover, particularly in
the sandstone lowlands and Senqu River Valley. Rangeland cover can be
increased ttrough improved grazing management for which proposals are
outlined below. Erosion on sandstone croplands can most effectively be
reduced through improved farming techniques, propet crop rotation and
requiring the use of fertilizer, seeds and appropriate tools. It is
therefore essential that these items are readily available to farmers in
the Lowlands and Senqu River Valley at the time of the RMP implementation,
and MOA would be alerted to this requirement.
17.       More particularly, the project would fund:
(a)    Improved Livestock Fodder Supply, principally through the
introduction of controlled grazing management, increases in plant
population densities, the production of improved fodder crops on
areas of marginal cropland, and conservation of fodder crops.
Substantial increases in range carrying capacity could be
achieved in exclosures on good quality basalt soils in a fairly
short period, probably five to seven years. To achieve similar
results on sandstone would take longer, probably 10 to 15 years.
Following range recuperation, village communities must adopt a
system of controlled grazing within them. Animal numbers and
occupancy would be limited to levels which ensure maintenance of
long-term carrying capacity. The means of implementing this
control would be decided upon with VDC members and herdsmen
during the planning stage. While most farmers are clearly aware
that food crops have value as both food and fodder, very few



- 110 -                       Annex 4
Page Iof 13
appear to plant maize and sotghum at the high densities
appropriate for maximizing fodder production. This approach has
the advantage of increasing fodder output at very little expense
in terms of grain production, and of producing denser, more
protective ground cover on the croplands which are most
vulnerable to sheet erosion. To realize these benefits, owners
would have to be confirmed in their exclusive rights to both crop
residues and fodder crops on their holdings. Further assistance
to the livestock sector would be provided through encouraging
fodder conservation. The project would assist in providing
ox-carts for transport of fodder to kraals and giving advice on
appropriate methods of fodder storage. The benefits of this
approach are increased fodder utilization and, more importantly,
the creation of a fodder reserve which could be fed to selected
animals at critical times to improve productivity, particularly
milk yields and birth rates. VDCs would require substantial
advice from Livestock Division staff during project
implementation. Particular fields requiring such advice include:
-    determination of times when range exclosures are necessary;
-    determination of sustainable stocking rates on improved
rangeland;
-   advice on fodder crops and planting densities;
-   advice on techniques for fodder conservation; and
-   advice on supplemental feeding of conserved fodder to
selected animals.
(b)    Cro lud.  Limited data suggest that the incidence of trespass of
animals into growing crops is increasing, particularly in areas
where owners are keeping increasing numbers of animals in village
areas instead of taking them to the summer grazing posts. In
addition, some villagers complain of incursions into cropland of
animals passing on trek to and from summer grazing. For these
reasons, a sum has been allocated for a limited amount of fencing
around cropland. GOL has promoted the development of small
communal gardens for a number of years, and they have become a
very useful source of vegetables in many villagers. The project
would provide further support for this program, by allowing funds
for garden fencing and provision of supplemental water supplies.
At the planning stage, care would be taken to select land for
gardens which has easy access to streams which are perennial or
run for the longest period in the dry season. In some places,
there would be potential for resisting communal gardens to bring
them nearer to such water sources.
(c)    Agroforestry.  Indiscriminate cutting of trees and shrubs
contributes significantly to land degradation. To counteract



- 111 -                      Annex 4
Page 9 of 13
this process, tree planting activities would be supported. The
emphasis would be on multi-purpose planting, including fruit
trees and species for poles and fuelwood. Willow trees would be
planted and used to make willow twine baskets. Areas to be
planted would include degraded areas, gullies and their margins,
field boundaries and roads, settlement areas and community
woodlots. Funding would be provided for the establishment of
nurseries to serve a group of villages, and to support the
planting of trees.
(d)    Conservation Works.  Project components concerned with on-farm
control of sheet and rill erosion are outlined above. In
addition, funds would be provided for off-farm activities such as
gully control, construction of storm drains and closure of badly
degraded areas. Most of chese activities would be carried out by
local labor. Generally, earth-moving machinery would not be
used. In-field conservation measures would be the responsibility
of individual farmers and would therefore not normally qualify
for project funding.
(e)    Infrastructure.  The main infrastructure items include improved
water supplies, rehabilitation of access roads, provision of
meeting halls, simple local marketing infrastructure, and means
to demarcate village and natural boundaries.
(f)    Unallocated.  Funds would be set aside for development activities
which cannot be foreseen at this stage. A possibility could be
livestock improvement, special VDC training sessions or e.g.
limited liming of acidic soils to improve production. In the
models, the provision for the unallocated item amounts to 10% of
the total costs.
Implementation Schedule
18.       It is envisaged that the planning and implementation of an RMP
would require a period of four years. The first year would involve the
actual planning and approval process, including the demarcation of village
boundaries. Implementation of the remaining activities would be carried
out over the remaining three years. The project would finance the
implementation of 40 Community RMPs according to the schedule presented in
Table 11 of the SAR.
19.       Local communities would be expected to contribute to the costs of
project implementation. The five models (see SAR Tables 6-10) show the
level of such contributions for each of the activities. The local
contributions would be highest for activities which would provide short
term benefits to individuals and lowest for activities which have only
long-term benefits to the community as a whole.
20.       The planning and implementation schedule (Table 11, SAR) assumes
that each RMWG would plan one cluster of four villages in its first year of
operation, and two groups per year thereafter. The first project year
would involve start-up and training activities and planning would



-112 -                      Annex 4
Page 10 of 13
commence in three districts ln Project Year 2, extending to seven districte
by Project Year 4. Prom Project Year 4 onward, individual plan
implementation would run on beyond Project Year 6. Plan implementation
would be completed in Project Year 9. The total base cost of implementing
40 Community RMPs is estimated at M10.0 million.
Costs
20.       Costs for the four indicative Community RMPs are presented in 8AR
Tables 6-8 and 10* The indicative base costs range from 1M218,000 to
N343,000 per cluster of four villages.
K. Summer Grazing Management Plans
21.       The approach to resource management in Mountain summer grazing
(Zone D) would differ from the Community RMP procedures for three main
reasons:                   ,
(a)    Access to summer grazing is, in theory, regulated by the
22 Principal Chiefsl/. IBRD Map No. 20634 shows that Wards vary
widely both in totaT size and In the areas of summer grazing they
contain. Some wards are predominantly summer grazing land and
others contain none. Principal Chiefs without summer grazing
negotiate rights of access with Principal Chiefs who have these
resources.  Individual livestock owners aiso gain access to
summer grazing through the safisa system._/
(b)    The community groups who customarily use individual summer
grasing posts frequently come from different villages. This
means that the communities using winter and summer grazing areas
comprise different groups of people.
(c)    There are few data on the use of summer rangeland at a local
level.
22.       In spite of these apparent differences, it is clear that a
community approach to summer pasture management could provide significant
benefits. An unknown, but large propotion of lesotho's national herd still
makes regular use of summer pasture. In addition, there are indications
that overstocking and shrub infestation in some summer grazing areas are
more serious than in village grazing areas. The measures proposed are
technically simple, requiring the closure of poor quality rangeland for
recuperation and subsequent grazing under controlled management. However,
the process of arriving at a consensus of opinion with regard to commitment
of that land for improved management is likely to be more complex. It is
j/   Principal Chiefs are de facto Ward Chiefs. There are 22 Principal
Chiefs and two Ward Chiefs.
2/  Naisaf   a system under which an owner of livestock gives them for
temporary care to another (generally, friends or relatives). The
herder is entitled to appropriate the products (milk and wool) and to
use them for draught.



-113 -Annex 4
Page II of 13
essential, however, that there are agreements to manage summer grazing
since access to these resources is an integral part of the livestock system
in Lesotho. Further, measures of control would be an important aspect for
the development of a comprehensive livestock program.
Discussions with Chiefs
23.       Initial visits would be made to all 22 Principal Chiefs to
discuss their views concerning land resource management generally, and to
investigate the following topics in respect to summer grazing:
(a)    area of summer grazing administered;
(b)    arrangements for granting of access to Principal Chiefs and
people with little or no summer grazing;
(e)    systems of regulating timing of migrations and access to summer
grazing (including any permit system, dues paid, fines for
trespass and the means of implementing these);
(d)    any experience of rotational grazing or apportionment of land for
particular grazing purposes (including Grazing Associations);
(e)    estimates of the proportion or percent of total livestock using
sumer grazing (including relevant changes and trends).
Inventory and Analysis
24.       The next stage would be an outline inventory of summer grazing
post resources and utilixation as follows:
(a)    Confirm regulations concerning grazing access with herdsmen.
(b)    tecord actuial methods used to implement regulations.
(c)    Investigate any system of grazing control or rotational grazing
employed within individual grazing post hinterlands or over
larger areas of sumer grazing.
(d)    Locate seasonal dwellings/kraals and grazing hinterland
boundaries, and mark on aerial photographs.
(e)    Inspect entire grazing post hinterland and select area for
exclosure having deeper soils and areas with high unpalatable
shrub infestation.
(f)    Enumerate all herds using the grazing post, including animal
types and numbers, village of ownersbip and "mafisa"
arrangements.



- 114 -                      Annex 4
Page 12 of 13
(g)    Record timing of migrations including draught cattle retained in
villages for land preparation in the spring.
(h)    Assess problems and constraints affecting livestock husbandry in
the summer grazing areas (theft, herding problems, disease,
problems encountered while on migration through village areas,
etc.).
Selection of Grazing Areas
25.       Following these discussions, areas of sumer grazing would be
selected for further investigation and planning based on (a) the interest
of the Principal Chief and herdsmen in implementing grazing management, and
(b) the representativeness of grazing areas and access arrangements. With
regard to (b), in the initial stages, areas which are used by herds from
the same Ward, and other areas which are used by herds from a Ward with
little or no summer grazing would be included. Where possible, summer
grazing areas would be selected which are used by villagers for which RMPs
are being prepared to maximise the benefits of improved grazing management
In aummer and winter areas concurrently.
Plamnntn
26.       Summer Grazing RMPs would be prepared for groups of contiguous
summer grazing posts. A nominal figure of four posts per group is used for
project scheduling and cost estimates, although it is recognized in
practice that grazing posts are seldom so clearly defined. However,
without reliable data on the present numbers of grazing posts and the sizes
of their hinterlands, this figure is regarded as provisonal. Following the
inventory, a provisional sumer grazing management plan would be prepared
for the contiguous hinterlands. This would be discussed with herdsmen,
animal owners and the Principal Chief. At this stage, particular attention
would be focuss6d on the scope for reallocating summer grazing posts for
the exclusive use of herds preferably from a single village. Where this is
not possible, small groups of villages under a single Area Chief would be
considered. Such reallocations should be encouraged wherever possible. It
may be feasible to initiate a phased program of reallocating summer grazing
rights over a limited number of seasons, and this would be discussed with
Principal Chiefs and livestock owners. During these discussions, areas to
be set aside as exclosures would be agreed, and the methods and
responsibilities for policing closure boundaries would be carefully
defined. In addition, systems regulating access to improved pastures
following esclosure would be agreed upon. Within each plan, objectives,
community contributions, GOL contrlbutions, technical assistance and
monitorLig requlrements would be specifled. Particular attentlon would be
pald to the assistance role of Grazing Control Supervl sore and the Range
Management Division during plan implementation. The plan would then be
passed to the WDC, DDC and District Secretary for approval.



-115-                       Annex 4
Page 13 of 13
Phasing and Consultancy
27.       In view of the complex issues involved in summer grazing, and the
lack of basic data on their use at local level, a full two-year period is
allowed at the outset of the project before the first group of summer
J.azing posts is scheduled for planning. A resource management specialist
with oxperience in livestock and range management, together with a national
counterpart, would be included in the ILUP staffing to deal with summer
grazing management planning on a full time basis. In addition, a short-
term consultancy in the field of grazing management institutions is
proposed. The Consultant would be responsible for initial investigations
among Principal Chiefs and livestock owners concerning summer grazing
utilization and access, and would prepare guidelines for the ILUP
specialists for inventory work and planning. Ongoing consultant inputs are
envisaged, 12 months in Project Year 1 for basic investigations, and two
months in each subsequent year to check on progress, resolve problems and
refine methodologies.
Costs
28.       Costs for the Indicative Summer Grazing RMP are presented in
Table 9. The total indicative base cost is M48,000. The project would
finance the implementation of seven Summer Grazing BMPs according to the
schedule presented in Table 11. The total base cost of implementing these
plans is estimated at M335,000.



- 116 -
Page 1 of 4
LESOTHO
LAND MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PRLJECT
RESOURCE INVENTORY METHODOLOGY
Planning would coauence with a rapid survey of the village's
natural and human resources, land use systems and livestock. This would be
carried out by the Resource Management Working Group (RKWG) supported by
the local Extension Assistant and/or Livestock Assistant. In addition, the
Village Chief and VDC members would be asked to facilitate the Inve;tory
and provide general information on land use systems and constraints. In
this context, it would be important for the KMWG to explain clearly tAhy the
information is required.
This initial survey would take about three weeks per village, and
would not be exhaustive. Its objective is to provide sufficient
information to form the basis of the initial Resource Management Plan (RMP)
and its various components. The survey would include the following
measurements and investigations:



- 117 -Ane  
a-ge 2 lof 4
(a) Viisam bzstitutl*
Usocx-d VIX and Sbumttm umbeabp and             Dlswusimi with ViUiqe Head and Ccuuitte
(b) S~&W
!sxord preseot support provided by MD    O  n   Isueo with villager.
otber GOL sgencie, atA otbur aoWfg projeCts.
(c) ___mBMIK
locate vll2qe bouiader7  Inc2uadii disputed     Fied Iwpectoix with villq     irsattue
(d) land Units sand Sols
TMetify broad gedA an/ezdformi/adla. units.     Field izepecticai ilAited soil aosrit  In
Imr regulation presently deteznin1zg amm    Dlscwsion wit Villag  Budl.
to cropld.
fl-c -u1nor coomtraintt affectii  food arA      Discussimi u,th fariu..
fodder crop productioni.
Amues I ePatu me of farm ioputs ami related    DLscusuio with faruers
cuedit sytes
Istliats tota villagp cropland are.             FilAd inspectioo  pliot on aeria Photogra*iu, ame
Eatimate present cro  udx,, Inc3ArU  fodeleld tranwects.
Estimate iiginal cropland sadi ressons for      Dlsoauio  with farmemr, izupectiai of typical.
mgsir naltMIS                                    ils,ilnaueet
latiunte fallw Isd and reubom for faUmirg.  Disgission with Farmrs aerial estimat, from
field Inseonm.
Bsthmzm  cropisa fanve  by peple from outside  Disciusid  with Villagp Head, awrial estimast from
tte village.                                     m     i.  bldirg gmt.
Identify sits b,r owmmal prdim, If reuired.  Fleld irspectlom, Unifted soil auguft,.



ax~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
fli7gi 1 7 iI    'I.}i  ai  ,i ii



- 119 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
Rew*  praesat ntiods of feedig crop residcs  Diawesitm with f       am! lvestodk mrs.
ard foddw crops, amd m  fodde cmervatio
Practices 
(h) 
Record buman population y age and so,         Nationl Censu  data or bimbold suewys
inclnJ9   people In emloynwt els re.
(1) Vilae  Inratcture
Mdetify settlemt ares, tldrg land for         Fid inspection, plot an aerl photograpll.
future exwi
Tdntfy prest feeder roeds, and  I             Pied Inspection, plot on aril photograpbs.
for n roads, if required.
denify present ha  ami livestod wter           Msi    with viluagers, field inspetio,
sours asesspply stiagtlo  selct sites   fomuate plan  dth m_atsoce of Vill  ibter
and nthds for    lvd supplies, If required.  Supply Section staff, If required.
Select site for vifla   retirg b1ll.          D sohdm  with Villa  Hea and VDC emibers.



- 120 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 7
LESOTHO
LAND MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
1.       MICARD and MOA would be the main beneficiaries of project
assistance in the form of institutional support for participatory
planning. In each district, the District Planning Officer would be
responsible for providing assistance in plan formulation and integration.
He would assist the District Secretary in coordination of the activities of
the line ministries. In addition, the District Planning Officer would
liaise with the chiefs through the Assistant District Secretary. Further,
in each district a small Resource Management Working Group (RMWG) would be
established under the leadership of the District Agricultural Officer
(DAO). This group would be responsible for the technical aspects of plan
preparation and the supervision of implementation through assistant level
field staff resident nearby the communities themselves. Funds would be
provided for RMWGs to operate efficiently through the provision of
training, equipment, transport and support services.
A. Ministry of Interior, Chieftainship Affairs & Rural Development
(M-ICARD)
2.       The project would aim to develop and strengtheu the capacity for
planning, initially at district and village levels. There are numerous
projects, most receiving donor assistance, which are underway in Lesotho's
districts. The first task under the project would be to assess the extent
of overlap between the proposed project and other ongoing projects.
Thereafter, the District Planning Officer (DPO) would assist the District
Secretary (DS) in integrating the various donor and other activities in the
district so as to produce an integrated proposal which can be presented to
the District Development Council (DDC) for its discussion. The main thrust
of the activities of the DPO vould be to develop the capacity in the
councils to formulate plans in which local resources are related to goals.
At present, there is no member of the staff of the DS who can assist the
Village Development Councils (VDCs) and District Development Councils
(DDCs) in plan preparation and evaluation.  Further, the staff of the DS
also lack skills in plan coordination and overall assessment of plan
viability.
3.       The project would train the District Planning Officer (DPO),
developing skills to (a) discuss needs, priorities and resource allocation
with VDCs, WDCs and DDCs and their constituent members; (b) assist MOA
field staff in the formulation of village, ward and district land use and
development plans; (c) work as a member of a multi-disciplinary team at the
District level to assist DS in coordination of activities; (d) foster the
development of planning skills in VDCs, WDC8 and DDCs; and (e) assist in
the incorporation of WDC and VDC plans into an integrated, financially
viable District Development Plan to be approved by the DDC; RMPs are also
included but directly funded under the project.



- 121 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
4.       The office of the DS only has an accounts clerk at present
seconded from the Ministry of Finance. The proposed funding of RMPs
through the office of the DS would require further assistance in the office
of the DS for the maintenance of accounts and for the disbursement of funds
against approved items of expenditure.   The project would fund th!e
appointment of an additional accounts clerk in each district, to be
employed in accordance with the proposed project phasing. These accounts
clerks would be supervised by an accounts officer at MICARD's
headquarters.
Technical Assistance
5.       The project would provide technical assistance for the training of
DPOs. For this purpose, a specialist would be internationally recruited
for a period of 6 man-months on terms set out in Annex . The training
provided would be both theoretical and practical, with an emphasis on the
latter aspect. Further, since there is a need for DPOs in every district,
the specialist would initially train DPOs and develop training materials
for Mokhotlong, Qacha's Nek, Mohale's Hoek and one other district where
RMPs are to be formulated and implemented in the first three years of the
project implementation. Thereafter, in the second year the specialist
would train three DPOs for the remaining districts. In the course of
training DPOs the specialist would, at the end of a period of about 8
months of consultancy, select one of the trainees, or such other qualified
person(s) as the specialist may deem fit and with the consent and approval
of MICARD, to take over training of any further DPOs. The specialist
would, then, supervise and assist in the training provided by the selected
person with the aid of a training manual which the specialist would have
prepared within the first months of the consultancy. During the course of
the consultancy, the specialist would also organize at least two
conferences involving personnel from other ministries and members of the
VDC, WDC and DDC, as well as chiefs and others to familiarize them with the
rationale for planning and with the progress in plan formulation and
implementation as well as the procedures involved in plan preparation.
6.        A Land Policy Advisor would also be provided under the project
for a total of six months in the first two years. He would be required to
advise the Government of Lesotho, and the Ministry of Interior, in
particular, on land policy and land tenure issues. Inter alia, the advisor
would assist in the follow-up on the recommendations of the Land Policy
Review Commission.  He would analyze and assess the recommendations of the
commission and advise and assist in the implementation of the
recommendations.
Phasing
7.        Seven DPOs would receive training over the period of the first
three years of project implementation. Since the training would mainly
involve practical demonstrations of plan formulation with local
participation in the field, the time involved in visiting VDCs and DDCs and
talking to their constituents would be extensive and would limit the



- 122 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 7
numbers of DPOs that could be satisfactorily trained each year.
Training of chiefs
8.        The role of the chiefs has been considerably enlarged as a result
of the establishment of the councils. They are no longer concerned only
with the allocation of arable lands and the management of rangelands, but
also with chairing the development councils and guiding the proceedings of
councils. In the process, they would be concerned with the passage of
district, ward and village development plans which would have to be both
internally consistent as well as within the framework of national
priorities and the conservation strategy. With regard to plans that relate
to management of the summer grazing lands, the chiefs would need the skills
to bring together DDC and VDC members, often with contrary goals, to
formulate management schemee which would be viable, acceptable to and
followed by all those who graze their livesk within specified grazing
areas. Skills would also be required to convince chiefs and graziers in
areas adjacent to grazing schemes not to trespass within the scheme, as
also to support such sanctions that may be adopted when trespass has
occurred. Thus, the chiefs would need training in the conduct of meetings,
simple minute-taking and reporting, basic introduction in the necessity and
benefits of planning and maintenance of council resolutions. The Swedish
Association of Local Administrations (SALA) was reported to have offered to
train chiefs in these subjects. Further follow-up would, however, be
necessary to determine the effectiveness and relevance of the proposed
training and the date of its commencement.
B. Ministry of Ariculture, Coop!ratives and Marketing (KOA)
9.        Within MOA, the Institute of Land Use Planning (ILUP) is
primarily involved with land use planning. ILUP has also commenced
preparation of village level plans. The Institute has the appropriate
multi-disciplinary expertise and experience, and they have staff at the
district level. The project would aim to capitalize on these skills and
resources and focus them on a practical program of community planning which
would make substantial progress in terms of nationwide erage during the
project period. Since ILUP is also committed to other activities, the
program outline below is confined to ILUP activities in relation to the
proposed project.
10.      At district level, the technical aspects of community RMPs would
be the responsibility of the District Agricultural Officer (DAO) and his
supporting team of subject matter specialists (SMSs). A Resource
Management Working Group (RHWG) would be established under the D&O.
Members would include the following SNSs: Land Use Planning, Conservation,
Forestry and Range Management. MICARD would also be represented in the
RMWG by the District Rural Development Assistant or other persons
disignated by the District's Secretary's Office.
11.     The creation of RMWGs would form part of a comprehensive program of
institutional improvements at district level whereby procedures for



- 123 -                     Annex 6
Page 4 of 7
be strengthened and accelerated through the development of improved
linkages between the MICARD and HOA district level personnel, the councils
and the RMVGs and coordinated by the District Secretary (DS).
12.     Through the DAO, ILUP headquarters would assist with the estab-
lishment of RMWGs, their training, supervision (including monitoring and
evaluation of progress and methodology), project representation at the
national level, and liaison with various technical divisions in WOA and
MICARD whose staff would be required to assist in RMP preparation and
implementation.
13.     Wherever possible, requests for assistance would be channelled
through divisional representatives at district level, with National level
staff being called in only when needed. Since, however, some key divisions
do not as yet have staff at district level, there would be a need to
maintain continuous liaison in Maseru to address these issues.
14.     In addition, ILUP headquarters-based staff would be involved in
numerous specific programs including those outlined below:
(a)    assembly of all relevant maps and data, including filling of
important data gaps;
(b)    further work on some maps (scale :,OOO) in the possession of ILUP
and associated tabular data;
(c)    land use (distribution of cropland and rangeland);
(d)    present erosion status;
(e)    location of VDCs;
(f)    livesk ownership;
(g)    seasonal livesk movements (summer grazing areas); and
(h)    rural road network.
A detailed list of these data gaps and recommended methods of filling them
are set out in Annex describing the Resource Inventory Methodology. Most
of the above data would be assembled and produced in map and tabular form
during the first project year. A modicum of analysis of distributions and
relationships between parameters would be needed to identify priority
communities for planning. In view of these priorities, it would be
necessary to delay production of full District Land Use plans in order to
allow participation by the identified communities.
* Staffing
15.     At headquarters, the project would require the services of the
following ILUP staff: one Chief Land Use Planner; one Deputy Chief Land



- 124 -                    Annex 6
Page 5 of 7
Use Planner; two Senior Land Use Planners; and one Cartographer. These
staff would work together with the Resource Management Specialists (RMSs)
provided through technical assistance.
2. Technical Assistance
16.      During the first six years of the project, a technical assistance
team of three ILUP-based RMSs would be provided by SIDA, all with primary
experience in land use planning. In view, however, of the project goals
and needs, the RKSs would be selected with reference to their past
experience in the fields of overall land use planning; soils and land
suitability assessment; socioeconomics/monitoring and evaluation;
agroforestry; and livesk and range resources under communal management
systems.
3. Training
17.      In-service training would be a major activity durint the early
years of project implementation and would be provided by senior ILUP staff
and Technical Assistance personnel. The members of the RMWGs would also be
Invited to the training courses in order to build up an integrated team
capability as rapidly as possible.
18.      In addition, there is also a need for seminars to introduce
district-level MICARD and MOA staff to comziinity planning objectives and
techniques. These seminars would be conducted jointly with the specialist
employed to train DPOs. Once these staff are familiar with the approach,
district seminars would form a useful forum for discussions of progress and
metbodology. These seminars would be held at regular intervals during
project implementation.
19.      The above trainiug would be supplemented by short formal courses
in particular fields. Particular emphasis would be placed on rapid
appraisal methods for use in the community inventories. Many of these
courses could be conducted by senior ILUP staff or personnel from the other
technical divisions of MOA. The courses could include: land resource
appraisal, land use planning add management, range resources distribution,
land suitability for fodder crops, techniques of fodder conservation, land
conservation techniques, land suitability for forestry, livesk ownership
and seasonal occupance, regulations governing access to crop and rangeland,
methodology and results of the 986 National Census, development of
communications skills, community plan component programming, and program
assessment, monitoring and evaluation.
20.      The project makes no provision for scholarships which are
adequately provided for under ongoing SIDA funding.
4. Consultancies
21.     In addition to technical assistance, the project makes provision
for four short-term consultancies:



Annex 6
- 125 -                    Page6 of 7
(a)    Grazing Management and Institutions.  There is a paucity of
information about summer grazing managemei ., patterns of
transhumance, ownership of cattleposts an'. the role of the chiefs
as regards summer grazing. The project .akes provision for a
-month consultancy to gather and inter:et information on these
and other matters related to summer grazing. The consultant
would, initially, obtain information from the chiefs and also
investigate the following topics, among others: areas of summer
grazing, arrangements for granting access to individuals
possessing livesk but with little or no access to summer grazing,
systems for regulating timing of transhumance, estimates of the
proportion of livesk using summer grazing and trends,
confirmation of these trends, location of kraals and cattleposts
and systems of management and control, and problems and
constraints affecting livesk husbandry in summer grazing areas.
The consultant would work closely with the RMS and SLUP with
experience in livesk and range management. Consultancy inputs
are estimated at months in Project Year 1 and two months in each
subsequent year. Terms of reference for this consultancy are set
out in Annex 3.
(b)    Erosion Status.  An erosion survey would be conducted in the
districts to determine the status of erosion. This survey would
be undertaken with the assistance of the Department of Geography,
NUL, and provision has also been made for a total of man-months
of technical assistance to the Department for this purpose. The
survey would include aerial photo interpretation using sampling
techniques to gauge the extend and type of eros4on supported by
confirmatory field observations. An assessment would also be
made of the existing conservation practices and their effective-
ness. The survey would be completed by Project Year 3.
(c)    Resource Monitoring.  Guidelines are needed for monitoring the
extent and effectiveness with which planned conservation measures
are implemented for each RMP. Consultancy inputs are estimated
at two months each year in Project Years 2, 4, and 6. Terms of
reference are set out in Annex 3.                  *
(d)    Communication/Motivation Specialist.  The success of RMWGs
depends as much on their technical competence as their ability to
both communicate with and motivate communities.  The most
important skills required are the ability to stimulate community
awareness of the problems of erosion, the inefficiency of present
systems of grazing (and its consequences), to rouse the community
to articulate their problems and needs, and to assist them in
identifying possible solutions for the land management problems
that they face. The consultant would be a specialist in
communications and motivation. In the first project year, the
consultant would examine existing techniques of communication in
the field of agriculture and health in Lesotho and assess their



- 126 -                     Annex 6
Page 7 of 7
effectiveness. Based on this survey, the consultant would
prepare and conduct a short training course for RMWGs at ILUP
headquarters. The consultant would return in the second projetct
year before the RMP commences to follow and assess the
effectiveness of the community motivation training in the field
and to recommend any modifications to the program that may be
necessary. A further visit by the consultant would be undertaken
in Project Year 1. Consultancy inputs are estimated at two
months each year in Project Years 1, 2, and 4. Terms of
reference for the consultant are in Annex 3.



IOD, 14282R
k fi  r  5=taT11S41Dg  >                                                       2
f%', AStspPj                                                             CAtIDOPSOTt2T
1IKcp    ;  _°'trSO Tii' PWMR
_aM
nJII.  o..Aw                                                /         51
388                                     IEI 
2M 43
2123 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~O POPBS~DIIdI6dUSP
1524 ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~    ~      0 A   6A OPP                                          ~
RAU ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ -                         OPNO8 
OIWOPPAA~~~~~~~~~OPNI,oO&
ETE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLPlt
K~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UY16



RAlagl  i {_,'(  ,,^,s"ZaLSO.s-l  >          ^                          |            >$                                       t~~~~~~~ESOTHO
'E'1__/' RrUDLICO? I ISUb lity |fGURICAURGLAND MANAGEMENT AND
All    tW.,.:RC^ '                   -.o4                                                                                                              AGRO-ECOLOGICAL ZONES
AgE-.go Z.W:
/    eL                                                                                                               OlA -9                |      iti      |||  "U
g  |W F
Lmi-&                                                                                                1          0                                                                            N
600                                                                                                                                                    C~oNrl   lpr7R-&el:ood
X ( ; **lo¢drsSnlfasefSs^_^ R7sE e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F-dAi  DrsT11d.
tV ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~       ~~~                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~ -EEX                     - - M _=_  [lbra T ioM&
o.       \           ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~ ,,,'>, ,,,,,,,,. _-.i
77°3tr  e°°  = e t V                      ,,. - __                                              [.LOWfXf~~     ~        ~       ~~Ri-2P0
Ril,-p~ ~~~~~~uL  r,e



ST. 1 -     .'BRD27lAt
* OIOOFAOA       4oo                                              ,oumwW.
E                                                                                                    ..I $o Z,.F4O
Mt MAT IFb§4%   SWAN                                                           M'EKMOT   N4
MOKHOTLONG
wosOOJs NO                             I                                                                     FJ^~ -                                                          NR  M    A    T'    N E  K  f
THABA-tEK < OACA
NOfaT                                                                                               ±LNO O                        QACHA'S /EMOHALE'S    HOEK
A                                             ONUNONNOG PHAMONG
TAM   /  MOHALES  HOEK~~~~~~~~~~ESTH
, OOIFIFO\         lANAlGNorj   v           )                               -                                        LAND MANAGEMENT AND
~~~~~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~CONSERVATION PROJECT
DISTRICT AND WARD BOUNDARIES
ZOOIOON                                                                        'rooe RTTd
_______ ahFod Aid T_
'      t                 p Te^w  T. 6nihw~~~~~~~~~~~Ow md
QUf-ING                                                                         Rim"OOOONO
OUTHI4G                   I              oWr,oooo
003 F0 00 WNA10              *                   oId HoDlAIVfAt.T
'o 00ooo~~~oo.o pm          -     ~wim d kNO.on.o
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0M  NO I                                         0Y00O F 0 00 0 ,                                      :
P -t 2l00 tET  0T                        If FIt
M1.NOO W        MNef
flow            WOO                                 WO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ow                                            0000,
JULY 1937



