Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1897 LSO
            (Land Management and Conservation Project)
                              between
                        KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated May 26, 1988
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1897 LSO
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May  26,  1988,  between  KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower  intends  to  obtain  from  the  Kingdom of
Sweden (Sweden) a grant (the  SIDA  Grant) in an amount equivalent
to one  million  nine  hundred  thousand  dollars  ($1,900,000) to
assist in financing the  Project  on  the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement  (the  SIDA  Grant  Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Kingdom of Sweden; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special Account" means the  account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  "MICARD"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Interior,
Chieftainship Affairs and Rural Development;
     (c)  "MOA"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Agriculture,
Cooperatives and Marketing;
     (d)  "ILUP" means the Institute  of  Land Use Planning within
MOA;
     (e)  "VDC" means  a  Village  Development Council established
under the Development Councils Order No. 9 of 1986;
     (f)  "WDC" means a Ward Development Council established under
the Development Councils Order No. 9 of 1986;
     (g)  "DDC" means a  District  Development Council established
under the Development Councils Order No. 9 of 1986;
     (h)  "Development Councils" means VDCs, WDCs, and DDCs;
     (i)  "RMP" means a  Resource  Management  Plan to be prepared
and implemented under the Project;
     (j)  "DAO" means the District Agricultural Officer;
     (k)  "RMWG" means the Resource Management Working Group to be
established in each District  under  the  leadership of the DAO to
provide the technical input for the preparation and supervision of
implementation of RMPs; and
     (l)  "DPO" means the District Planning Officer under MICARD.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an  amount  in various currencies equiva-
lent to  eleven  million  seven  hundred  thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 11,700,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
Page  3
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997, or
such later date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be  set  from time to time thereafter pur-
suant to paragraph (a) above. The  rate  set as of June 30 in each
year shall be applied as  of  the  next  payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of  this Agreement, except that the rate
set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  March 1 and September 1
commencing September  1,  1998  and  ending  March  1,  2028. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on March 1,
2008 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  4
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above,  the  Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic  condition  has  deteriorated  significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of The United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
its MICARD  and  MOA  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency and in
conformity   with   appropriate   administrative   and   financial
practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall,  by not later than April 1,
1989: (i) introduce  Regulations  satisfactory  to the Association
which  shall  enable  the   Development   Councils  to  raise  and
administer development funds; and (ii)  clarify and confirm to the
Association,  the  role  of  Development  Councils  in controlling
access  to  crop  and   grazing   land   in  the  context  of  the
implementation of RMPs.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  shall,  commencing in fiscal year
1988/1989, make adequate  budget  resources  available to maintain
established and new posts of  MOA  and MICARD Project staff in the
Districts.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agen-
cies of the Borrower responsible  for  carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
Page  5
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls involved in their prep-
               aration, can be relied  upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The SIDA Grant  Agreement  shall  have  failed to become
effective by  September  30,  1988,  or  such  later  date  as the
Association may agree; provided,  however,  that the provisions of
this paragraph shall not apply  if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction  of  the  Association  that  adequate  funds  for the
Project are available to the  Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent  with  the  obligations  of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
     (b)  (i) Subject to subparagraph  (ii)  of this paragraph the
right of the Borrower to  withdraw  the proceeds of the SIDA grant
made to the Borrower for  the  financing of the Project shall have
been suspended,  cancelled  or  terminated  in  whole  or in part,
pursuant to the  terms  of  the  agreement providing therefor, and
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of  this  paragraph  shall  not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the  satisfaction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation or  termination is not caused by
the failure of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (B)  adequate  funds for the Project are
available  to  the  Borrower  from  other  sources  on  terms  and
conditions consistent with the  obligations  of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
Page  6
General Conditions:
     (a)  the   Interministerial   Review   Committee   has   been
established, and the Project Coordinator designated, in accordance
with Paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
     (b)  the Borrower has appointed  the Senior Land Use Planners
and District Land  Use  Planners  referred  to  in  paragraph 5 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement,  in  the two Districts where Project
Implementation is to commence.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 395
          Maseru 100
          Lesotho
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                FINMIN                          4367
                Maseru
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
                          By /s/ W. T. Van Tonder
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  7
                          By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works under           1,790,000       100%
     Part B of the
     Project
(2)  Vehicles,                   1,020,000       100%
     equipment
     and spare
     parts under
     Parts A and B
     of the Project
(3)  Consultants'                  620,000       100%
     services
(4)  Training                      580,000       100%
     and studies
(5)  Implementation              5,120,000       100%
     of RMPs
(6)  Operating costs             1,100,000       50%
(7)  Unallocated                 1,470,000
                                __________
         TOTAL
                                11,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  the term "Implementation of RMPs" means expenditures for
activities, including civil works, equipment, inputs and livestock
in connection with the  implementation  of RMPs under the Project;
and
     (d)  the term "operating costs"  means  the costs of salaries
and related allowances,  maintenance  of  transport, equipment and
housing for incremental MICARD  and  MOA staff assigned to perform
activities under the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
Page  8
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives  of  the  Project  are  to  halt land resource
degradation and improve land management by developing the capacity
of the Borrower to:  (i)  strengthen local government institutions
in general administration  and  overall  development planning; and
(ii)  assist  the  Development  Councils  in  the  preparation and
implementation of RMPs.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Land Policy Implementation
1.   Provision of technical  assistance  to  assist in the further
development  and  implementation  of  the  recommendations  of the
Borrowers' Land Policy Review Commission.
2.   Strengthening of the Office of Commissioner of Lands, Surveys
and Physical Planning to enable  it to carry out land registration
under the Land Act of 1979.
3.   Provision of vehicles and  equipment to undertake the activi-
ties in Part A.2 above.
Part B:   Institutional Support to MICARD and MOA
1.   Strengthening   of   MICARD    to    provide   planning   and
administrative support to  local  government administration at the
district level.
2.   Strengthening of MOA, including ILUP, to enable it to provide
the technical inputs needed for the participatory planning process
and in subsequent RMP implementation.
3.   Provision of  technical  assistance,  training, equipment and
vehicles, and the  construction  of  staff  houses and offices, to
support the above activities.
Part C:   Resource Management Plans
     Preparation and implementation  of  about forty village based
community RMPs and  about  seven  mountain  Summer Grazing RMPs in
seven districts,  with  the  participation  of  Village,  Ward and
District Development Councils.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable,  contracts for vehicles, equipment
Page  9
and spare parts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000, or more each.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil  works,  and  for vehicles, equipment and
spare parts estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000
each  may  be  awarded  on   the  basis  of  competitive  bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance  with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2.   Specialized equipment and spare  parts  may be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least  three suppliers from at least
three  different  countries  eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Contracts for  materials  estimated  to  cost  less  than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract  up  to an aggregate amount not
to exceed $250,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price  quotations  solicited from a list of
at  least  three  suppliers  eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.   Civil works  may  be  carried  out  by  force  account by the
Ministry of Works.
Part C:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more and for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent  of  $100,000  or  more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract  are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of  the contract required to be furnished
to the Association  pursuant  to  said  paragraph  2  (d) shall be
furnished to the  Association  prior  to  the  making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evi-
dence to be furnished  pursuant  to  paragraph  4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01  (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ specialists and consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory  to  the  Association.  Such  consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Page  10
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.   The Borrower shall establish and maintain an Interministerial
Review Committee comprising  representatives  of  MICARD, MOA, the
Ministry of Finance  and  the  Ministry  of  Planning and Economic
Affairs. The Project  Review  Committee  shall  be  chaired by the
representative of the Ministry  of Planning, Economic and Manpower
Development. The Committee  shall  provide overall policy guidance
for all Project activities. The  Committee shall by not later than
September 30, 1988, prepare criteria for the selection of RMPs and
procedures for chanelling of funds through the District Secretary.
In addition, the Committee  shall  review all Community and Summer
Grazing RMPs  approved  by  DDCs,  to  determine  whether they are
consistent with the criteria established, and whether they conform
to the National  Development  Plan  and  the National Conservation
Strategy. Meetings shall be convened as often as required, but, in
any case, at least once every quarter, during the first four years
after the Effective Date. The Deputy Principal Secretary of MICARD
shall be overall Project Coordinator and shall, inter alia, follow
up on decisions of the  Project  Review Committee. At the District
level responsibility for  Project  implementation and coordination
shall rest with the  District  Secretary assisted by the Assistant
District Secretary, the DPO and DAO.
2.   At the end of the  third and sixth years, respectively, after
the Effective Date, a  review  of  Project implementation shall be
carried out jointly by the  Borrower and the Association to, inter
alia, decide on remaining  implementation schedules and to provide
a list of necessary staff for these districts.
Part A of the Project:  Land Policy Formulation
3.   A Land Policy Adviser  shall  be  employed to assist the Bor-
rower in analyzing the  report  of  the Land Policy Commission and
assessing its impact. In addition, he shall assist in drafting any
proposed legislation resulting from the work.
Part B of the Project:  Institutional Support
4.   MICARD
     (a)  The Borrower shall by  September 30, 1988, establish and
fill the  position  of  District  Planning  Officer  (DPO)  in all
participating districts. DPOs shall  be  trained to enable them to
assist in  developing  capacity  in  the  Development  Councils to
formulate and implement RMPs which shall make optimum use of local
resources. The ultimate goal  shall  be  to enable DDCs to develop
District Development  Plans,  which  integrate  and coordinate all
ongoing and planned activities within the District.
     (b)  Chiefs and Development Council  members shall be trained
in the conduct  of  meetings,  simple minute-taking and reporting,
basic introduction to the  necessity  and benefits of planning and
maintenance of Council resolutions and accounts. Relevant training
programs shall be prepared and initiated by April 1, 1989.
     (c)  The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1988: (i) establish
and fill district  accounts  clerk  positions in all participating
districts; and (ii) appoint a  senior project accountant in MICARD
to supervise them.
5.   MOA
     The Borrower shall appoint Senior  Land Use Planners and fill
Page  11
all established MOA posts  of  District  Land  Use Planners in all
districts by the  commencement  date  of Project implementation in
each respective district. At Headquarters the following ILUP staff
shall assist in the preparation of RMPs:
     -    the Chief Land Use Planner;
     -    one Deputy Chief Land Use Planner;
     -    two Senior Land Use Planners; and
     -    one Cartographer.
The Borrower shall appoint three Land Use Planning Specialists all
with primary experience in Land Use Planning.
6.   Training
     The  ILUP  staff  mentioned  in  paragraph  5  above  and the
Resource Management  Specialists  shall  provide  training  to the
RMWGs in order  to  build  a  multidisciplinary team capability as
rapidly as  possible.  In  addition,  they  shall conduct seminars
jointly with the specialist employed  to  train DPOs in MICARD and
to introduce district  level  MICARD  staff  to community planning
objectives and techniques. A specialist shall be employed to carry
out the  training  of  DPOs,  starting  during  the  first year of
Project Implementation  with  the  training  of  two  DPOs for the
districts where plan implementation shall commence. In addition to
training DPOs in accordance  with  a  training program prepared by
the Borrower, the Specialist  shall train his successor, supervise
training DPOs  and  participate  in  training  of  RMWGs. Relevant
training programs shall  be  prepared  and  initiated  by April 1,
1989.
7.   Studies
     During Project Implementation the  following studies shall be
undertaken:
     -    Grazing Management and Related Institutions - to provide
          additional information about  summer grazing management,
          patterns of transhumance, ownership  of cattle posts and
          the role of the chiefs in regard to summer grazing.
     -    Erosion Status -  to  establish  the  baseline status of
          erosion  in  the  country  and  provide  the  basis  for
          prioritizing conservation activities.  This survey shall
          be  undertaken  by  the   Geography  Department  of  the
          National University of Lesotho.
     -    Resource  Monitoring  -   to  establish  guidelines  for
          monitoring  the  extent  and  effectiveness  with  which
          planned conservation measures  are  implemented for each
          RMP.
     -    Communications - to develop  the skills required to com-
          municate   with   and   motivate   communities   in  the
          preparation and implementation of RMPs.
Part C of the Project:  Resource Management
8.   Preparation and implementation of RMPs  shall be based on the
active assistance  and  participation  of  VDCs, Principal Chiefs,
livestock owners  and  residents  of  selected villages. Community
RMPs, which include winter  grazing,  shall  comprise a cluster of
about  four  contiguous  villages  sharing  common  boundaries and
grazing resources. Summer Grazing RMPs, which relate to the higher
mountain rangeland areas under the  customary control of the Prin-
cipal Chiefs, shall be  prepared  for  groups of about four conti-
guous summer grazing posts.
9.   Activities shall  commence  initially  in  two districts. The
Page  12
initial districts are Mokhotlong  and  Qacha's Nek. The ranking of
additional districts shall be  decided during implementation using
the following criteria:
     -    Representativeness - districts  should contain represen-
          tative areas of all agroecological zones, to ensure that
          initial planning and  management  approaches are replic-
          able.
     -    Other Projects -  districts  which are already committed
          to effective  resource  management  under other projects
          may be excluded initially.
     -    Institutional Capacity - there  should be adequate capa-
          city at the  district  level  to support preparation and
          implementation of RMPs.
10.  The selection of contact villages  for inclusion in the plan-
ning program shall be decided  at  the  district level by the Dis-
trict Secretary in consultation  with  the DAO using the following
criteria:
     -    Interest of local community  -  assessment of local com-
          munities'  records  in  participation  in  self-help and
          other development projects and their willingness to join
          in association with neighboring villages.
     -    Land Pressure - using  densities  of human and livestock
          population  and  taking  into  account  the  extent  and
          quality of arable and grazing resources.
     -    Land degradation - with  relation to both land pressures
          and susceptibility to erosion,  to be assessed independ-
          ently on the basis of  the  extent of erosion, status of
          conservation measures and status of the rangeland.
     -    Infrastructure  -  assessment  of  current  access road,
          water supply, etc.  giving  higher  priority to villages
          with least infrastructure.
11.  An  awareness  campaign  shall  be  conducted  through  local
government contacts and the RMWG  to inform local people about the
potential of participatory  planning,  making  clear  the types of
development options to be considered and the kinds of inputs to be
contributed by local people.  Particular  attention shall be given
to the willingness of the  local communities to participate in the
planning  process  and  subsequent  plan  implementation. Planning
shall commence when the community  has agreed to all these matters
in principle.
12.  Data Collection
     When several  clusters  of  villages  have  been selected for
planning, planning activities shall  be  drawn  up by the District
Secretary,  in  liasion  with  the  DAO.  MOA  shall  provide  the
technical inputs  for  plan  preparation  through  the RMWG, which
shall  consist  of  subject-matter  specialists  in  the following
fields  -  Land   Use   Planning,   Conservation,  Forestry  Range
Management, Crop and  Livestock  Production  -  and  the DPO. With
the  assistance  of  locally  based  government  staff,  the Rural
Development Assistant  and  the  Extension/Livestock  Assistant, a
rapid survey of  the  area  shall  be  conducted  to determine the
natural  and  human  resources,  land  use  systems  and livestock
population. In addition, the  village  chief and VDC members shall
be  asked  to  facilitate   the   inventory  and  provide  general
information on land use systems and constraints.
13.  Plan Preparation and Approval
     The RMWG in each  district  shall investigate ways to address
the problems and allocate  priorities.  The  RMWG shall prepare an
integrated package of measures directly  related to land use, land
Page  13
resource conservation and improved  crop and livestock  productiv-
ity, including, inter alia,  measures  in  the  fields of crop and
animal husbandry, range management, water supply, agroforestry and
access roads. This shall form  the  basis of the Community RMP for
the area. The  development  options  shall  be identified and dis-
cussed with  the  District  Secretary's  Office,  local chiefs and
communities at  an  early  stage  to  discover  which options they
prefer,  taking   into   account   motivation   and  capacity  for
implementation.  The  RMWG  shall   then   as   a  result  of  the
investigations and deliberations prepare a community RMP including
the following features:
     -    delineation of village and natural boundaries;
     -    principles by which the  VDC  shall manage the resources
          within the area;
     -    components for implementation;
     -    rules and regulations governing the  use of land by com-
          munity members and the need for raising various fees for
          village development purposes;
     -    preparation of a phased and costed plan of action; and
     -    identification of local contribution.
     The criteria to  be  used  in  selecting  RMPs shall include,
inter alia, the following:
     -    technical soundness of the RMP;
     -    cost effectiveness;
     -    participation of the community;
     -    consistency with cluster villages; and
     -    consistency with the  district  and national development
          plans.
     The Project shall  only  finance  those  activities which are
directly related to  land  resource  management  and improved land
productivity and which are  considered  to be beyond the financial
capacity of rural  residents.  Such  activities shall, inter alia,
involve:
     -    Fodder  supply/rangeland:  closure   of  rangeland  with
          limited  fencing,  provision   of  ox  carts,  rangeland
          improvement through  seeding  and vegetative propagation
          of fodder species;
     -    Cropland: limited fencing  to exclude livestock, fencing
          and  water   supply   for   communal   gardens,  certain
          agricultural inputs such  as  seeds and simple equipment
          to improve production practices.
     -    Agroforestry: establishment of tree nurseries to serve a
          group of villages and the planting of trees.
     -    Conservation: off-farm soil conservation inputs and tree
          planting  activities   of   multi-purpose   species  and
          nurseries.
     -    Infrastructure:  improved  water  supply,  access roads,
          meeting  halls,   local   marketing  infrastructure  and
          demarcation of village boundaries.
14.  When the Community RMP has been approved by the VDC, it shall
be forwarded  to  the  WDC,  DDC  and  the  District Secretary for
evaluation and approval of plan  content and funding. The District
Secretary shall then forward  RMPs  to  the Review Committee which
Page  14
shall scrutinize the plan for consistency with the agreed criteria
for selection and plan content, and conformity with national plans
and the national  conservation  strategy.  Once  the  RMP has been
approved by the Review Committee, copies shall be given to the VDC
and  to  the  government  departments  whose  assistance  shall be
required during implementation.
15.  Funding and Implementation
     Funds shall  be  channelled  through  MICARD  to the District
Secretary for disbursement against  items of expenditure, in plans
that have been approved by both  the DDC and the Review Committee.
The planning and implementation of each RMP shall require a period
of about four years.
16.  Summer Grazing
     The measures  proposed  for  summer  grazing  are technically
simple, requiring the closure of  poor quality rangeland for recu-
peration and subsequent  grazing  under controlled management. MOA
staff shall make  initial  visits  to  all  22 Principal Chiefs to
discuss their views concerning land resources management generally
and to investigate  topics  in  respect  of summer grazing. There-
after, the staff  shall  prepare  an  outline  inventory of summer
grazing post resources and utilization and the selection of summer
grazing areas for further  investigation  and planning. The selec-
tion shall be based  on  the  interest  of the Principal Chief and
herdsmen in implementing grazing  management, the type and quality
of grazing areas  and  access  arrangements.  A summer grazing RMP
shall be prepared and discussed with the Principal Chief, herdsmen
and animal owners.  Particular  attention  will  be focused on the
scope for reallocating summer grazing  posts for the exclusive use
of herds from a single village. During these discussions, areas to
be set aside as  closures  shall  be  agreed,  and the methods and
responsibilities for their  policing  carefully  defined. In addi-
tion, systems  regulating  access  to  improved pastures following
closure shall be agreed upon.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to SDR 370,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
Page  15
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Catego-
ries, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting  the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment  was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the  eligible  Categories minus the amount
               of any outstanding  special commitment entered into
               by the Association pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
               General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Project,
               shall be  equal  to  the  equivalent  of  twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible Categories shall follow  such  procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice  to  the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be made only after  and to the extent that the Asso-
ciation shall have been satisfied  that all such amounts remaining
on deposit into the Special Account  as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was  not justified by the evidence furn-
ished pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from  the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Page  16
Credit Account.
