Report No. PID10536
Project Name                     Congo, Republic of-Emergency Demobilization and...
Reintegration Project (EDRP)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       CGPE74639
Borrower                         Republic of Congo
Implementing Agency              Commission Nationale de Demobilisation et de
Reinsertion CONADER, the project
implementation unit
located at the Presidency ; in collaboration
with the
Ministry of Finance, Economy, and Budget,
the Ministry of
Labor, the Ministry of Youth, the
Ministry of Interior,
and the Ministry of Defense.
Date of this PID                 July 16, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         June 1, 2001
Projected Board date             July 31, 2001
Credit Financing         US$ 5.0 million - IDA. The proposed credit will complement
support provided by other donors including the UNDP/IOM Arms collecting and
Reintegration program which has so far benefited 3,800 ex-combatants..
Background and Description:
The proposed operation is an integral part of the Bank' s Transitional
Support Strategy (TSS) endorsed by the Board in January 16, 2001, to assist
the Republic of Congo in the transition from war to sustainable peace. It is
one of the first two operations of the TSS that would help demobilize and
subsequently reintegrate about 10,000 ex-combatants into civilian life. The
project will be implemented over a three-year period starting from September
2001 and ending on August 2004.
Credit Objectives        The objective of the Emergency Demobilization and
Reintegration Project are twofold: (i) to contribute to the ongoing efforts
of peace consolidation in the Republic of Congo, and (ii) to offer sound
reintegration options to ex-combatants who have join the ranks of the
unemployed after the signing of the Cease-fire agreement.
Environmental Aspects    The credit will have no environmental impact.   In
accordance with IDA's Operational Directive (O.D. 4.01), the proposed Credit
has been placed in category C, and does not require an environmental
assessment.
Implementation Arrangements
The project will be implemented under the guidance of
an Oversight Committee for Demobilization and Reintegration. This committee



will be composed of: the Presidency, the Ministries of Defense; Economy and
Finance; Interior, Security and Territorial Administration; Labor; and Youth.
Its main tasks will be to: (i) formulate and coordinate all activities
related to the EDRP; and (ii) supervise management of the project funds. The
EDRP will be executed on a day to day basis by, the " Commission Nationale de
Demobilisation et de Reinsertion - COMADER" to be established by
presidential decree as a civilian body to implement the national program for
Demobilization and Reintegration. CONADER will be responsible for the
overall implementation and management of the project, and will report
directly to the Oversight Committee.
Beneficiaries    (a) about 10,000 demobilized ex-combatants, as well
as their families; (b) people in eight out of the country' s eleven regions;
and (c) communities where minor rehabilitation of social and economic
infrastructure will allow life to return to normalcy.
Poverty category         Due to the wars, the poverty incidence estimated at
70t prior to 1998 has increased sharply and unemployment is widespread (more
than 60t of labor force). It is expected that the implementation of the
Government' s program for demobilization and reinsertion of ex-combatants
supported under the proposed Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration
Project (EDRP), combined with the impact of structural reforms and governance
measures expected under the accompanying Post-Conflict Economic
Rehabilitation Credit, will help stabilize and revitalize the economy and
pave the way for higher and sustained growth. The resources provided under
the Credit will also help rehabilitate social infrastructure (primary
education and health centers), in communities affected by the conflict. This
will allow life to return to normalcy, with an indirect and influential
effect on poverty reduction.
Contact Point
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Task Team Leader:
Salomon Samen
Telephone: (202) 458-1283
Fax: (202) 473-8466
Room: J7-133
AFTM3
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
necessarily be included in the final project.
- 2 -



