Document of
The World Bank
Report No T-7468-COB.
TECHNICAL ANNEX
FOR A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 4.0 MILLION (US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CONGO
FOR AN
EMERGENCY DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT
July 6, 2001



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Cwrency Unit            =           CFA Franc (CFAF)*
US$1 (Average 2000)                           709
US$1 (July 2, 2001)                          775
* The CFAF is pegged to the French Franc (FF) at the rate of FF 1=CFAF 100
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                               African Development Bank
AFD                                Agence Francaise de Developpement
AIDS                               Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
BEAC                               Banque des Etats de I 'Afrique Centrale
CAP                                UN Consolidated Inter-Agency Appeal
CFAA                               Country Financial Accountability Assessment
DDR                                Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration
DRC                                Democratic Republic of Congo
ERC                                Economic Rehabilitation Credit
EU                                 European Union
FMS                                Financial Management Specialist
FY                                 Fiscal Year
GDP                                Gross Domestic Product
GNP                                Gross National Product
HCREX                              Haut Commissariat a la Reinsertion des EX-Combattants
HIV                                Humane Immunodeficiency Virus
IBRD                               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                                International Development Agency
IDF                                Institutional Development Fund
IMF                                International Monetary Fund
IOM                                International Organization of Migration
NGO                                Non-Governmental Organization
OCHA                               Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
PCF                                Post-Conflict Fund
PER                                Public Expenditure Review
PIPC                               Programme Intermediaire Post-Conflit
SNPC                               Societe Nationale de Petrole du Congo
TSS                                Transitional Support Strategy
UNDP                               United Nations Development Programme
Vice President         .     Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director       :     Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager         :     Cadman Mills
Task Team Leader       :     Salomon Samen



REPUBLIC OF CONGO
EMERGENCY DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
A.   BACKGROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS ................................................1
B. IMPACT OF THE CONFLICT ....................................................2
C. GOVERNMENT RESPONSE                               .3
D. DONOR SUPPORT ..............4
E. IDA RESPONSE AND STRATEGY                           .5
F. JUSTIFICATION FOR THE PROPOSED CREDIT                      .5
G.   SCOPE, DESIGN, AND CONTENT OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT                .      5
1. Overall Implementation Arrangements                 .7
2.  Financial management, auditing and reporting          .8
3. Procurement                              .8
5.  Monitoring and Evaluation of the Program .12
6. Environmental Aspects .12
7.  Government Ownership and Participatory Approach .12
H. BENEFITS AND RISKS    ..13
1. Benefits .13
2. Risks .                                                                13






REPUBLIC OF CONGO
EMERGENCY DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
A.  BACKGROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
1.    Since independence in 1960, the Republic of Congo (Brazzaville) has had a troubled
history characterized by ethnic strife, civil war, institutional instability, and poor governance. The
first three decades (1960-1990) following independence were marked by centrally planned
economic management under Marxist-inspired single-party rule based on Government-owned
enterprises, a bloated bureaucracy, and free social services, notably in health and education. The
latter part of this period, under President Sassou Nguesso (from 1979 to 1992), was characterized
by large domestic and foreign external debt, combined with declining income as a result of
dropping global oil prices and poor economic management, thus provoking a long financial and
economic crisis. The faltering economy stimulated social and political unrest, which coincided
with the end of the Cold War and the world-wide shift towards democracy.
2.    The fourth decade of independence (1991-2000) was marked by political turmoil, social
unrest, and three civil wars (1993-94, 1997, and 1998-99), which worsened the trend of stagnated
development. The decade started with an optimistic national sovereignty conference (1991) and a
transitional government, which paved the way for presidential elections in August 1992. The
tenure of the new president, Pascal Lissouba, was rocky. Disagreements about the formation of
the Government, contested legislative elections in certain districts, along with the deteriorating
economy, threatened the smooth transition to democracy and led to civil disobedience, which
degenerated into violence and civil war in 1993-1994. Although negotiations supported by the
Organization of African Unity (OAU), France, and Gabon brought Congo back from the brink of
full-scale war, a pattern of partisan violence through ethnically based militias had been
established. An estimated 2000 people were killed and 50,000 displaced in the 1993-94
confrontation.
3.    The next presidential elections were planned for 1997. Tensions increased with the return
of former president Sassou Nguesso, who announced that he would run again for president.
Elections were never held, and an attack on Mr. Sassou Nguesso's residence by supporters of
President Lissouba triggered a full-scale war from June to October 1997. During that period,
about 10,000 people were killed and hundreds of thousands were displaced. Brazzaville was
heavily damaged by indiscriminate shelling and looting, with total damage estimated at about
CFAF 500 billion. With the help of Angola, President Sassou Nguesso won the war and
assumed power on October 25, 1997. President Lissouba and his supporters fled into exile and a
new Government was formed.
4.    After a fragile peace was restored in October 1997, the new regime set about trying to
reestablish the state apparatus. The country entered into a Post-Conflict Program with the IMF in



July 1998, and started to pay back arrears to the World Bank. The Bank has just begun
implementation of a Post-Conflict Fund (PCF) grant when a new cycle of violence suddenly
broke out again in 1998. Fighting continued until early 1999 in the southern regions of
Brazzaville, in the regions of Bouenza, Pool, and Niari. The 1998-99 war ended with a negotiated
military victory for the forces of President Sassou Nguesso. Building on its significant military
gains, the Government granted amnesty to all militia combatants on August 15, 1999. At the end
of 1999, cease fire and cessation of hostilities agreements were signed between the Government
and key military commanders representing all warring parties, under the mediation of President
Bongo of Gabon.
5.    Since the signing of the agreements, the security situation has improved dramatically in
Brazzaville and throughout the country. The challenge is now for the present regime to
successfully make the dual transitions from civil war to sustainable peace, and from a state-
controlled to a market economy. So far, in an effort to alleviate the plight of the poor and meet
the country's most urgent social and rehabilitation needs, Congolese authorities have focused
their efforts on humanitarian assistance and implementation of the peace process. These efforts
resulted, most recently (April 14, 2001), in a national dialogue on a new constitution and a
convention for peace and national reconciliation, which included Congolese from all ethnic
backgrounds and all political sensitivities.
B.   IMPACT OF THE CONFLICT
6.    Whereas the wars of 1993-94 and 1997 were essentially limited to Brazzaville, the war of
1998-99 brought large-scale destruction to southern Congo (with the exception of the area around
Pointe-Noire). That war had a dramatic social and humanitarian cost, caused widespread
economic disruption, and weakened institutional and human capacities.
7.    Social and Humanitarian Impact. The 1998-99 war created a humanitarian catastrophe,
with 300,000 residents of Brazzaville fleeing the city and seeking refuge in the forests, where
they lived in appalling conditions for up to a year. At the height of the crisis in late 1999, an
estimated 810,000 people, or almost one-third of the Congolese population, were displaced, of
which 30,000 sought refuge in Gabon or the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Fighting led
to approximately 30,000 casualties, massive displacement, thousands of deaths from
malnutrition, severe human rights abuses, widespread looting, and massive destruction. Seventy
percent of those internally displaced were malnourished. Most of the basic infrastructure of the
country has been destroyed or is in a state of collapse due to lack of maintenance. The war has
taken its toll on schools and health care facilities. Many people lost all their belongings and
suffered great physical and psychological hardship. The country was pillaged on both sides of the
frontline: iron sheets were stolen from houses and churches, fields were bumed, and health
centers and other public buildings were looted. With the return of most displaced persons to their
original residences, needs have shifted away from emergency humanitarian interventions toward
social reintegration, infrastructure rehabilitation, and reconstruction.
8.    Economic Impact. The preliminary estimate of damage inflicted by the last two wars is
CFAF 1600 billion, which far exceeds the 1999 GDP. Non-oil GDP, a better indicator of the
impact of the war on domestic productive capacity (as oil is essentially produced off-shore),
2



declined by 19 percent between 1996 and 1999. At the outbreak of the 1997 civil war, Congo's
economy had already been weakened by years of poor economic management and governance, as
well as by the bloody 1993-94 conflict and social unrest. It is estimated that 50 percent of
agricultural equipment was destroyed and 75 percent of livestock lost. The railway line between
Pointe Noire and Brazzaville, the economic lifeline of the country, was destroyed at several
points. Many archives were destroyed or looted. The distribution network, already weak before
the war, collapsed as most feeder roads became impassable.
9.    The rehabilitation needs of the country, including basic infrastructure (railway, roads,
electricity, water, telecommunications), are immense. Individual needs include the reconstruction
of houses and the provision of means of production lost during the war (tools, seeds, and
livestock). Private business and the banking sector were also severely affected by the unstable
security situation in the country, and commercial banks came out of the events insolvent and
illiquid. Most deposits were de facto frozen and the banks had no resources to contribute to
rebuilding economic activity. For conmmunities, the needs include the rehabilitation of every
form of economic and social infrastructure, as well as resources for the proper functioning of this
infrastructure. To date, the Government has rehabilitated the railway line, and donors, UN
agencies and NGOs have initiated limited rehabilitation activities.
10.   Institutional and Capacity Impact. The civil unrest and the insecurity created by the
recurring conflict have significantly weakened Congo's institutional and human capacities. The
disruption of the country's administrative capacity has been severe, with losses of manpower,
records, and information technology (IT) equipment in most institutions. Most public offices and
buildings were burned down, destroyed, or vandalized in 8 of the country's 11 regions. There
were heavy losses of vehicles belonging to the Government, private and public institutions, and
the civilian populations. Basic public services, including telecommunications, water and
electricity, and road and rail transportation were severely disrupted. Many professionals in key
areas left the country, creating a vacuum in critical service delivery areas.
C. GOVERNMENT RESPONSE
11.   Following the cease fire and cessation of hostilities at the end of 1999, the Government
approached the international community for emergency assistance in financing a comprehensive
2000-2002 Interim Post-Conflict Program. The program covers the emergency disarmament,
demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) of about 25,000 ex-combatants, emergency
humanitarian needs, stabilization of the economy, and resumption of reforms halted in 1998
because of war. In the course of various exchanges with the Bank, Congolese authorities stressed
the need to proceed quickly with the DDR program, as many ex-combatants are still holding their
armns, representing a serious security threat to their communities and the country's stability.
Congolese authorities also stressed the Government's desire to link demobilization to sustainable
economic reintegration.
12.   The first step toward peace was the amnesty granted by President Sassou Nguesso on
August 15, 1999, to all individuals who participated to the conflict. This allowed civil servants to
regain their jobs in the administration, and students to reintegrate into schools without being
prosecuted. However, this decision was not followed up with appropriate assistance to the de
facto demobilized ex-militias due to lack of resources.
3



13.   Following the signing of cease-fire and cessation of hostilities agreements with defeated
opposition commanders at the end of 1999, a Cease-Fire Agreement Follow-up Committee
(CFAFC) was formed to implement and monitor the agreements. The committee approached the
intermational development community for assistance with a post-conflict rehabilitation program,
and called for support in the area of DDR to the estimated 25,000 militias who took part in the
conflict.
14.   As CFAFC's work is now technically over since the closing of the National Dialogue
Conference on April 14, 2001, it has been recommended that a Government structure be put in
place to help implement CFAFC'S recommendations and build on achievements to date (see
Table 1). The Bank-proposed Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project (EDRP)
would provide financial support and technical assistance to the DDR program to help the
Government set up the structure needed to coordinate all existing programs in this area.
Table 1. Achievements of the Cease -fire Agreement Follow-up Committee
Action                   Strategy               Outcomes
Demobilization of ex-militias  15,000 CFAF departure    About 25,000 registered but few
allowance per ex-combatant received the departure allowance
Collecting of weapons    Weapons requested at   6,800 arms (including grenades) were
registration for       collected)
demobilization
Reinsertion of ex-militias  None                None
15.   The question of demobilization was handled entirely by CFAFC, which had neither the
fumds nor the expertise to provide the needed support to newly demobilized ex-combatants.
Some of them did receive $15,000 CFAF (about US$20) after discharge, but no counseling. On
the other end, the communities were not prepared to welcome them properly due to a lack of
funds and expertise on the Government side. The newly demobilized groups very quickly joined
the country's already large number of unemployed. At the same time, the lack of a proper
disarnament and demobilization in the early days of the cease fire left many of the ex-
combatants with their weapons. Today, according to the Ministry of Defense, an estimated
15,000 weapons are still in circulation. according to Ministry of Defense - more than the
combined total of the 6,500 arms collected in the early days of the cease fire and the 7,000
destroyed by the UNDP/IOM program.
D.    DONOR SUPPORT
16.  In the light of the return to normalcy and the worsening poverty situation, Congo's donors
have strongly supported the Government in its rehabilitation, recovery, peace, and national
reconciliation process. In this context, the UNDP and the UN OCHA organized a donors'
meeting and consolidated appeal for humanitarian aid in Geneva in July 2001. Eleven UN
agencies are present on the ground, and active in various areas, including revival of productive
4



activities, emergency needs, reestablishment of basic social services and infrastructure,
promotion of democracy, and human rights. UNDP launched an Arms Collecting and
Reintegration Program under the implementation of IOM in 2000. After six months of operation,
this program has achieved reintegration of 3,400 ex-combatants. UNDP and IOM aim at reaching
about 12,000 more ex-combatants within the next 12 months, by project end. France, the United
States, and Italy are actively involved in diverse social and humanitarian activities. The EU and
AfDB are presently finalizing preparation of their post-conflict strategies.
E.   IDA RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
17.   The Bank led a multi-donor and multidisciplinary mission to Congo in March-April 2000,
to organize the reengagement of the international community. The Bank also extended a
US$1 million post-conflict grant to the Government in January 2001 to help reintegrate
Congolese women and youth in Brazzaville and the surrounding areas. This was in addition to a
1998 post-conflict grant of US$915,000, the implementation of which was delayed due to
resumption of the conflict in late 1998. The Bank also chaired a donors' meeting in Paris in
October 2000, in support of the Government's Interim Post-Conflict Program and IMF
Emergency Assistance Program. The latter was approved by the IMF Board on
November 17, 2000, and the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) for Congo (Report No.
21328-COB, November 2000) was endorsed on January 16, 2001, to guide actions over the next
24 months.
F.    JUSTIFICATION FOR THE PROPOSED CREDIT
18.   Despite the cease-fire and cessation of hostilities agreements, which are holding very
firmly, the many ex-combatants who still have their arms represent a serious threat to security
and to the economic reforms envisaged under the Government's Medium-Term Reform Program.
It is therefore imperative that former combatants be disarmed, properly demobilized, and
subsequently reintegrated in their communities for humanitarian, political, and security reasons.
The proposed EDRP would also aid in the formulation of a comprehensive Demobilization and
Reintegration Program in Congo by setting up the necessary framework for building on donor
DDR supports. The proposed project would therefore contribute to the ongoing efforts of peace
consolidation and security strengthening in the Republic of Congo, while offering sound
reintegration options to ex-combatants.
G.   SCOPE, DESIGN, AND CONTENT OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
19.   Objectives. The objectives of the proposed Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration
Project (EDRP) are to: (a) provide sound post-conflict reintegration options to ex-combatants who have
joined the ranks of the unemployed after the signing of the cease-fire agreement; (b) help rehabilitate
physical and social infrastructure; and (c) support macroeconomic stability.
20.   Benefits and Target Population. The eleven regions in the country have been affected
by the conflict, with the number of combatants varying from one place to another depending on
the importance of the conflict. The target group of the DDR program is an estimated 10,000 ex-
combatants from all militias (Cobras, Ninjas, and Cocoyes), out of a total of about 25,000. These
5



are approximate numbers, since a census has not yet been carried out to determine the exact
number of beneficiaries.
21.   The Demobilization and Rehabilitation Component. This step aims at correcting the
first wave of demobilization, which took place immediately after the signing of the Peace
Agreement but was not executed properly. Ex-militias were discharged and allowed to return
home without being provided any assistance and counseling to address the trauma they had
suffered. Thus some who returned to school became threats to their professors and fellow
students. During this rehabilitation phase, ex-combatants from all militias who did not benefit
from counseling will be allowed by the Haut Commissariat a la Reinsertion des Ex-
Combattants-HCREX, the project implementation unit, to undertake a second demobilization,
which will include health/trauma clinics, provision of prostheses to the handicapped, and a
proper census of all beneficiaries. This step will also prepare the ex-combatants for social
reintegration into their communities. During this phase, no transitional safety net will be
allocated to the ex-combatants to harmonize with the standards set by the UJNDPIIOM program,
to avoid raising expectations or creating rivalry among the beneficiaries of the two programs.
22.   Social Reintegration Component. HCREX will identify, with the Ministries of Defense,
Interior, and Social Affairs, the most affected communities in all the affected regions, and will
allocate $25,000 for each community, to be invested in social, cultural, or rehabilitation projects.
Selection of projects will be done through a participatory process that will include NGOs and
civil society. Such an initiative will contribute to rebuilding the social capital destroyed during
the war, and will allow the host communities to benefit from the DDR project. It will also
demonstrate that the DDR project is not a reward to the rebels, but rather an initiative for peace
and reconstruction.
23.   Economic  Reintegration  Component. Ex-combatants constitute  an  especially
vulnerable group in need of priority targeted assistance, including training in their areas of
interest to allow them to reintegrate more easily into civil life through economic activity.
Arrangements will be made by HCREX, through support of micro-projects, to provide
employment opportunities. Arrangements will also be made, with the assistance of the
International Labor Organization (ILO), and to tailor training and apprenticeships to the needs of
beneficiaries, to help them secure economic independence and self employment. HCREX will
also look at agriculture, livestock, fishery, and craft industry opportunities for reintegration, with
the help of the UNDP/IOM. The Bank's EDRP will harmonize on this issue with ongoing
complementary programs, especially with the UNDP/IOM reintegration program.
24.   Other DDR-Related Activities. A UNDP-IOM  program for Arms Collection and
Reintegration of the Ex-Militias, launched in April 2000, has so far helped reintegrated 3,400 ex-
combatants from all militias and collected more than 7,000 light weapons and grenades. This
program has also created 2,800 micro-projects and is providing training to beneficiaries, through
ILO, on basic management techniques. The Bank-financed project will work closely with this
ongoing program. Terms of collaboration will be clarified during appraisal. The Bank's role will
be to assist Government in gaining ownership of a comprehensive DDR program in accordance,
with the recommendations made in the final report of the Cease-fire Follow-up Committee
(December 1999).
6



25.   Project Cost and Disbursement Schedule. The project costs and disbursement schedule
are shown in Table 2. As provided in the TSS, IDA would finance 100 percent, given the
exceptional context.
Table 2. Project Costs and Disbursement Schedule (S$)
Category                         FY02       FY03         FY04        IDA
A       Demobilization/Social
Rehabilitation
Al      Heath services (general check-  500,000         0            0    500,000
ups,
trauma clinics...)
A2      Registration, information,       25,000         0            0     25,000
sensitization                                      _
A3      Assistance to disabled ex-       75,000    50,000            0    125,000
combatants (prostheses and
special training)
S/total                                 600,000    50,000                 650,000
B       Economic Reintegration
BI      Training/skills enhancement     150,000    100,000           0    250,000
B2      Micro-projects                1,500,000  1,000,000      500,000  3,000,000
S/Total                               1,650,000  1,100,000     500,000  3,250,000
C       Social Reintegration
Cl      Basic social infrastructure     110,000    110,000           0    220,000
S/total                                 110,000    110,000           0    220,000
D       Project Implementation
DI      Equipment, material, and        200,000         0            0
I______ Isupplies                   I         _
D2      Operating costs                 175,000    175,000      150,000    500,000
D3      Consultant services             100,000                      0    100,000
S/Total I                               475,000    175,000         150    800,000
E       Non-allocated                                                      80,000
Total  l                                                                 5,000,000
1.    Overall Implementation Arrangements
26.   The project will be implemented under the guidance of an Oversight Committee for
DDR. The core group of this committee should comprise the ministries of Defense; Economy
and Finance; Interior, Security and Territorial Administration; Labor; and Youth. Its main tasks
will be to: (a) coordinate all activities related to the DDR project; and (b) supervise management
of the project funds. The committee will also comprise the General Secretary of the Cease-Fire
Follow-up Committee, and some observers from the international community.
27.   The EDRP will be executed on a day-to-day basis by the Haut Commissariat ai la
Reinsertion des Ex-Combattants, HCREX, the project implementation unit, to be established by
presidential decree as a civilian body to implement the national program for Demobilization and
Reintegration. HCREX will function as the Project Coordinating Unit and will be responsible for
overall implementation and management of the project, and report directly to the Oversight
7



Committee. Its mandate ends with completion of the project. It is to be mapped under the Office
of the President, which will designate a representative as Chairman of the Oversight Committee.
HCREX will be headed by a Coordinator, and comprise four units: (a) Demobilization and
Rehabilitation; (b) Economic and Social Reintegration; (c) Management Information System, and
(d) Accounting. HCREX will be responsible for the transparent and accountable administration
of the project. A detailed organizational diagram will be prepared by the Government in
upcoming weeks. HCREX's coordinator will also sit at the Oversight Committee as rapporteur.
At the local level, HCREX will establish local liaison offices in regions most affected by the
conflict. These offices will be under the central supervision of HCREX and will work closely
with the UNDP/IOM Arms Collecting and Reintegration Program (sharing databases and
relevant information) when present in the same localities.
2.    Financial management, auditing and reporting
28.   A Financial Management Unit will be established in the Project Management Unit,
headed by an experienced accountant and procurement specialists, and assisted by consultants in
the areas of logistics, management information systems (MIS) and monitoring and evaluation
(M&E). The precise numbers will be agreed upon shortly. The Accounting Unit will be
responsible for overall financial administration and accounting of the project, as well as tracking
the flow and use of funds advanced. The Bank will make adequate provision for intensive
supervision and monitoring of project implementation. The Government is in the process of
recruiting an appropriately qualified Finance Manager, who will have overall responsibility for
establishing adequate accounting and internal control procedures. A Bank Financial Management
Specialist (FMS) mission will visit the project as soon as possible after the appointment of the
Finance Manager, to assess the adequacy of financial management of project funds. Recruitment
of adequate staff and establishment of adequate accounting and internal procedures will be a
condition of disbursement for this project.
29.   Detailed audits of HCREX's accounts will be carried out twice a year, to ensure
transparency and provide timely information for management purposes. A special account will
be opened at a commercial bank and maintained for HCREX, which will be responsible for
managing and administering the project account. The release of funds will be phased and
sequenced with progress in implementing the project.
3.    Procurement
30.   HCREX will be responsible for procurement planning and the procurement of all goods
and services necessary to implement the EDRP. Given the country's limited capacity, there is a
clear need to establish the required procurement capacity in the HCREX. The capacity of the
HCREX to handle procurement will be assessed as soon as HCREX is established. However,
given the emergency nature of the proposed operation, the use of a readily available outside
expertise for procurement will be adopted as an interim mitigating measure.  Such an
arrangement would allow more flexibility and efficiency for such an emergency operation that
needs to be executed expeditiously while satisfying minimum IDA fiduciary requirements.
HCREX will be staffed with people highly experienced in World Bank procurement procedures.
Bank procurement guidelines and policies will be followed. A Manual of Procurement
8



Procedures is being prepared by the borrower with Bank assistance. All manuals will be unified
into a single manual. Detailed procurement plans will be ready by September 2001, and will be
included in the Implementation Manual to facilitate early implementation of the EDRP. The
main elements requiring procurement supervision will be the demobilization and the
reintegration components of the projects, particularly the rehabilitation of social infrastructure. It
is proposed that procurement activities be supervised once every six months, including post-
reviews and audits. Details are provided in the procurement appendix to this annex.
4. Disbursement Mechanism, Funds Flow, and Risk Management
31.   Disbursement Mechanism. Proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed from the IDA Credit
account to a Government account with BEAC. Funds will subsequently flow from the BEAC
account to the commercial bank account. Efficient fund flows will be of utmost importance
under the proposed EDRP, particularly under the demobilization component. Due to the
emergency nature of the operation and the Bankls dual concern for transparency and fluidity,
IDA has agreed to follow simplified and streamlined payment channels, in line with those
currently used by other donors in Congo Brazzaville, in particular the European Union and the
French AFD. The mechanism proposed for the EDRP represents an enhancement over traditional
public finance channels, without compromising internal controls or payment integrity. To a large
extent, the streamlined mechanism also responds better to the needs of this operation and overall
development objectives. In response to the emergency nature of the operation, payment
arrangements will be flexible and will have adequate safeguards. Due consideration has been
given to banking arrangements in order to ensure appropriate and safe channeling of IDA funds
for the purposes intended. A commercial bank has been identified as suitable to house the EDRP
special account, and has agreed to provide IDA with Comfort letters prior to disbursement.
32.   Flow of Funds. Proceeds from the EDRP will be utilized for small payments to about
10,000 beneficiaries in the context of the Government Reintegration Program, to finance micro-
projects for ex-combatants. To ensure timely payments to demobilization beneficiaries, it was
agreed that funds will be deposited by IDA to an account opened with BEAC, with semi-annual
transfers to a commercial bank. The amount of each transfer will be determined on the basis of
planned activities over the three-year implementation period. Standard Bank operational policies,
including those on procurement, consultants, disbursements, and financial management will
apply. Public finance requirements with regard to in-country flows and payment transfers within
the country, were reviewed with the Caisse Congolaise d'Amortissement (CCA) and the Ministry
of Finance. A number of basic financial management requirements will need to be fulfilled
before funds are released. The fulfillment of these requirements will be confirmed by an IDA
Financial Management Specialist.
33.   Financing Mechanism. The timely availability and uninterrupted flow of funding,
especially in the initial phase of the ERDP, will allow Government to effectively implement the
demobilization of ex-combatants. The project therefore includes, in addition to a standard special
account to finance health services, registration, assistance to the disabled, training, and financing
of the Project Implementation Unit, a quick-disbursing mechanism. This mechanism will use a
positive list of emergency imports to generate counterpart funds in the amount of US$3 million
equivalent, to be disbursed in two installments of US$1.5 million each. Payments against the
9



positive list of imports, as well as to the special account, will be deposited in the Government
account at BEAC, which will be used only for this purpose. The standard special account will be
in amount of approximately US$200,000, and can be opened directly in a commercial bank. IDA
will deposit the funds in the commercial bank account and replenish the account on a monthly
basis, based on expenditures for eligible social services. Transfers from the Government account
at BEAC to the commercial account will be done on the basis of planned activities over the
three- year implementation period. The portion of the Credit that will be utilized for eligible
imports will require: (a) agreement on a positive list; and (b) observance of Bank's procurement
guidelines. Government would specify, and draw on, semi-annual installments for project
implementation. Table 3 below provides a summary of disbursement arrangements. Government
would specify, and draw on, semi-annual installments for project implementation. The first
installment would be based on the initial six-month implementation plan, while subsequent
disbursements would take into account past performance as well as projected requirements for
the next six-month period. This would ensure synchronization between disbursements and actual
project implementation, as measured by the project's key performance indicators.
Table 3. Summary of Disbursement Arrangements (IDA)
CATEGORY                          AMOUNT INU S5             EXPENDITURES TO BE
__________    ________                                 _ 2FINANCED
I. Eligible Imports                   3,000,000                    3,000,000
a) First installment               1,500,000                    1,500,000
b) Second installment            1,500,000                    1,500,000
11. Civil works/basic social           220,000                      220,000
infrastructure
III. Vehicles, equipment,              200,000                      200,000
fumiture
IV. Consultant services, training,    1,000,000                    1,000,000
audits, and social services*
V. Operating costs                     500,000                      500,000
VI. Unallocated                         80,000                       80,000
TOTAL                       5,000,000                    5,000,000
* Social services include health services, registration, information and sensitization, and assistance to
the disabled.
34.   Conditionality and Actions Required for Disbursement of the First Installment. The
condition for Board presentation is that the apparatus be set up for the Government's DDR
program. This is to be done through a presidential decree to create the Project Implementation
Unit, i.e., the Haut Commissariat ai la Reinsertion des EX-Combattants (HCREX). With Bank
assistance, the Government will take steps to complete the following actions to proceed with
disbursement of the first installment:
* appointment of the EDRP coordinator;
* preparation of a plan for the demobilization and reintegration program;
10



* preparation of implementation arrangements for the DDR (organization of the PIU,
selection of a project coordination team and field teams to interact with ex-
combatants, organization of the accounting function);
* preparation of an operational manual including a procurement manual and project
implementation manual, for the project implementation unit;
* setting up of a Financial Management System acceptable to IDA; and
* satisfactory staffing of HCREX.
35.   Risk Management. The key risk management actions needed to ensure the sound
fiduciary management of EDRP will require the Govermnent's commitment to the project, and
its willingness to set up an adequate financial management system and take full responsibility
for its effective operation. In the context of the project, adequate planning and budgeting will be
expected as an integral part of the demobilization process. Issues of sound budget management,
auditing systems, and anti-corruption actions are also being addressed in the accompanying Post-
Conflict Economic Rehabilitation Credit's (ERC's) policy content with regard to public resource
management. Recognizing Congo's capacity weaknesses as it comes out of the conflict,
Government expenditure management and processes are being reinforced to ensure that funds
are used appropriately.  Overall, to improve financial integrity and accountability in the
management of public funds, measures are also being taken to improve expenditure controls and
management systems, auditing systems, and anti-corruption actions, in the context of the
governance and transparency component of the accompanying Post-Conflict ERC, as well as by
the Transparency and Governance Capacity Building Project. The Bank will plan in the months
ahead to undertake a detailed CFAA (Country Financial Accountability Assessment) that will serve
as the basis for an action plan to address identified weaknesses in risk management and public
financial accountability over the medium term.
36.   Safeguards to Ensure the Proper Use of Funds. Five safeguards have been built into
the project to ensure that the IDA funds are utilized for the purposes intended:
* Disbursements of funds to the Government account at the Central Bank;
*  Transfers of funds to the commercial bank's account on a periodic basis, based on
planned activities and implementation plan agreed upon with an oversight committee that
includes local representatives of the international community;
*  Disbursement of the second installment of the quick-disbursing allocation will be linked
explicitly to project performance;
* Audits of the project's account, on a biannual basis, will verify appropriate use of funds;
*  Use of Government-secured fund transfer channels, as well as involvement of NGOs on
the ground at the delivery end, based on evidence of progress, will ensure the targeted
beneficiaries are reached.
11



5.    Monitoring and Evaluation of the Program
37.   To ensure that the targeted beneficiaries are reached by the EDRP, regular monitoring,
evaluation, and quality control of the operation will be carried out every six months, with a
beneficiary assessment completed every year.
38.   During project appraisal, IDA and the Government agreed on an easily verifiable set of
performance indicators. Table 4 summarizes the means for verifying progress, outcome
indicators, and important assumptions.
TABLE 4. Progress and Outcome Indicators/Means of Verification
Development       Progress Indicators    1    Outcome       Means of   Key Assumptions
Objectives   _ _ _          __ _           Indicators    Verification
Security and   .  Number of ex-combatants *  Successful     Beneficiary   .  Security for
reconciliation    registered                  reinsertion of  assessment    ex-combatants
ex-combatants
Demobilization  .  Number of veterans who                               *  Community
and                have received          .  Launch of                      acceptance
reintegration     reintegration assistance in    army
terms of training and     restructuring              .  Absorption
micro-projects                                          capacity of
economy
.  Number of disabled
veterans who have
received social
rehabilitation assistance
6.    Environmental Aspects
39.   The reintegration of about 10,000 people into civil life is expected to be environmentally
neutral. The program is classified as environmental category C because no component is
expected to have environmental impact. No major new construction is envisaged, except for
construction and rehabilitation of communities' social infrastructure. The EDRP will be designed
to be responsive to the needs, characteristics, and aspirations of the ex-combatants, as identified
in the socioeconomic profile to be completed during demobilization.
7.    Government Ownership and Participatory Approach
40.   Government ownership of the EDRP and the program it supports is adequate to ensure
its successful implementation. During the EDRP identification, appraisal, and post-appraisal
missions, broad-based discussions were carried on outside of Government with trade unions,
local and international NGOs, the private sector, ex-combatants, other stakeholders, and
representatives of potential beneficiary communities, as well as donors present in the field.
12



H.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
1.    Benefits
41.   The potential benefits of support to Congo in the form of the proposed DDR largely
outweigh the high level of risk. The first benefit is that the Credit will help to consolidate peace
and guarantee security throughout the country. Second, the reintegration component will provide
targeted vulnerable groups with income-generating activities as an alternative to fighting and
unemployment. Third, local economies will be boosted and local basic infrastructure will be
improved. Fourth, national resources will be freed up for investment in social and economic
sectors, thus helping to reduce poverty throughout the country. And fifth, the project will help to
develop the human capital of ex-combatants.
2.    Risks
42.   The first risk is political and social, associated with the failure of the transition to build a
democratic political system under which people can resolve their differences without recourse to
violence. Such a failure could lead to renewed conflict and slippage in implementation of the
EDRP. This risk is mitigated by the Government's commitment to peace and national
reconciliation, as illustrated by the April 2001 national dialogue on a new constitution and
convention for peace and national reconciliation. These events indicate the Government's
willingness to move steadily toward peace and democratic institutions in Congo Brazzaville,
after years of war and social unrest.
43.   The second risk is project related and linked to weak implementation capacity. This risk
will be mitigated by the use of: (a) simplified and streamlined payment channels, given the
emergency nature of the operation; (b) international and local NGOs on the ground; and
(c) senior private sector professionals who are very familiar with Bank practice and procedures in
the Project Implementation Unit.
44.   The third risk is linked to the fungibility of resources, and the possibility that project
resources might be used for other activities. The strong willingness of the Government to speed
up demobilization and ensure smooth reintegration of ex-combatants into civil society provides
reassurances that the proposed EDRP is a top priority. In addition, strong safeguards are built
into the project, with an Oversight Committee that includes local representatives of various
donors who would decide on replenishment of the special account on a quarterly basis, on the
basis of planned activities over the three-year implementation period. These measures preclude
the direct abuse of resources.
45.   The fourth risk relates to possible leakage of the payments envisaged under the
reintegration component. There are strong safeguards in the project, with streamlined payment
channels and secure Government payment channels. These measures, plus the involvement of
NGOs, the UTNDP/IOM, and the ILO in identifying micro projects and delivering related capital
inputs to beneficiaries based on implementation progress, will ensure that funds are utilized for
intended purposes.
13



46.   A final risk relates to accelerating the spread of HIV/AIDS. This risk will be mitigated by
the aggressive counseling and voluntary testing proposed during the social rehabilitation phase,
including training and follow-up in the communities.
47.   The risks are considerable in Congo, but a failure of the international community to help
the country move past the violence would carry a heavy cost. Such lack of support would risk
rekindling the violence, and would create a lost generation of uneducated youngsters who could
be a danger to the society in the years to come, as the social systems further fall into disarray.
Uncontrolled violence and continued instability in the Republic of Congo would also have severe
implications for peace in the delicate Great Lakes region and all of Central Africa.
14



Appendix: Procurement Arrangements
1.    Flexible Procurement Arrangements: Given the emergency nature of the
proposed Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project (EDRP), special attention
has been paid to devise procurement arrangements and procedures commensurate with
the emergency nature of the project. To that effect, an IDA procurement specialist
mission is presently visiting Brazzaville. The need has been recognized for simple
mechanisms to facilitate the procurement or contracting of various reintegration
assistance packages for ex-combattants. The arrangements devised are aimed at efficient
procurement that underpin quick disbursement.
2.    Manual of Procurement Procedures: As part of the unified manual being
prepared for the use of the project implementation unit, a manual of Procurement
Procedures under the EDRP will be prepared by the Borrower with assistance from the
Bank. IDA procurement guidelines and policies will be followed.
3.    Thresholds: Except as otherwise specified, most of the procurement methods will
not be subject to specific limits on aggregate, thus giving the Borrower the option to
choose the most suitable method of procurement for any given case and to use easily
accessible procedures such as national competitive bidding, local and international
shopping or direct contracting or force account (with specific safeguards and controls).
4.    Procurement:  With IDA assistance, procurement tasks will be defined and
procurement plans prepared. Relevant IDA guidelines and procedures will operate for
goods, works and services. Procurement plans will be prepared and will provide the basis
for agreement with IDA on the proposed packaging and the optimal methods of
procurement. Most of the procurement plans (to be included in the unified Project
Implementation Manual) will be ready by end September 2001 to facilitate smooth
implementation of the Demobilization and Reintegration process.
5.   Institutional Arrangements for Procurement:   Procurement would be
undertaken by the Procurement Unit of the HCREX. Key responsibilities of procurement
staff would include (i) import of essential goods from the positive list of imports in
accordance with IDA guidelines; (ii) procurement of works, goods and services to be
financed from the Special Account in accordance with IDA guidelines; and
(iii) procurement of works, goods and services to be financed from the counterpart
account in line with Project guidelines. Therefore, a procurement specialist highly
experienced with IDA projects will be recruited for the Procurement Unit of the HCREX.
This specialist will conduct procurement for the Project and will also be responsible for
the quality and timeliness of procurement in the HCREX and regional liaison offices. The
procurement specialist to be hired will prepare procurement plans for the items to be
procured, and will also initiate periodic procurement audits and take follow up action.
15



6.    Procurement Procedures: IDA financed credit will be utilized for goods,
training, consultancy, and operating costs under the EDRP. Procurement for all IDA
financed activities will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in January
and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting services by firms or
individuals will be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997; Revised
September 1997; Addendum Effective January 1, 1999. Simplified procedures for
Emergency projects will be used wherever needed.
7.    Consultant selection for assignments will be addressed through competition
among qualified short-listed firms and individuals in which the selection will be based on
Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluation of the quality of the proposal
before comparing the cost of services to be provided. In addition, selection shall also be
done based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) and other methods as provided for in
the guidelines. Shortlists for contracts estimated to cost under US$50,000 may be
comprised entirely of national consultants if a sufficient number of qualified (at least
three) are available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firms have expressed
interest, they will not be excluded. Contracts less than US$100,000 each for firms, and
US$50,000 for individuals, could be contracted on the basis of CQ, and may be awarded
on a single source basis only in exceptional circumstances, after adequate justification
and prior review by IDA.
8.    Procurement of goods will be carried out in accordance with Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1996, August 1996,
September 1997, January 1999). Contracts of individual value US$200,000 equivalent or
above will be awarded on the basis of ICB. Goods estimated to cost less than
US$200,000 equivalent per contract (up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$3,000,000 equivalent) and goods which the Association agrees can only be purchased
from a limited number of suppliers regardless of the cost thereof, may be purchased on
the basis of Limited ICB. Small value goods procurement contracts (individual value of
less than US$100,000 per contract or up to an aggregate not to exceed US$500,000
equivalent) will be awarded on the basis of NCB. Contracts less than US$50,000 each (or
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1,000,000 equivalent) may be awarded
through National Shopping using approved procedures. The procedure to be adopted
here is to award fixed price contracts on the basis of written solicitation issued to at least
three qualified suppliers after evaluation of bids which would be received in writing.
Equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 per contract may be
procured from UN agencies in accordance with guidelines.
9.    Procurement of works will be carried out in accordance with Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1996, August 1996,
September 1997, January 1999). Larger contracts of individual value US$200,000
equivalent or above will be awarded on the basis of ICB. Small value works procurement
contracts (individual value of less than US$100,000) equivalent will be awarded on the
basis of NCB. Contracts less than US$ 50,000 each may be awarded through National
16



Shopping using approved procedures. The procedure to be adopted here is to award lump
sum fixed price contracts on the basis of written solicitation issued to at least three
qualified civil works contractors after evaluation of the bids which would be received in
writing.
10.   Training activities will comprise hiring consultants for training programs.
Procurement of these will also follow IDA procurement guidelines.
11.   Prior Review  Thresholds: For procurement of goods, all cases valued at
US$100,000 or more will require prior review by IDA.
11.   For Works, all cases valued at US$ 100,000 or more will require prior review by
IDA.
13.   IDA will review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed by the
borrower for those consultancy contracts to be awarded to finns and individuals. Prior
review will not be required for contracts worth less than US$ 100,000 for firns and
contracts worth less than US$50,000 for individuals. However, IDA will review (a) all
Terms of Reference of contracts, regardless of value, (b) all single-source hiring;
(c) assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA, (d) amendments of contracts
raising the contract value above the prior review thresholds.
14.   Post Review: For each contract not governed by prior review, the procedures set
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
17



