                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 33347

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-35610)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.0 MILLION (US$ 5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                        CONGO, REPUBLIC OF

                                                 FOR A

                EMERGENCY DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT




                                             August 27, 2005




Rural Development 3
Country Department 9
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               (Exchange Rate Effective )

                              Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)*
                     US$ 1.00 (July 1, 2001) = CFAF 760
                                                 US$ 1.00 (July 1, 2005) = CFAF 544
       * The CFAF is pegged to the French Franc (FF) at the rate of FF1 = CFAF 100

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1    December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

DDR                             Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration
ERC                             Economic Rehabilitation Credit
EU                              Europian Union
FMS                             Financial Management Specialist
FY                              Fiscal Year
GDP                             Gross Domestic Product
GNP                             Gross National Product
HCREC                           Haut Commissatiat à la Réinsertion des Ex-Combattants
HIV                             Human Immunodefiency Virus
IBRD                            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                             International Development Agency
IOM                             International Organizational of Migration
NGO                             Non-Governement Organization
TSS                             Transitional Support Strategy
UNDP                            United Nations Development Programme



                            Vice President:     Gobin Nankani
                          Country Director      Pedro Alba
                           Sector Manager       Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Adriaan Verheul

                                 CONGO, REPUBLIC OF
                    Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              5
6. Sustainability                                                                  6
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   7
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 8
9. Partner Comments                                                              10
10. Additional Information                                                       10
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             11
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             13
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             14
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             15
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             16
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                17
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            18
Annex 8. Government Implemtation Report dated 15 January 2005                    19

Project ID: P074639                                                  Project Name: Emergency Demobilization and
                                                                     Reintegration Project
Team Leader: Adriaan Verheul                                         TL Unit: AFTS3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: August 31, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration               L/C/TF Number: IDA-35610
                            Project
   Country/Department: CONGO, REPUBLIC OF                                                 Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (70%); Central government administration
                            (30%)
                  Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P); Other social
                            protection and risk management (P); Macroeconomic management
                            (S); Access to urban services and housing (S); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/23/2001                                     Effective: 01/18/2002                01/18/2002
     Appraisal: 06/11/2001                                         MTR: 07/31/2003                  11/13/2003
      Approval: 07/31/2001                                      Closing: 02/28/2005                 02/28/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          CONGO, REPUBLIC OF/HAUT COMMISSARIAT POUR LA REINSERTION
                                           DES EX-COMBATTANTS (HCREC)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               Pedro Alba                                     Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:                 Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                             Cadman Atta Mills
Team Leader at ICR:             Adriaan Verheul                                Salomon Samen
ICR Primary Author:             Adriaan Verheul; Caroline
                                Bahnson


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
1.       The main objectives of the Project as stated in the Memorandum and Recommendation of the
President dated July 6, 2001 were to: (i) provide sound post-conflict reintegration options to 10,000
ex-combatants who have joined the ranks of the unemployed after the signing of the cease-fire agreement;
(ii) help rehabilitate physical and social infrastructure; and (iii) support macroeconomic stability. The goal
of the Project was to contribute to the consolidation of peace, security and economic and political
development.

2.       In its initial design, the project was designed to be part of an emergency rehabilitation credit which
included an arrears clearing package as the first and main objective. At the same time, this credit also
signaled the Bank's re-engagement in the country after four years of absence. The project was separated
from the credit before board presentation, which explains the relatively short period between the PCD and
approval. The level of funding was very low compared to the size of the potential target population of
25,000. Current practice indicates that a project for this estimated target population would have cost
approximately US$ 25-30 million. The discrepancy can be explained by the need to channel resources for
arrears clearance first, which allowed the Bank to reengage but left only US$ 5 million available for the
demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants from available IDA funding.

3.       The relevance of the project's objectives should be judged against the socio-political context of a
country after three cycles of violence. This context included widespread poverty and unequal income
distribution; exclusion of younger generations from the political process; possible re-exploitation of ethnic
and regional loyalties; and the risk of spill-over from conflicts in neighbouring countries. Within this
volatile mix, the Government's saw the presence of an estimated 25,000 armed and idle ex-combatants of
various groups as the greatest immediate risk to new found stability and their immediate demobilization and
socio-economic reintegration as the highest priority. The relevance and timeliness of the project's objectives
(i) and (ii) was therefore substantial.     The objectives of the project were in line with the Bank's 2000
Transitional Support Strategy(TSS). However, it should be noted that, while demobilization and
reintegration was deemed to be the Government's highest priority, this issues was not given the same level
of priority in the TSS itself, which focuses on arrears clearance and related capacity building and
reconstruction measures.

4.       The project's objective (iii), while relevant in the overall country context, could not realistically be
achieved by the project, nor could the project's impact toward this objective be measured in a meaningful
way. This objective was thus negligibly relevant in the context of this post-conflict intervention.

3.2 Revised Objective:
5.       The original objectives remained largely unchanged. However, the logical framework of the
project, developed in January 2003, expanded on these objectives by adding to objective (iii) the
"strengthening of the institutional capacities of the office of the High Commissioner" to be achieved
through the organization of training sessions.

3.3 Original Components:
6.       The project had three main components.
l First, a demobilization and rehabilitation component in which 10,000 ex-combatants were provided
     access to health/trauma clinics and were prepared for reintegration into their communities;
l The second component, labeled as social reintegration of ex-combatants, allowed communities to
     benefit from the demobilization and reintegration project by some modest infrastructure repair.



                                                       - 2 -

l The third and largest component was economic reintegration, aimed at providing 10,000 ex-combatants
    with targeted assistance to allow them to reintegrate into civilian life through micro-projects providing
    employment opportunities, training and apprenticeships. Cash grants of US$ 300 were disbursed to
    ex-combatants in two tranches for these micro-projects.

3.4 Revised Components:
7.       The original Project components remained unchanged during implementation. During project
implementation the target of reaching 10,000 ex-combatants was revised to 9,000 ex-combatants to create
additional resources for project management. The Government's request to reallocate the categories of
expenditures in this regard was approved by IDA on 7 March 2003.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
8.       The quality at entry is rated Unsatisfactory, which is consistent with the rating given by QAG at
the time. Nearly all categories of the QAG review were rated Unsatisfactory, except the Fiduciary and
Environmental Aspects which were rated Satisfactory, and the Risk Assessment rated Marginal. The
design of the project had several key flaws when judged against standards applicable both today and at the
time of project inception.
l First, the Bank failed to draw upon, in a sufficient manner, a body of knowledge available in this area
    at the time of project inception. Nor did the project take advantage of the lessons drawn from two
    previous demobilization and reintegration programs in the country, by the Government and
    UNDP/IOM respectively. Lack of comprehensive and effective coordination between these two
    previous interventions and the project under review meant that, although they had overlapping goals
    and target groups, different modalities were used creating ambiguity and missed opportunities. Nor did
    the Bank have a game plan for addressing the remainder of the overall target population.
l Second, the project also suffered from a key design flaw related to the eligibility criteria and screening
    process of the beneficiaries. The verification of their ex-combatants status did not depend on formal
    criteria, nor could their status be independently verified. Beneficiaries were not issued non-falsifiable
    ID cards that they were required to present whenever applying for money or services from the program.
    This was already established practice in similar programs and -if emulated- could have severely limited
    the scope of potential abuse. In addition, the overall monitoring and evaluation system was weak.
l Third, no attention was given at inception to key social issues, notably the social aspects of the
    reintegration of ex-combatants into communities as well as the gender aspects of demobilization and
    reintegration and related indicators that would trace the impact of the program on women and young
    males.
l Fourth, the absence of a link between the demobilization and reintegration components with an
    effective disarmament campaign and with security sector reform. While the latter efforts are not part of
    the project, it is well-established that these constitute essential conditions for success. Additional
    funding for disarmament never materialized and only 210 weapons were handed in by ex-combatants.
    The UNDP/IOM project, which did include a disarmament component, was stopped as donors were
    reticent to provide further funding for a project that was deemed to have been supplanted by the
    Government's project funded by IDA.

9.       In sum, the project addressed an urgent need at the right time but did so incompletely, with
insufficient resources and without the proper coordination. It constituted a missed opportunity to address in
full the question of the threat to stability posed by unemployed ex-combatants in a comprehensive and
well-coordinated approach that would also address key complementary efforts such as security sector
reform, national reconciliation, humanitarian assistance and civilian disarmament. This project was also
affected by the more structural issue of the Bank's ability to deal with complex demobilization and
reintegration operations after war has ended. The Bank's policies, procedures, institutional arrangements



                                                     - 3 -

and corporate culture may be ill-suited to address the challenges of dynamic and politically charged
post-conflict environments.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
10.      The overall outcome of the Project, when measured against its stated objectives and weighing the
outcomes of the project's components, is rated Unsatisfactory, if marginally so. Performance in the key
component (economic reintegration, which accounts for 65% of project expenditures) was high, whereas
results in the other components were either incomplete or lacking. Vocational training only achieved 30%,
no assistance was provided to handicapped ex-combatants, and the community rehabilitation component
only achieved 20% of its objectives. It is noted that the project's cost-effectiveness compares favourably to
similar programs in the sub-saharan Africa in terms of project dollars spent per beneficiary: less then US$
600 per beneficary as compared to the current average of about US$ 1,200 per ex-combatant in the Central
African Region. Safeguard issues did not apply in this project. The project was classified as C
(environmentally neutral).

11.      The Government's estimate of the sustainability rate of 72 % of income-generating activities is
satisfactory when compared to other post-conflict countries, but this could not be independently verified.
For example, a demobilization and reintegration program in Sierra Leone had a succes rate of 33%. The
rate of 72% percent is comparable to the 70% success rate in Ethiopia. One explanation for the relatively
high success rate is the fact that a majority of micro-projects were carried out in joint ventures of
ex-combatants who pooled resources and skills to build a viable business.

12.      In general, the main achievement of the EDRP has been to help ex-combatants and their
dependants gain employment and thereby to limit the chance of their re-recruitment for political ends. This
contributed to the consolidation of stability and peace and presumably a reduction in crime. It has also
helped to stimulate local economies and promote the spread of entrepreneurial skills. Intangible as it may
be, the most significant return of the Bank's investment -at relatively low cost- was the hope created among
Congolese that the fighting was -at last- over. This cannot be but a positive contributing factor to
economic growth. The Borrower itself (see annex 8) lists these non-quantifiable outcomes as important to
the country.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Demobilization and rehabilitation component
13.      By the end of the project, the implementing agency (Haut Commissaire à la réinsertion des
ex-combattants(HCREC)) had identified 31,524 combatants, of whom 26,945 (85 per cent) were validated
as ex-combatants. In total 8,055 ex-combatants received medical and psychological assistance. The project
had also planned to provide specific medical assistance to handicapped ex-combatants; however, no such
assistance was given at all. No target had been given at the outset on the planned output of information and
sensitization, but the impact was expected to "sufficiently" sensitize beneficiaries, local authorities and the
receiving communities about the project. The impact of sensitization campaigns has not been evaluated.
However, one may assume that with the registration of over 30,000 potential benficiaries the message did
get out.

Social reintegration (rehabilitation) component
14.      It was envisaged that the project would rehabilitate or construct 30 community infrastructures, to
help rebuild social capital in the most conflict-affected communities. By the end of the project, 19 small
rehabilitation projects had been approved by the approval committee and only six of these had been



                                                    - 4 -

completed. Six never started and seven others were still underway. It is not clear whether they are likely to
be completed. This was partly due to a cumbersome process of selecting projects and executing agencies.

Economic reintegration component.
15.      According to Borrower's information, this component accounted for 65% of project expenses and
had a realtively high success rate. All 9,000 eligible ex-combatants received their reintegration benefits.
3222 small businesses were created, mostly in joint ventures, with an average of 2.8 beneficiaries per
project as partners. At the end of the program, half a year to a year after the businesses were established,
2334 of them (72%) were still in operation. Most of these businesses were in the retail trade (43%), animal
husbandry, agriculture or market gardening (46%). A few were in crafts, fish farming and fishing.

16.      Vocational training and counselling by the agences d'encadrement should have minimized the
failure of the projects; however these measures did not function properly. Only one in three of the 9,000
beneficiaries recieved vocational training. Training started late (summer of 2004), after micro projects had
been launched by which time a number of those had failed. The US$ 30 per beneficiary made available to
the agences d'encadrement for counselling, was considered to be inadequate. Many agencies took on large
numbers of clients and were unable to devote much time to their clients, especially if the counsellors were
not at the same location as their clients. The effectiveness of the agencies was furthermore hindered by their
lack of logistical capacity for monitoring of micro-projects dispersed in remote areas as well as delays in
the release of the financial tranches for execution of the micro-projects.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
17.      The institutional development impact of the project is rated as Modest. The implementation
capacity was deemed weak at the beginning of the project, and was identified as one of the key risks at
project preparation. However, in spite of some start up delays, the HCREC has built sufficient institutional
capacity during the life of the project, to an extent where an easy transition to the follow-up MDRP
financed program is expected. These type of post-conflict interventions are not designed to have an
institutional development impact beyond the post-conflict period. However, given the expectation that
post-conflict rehabilitation and reconciliation efforts can take up to ten years to remove a country outside
the "conflict-trap", some institutional capacity related to such efforts will need to be built and maintained.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
18.      The limited funds available from IDA as well as a low level of donor interest limited the scope of
the project to a minority of potential beneficiaries, creating expectations and potential frustration on the
part of ex-combatants who registered but would not receive any benefits. Moreover, the credit itself
appeared insufficient to reach the initial target of 10,000 ex-combatants and cover operational costs as
well. This required an adjustment of the expenditure categories in midcourse. For projects such as these to
be effective a strong partnership is required among the Government's international partners.              In the
Republic of Congo, such a partnership was lacking.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
19.      Government commitment to the project was generally high. The project was given very high



                                                      - 5 -

priority, in particular at the early stages, and enjoyed high-level support throughout. As mentioned, one of
the most serious flaws of the project's design was that it was not accompanied by the disarmament of the
ex-combatants. Although this component fell under the mandate of the HCREC, only 210 arms were
collected. The HCREC cites lack of financial resources for this failure. However, considering the pivotal
importance of disarmament in a demobilization and reintegration program, the Government should have
made a bigger effort to raise the necessary funds from other donors or provided such resources itself.
Intra-government coordination was weak.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
20.      Lack of proper planning and timing on the side of the HCREC adversely affected progress in
implementing the project. HCREC did begin its work under difficult conditions without a project document,
a logical framework and a detailed time frame for its work. It did have at its disposal, the technical
proposal for the IDA credit and, soon afterwards, a manual for procedures that it developed with assistance
from the Bank. A logical framework was only developed in Januray 2003, with help from the Bank. As
the executing agency, the HCREC should have developed these documents, asking for additional technical
assistance from the Bank.

5.4 Costs and financing:
21.      Total project cost amounted to SDR 4 million (US$ 5 million at approval; US$ 5.5 million at
closing)and no counterpart funds were expected. About US$ 2,500 remained undisbursed.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
22.      Project sustainability is rated as Likely. While the small envelope of US$ 5 million would not
cover the entire case load of ex-combatants, the project interventions of US$ 300 per ex-combatants have
helped to create sustainable income for a majority of beneficiaries. However, the longer term impact will
depend -as in other post-conflict settings- largely on socio-economic development, in particular the rate of
unemployment, as well as Government policies in the area of reconcialition and governance. In this regard,
the peaceful transfer of power to the following generation of leaders will be a key determining factor.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
23.      As DDR and other post-conflict operations are transitional in nature, their transition into regular
operations is usually not envisaged. However, as the previous three DDR processes ("Comité de Suivi",
UNDP/IOM, IDA-Credit) failed to cover the entire caseload of eligible beneficiaries, the Government
developed a comprehensive program in 2004 with help from the Bank for the disarmament, demobilization
and reintegration of remaining ex-combatants. The demobilization and reintegration components of that
program, which will be funded by the Multi-country Demobilization and Reintegration Program, will aim
at addressing the remaining caseload of approximately 25,000 ex-combatants. The project will take into
account key lessons learned from this and other operations and will be based on a comprehensive approach
incorporating disarmament and conflict prevention as integral pillars. In the design of that project, room
will be reserved for the establishment of links and synergy with other development interventions by the
Bank and other partners.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
24.      Bank performance in lending is rated as Unsatisfactory. The reasons for preparing the
demobilization and reintegration program in the Republic of Congo were generally sound. However,
management should have mobilized more resources and more appropriate skills to assure sufficient


                                                      - 6 -

preparation and oversight of the detailed implementation arrangements of this post-conflict program. It is
noted that the skills of the Bank's team members at inception          were predominantly in the fields of
macro-economics and financial management. A key failure in lending was the decision to grant the credit
without either a gameplan or a partnership in place to address the needs not covered by the credit. While it
was envisaged that the project would help in the formulation of a more comprehensive program by setting
up the necessary framework for building on donor support, no steps were taken to set up such a framework.
In fact, donor support tapered off. Mistakenly, the absence of donor support was not perceived as a project
risk.

25.      The delays in disbursements occurring at the end of the project caused some difficulties for the
project (including threats to a regional head of office from disgruntled ex-combatants). These delays were
related to a misunderstanding and communication problems related to the revision of the project budget as a
result of exchange rate fluctuations, that led the Borrower to overestimate the additional resources available
to the project. The Bank did not grasp early enough the nature of the misunderstanding, while the
Government was late in flagging its concerns. Once informed, the Bank took several urgent steps to redress
the situation by making a special disbursement. At the same time, the Government could also have resorted
to applying its own funds and seek reimbursement afterwards.

7.2 Supervision:
26.      Supervision is rated as Unsatisfactory. The project was managed by three different TTLs over its
3-year lifespan. As experience shows from other similar projects, demobilization and reintegration are
sensitive cross-sectoral processes that most often require significant dedicated and specialized technical
assistance and supervision. In a majority of the supervision missions, including the mid-term review, the
supervising team consisted of the TTL, a country economist, and the country manager, without technical
expertise in the area of DDR to support the implementation. This is reflected in the content of the
supervision reports and aide mémoires, which do not address in much detail implementation problems
(which are the norm rather than exception with even well-prepared demobilization and reintegration
programs). The PSR's Satisfactory ratings were justified on the grounds of progress made in the economic
reintegration of ex-combatants. As noted by the borrower, the Bank did not respond to Borrower's
financial reports. At the time of the mid-term review, staff with relevant skills to substantively review the
project were available in the Bank, but not approached to take part in the mid-term review. Several of the
measures outlined in the Technical annex envisioned to mitigate a number of institutional risks to the
project were not appropriate or rigorous enough. Neither were all of the measures actually instated, with
several key safeguards such as the involvement of UNDP/IOM and bi-annual beneficiary surveys left out.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
27.      Bank performance is rated as Unsatisfactory, largely due to several serious design flaws at
inception, the lack of a gameplan to engage partners in finding solutions for the remainder of the target
population, and the lack of proper technical assistance to and supervision of the project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
28.      Borrower performance at preparation was Satisfactory, taking into account the constraints faced
by a post-conflict government. The objectives and timing of the project was an important part of the
Government's priorities at the time and the Government's commitment to the project was therefore high.
The implementing agency was given high prominence as the High Commissariat for Demobilization and
Reintegration was attached directly to the Presidents office, and equipped largely from the Government's
budget.




                                                     - 7 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
29.      Implementation performance was Unsatisfactory. A policy oversight body (CONADER) had been
established comprising a variety of stakeholders including representatives from key ministries, the
President's office, the donor community and civil society. Even taking into account the difficulties of
rebuilding Government after a war, this body was slow to start up (its first meeting was over one year after
the effectiveness of the program), it never fully took on its policy responsibilities and, as a result, the
HCREC ended up assuming both political and implementing tasks. Other relevant technical ministries and
civil society organizations were often not properly consulted and declared that they were largely ignorant of
the work of the HCREC. This undermined project's effectiveness as the project was perceived by many as
an instrument of the President of the country to reward those who had fought at his side.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
28.      Implementation was Unsatisfactory.        By and large, the Government met the standards of
performance set at the start of the project in available project documentation. It executed the program with
limited support and technical assistance and managed to achieve a majority of key objectives. While the
HCREC made relatively quick progress in establishing itself and gaining the relevant capacity, a number of
issues at the institutional level hindered efficient implementation of the program. A key problem was the
failure to properly plan for operations and obtain the relevant technical assistance as described previously.
The lack of coordination with the UNDP/IOM project (databases were never compared or linked) and
insufficient monitoring and evaluation (e.g. no beneficiary assessments were organized), created a potential
for misuse of funds.

29.      Financial management and procurement aspects were reviewed by Bank specialists and found to be
satisfactory. Independent auditors in both 2002 and 2003 audits expressed some concerns regarding the
weakness of internal controls. A procurement review indicated an overall acceptable performance, with
qualified personnel working in sub-optimal settings and with insufficient control mechanisms. Filing
systems were largely inadequate and procurement plan was not developed until well into 2002. During the
project, the procurement specialist in the implementing agency left to work for another Bank project and
was not replaced.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
30.      Borrower performance is rated as Unsatisfactory. Clearly, the project did achieve a number of its
objectives at low costs and in spite of several technical shortcomings. Project management, while very
modestly equipped, was of acceptable quality and it met the standards of efficiency set by the Bank at
inception. However, coordination with both national and international partners was weak and a number of
targets was not met.

8. Lessons Learned

31.      The project's lack of success reflects the Bank's overall lack of preparedness to engage in post
conflict settings. While some of these issues are being dealt with through the revision of OP 8.50 or
through programs such as the MDRP (e.g. financing), staffing and skills mix remain a central constraint
for the Bank. On the positive side, a small operation of this nature, specifically designed to deal with
threats to stability, can make a difference in moving a post-conflict country away from the conflict-trap. In
this regard, the Government's strong commitment to the peace process and to the project was an important
factor. Following are more detailed considerations:
l In post-conflict settings, the Bank should more thoroughly consider the consequences of packaging
    together more traditional approaches to macro-economic stability, financial management and social
    services with post-conflict measures that more directly help stability and buy political time. While
    linkages exist between them, both approaches have different dynamics and objectives. While this was


                                                      - 8 -

  not an issue in the current project, there was also a very significant risk for the Bank in linking arrears
  clearance with targeted post-conflict assistance. Thus arrears clearance may become a condition for
  the implementation of a peace process that has an entirely different timetable and political dynamics.
l At a strategic level, the Bank should review its internal policies and procedures with a view to
  determining their suitablity for post-conflict interventions and, in this context, also define its
  comparative advantage as a partner in such interventions.
l Significant risks were created by granting the credit without either a gameplan or -better- a partnership
  in place to address the post-conflict needs not covered by the credit. Coordination with national and
  international partners is important to ensure synergy between the fight against poverty, security sector
  reform, demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants and political reconciliation. Fortunately, the
  later establishment of the MDRP mitigated the risk and provided a forum for coordination.
l In designing and supervising post-conflict programs, it is important for the Bank to achieve the
  appropriate skillmix in the team, which should include the necessary political and technical expertise in
  post-conflict peacebuilding and recovery.
l The demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants need to be closely linked to an organized
  collection of weapons to fully achieve the objective of turning ex-combatants towards a productive
  civilian life and increased security. This is particularly relevant in a situation where no UN or regional
  peacekeeping force is deployed.
l Where similar programs have preceded a project and targeted the same beneficiary group, it is vital to
  establish coordination as well as operational links between databases to avoid double-dipping and
  inconsistency of approaches, that may create tension between the different groups of beneficiaries.
l Attention should be given at inception to key social issues, notably the social aspects of the
  reintegration of ex-combatants into communities as well as the gender aspects of demobilization and
  reintegration and related indicators that would trace the impact of the program on women and young
  males.
l The processing of applications by ex-combatants should be streamlined and decentralized to avoid
  bureaucratic delays in delivery of benefits, which could lead to loss of confidence and abandoned
  micro-projects.
l Verification of ex-combatants' status should require several layers of screening and not only be based
  on a single signature. Also, the use of non-falsifiable ID cards is important to protect against possible
  abuse.
l Withdrawal applications by and disbursements to the borrower should be closely monitored to ensure a
  steady flow of funding to a potentially volatile beneficiary population.
l Post-conflict interventions, while short-term in nature, require sustained follow-up.          Significant
  challenges remain: thousands of ex-combatants -many with weapons in their possession-remain
  unemployed and thus could be re-mobilized for political or military purposes; social tensions between
  the winners and losers of the war remain a source of concern; and many governance issues, including
  corruption and management of natural resources, have yet to be addressed in a manner that would take
  the country out of the conflict-trap. Therefore, continued commitment on the part of the Government
  and its partners to address potential threats to stability and growth are essential.

l Finally, in preparing this ICR, it was noted that the available guidelines for rating quality, outcomes
  and performance are only somewhat relevant to operations in post-conflict settings, whose overall goals
  are much closer related to the establishment of security and political stability than to social and
  economic development. It may be useful, in the context of the revision of OP 8.50, to also see whether
  additional guidelines can be developed for the specific context and requirements of post-conflict lending
  operations.




                                                    - 9 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 8

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                             - 10 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
(i) Provide sound post-conflict reintegration
options to 9,000 eligible ex-combatants who
have joined the ranks of the unemployed after
the signing of the cease-fire agreement;

a) percentage of income generating
sustained after one year of their start        80%                                          72%

b) percentage of eligible ex-combatants
having received medical screening and/or       100%                                         89.5%
counseling;

c) percentage of eligible ex-combatants        overall target 90%                           31.6
having received vocational training

c) 80% of beneficiaries are married                                                         Not relevant, nor measured

d) 90% reduction of crime associated with                                                   Not measured; however crime was reduced
ex-combatants                                                                               overall in the country.



(ii) Help rehabilitate physical and social
infrastructure:

a) 30 community infrastructure                 6 rehabilitated/constructed infrastructures  20 % of objectives achieved
(health/eductaion) rehabilitated



(iii) support macroeconomic stability and      see table below                              see table below
strengthen the institutional capacities of the
office of the High Commissioner:




This matrix has been adapted from the logical framework agreed with the Government in January 2003,
which expands on the performance indicators described in the technical annex. The figures reflect those
provided by the Government and are based on statistics and field visits. No structured beficiary
assessements have been carried out.




                                                                 - 11 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
 (i) Provide sound post-conflict reintegration
options to 9,000 ex-combatants who have
joined the ranks of the unemployed after the
signing of the cease-fire agreement;

a) number of ex-combatants identified          31,500 excombatants identified, of which 85 31,500 excombatants identified, of which 85
                                               % were recognised as ex-combatants          % were recognised as ex-combatants


b) number of ex-combatants having received 9,000                                           9,000 or 100%
assistance for income-generating activities

d) number of microprojects started             3,222 micro-projects started                3,222 micro-projects started, mostly in joint
                                                                                           ventures with an average of 2.8 beneficiary
                                                                                           per project

c) percentage of handicapped ex-combatants original target 75%                             0 or O%
received special mediacl attention

d) communites are sufficiently informed of                                                 20 sensitization campaigns were organized;
the project                                    -                                           impact was not measured




(ii) Help rehabilitate physical and social
infrastructure:

a) benificiary communities have drinking       only 6 such projects have been executed     only 6 such projects have been executed
water/heath facilities/functioning schools



(iii) support macroeconomic stability and
strengthen the institutional capacities of the
office of the High Commissioner:

a) conduct 5 training sessions for project     3 sessions by end of project                5 sessions held in country; staff also attented
staff                                                                                      2 courses abroad




1End of project




                                                                 - 12 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                               Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                               Estimate         Estimate          Appraisal
                        Component                             US$ million      US$ million
A. Demobilization/Social Rehabilitation                           0.65               0.63               97

B. Economic Reintegration                                         3.25               3.21              100
c. Social Reintegration                                           0.22               0.21               94
D. Project Implementation                                         0.80               0.85             106.7

Total Baseline Cost                                               5.00               5.00
                         Total Project Costs                      5.00               5.00
                   Total Financing Required                       5.00               5.00
Please note: exchange rate of SDR (currency of the credit) to US$ was 1.25 at approval, as compared to
1.46563 at present. All amounts calculated in 2001 US$.




                                                 - 13 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 14 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                         (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year   Count             Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               03/08/2001                   7    TTL; FMS; DDRE; MD&PSI;
                                                 BSE; PTE; COM
               03/26/2001

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               05/29/2001                   4    TTL; FMS; DDRE; CD
               06/04/2001

 Supervision
               04/05/2002                   3    TTL; DDRE; E/OO                       S               S

               09/28/2002                   5    TTL; COM; CD; E/OO; PS                S               S

               02/01/2003                   3    TTL; COM; E/OO                        S               S

               11/13/2003                   6    TTL; FMS, OA; PS, COM; E              S               S

               07/23/2004                   3    TTL; OA; E/OO, ES                     S               S

               01/17/2005                   4    TTL;OA, ES, PS

TTL= Task Team Leader; E/OO= Economist/Operaqtions Officer; FMS= Financial Management
Specialist; CD= Country Director; DDRE= Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration Expert;
Operations Analyst; COM= Country Office Manager; BSE= Banking Sector Expert; PS= Procurement
specialist; PTE= Post and Telecominications Expert; ES= Education Specialist.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    10                       90,794.49
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         14                     132,226,43
  Supervision                                   48                     211,243.97
  Total                                         72                     434,264.90




                                                  - 15 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
   Sector Policies                      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Physical                             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Financial                            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Institutional Development            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Environmental                        H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction           H        SU    M       N    NA
            Gender                      H        SU    M       N    NA
            Other (Please specify)      H        SU    M       N    NA
         Socio-economic
reintegration of ex-combatants
   Private sector development           H        SU    M       N    NA
   Public sector management             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Other (Please specify)               H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 16 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 17 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

- Transitional Support Strategy for the Republic of Congo, November 13,2000

- Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association to the
Executive Directors on a proposed credit of SDR 4.0 million (US$5.0 million equivalent) to the Republic
of Congo for an Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project, Report No.P-7468-COB, July 6,
2001

- Greater Great lakes Regional Strategy for Demobilization and Reintegration, Report No. 23869-AFR,
March 25 2002.

- Transitional Support Strategy for the Republic of Congo, August 8, 2003.

-Logical framework agreed with the Government in January 2003.

- Proposal to the MDRP Trust Fund Committee for a grant of us$ 25 million from the Multi-Donor Trust
Fund to the Republic of Congo for an Emergency Reintegration Program, February 2005




                                                   - 18 -

Additional Annex 8. Government Implementation Report dated 15 January 2005


                                               Summary

1.      Introduction

        This text is the summary of a 31 page report submitted by the Government of the Republic
of Congo on 15 January 2005. The latter report was prepared by the High Commissioner for the
Reintegration of Ex-Combatants (HCREC, as executing agency) and approved by the National
Commission for the Demobilization and Reintegration of Ex-Combatants (CONADER).

        The main objectives of the Project were to: (i) provide sound post-conflict reintegration
options to ex-combatants who have joined the ranks of the unemployed after the signing of the
cease-fire agreement while contributing to local development; (ii) help rehabilitate physical and
social infrastructure; and (iii) support macroeconomic stability.

        In order to achieve these objectives, HCREC pursued the following activities after it
became operational in April 2002:
        i)      Demobilization and disarmament of ex-combatants;
        ii)     Economic reintegration of ex-combatants;
        iii)    Social reintegration of ex-combatants ;
        iv)     Rehabilitation of basic social infrastructure.

2.      Institutional framework

        The implementation of the project was undertaken at three different institutional levels: the
strategic and political level; the operational management level and the level of operational
coordination.

        The overall political and strategic direction of the project was the responsibility of
CONADER, which comprised 22 members from Government agencies and from civil society.

        The operational management of the project was the responsibility of the HCREC, which
comprised four operational components (respectively for disarmament, demobilization, economic
reintegration, social reintegration and project execution), three common services
(administration/finance/logistics, procurement, and public information) as well as five sub-offices
in the provinces.

        Operational coordination was in the hands of a steering committee ("Comité de Pilotage",
whish was designed to advise on and facilitate the exchange of information regarding all
disarmament, demobilization and reintegration activities in the country. It comprised both national
and international partners as well as civil society representatives.

3.      Implementation of project components



                                                 - 19 -

        The sensitization and social mobilization of target groups and communities are vital for the
start of the project. However, budgetary constraints allowed only 20 sensitization campaigns.

        Demobilization was for the most part focused on registration and identification, since most
ex-combatants, with the exception of the Ninjas, were already self-demobilized. By project end,
over 31,000 ex-combatants had been identified of which nearly 27,000 had been included in the
project's database.

        Disarmament fell outside the scope of the project. However, HCREC sensitized
ex-combatants on the dangers of holding assault weapons and it collected approximately 200
weapons.

        The project's strategy for the socio economic reintegration of ex-combatants was to assist
them in finding incoming-generating activities of their choice through the financing of the chosen
activity and through technical and professional training for that particular activity with the support
of a supervising agency (normally a local NGO). Many ex-combatants pooled resources to create
a joint venture.

        As a result, 9,000 ex-combatants have received assistance that enabled them to create
3,222 micro-enterprises in the following sectors:
Agriculture             -      508
Livestock farming       -      959
Service/commerce        -      1,400
Artisan                 -      245
Fish farming            -      60
Fisheries               -      50

        A review of the project conducted in July 2004, indicated that of the 3,222
micro-entreprises created, 2,334 were still in operation or 72 % of the total. Technical and
professional training of ex-combatants, expected to support them in their activities was delayed by
a period of two years as a result of the weight and complexity of procurement procedures. By the
end of the project, only 34% percent of eligible ex-combatants received appropriate training.

        The social reintegration of ex-combatants was done through the provision of
socio-medical care by a qualified medical establishment. 90% of eligible ex-combatants were thus
examined and some given urgent medical care. The project also planned to rehabilitate 30
infrastructures (schools, bridges, community buildings etc). However, only 6 were completed
while 7 others are being rehabilitated, meaning only 20 % of this component has been realized.


4.      Financial aspects

        Credit proceeds were deposited in two special accounts held at commercial Banks. The
following table shows the status of project expenditures as at 30 December 2004 in thousands



                                                - 20 -

Francs CFA.



Categorie      Target         2002       2003        2004       Total      Remains %
1.Micro-projec
ts                2,042,218    784,572    792,559    220,400    1,797,5531    244,687      88,02

2.Goods             161,108    136,329      8,245      1,048       145,622  15485956       90,39
3.Public works
                    166,403          -     12,268      22,491       34,759    131,644      20.89
4.Consultants
and Training        1014968     30,730    165,615    410,543       606888      408081      59,79
5. Operational
Costs               602,922    146,387    223,619    192,650       562,656      40266      93,32

     Total        3,987,620  1,098,018  1,202,307    847,132     3,147,458    840,163      78,93



         The 2004 budget for the project was revised in November 2003 to take into account
variations in the SDR US$ exchange rate. This was not taken into account by the World Bank's
financial services and led to a delay in the disbursement of withdrawal request No. 26. This was
based on a misunderstanding on the part of borrower regarding the nature of the gain (the
HCREC was looking at the US$ -CFA rate, whereas the credit was in SDRs) which also reversed
itself partially following the budget amendment. This, in turn, led to a delay in the payment of
second tranches to ex-combatants.


5.       Evaluation of Government and bank performance

         The project was established in a difficult context, both in terms of state budgetary
resources as well as the level of cooperation between the Government and international and
regional financial institutions. This context appears to explain the modest financial resources
made available to the project as well as shortcomings in its design. In fact, there was no project
document as such, that included objectives, expected results, activities, performance or target
indicators, and critical assumptions. At the time of preparing g for implementation, the only
reference documents available were the credit agreement between IDA and the Government and
documents related to the establishment of the HCREC. The Project Implementation Manual and
administrative and financial procedures were put in place in October and November 2001. All of
these documents were essentially technical in nature and did not address strategic and conceptual
questions. As a result, the project did not have a pertinent logical framework.

         The final design and implementation of the project were thus done in a progressive manner
and nearly concomitantly with the mid-term review of the initial objectives. The logical
framework of the project was put into place during the Bank's supervision mission in January
2003, one year after the start of the project. In these conditions, the establishment of result or
performance indicators cannot be sufficiently independent of the practice, which may influence the
evaluation of results.


                                                 - 21 -

         Despite these limits, the analysis of performance is done on the basis of the commitments
undertaken in the credit agreement and in the logical framework put in place in January 2003.

Achievement of Government Commitments:

         The Government has, by and large, met all obligations emanating from the credit
agreement. The Government has, in particular
         Established an institutional framework for coordination and implementation;
         Set up the required systems for financial management of the projects and opened special
accounts;
         Organized annual external audits;
         Provided the necessary funds, equipment and other resources for the functioning of the
HCREC;
         Submitted lists of beneficiaries, every six months;
         Conducted yearly missions in the field to evaluate the implementation of micro-projects;

HCREC performance:

The following table describes the expected and actual results of the project as at 30 November
2004:

               Expected results                                  Actual results                Percentage
9,000 ex-combatants declared eligible and in Achieved in full (some 450 ex-combatants
receipt of integration assistance.               had not yet received their second tranch at         100%
                                                 report's date)
9,000 beneficiaries received socio-medical and 8,055 received such support. No support could
psychological support.                           be realized to handicapped ex-combatants.          89.5%
9,000 received technical/professional training 3,082 ex-combatants received training                  34%
30 social/community infrastructures              6 infrastructures have been rehabilitated, 7
rehabilitated or constructed                     others are being rehabilitated                       20%
5 sessions organized for the training of project 5 local sessions organized
personnel and supervising agencies               6 staff members took part in training courses       100%
                                                 in Cameroon, Canada and Marocco
Target groups and communities sufficiently       Budgetary constraints led to a realization of
sensitized                                       only 20 sensitization campaigns                         -



Other indicators for which no data are available at present included:
         At least 80% of beneficiaries would carry out income-generating activities one year after
the end of the products;
         At least 50% of beneficiares would be able to sustain these activities autonomously;
         Monthly income of beneficiaries would be at least 90% of minimum legal wages by the
end of the project;
         80% of beneficiaries would be married or live as married couples;
         Crime related to ex-combatants would be reduced by 90%.



                                                         - 22 -

    From the above information, it follows that the HCREC has generally performed well. In
addition to the above results, and in spite of financial constraints, HCREC has also:
        identified over 31,000 ex-combatants of which nearly 27,000 had been included in the
project's database;
        collected 220 light weapons;
        demobilized and reintegrated 500 ninjas belonging to Pasteur Ntoumi through the method
of exfiltration.

    At the same time, there are certain shortcomings that explain the gap between expected results
and actual achievements. The first if these was the absence of an effective communication plan at
the outset, which prevented information reaching the public and ex-combatants who only very
timidly responded.

        Other weaknesses were largely related to administrative burdens, the lack of institutional
capacity and budgetary constraints. These include:
        the procedures for selection, approval and payment of micro-projects have proven to be
complex and time consuming, leading to long delays between the payment of first and second
tranches. As a result, some beneficiaries, especially in agriculture, abandoned their projects;
        the same applies for the procedures regarding the repair of infrastructure leading to a low
percentage of realization;
        for lack of follow-up of planned operations, the funds for handicapped ex-combatants
could not be used;
        budgetary constraints did not allow the HCREC to acquire the necessary human and
material resources to ensure real-time information management.

World Bank Performance

        On the basis of available documents, the only binding engagements of the Bank was to
provide a credit to the Republic of Congo to finance the project and to provide it with technical
assistance in the course of project implementation. In that regard, the World Bank has
accompanied HCREC along the path of project implementation.

        a)       With regard to financing, project has benefited from nearly the entire credit for the
        major components of the project. However, some negative impact on the project was
        caused by the fact that the Bank's financial services did not take into account the positive
        gain emanating from exchange rate fluctuations of the SDR vis à vis the US Dollar. This
        prevented the timely disbursement of the second tranche of micro-projects for 437
        ex-combatants. Also, often our financial reports did not receive any feedback. The same
        applies to the conclusions of supervision missions, which would certainly explain the delay
        noted by the HCREC in the treatment of withdrawal requests.

        b)       Looking at technical assistance, the Bank's supervision as well as technical support
        missions have led to:
        stricter financial controls and a better monitoring and control of disbursements;



                                                 - 23 -

        improved use of the resources of project components;
        the strengthening of HCREC capacities;
        corrective measures for the reformulation of objectives and activities.


6.      Project impact

        The analysis of ex-combatants' and receiving communities'reactions will be completed
through a study at a later stage.

        In the meantime, the results of monitoring missions that looked into the implementation of
income-generating activities have shown that certain beneficiaries are very motivated and
conscious of the usefulness of such activities. It has also shown that the projects sub-offices in the
provinces and supervising agencies constituted the weak link in the chain between the program
and its beneficiaries. The majority of local community leaders wanted to establish a partnership
that would involved them more throughout the project cycle ­ from identification to monitoring.

        In terms of the projects' influence, the economic reinsertion component has been
perceived in positive terms and all ex-combatants as well as administrative, traditional, and
religious leaders wish this component to be continued. The micro-projects implemented by
ex-combatants were a key component of the overall project, since they have created permanent
employment and encouraged an entrepreneurial spirit.

        Quantifiable results have been described above. In addition there are some
non-quantifiable benefits of the project:
        the majority of ex-combatants have abandoned the logic of war;
        improvement of beneficiaries' capacity for management and coordination of their activities
as a result of training;
        capacity building of Congolese executives in the HCREC;
        local communities have benefited from the products and services provided by the
micro-projects;
        tranquility and peace has been reestablished throughout the country;
        the number of cases of rape, theft, robbery and vandalism has been reduced.

7. Conclusion

        The conditions under which the project has been conceived and implemented explain
certain weaknesses. In fact, from a conceptual point of view, the elaboration of the project does
not appear to have been supported by a thorough theoretical discussion, certainly for lack of time.
This would explain many of the project weaknesses, in particular the lack of a logical framework
and the limited financial resources available for the grants to ex-combatants and for operational
costs. Budgetary constraints have limited reintegration activities to those essential for survival,
without recourse to other relevant support, such as training, counseling, and better follow up.

        The project has begun its activities over two years after the signature of the cease-fire and


                                                 - 24 -

cessation of hostilities agreements. This has had a negative impact on the process of identification
and verification, since the ex-combatants (having self-demobilized) showed little interest or
identified themselves under a false name. This caused difficulties for the monitoring of
income-generating activities of many ex-combatants. The project was only able to gain
ex-combatants' confidence progressively, thanks to sensitization campaigns and the payment of
the first grants.

        Taking into account these weaknesses and capitalizing on the experience gained should
help improve the elaboration and implementation of the national program for the disarmament,
demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants (PNDDR).




                                               - 25 -

- 26 -

