Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3561 COB
Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 8, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3561 COB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 8, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF CONGO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated June 
26, 2001 describing a program of actions to address the Emergency (as hereinafter 
defined) (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), which forms 
part of the Program has requested the Association to: (i) assist in the financing of 
the Project; and (ii) provide assistance in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of 
the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries." ; 
and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a Participating Country or for 
goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for 
the purpose 
of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision 
of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BEAC" means Banque des Etats d’Afrique Centrale, the sub-regional 
central bank for central African states, among which the Borrower, using the FCFA (as 
hereinafter defined) as their common currency;
(b)
"CONADER" means Commission Nationale de Démobilisation et de Réinsertion, 
the Borrower’s oversight committee for demobilization and Reinsertion of ex-combatants 
to be established by the Borrower for the monitoring of activities under the Project 
and the supervision of the management of Credit proceeds;
(c)
"Eligible Beneficiaries" means: (i) about 10,000 demobilized 
ex-combatants and their families; (ii) war affected communities living in the most 
affected Regions in the territory of the Borrower, as determined by the Borrower; and 
(iii) communities in need of reconstruction of their social and economic 
infrastructure;
(d)
"Emergency" means the extraordinary event of limited duration which, for 
the purposes of this Agreement, started in June 1997, and which was caused by the 
internal armed conflict which culminated in the signing of a cease fire and cessation 
of hostilities agreement in December 1999;
(e)
"Emergency Grant" means a grant made to an Eligible Beneficiary out of 
the proceeds of the Credit for Subprojects in: (i) reconstruction of social and 
economic infrastructure; or (ii) training and income generation activities;
(f)
"FCFA" and "CFA Franc" mean  Franc de la Coopération Financière 
Africaine, the currency of the Borrower;
(g)
"Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the Borrower’s fiscal year, commencing 
January 1 and ending December 31 twelve calendar months thereafter;
(h)
"HCREX" means Haut Commissariat à la Réinsertion des Ex-Combatants, the 
Borrower’s High Commission for Demobilization and Reinsertion of Ex-Combatants, 
established by presidential decree No. 2001-333, dated June 22, 2001 and responsible 
for the implementation of the Project; 
(i)
"Project Implementation Manual" and "PIM" mean the manual referred to in 
Section 7 (b) of this Agreement consisting of different modules setting forth, inter 
alia: (i) the administrative, financial and accounting, procurement, and disbursement 
procedures; (ii) eligibility criteria for the various Eligible Beneficiaries, terms 
Page  3
and conditions of Emergency Grants including procurement and accounting procedures 
thereof, training plans and capacity building programs; and (iii) other activities and 
arrangements to be used for the purpose of implementing the Project, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Implementation Manual;
(j)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(k)
"Project Year" and "PY" mean each twelve month period during Project 
Implementation starting from the date after the Effective Date; 
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement; and
(m)
"Subproject" means: (i) a specific infrastructure rehabilitation project 
to be carried out by, or for the benefit of, an Eligible Beneficiary; or (ii) training 
plans for, and income generation activities to be carried out by, demobilized 
ex-combatants or their families utilizing the proceeds of an Emergency Grant referred 
to in Parts B and C.2 of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall 
so agree, to be paid) by HCREX on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of an 
Eligible  Beneficiary under an Emergency Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required for the carrying out of a Subproject to be financed under Parts 
B and C.2 of the Project, and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit 
Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain: (i) 
in Dollars, a special deposit account in BEAC (the Deposit Account) for Part A of the 
Project, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) in FCFA, a 
special deposit account in a commercial bank (the Special Account) for Parts B, C and 
D of the Project, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2005 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
Page  4
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2011 and ending June 15, 2041. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2021 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through HCREX with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, technical, engineering, administrative, demobilization and 
reintegration practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Page  5
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the sustainability of the achievements of the Project and the 
future operation of the Program; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish no later than September 30, 2001 
and thereafter maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, 
and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate 
to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts 
for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and 
(B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Page  6
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 18 months after the Effective Date, or 
such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered 
by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed 
out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by 
said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause HCREX:
(a)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial, technical and engineering practices, under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; and
(b)
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
technical practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
(b)
Presidential Decree No. 2001-333 of the Borrower establishing HCREX shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially 
and adversely the ability of HCREX to perform any of its obligations;
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph (b) of 
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Page  7
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions :
(a)
the Borrower has established, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement,  a financial management and accounting system for the Project satisfactory 
to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has adopted the PIM referred to in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
the Borrower has established HCREX, with mandate and staff having 
functions and experience satisfactory to the Association;
(d)
the Borrower has appointed external auditors with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association and has employed them in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement for purposes of auditing 
the financial statements; and
(e)
the Borrower has completed the procurement plan for the first year of 
Project implementation, satisfactory in form and substance to the Association.
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget
BP 2083
Brazzaville
Republic of Congo
Facsimile:
(242) 814 145
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
Page  8
By /s/ Mathias Dzon
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Theodore O. Ahlers
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Eligible imports
100% of foreign 
Required for Part A
expenditures
of the Project,
as specified in the Annex 
to this Schedule
(a)
   1,200,000
(b)
   1,200,000
(2)
Goods
     160,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local 
expenditures
(3)
Emergency Grants
     180,000
100% of amounts
disbursed
(4)
Consultants’
     800,000
100% 
services, training
and audits
(5)
Operating costs
     400,000
100%
(6)
Unallocated
      60,000
TOTAL
   4,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
Page  9
and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office 
equipment and supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance 
costs, office administration costs, Special Account banking charges, utilities, 
travel, per diem and supervision costs, salaries of locally contracted employees, but 
excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)
expenditures under Category (1) for goods supplied under a contract which 
any international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall 
have financed or agreed to finance under another credit; 
(c)
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, expenditures under 
Category (1) in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to 30% of the amount 
allocated to such Category for any class of eligible imports specified in the Annex to 
this Schedule;
(d)
expenditures under Category (1) for goods intended for military or 
paramilitary purposes, luxury consumption and used goods;
(e)
expenditures under Category (1) (b) until the Borrower has furnished to 
the Association the information referred to in paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and
(f)
expenditures under Category (3), unless Emergency Grants have been made 
in accordance with the procedures, terms and conditions referred to in the PIM and 
outlined in Schedule 4 to this agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) services, including for the carrying out of 
training and studies, under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for 
consulting firms, and less than $50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; 
(d) Emergency Grants; and (e) operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
Classes of Eligible Imports to be financed under the Project
1.
Agricultural, livestock, fishing, and handicrafts equipment and inputs.
2.
Construction materials.
3.
Transport vehicles and spare parts.
4.
School supplies and equipment.
5.
Medical supplies and equipment.
6.
Construction equipment, industrial machinery and  spare parts.
7.
Electrical equipment, machinery, materials and parts.
8.
Industrial raw materials and chemicals.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) providing sound 
post-conflict reintegration options to currently unemployed ex-combatants;  (ii) 
Page  10
rehabilitating physical and social infrastructure; and (iii) achieving macroeconomic 
stability.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Demobilization and Reintegration
1.
Conducting a proper physical and mental discharge of ex-combatants through: (i) 
the importation of goods specified in the Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
medical and prosthetic treatment purposes, (ii) provision of technical advisory 
services  for the carrying out of health and trauma clinics and related activities, 
and (iii) support for urgent needs of, and transportation arrangements for, 
ex-combatants settling back in their communities.
2.
Carrying out a census of all Eligible Beneficiaries concerned.
Part B: 
Social Reintegration
Provision of Emergency Grants to Eligible Beneficiaries in regional communities 
affected by the conflict for the construction and rehabilitation of social, economic 
and cultural infrastructure, including health and education facilities.
Part C:
Economic Reintegration
1.
Carrying out training and apprenticeship activities for ex-combatants in 
professional areas of interest to them.
2.
Provision of Emergency Grants to ex-combatants for income generation purposes, 
including in agro-processing small industries, trade, livestock and fishing sectors.
3.
Carrying out studies on agricultural opportunities for reintegration of 
ex-combatants.
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
1.
Provision of technical advisory services to HCREX for the carrying out of 
reinsertion activities.
2.
Carrying out capacity building activities in reinsertion programs for the staff 
of HCREX.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by August 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Page  11
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, and goods, which the Association 
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the 
cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than $50,000 per contract, may be 
procured from the Inter Agency Procurement Service Office of the United Nations 
(IAPSO) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
5.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part B and C.2 of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to or to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
Page  12
or more, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under national 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a)  the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for audits may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for reintegration and training of ex-combatants may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by social workers and medical personnel under Part A of 
the Project shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Page  13
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Institutional settings
1.
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain for the duration of the 
Project the HCREX which shall be: (i) responsible for managing, coordinating and 
implementing the activities under the Project; (ii) assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; (iii) headed by a High Commissioner with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association; (iv) assisted in its activities by liaison 
offices in all war affected regions; and (v) accountable and reporting to the CONADER.
2.
The Borrower shall establish the CONADER no later than December 31, 2001: (i) to 
oversee and monitor all activities related to the Project and to supervise the 
management of Credit proceeds; and (ii) with membership drawn from the Borrower’s 
ministries in charge of Economy, Finance and Budget, Interior, Labor and Youth, and to 
include the former General Secretary of the defunct Ceasefire Follow up Committee, and 
international observers.
Project Implementation
3.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the PIM, and shall 
not amend or waive any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, 
shall materially or adversely impact the implementation of the Project. The process of 
identification and confirmation of the Eligible Beneficiaries, verification of the 
medical and social benefits, including transportation and settling-in costs, and flow 
of funds to the Eligible Beneficiaries and verification of the use of the funds for 
the purposes intended shall be in accordance with the provisions of the PIM.
4.
The Borrower shall, within six months of the Effective Date and semiannually 
thereafter, furnish to the Association: (a) a list of Eligible Beneficiaries, 
identifying the amount of the funds for each and the agreed goods and services to be 
acquired by said Eligible Beneficiary; (b) verification that a sample of the Eligible 
Beneficiaries as agreed between the Borrower and the Association, have received their 
payments in accordance with the certified list; and (c) verification that a sample, as 
agreed between the Borrower and the Association, of the Eligible Beneficiaries have 
acquired the goods and services intended.
5.
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless 
Page  14
HCREX shall have determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with 
the guidelines set forth in the PIM that the Subproject satisfies the eligibility 
criteria specified in the PIM, which shall include the following:
(a)
the Subproject shall be for: (i) the rehabilitation of  social, economic 
or infrastructure, or (ii) the carrying out of an income generating activity;
(b)
the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
laws of the Borrower relating to health, safety and environmental protection;
(c)
in financing Subprojects, HCREX shall enter into an agreement with the 
Eligible Beneficiary concerned under terms and conditions which shall include the 
following:
(i)
financing shall be on a grant basis, not to exceed $25,000 
equivalent per Emergency Grant for Subprojects under Part B of 
the Project and not to exceed $10,000 each for income 
generation Subprojects under Part C.2 of the Project; and
(ii)
the requirement that the goods, works and services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Emergency Grant be procured 
in conformity with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement and that such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(d)
the right of HCREX to inspect by itself or jointly with the Association 
the goods, works, and constructions included in the Subproject, the operation thereof 
and any record or relevant document; and
(e)
the right of HCREX to suspend or terminate the right of the Eligible 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Credit upon its failure to perform any of its 
obligations under the agreement with HCREX.
6.
The Borrower shall: (i) not later than the first quarter of Project 
implementation, and quarterly thereafter, carry out a review of activities under Parts 
B and C.2 of the Project; (ii) furnish the information from such review to the 
Association; and (iii) following such review act promptly to take all measures 
identified by such review.
Monitoring and evaluation
7.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in 
Supplemental Letter No. 2 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about January 31, 2002 a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
(c)
review with the Association, by February 28, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter; and
(d)
carry out at the end of each Project Year, beneficiary assessments and 
procurement reviews of the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
Page  15
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 2 through 5 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to FCFA 
250,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to FCFA 125,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 500,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association 
from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
Page  16
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible shall follow such procedures as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
Except as otherwise agreed by the Association, the Performance Indicators to be 
used for Project implementation are as follows:
Development
Objectives
Progress Indicators
Security and
Number of ex-combatants registered
reconciliation
Number of ex-combatants who have
received reintegration assistance
in terms of training and micro-
projects
Demobilization
Number of disabled ex-combatants
and reintegration
who have received social
rehabilitation assistance
