CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 257 TU
Project Agreement
(Fruit and Vegetable Export Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF THE TURKISH REPUBLIC
DATED JUNE 22, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 257 TU
Project Agreement
(Fruit and Vegetable Export Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF THE TURKISH REPUBLIC
DATED JUNE 22, 1971


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1971, between INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and AGRu-
CULTURAL BANK OF THE TURKISH REPUBLIC (hereinafter
called ABT).
WHEREAs by a loan agreement and a development credit
agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of
Turkey (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank and the
Association (hereinafter referred to as the Loan Agree-
ment and the Development Credit Agreement), the Bank
and the Association have agreed to make available to the
Borrower an aggregate amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agro2ment and
the Development Credit Agreement, for the purpose of
assisting in the financing of the Project described in Sched-
ule 1 to the Loan Agreement and Schedule 2 to the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, Parts C, D and E of which
will be carried out by ABT, but only on condition inter alia
that ABT agrees to undertake certain obligations toward
the Bank and the Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAs by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and ABT, part of the aggregate
proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agree-
ment and the credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement will be made available to ABT on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ABT, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement and the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set
forth;


﻿4
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context shall otherwise require, the several terms de-
fined in the Loan Agreement and the Development Credit
Agreement and in the General Conditions applicable to
these agreements, as so defined, have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
SECTION 2.01. (a) ABT shall (i) carry out Parts C, D
and E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with sound administrative, financial and agri-
cultural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be pro-
vided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose; and (ii)
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises as shall be, from time to time, necessary
or useful in the conduct of its business and the carrying
out of the Project.
(b) In the carrying out of Parts C, D and E of the Proj-
ect, ABT undertakes that, unless the Bank and the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, it shall at all times follow
lending and operating policies and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank and the Association and including those set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be modified from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower, the Bank, the Association and ABT.
SECTION 2.02. Except as the Bank and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the goods and services (other than
services of consultants) required for carrying out Parts D
and E of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds


﻿5
of the Loan and the Credit shall be procured on the basis
of international competition under procedures consistent
with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in August
1969, as revised in May 1971, and in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
SECTION 2.03. (a) ABT undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the
Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place 'of use or installation, and for 'such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
ABT to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank or the Association may other-
wise agree, ABT shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit relent to it
by the Borrower to be used exclusively for Parts C, D and
E of the Project.
SECTION 2.04. (a) ABT 'shall furnish to the Bank and
the Association promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
reports, specifications, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for Parts D and E of the Proj-
ect, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank or the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) ABT: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods 'and services financed out of the aggre-
gate proceeds of the Loan and the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Proj-
ect; (ii) shall enable the Bank's or the Association's repre-
sentatives to see the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; 'and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank and the Association all such informa-


﻿6
tion as the Bank or the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Credit so relent to it and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Without limitation upon its obligations contained in
paragraph (b) of this Section, ABT shall establish and
maintain a separate account in respect of Parts C, D and
E of the Project, and shall send to the Bank and the Asso-
ciation, in the English language, (i) quarterly statements
of such account, authenticated by the Secretary General of
ABT within six weeks after the end of each quarter and
(ii) promptly upon their preparation but not later than five
months after the end of the period covered thereby, annual
statements of such account, authenticated by the Secretary
General of ABT and certified by auditors acceptable to the
Bank and the Association.
SECTIoN 2.05. ABT shall (i) duly perform all its obli-
gations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and except
as the Borrower, the Bank or the Association shall other-
wise agree, ABT shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, as-
signing or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof; (ii) apply all funds received by ABT
pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to the carry-
ing out of Parts C, D and E of the Project and (iii) exer-
cise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower,
the Bank, the Association and ABT.
ARTICLE III
Operations of ABT
SECTION 3.01. ABT shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.


﻿7
SECTION 3.02. Without limitation upon its obligations
contained in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, ABT shall not
permit any contracts to be entered into by sub-borrowers
for the construction of the two ferry-ships provided for in
Part D of the Project, until (i) arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank and the Association have been made by the
sub-borrower that is to own the said ferry-ships with port
authorities in Italy or Yugoslavia regarding the port facili-
ties that are required; and (ii) arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank and the Association have been made with the
sub-borrower that is to own the said ferry-ships regarding
the manner in which the ferry-ships are to be managed and
the ferry service is to be operated.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
SECTION 4.01. ABT shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
SECTION 4.02. ABT shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by auditors acceptable to the Bank and
the Association; (ii) furnish to the Bank and the Associa-
tion as soon as available, but in any case not later than
five months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies in the English language of its provisional financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors in the English language and
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the Asso-
ciation shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish
to the Bank and the Association such other information
concerning the provisional accounts and financial state-


﻿8
ments of ABT and the audit thereof a.s the Bank and the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
SECTION 4.03. ABT shall establish and maintain a Spe-
cial Operational Fund to be utilized, unless the Borrower,
ABT, the Bank and the Association shall otherwise agree,
for the sole purpose of supplementing the funds provided
for the operating expenses of the Project Unit. Such Fund
shall be established and maintained by ABT by setting
aside out of each payment to ABT of interest on sub-loans
under the Project, amounts calculated in the same manner
and on the same principal amount as such interest, but at
the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Expenditures out of such Fund shall be authorized by the
Director of the Project Unit only, or any other person duly
designated by him for such purpose.
ARTICLE V
Consultation and Information
SECTION 5.01. The Bank, the Association and ABT shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan
and the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Bor-
rower, the Bank, the Association and ABT shall from time
to time, at the request of any party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the performance of
their respective obligations under this Agreement, and in
respect of the Project the administration, operations and
financial condition of ABT and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan and the Credit.
SECTION 5.02. The Borrower, the Bank, the Association
and ABT shall promptly inform each other of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan and the Credit,
the performance by any of them of its obligations under
this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
ABT of their respective obligations.


﻿9
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
SECTION 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement and
the Development Credit Agreement become effective.
SECTIow 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations
of the Bank, the Association and of ABT thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify ABT of this event and, upon the giving
of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
SEcTIoN 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect for all parts of the Project
which have been implemented notwithstanding any cancel-
lation or suspension under the Loan Agreement or the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 7.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Agreement and any
agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agree-
ment shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be


﻿10
deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex, or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified, or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H St., N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
For the Association
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For ABT:
T.C. Ziraat Bankasi
Genel Mudurlugu
Bankalar Caddesi
Ankara, Turkey


﻿11
Cable address:
Zerbank
Ankara
SECTION 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken and any documents required or permitted to be exe-
cuted under this Agreement on behalf of ABT, or by ABT
on behalf of the Borrower under Section 2.11 of the Loan
Agreement or Section 2.09 of the Development Credit
Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Secretary
General of ABT or such other person or persons as ABT
shall designate in writing.
SECTION 7.03. ABT shall furnish to the Bank and the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority of the per-
son or persons who will, for or on behalf of ABT, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be executed by ABT pursuant to Section 7.02 above, and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
SECTION 7.04. No delay in exercising, or omission to
exercise, any right, power or remedy accruing to either
party under this Agreement upon any default shall impair
any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a
waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default; nor shall
the action of such party in respect of any default, or any
acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right,
power or remedy of such party in respect of any other or
subsequent default.
SECTION 7.05. This Project may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, -and 'all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective


﻿12
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF THE
TURKISH REPUBLIC
By /s/ AHMET TUFAN GUL
Authorized Representative


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Procedures; Operating and Lending Policies of ABT in
respect of Parts 0, D and E of the Project
A. Unless the Borrower, the Bank and the Association
otherwise agree, the following policies and procedures shall
apply to the carrying out of Part C of the Project.
Request for and Approvals of Loans
1.1 Citrus loan applications shall be submitted to ABT
branch nearest the location proposed for the citrus devel-
opment. It is expected that staff and agents of the Citrus
Extension Unit (hereinafter called CEU) will assist farm-
ers in drawing up farm plans and preparing applications.
1.2 If the applicant is found to be creditworthy by ABT,
a copy of the application shall be forwarded to the CEU
for technical appraisal which will be carried out by spe-
cialists of CEU or the Seyhan Integrated Extension Unit
if the proposed development is in the Seyhan Irrigation
Area. Criteria for appraising the application would include:
(a) availablity of properly irrigated, leveled and drained
land, with soils suitable for citrus development
which, to avoid disease problems, have not been
planted to citrus within the preceding five years;
(b) proven competence and experience in general farm-
ing practice; and
(c) availability of an over-all farm plan, including finan-
cial projections.
The final approval of all technical appraisal reports will
be made by the Director of CEU which will then be for-
warded to the appropriate branch of ABT.
1.3 The decision to approve or reject a citrus loan appli-
cation shall be taken by ABT on the basis of the financial
position of the applicant, the information given in the appli-
cation, the applicants farm plan and the written report on
the technical aspects of the proposed investment prepared


﻿9
14
by the Seyhan Integrated Extension Unit or the CEU
(including its estimated net income generation).
Terms and Conditions of Citrus Loans
2.1. Security. A mortgage and such other security as may
be reasonably available shall normally be taken to cover a
citrus loan. However, inability of an applicant to provide
adequate security for the whole of the proposed citrus loan
shall not in itself be considered a bar to lending. Rather,
emphasis shall be placed on the estimated net income gen-
eration of the proposed development and the general finan-
cial situation and management capability of the applicant.
2.2. Loan Agreements. ABT shall enter into a loan agree-
ment or loan agreements with each sub-borrower, the form
of which shall be satisfactory to the Bank and the Asso-
ciation and which shall inter alia include covenants relating
to varieties of citrus to be planted, the use of only certified
virus free budwood and proper maintenance of the planta-
tion and in addition provide that any part or all of the
principal amount of a sub-loan may be repaid to ABT by
the sub-borrower in advance of maturity without premium
or penalty.
2.3. Loan Terms. Loan terms, grace periods, down-
payments, interest and repayment periods to be made by
the sub-borrower shall, unless the Borrower, the Bank and
the Association otherwise agree, be as specified in the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank and the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, interest shall be paid during
the grace period and the repayment period for the principal
shall be determined in accordance with the projected net
income from the development.
2.4. Supervision. ABT staff will make on-site inspections
sufficiently frequently to ensure that each citrus loan is
being used for its intended purpose.
B. Unless the Borrower, the Bank and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the following loan policies and pro-


﻿15
cedures shall apply to the carrying out of Parts D and E
of the Project:
Request for and Approvals of Loans
1.1 Loan applications shall be submitted to ABT in
Ankara and shall include:
(a) a technical feasibility study;
(b) an investment and operational plan;
(c) complete historical financial data on the applicants
operations;
(d) financial projections for the proposed operation for
the next five years;
(e) details of the applicants' operational arrangements
within Turkey and abroad;
(f) a detailed estimated cashflow statement for the next
three to five years; and
(g) all requirements for long-term and seasonal financ-
ing.
1.3 A copy of the application will be sent to the Project
Unit which will prepare a written technical appraisal. If
the report is favorable, the decision to approve or reject an
application shall be taken by ABT provided that all loans
for an amount in excess of $250,000 shall require the prior
approval of the Bank and the Association.
Terms and Conditions of Sub-Loans
2.1 Security on Loans. Mortgages on the facilities
financed shall be taken; and, in normal circumstances, other
security would not be required. Emphasis shall be placed
on the estimated net income generation of 'the proposed
investment and the general financial situation and manage-
ment capability of the applicant.
2.2 Loan Agreements. ABT shall enter into a loan agree-
ment or loan agreements with each sub-borrower the form


﻿16
of which shall be satisfactory to the Bank and the Associa-
tion and which shall inter alia include covenants restricting
the incurring of other debt by the sub-borrower, the proper
maintenance and insurance of the security and in addition
provide that any part or all -of the principal amount of a
sub-loan may be repaid to ABT by the sub-borrower in
advance of maturity without premium or penalty. All loan
agreements between ABT and a sub-borrower for ferry-
ships and for sub-loans in excess of $250,000 shall require
the prior approval of the Bank and the Association.
2.3 Loan Terms. Loan terms, grace periods, down-
payments, interest and repayment periods to be made by
the sub-borrower shall unless the Borrower, the Bank and
the Association otherwise agree, be as specified in the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank and the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, interest shall be paid during
the grace period and the repayment period for the principal
shall be determined in accordance with the projected net
income from the investment.
2.4 Supervision. ABT staff shall make on-site inspections
sufficiently frequently to ensure that each loan is being used
for its intended purpose and that the security is being
operated and maintained properly.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1. With respect to any contract between a sub-borrower
and a supplier of goods relating to Parts D and E of the
Project:
(a) Bidders are to be prequalified and the Project Unit
shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Bank and
the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed
and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank and the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification, shall be furnished by
the Project Unit to the Bank and the Association for their
comments before the applicants are notified and the Project
Unit shall make such additions or deletions from the said
list as the Bank and the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) Before bids are invited, the Project Unit shall fur-
nish to the Bank and the Association, for their comments,
the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of
the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding,
and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedure as the Bank and the Association shall reason-
ably request. Any further modification to the bidding docu-
ments shall require the Bank's and the Association's con-
currence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Project Unit shall, before a final decision on the award of
a contract is made, inform the Bank and the Association of
the name of the bidder to whom the sub-borrower intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank and
the Association, in sufficient time for their review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids re-
ceived, and the reasons for the intended award. The Bank


﻿18
and the Association shall promptly inform the Project Unit
whether they have any objection to the intended award on
the grounds that it would be inconsistent with the Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
shall state the reasons for any objections they may have.
(d) If the contract shall be awarded over the Bank's and
the Association's reasonable objections, or if its terms and
conditions shall, without the Bank's or the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids
were asked, no expenditures thereunder shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Credit.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be fur-
nished to the Bank and the Association promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank and the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account -or Credit Account in respect of any
such contract.
2. For the purpose of evaluating bids for ferry-ships, ma-
chinery, equipment, vehicles or materials for export han-
dling facilities and associated services included in Cate-
gories I and II of the table set out in paragraph 1 of Sched-
ule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, bid prices shall
be determined and compared in accordance with the follow-
ing rules:
(a) The term "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a
manufacturer established in the territories of the Borrower
for goods manufactured or processed to a substantial extent
in such territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a
"Foreign Bid".
(b) The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of
the following amounts:
(i) the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii) inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery
of such goods to the place of their use or installa-
tion.


﻿19
(c) For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with
any Local Bid, the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be
the sum of the following amounts:
(i) the c.i.f. price of such goods;
(ii) the amount of any taxes on the importation of such
goods into the territories of the Borrower which
generally apply to non-exempt importers, or 15%
of the amount specified in (i) above, whichever shall
be the lower; and
(iii) inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery
of such goods to the place of their use or installa-
tion.
3. All contracts for ferry-ships, machinery, equipment, ve-
hicles or materials for export handling facilities shall,
wherever practicable, be bulked so as to facilitate inter-
national competition.
4. In addition
(i) all contracts for packinghouses, box manufacturing
plants and cold storage facilities shall include the
provision of the technical assistance needed to com-
mence their operation and shall provide that the
aforesaid packinghouses, plants or facilities will not
be finally accepted from the contractor until they
have operated satisfactorily for one packing season
or six months whichever period shall be the longer.
(ii) all contracts for ferry-ships shall include the pro-
vision of the technical assistance needed to commis-
sion them and shall provide that the ferry-ships will
not be finally accepted from the contractor until
they have been operated satisfactorily for six
months; and
(iii) all contracts for refrigerated trailers and towing
units shall include a provision that the contractor
will continue to operate or will establish mainte-
ance facilities in Turkey with a stock of all the spare
parts needed for the maintenance of the equipment
being supplied, for a minimum period of five years
after the delivery of the said equipment.


