CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 257 TU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fruit and Vegetable Export Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 22, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 257 TU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fruit and Vegetable Export Project)
BETWEEN
0
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 22, 1971


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1971, between REPUBLIC
OF TURKEY (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssociATioN (hereinafter called the
Association).
WliEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Associa-
tion to assist in the financing of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(B) The Borrower has also requested the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter
called the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards
the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even
date herewith between the ., tower and the Bank the
latter is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggre-
gate principal amount equivalent to ten million dollars
($10,000(000) (hereinafter called the Loan);
(C) The Agricultural Bank of the Turkish Republic
(hereinafter called ABT), an enterprise of the Borrower,
was established to finance agricultural development in the
territories of the Borrower;
(D) The Borrower is willing to make funds available to
ABT for the carrying out of Parts C, D and E of the
Project, as hereinafter provided;
(E) The Borrower and the Association intend, to the
extent practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided
for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of expendi-
tures on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds
of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
and
(F) the Association is willing to make the Credit avail-
able upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter


﻿4
and in a project agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank, the Association and ABT;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force -and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the follow-
ing modifications thereof (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Development Credit Agreements of the Associa-
tion, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions) :
(a) The following sub-paragraph is added to Section
2.01 of the General Conditions:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the mean-
ing set forth in Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement."
(b) Section 5.01 is deleted.
(c) Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) be-
comes 6.02 (h).
(d) Section 6.06 of the General Conditions is modified by
inserting "the Project Agreement" after the words
"the Development Credit Agreement".
(e) Section 8.02 of the General Conditions is modified by
inserting the words "or the Project Agreement"
after the words "the Development Credit Agree-
ment".
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in


﻿5
the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even
date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time;
and such term includes the General Conditions Appli-
cable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank, dated January 31, 1969, as made applicable to
such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan
Agreement;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even
date herewith between the Bank, the Association and
ABT, as such agreement may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all agreements sup-
plemental to, and all schedules to, the Project
Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agree-
ment to be entered into between the Borrower and
ABT pursuant to Secti.on 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time and
such term includes all agreements supplemental to
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) "Project Unit" means the co-ordinating unit estab-
lished by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Rela-
tions of the Borrower for the implementation of the
Project;
(e) "Project Area" means that area of about 8,000
hectares within the Provinces of Adana, Hatay and
Icel which is suitable for citrus development;
(f) "Citrus Extension Unit" means the Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower respon-
sible for the supervision of on-farm citrus develop-
ment within the Project Area.


﻿6
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The As,sociation agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be with-
drawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed under the Development
Credit Agreement; provil -, however, that (i) except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of
any country which is not a member of the Association
(other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or
services supplied from, such territories and (ii) to the
extent practicable, no withdrawals, shall be made from the
Loan Account provided for in the Loan Agreement, until
the whole of the Credit has been withdrawn from the Credit
Account.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services (other than services of con-
sultants) required for carrying out Parts A and B of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be procured on the basis of international competition
under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Pro-
curement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1969, as revised in May 1971;
provided, however, that without in any way restricting or
limiting any right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, expenditures
under any contract for the procurement of any such goods
or services which the Association shall reasonably deter-


﻿7
mine to have been awarded according to procedures incon-
sistent with those hereinabove set forth or referred to,
shall not be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
SECTION 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
SECTIoN 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable
on each April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 1981,
and ending April 1, 2021, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 1, 1991, to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%o) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(11/2 o) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02
of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.09. The Borrower hereby designates ABT as
its representative for the purpose of taking any action re-
quired or permitted to be taken in respect of Parts C, D
and E of the Project under Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
SECTION 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts
A and B of the Project and shall cause ABT to carry out
Parts C, D and E of the Project with due diligence and


﻿8
efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial and agricultural practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall relend that part of the proceeds
of the Credit which is withdrawn on account of expendi-
tures under Parts C, D and E of the Project to ABT on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accom-
plish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the As,socia-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment or any provision thereof.
(d) The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agen-
cies to take all action which shall be necessary on their part
to enable ABT to perform all of its obligations under the
Project Agreement and 'shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which might interfere with such performance.
SECTION 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower and ABT
in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ con-
sultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to the Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclu-
sively for the Project.
SECTION 3.04 (a) The Borrower shall cause to be fur-
nished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specificatiwis, contract documents and construc-
tion and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modification thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿9
(b) The Borrower shall or shall cause ABT to: (i) main-
tain records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Asso-
oiation's representatives to see the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) The Borrower,shall cause ABT to take out and main-
tain the insurance cover provided for in Sections 2.03 (a)
and 3.01 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) For the purpose of carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ a qualified and experi-
enced full-time Director for the Project Unit. In addition
the Borrower shall employ not less than two qualified and
experienced full-time technical advisors to assist the Direc-
tor of the Project Unit whose selection, terms and condi-
tions are mutually acceptable to the Borrower, the Bank
,and the Association.
(b) For the purpose of assisting the Project Unit in
carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ not
less than five qualified and experienced consultants whose
selection, terms and conditions are mutually acceptable to
the Borrower, the Bank and the Association.
(c) For the purpose of carrying out Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ a qualified and experi-
enced full-time director for the Citrus Extension Unit.
(d) For the purpose of assisting the Citrus Extension
Unit in carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower


﻿10
shall employ qualified and experienced specialists whose
number, selection, qualifications and terms of reference are
mutually acceptable to the Borrower, the Bank and the
Association. The specialists shall include not fewer than
two qualified and experienced citrus specialists, one of
whom shall be seconded to the Seyhan Integrated Extension
Unit to assist that organization in the technical appraisal
of sub-loans to farmers located within the Seyhan Irrigation
Area.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall promptly appoint con-
sultants whose number, selection and qualifications are
mutually acceptable to the Borrower, the Bank and the
Association to undertake the survey of agricultural credit
facilities, institutions and policies referred to in Part A of
the Project, the terms of reference for which are set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall (i) within six months
of the date on which this Agreement becomes effective
establish product and packaging quality standards that are
acceptable to the Bank and the Association; and (ii) on or
before January 1, 1975, promulgate an Export Regime
under which all fresh fruits and vegetables that are to be
exported must pass through packinghouses approved by
the appropriate Ministry of the Borrower.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower shall provide the funds re-
quired for (i) the establishment of a citrus budwood propa-
gation farm by the Mersin Citrus Research Institute; and
(ii) research programs related to the carrying out of the
Project that have been approved by the Director of the
Project Unit.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall (i) promptly permit
the importation of the seed and budwood recommended by
the Director of the Project Unit; (ii) ensure that only virus
free certified budwood is used in carrying out Part B of the
Project; and (iii) ensure that the importation of the afore-


﻿11
said seed and budwood is free from any taxes imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its terri-
tories on or in connection with the importation thereof.
SCTIoN  4.06. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
ARTICLE V
Consultation and Information
SECTION.5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the
Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a) exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obliga-
tions under the Development Credit Agreement, the
performance by ABT of its obligations under the
Project Agreement, the administration and opera-
tions of the Project Unit, the Citrus Extension Unit
and of any other departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit; and
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status
of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect
to financial and economic conditions in the terri-
tories of the Borrower, including its balance of pay-
ments, and the external debt of the Borrower, of any
of its political subdivisions and of any agency of the
Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
0


﻿12
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
operations, financial condition, resources and expenditures
of ABT related to the Project, the Project Unit, the Citrus
Extension Unit and any other departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation upon its obligations contained in
sub-paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall cause
the records of the Project Unit to be audited annually, in a
manner satisfactory to the Association, by auditors accept-
able to the Association and promptly after the preparation
of the audit, but not later than five months after the end of
the Borrower's fiscal year, the Borrower shall transmit to
the Association a signed copy of the auditors report in the
English language.
(c) The Borrower and the Association shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the pur-
poses of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof
or the performance by either of them of its obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement or the perform-
ance by ABT of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
SECTION 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Associa-
tion to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for
purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
SECTION 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed


﻿13
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement, and
the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or
in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in
effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and serv-
ice charges on, the Credit shall be free from all restric-
tions, regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in eftect in
its territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately, together
with the service charges thereon, and upon any such decla-
ration such principal, together with such charges, shall
become due and payable immediately, anything to the con-
trary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstand-
ing.
'SECTION 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) ABT shall have failed to perform any obligation of
ABT under the Project Agreement, and such event
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given to the Borrower and
ABT by the Association;


﻿14
(b) Before the termination of the Project Agreement
any legal provision governing or applicable to the
organization or operations of ABT shall have been
modified in such a manner as to threaten the ability
of ABT to carry out its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the efficiency of its operations;
(c) ABT shall have become unable to pay its debts as
they mature or any action or proceeding shall have
been taken by ABT or by others whereby any of the
property of ABT shall or may be distributed among
its creditors;
(d) Before the termination of the Project Agreement the
Borrower shall have taken any action for the dissolu-
tion or disestablishment of ABT or for the suspen-
sion of ABT 's operations.
SECTION 7.03. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following -additional event is speci-
fled, namely: an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that ABT will be able to
carry out Parts C, D and E of the Project or its operations
or to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 8.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Loan Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower shall have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary administrative
and governmental action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of ABT shall have been duly authorized or


﻿15
ratified by all necessary administrative and govern-
mental action;
(c) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and ABT shall
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
administrative and governmental action;
(d) the Project Unit and the Citrus Extension Unit have
been established and the initial appointments to fill
the positions described in sub-sections 4.01 (a) and
4.01 (c) of this Agreement have been made; and
(e) the Borrower has appointed the consultants to under-
take the survey of agricultural credit facilities, insti-
tutions and policies specified in Section 4.02 of this
Agreement.
SECTION 8.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the Gen-
eral Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of the Borrower in accordance with its
terms;
(b) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, ABT and constitutes a vaI 3,1and binding obliga-
tion of ABT in accordance with its terms;
(c) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and ABT and constitutes
valid and binding obligations of the Borrower and of
ABT in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 8.03. The date September 10, 1971, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿16
SECTION 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Section 3.04 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of the Development Credit Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
SECTION 9.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.09
of this Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Maliye Bakanligi
Hazine Genel Mudurlugu
ve Milletlerarasi Iktisadi
Isbirligi Teskilati Genel Sekreterligi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:
Maliye
Hazine
Ankara
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D. 0.


﻿17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in their
respective names and to be delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIc OF TuRKEY
By /s/ AHMET TUFAN GuL
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT
AssociATIoN
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿18
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1. The table below sets forth the categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan,
the allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed
in each category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in    % of Expenditures
Category                 r,llar Equivalent)   to be Financed
I. Transportation equipment
(Part D of the Project)
a) Ferry-ships              8,200,000   100%  of total expendi-
tures
b) Trailers and towing      9,30  00    100%  of total expendi-
units (including                     tures
spare parts)
II. Packinghouses, box          1,630,000   43%  of total expendi-
manufacturing plants,                   tures (representing
and cold storage                        the estimated foreign
facilities                              expenditure component)
(Part E of the Project)
III. On-farm citrus orchard      2,250,00    20% of sub-loan
and nursery development                 disbursements by ABT
sub-loans by ABT                        (representing the
(Part C of the Project)                 estimated foreign
expenditure component)
IV. Technical assistance,        1,095,000   100% of foreign
consultants' services,                  expenditures
research programs and
citrus propagation farm
(Parts A and B
of the Project)
V. Unallocated                  2,525,000
TOTAL                 $25,000,000


﻿19
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term  "foreign expenditures" means expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories, and in the currency, of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b) the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate
of foreign expenditures and of expenditures for goods pro-
duced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the
Borrower.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of :
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement
except that withdrawals may be made in respect of Cate-
gory IV on account of expenditures incurred after May 1,
1971 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $150,000; and
(b) payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount repre-
sented by the percentage set forth in the third column of
the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of any Category
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no pro-
ceeds of the Credit or of the Loan will be withdrawn on
account of payments for such taxes.
(c) In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts
of the Credit shall have been withdrawn or committed, no
withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account except
under commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions referred to in Sec-
tion 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.


﻿9
20
4. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and of the Loan set forth in the second
column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall decrease, the amount of the proceeds of the
Credit and of the Loan then allocated to such Category and
no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Asso-
ciation and by the Bank, or after full withdrawal of all
amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, by increasing cor-
respondingly the unallocated amount of the proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan;
(b) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Gate-
gory shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of
such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such
increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by
the Association and by the Bank or, after full withdrawal
of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated
amount of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, sub-
ject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as
determined by the Association and by the Bank or, after
full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank,
in respect of any other -expenditures.
S


﻿21
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project represents the first phase in the develop-
ment of the Borrower's fresh fruit and vegetable export
program and consists of :
Part A: A comprehensive survey of agricultural credit
facilities, institutions and policies in the Republic -of Turkey
and the provision for the purposes of carrying out the
Project of technical advisory services by staff and con-
sultants of the Project Unit and the Citrus Extension Unit.
Part B: The establishment of a citrus budwood propaga-
tion farm and citrus research programs.
Part C: The provision through ABT, acting on the advice
of the Project Unit and Citrus Extension Unit, of technical
services and loans to farmers in the Project Area for the
establishment of approximately 8,000 hectares of citrus
orchards and approximately 60 hectares of multiplication
nurseries.
Part D: The provision through ABT acting on decisions
made by the Project Unit of loans to transport companies
for the construction of two ferry-ships, refrigerated trail-
ers and towing units (including spare parts).
Part E: The provision through ABT acting on decisions
made by the Project Unit of loans to private companies
for the construction of packinghouses, cold storage facili-
ties and box manufacturing plants.
The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1975.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 3
Terms of Reference for
Agricultural Credit Survey
1. Objective. The objective of the proposed agriculture
credit survey is to review and define Turkey's agricultural
credit needs, especially medium and long-term, in relation
to the priorities for agricultural development over the next
five years, to examine and recommend appropriate policies,
capital sources, institutional and "procedural" arrange-
ments for supplying these needs and to examine the possi-
bilities of developing agricultural credit programs. The
survey would include:
(a) A review of past agricultural credit experience over
the last five years, concentrating on credit for pro-
duction purposes, but giving brief details of credit
for marketing of agricultural produce and for related
agricultural activities:
(i) existing credit policies of Government, Central
Bank and other credit institutions, and their
relationship to credit policies in other sectors;
(ii) existing agencies: commercial banks, agricul-
tural banks and cooperatives concerned with
agricultural credit, their place in credit and
banking system, organization, interrelation-
ship; review should also examine role of non-
institutional credit sources;
(iii) sources of credit funds for lending agencies,
rediscounting facilities, rural savings, budg-
etary and foreign sources and role of agricul-
tural banks and cooperatives in mobilizing re-
sources; analysis of costs of funds from main
sources for each credit agency;
(iv) analysis of costs of lending operations, com-
parison of agricultural interest rates with those


﻿23
of other sectors, their relation to size and pur-
p,ose of loan, to agricultural subsidies, and to
inflation; analysis of overdue loans, covering
period overdue, efficiency of collection tech-
niques and reasons for delinquency;
(v) types and volume of production credit for cur-
rent inputs, on-farm investments and invest-
ments in agriculture-related industries com-
pared with gross agricultural production, GNP,
and total credit for all purposes; loan distribu-
tion by purpose, number and size of loans, re-
lated to farm size categories, and to total num-
ber of farms; effectiveness of loans with regard
to productivity methods of appraisal of re-
quests, controls and results;
(vi) technical and financial loan appraisal tech-
niques, borrower selection and borrowing terms
with due attenti.n to security requirements,
legal instruments of security and their effec-
tiveness;
(vii) external constraints to agricultural credit, in-
cluding land tenure situations, existing indebt-
edness, sufficiency of qualified staff, extension,
research, timely availability of farm inputs,
and marketing facilities, price policies regard-
ing farm inputs and commodities;
(viii) taxes including import/export duties and their
effect on farm input costs, farm output prices
and generation of Government tax revenue;
(ix) types and volume of seasonal credits, data on
development of this type of credit, uses, finan-
cial and economic results, general experience;
(x) position of sales cooperatives in the agriculture
credit system, analysis of historical function
and recommendation for future role;


﻿24
(xi) position, operation and scope of credit co-
operatives in the agriculture credit system,
analysis of historical and current operation
and recommendation for future role.
(b) Future agricultural credit policies and institutions,
including any recommended changes in institutional
arrangements, policies and practices, procedures and
practices, technical evaluation of projects and credit
requests, decentralization of operations and regula-
tions to govern use of funds available to institutions,
and any measures for increasing land mobilizing
rural savings, expanding rediscount facilities, and
encouraging further private commercial banking and
credit cooperatives in agriculture.
(c) Estimated credit requirements for the next five
years:
(i) farm credit needs, based upon survey of farm
households and projected future developments,
for seasonal and longer term credit; these
should cover the relationship between seasonal
and longer term loans, and include investments
for land and water development, seedlings and
other nursery stock, farm building, tree planta-
tions, livestock machinery, and equipment; and
(ii) credit needs for related agricultural activities,
including handling, marketing and processing
of farm products; procurement and distribu-
tion of fertilizers, seed, farm chemicals, ma-
chinery, forestry and fisheries.
(d) Proposed specific credit programs in support of pri-
orities in agricultural sector:
(i) definition of priorities in quantitative and price
terms, methods of adjustment of priorities and
prices especially for export products;


﻿25
(ii) institutions concerned; and organization poli-
cies, staffing, decentralization, controls;
(iii) lending programs;
(iv) lending procedures (administrative, technical
and financial).
2. Organization of Study. The Government would designate
the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations to supervise
and guide the study and to review interim and final reports.
The study will be conducted over a period of about 12
months, allowing eight months for compiling and analyzing
data and four months for preparing the report. It will be
based upon past studies, and other existing available data,
Government plans and projections, field surveys, and inter-
views with appropriate officials.
3. Key Personnel. The work would probably require a team
of experts whose expertise would cover the range of prob-
lems outlined above. The qualifications offered for guidance
are:
(a) Ags iculture Credit Expert: Project leader, respon-
sible for organization of study, over-all credit situa-
tion, interim and final report, etc. He should have
long experience in operational policy levels with
agricultural credit institutions.
(b) Agriculturalist: responsible for costs and 'operational
needs of farmer inputs for both 'short-, medium- and
long-term on-farm investments for all major crops
in Turkey. He should have a thorough knowledge
and experience in crop production and animal hus-
bandry and livestock problems.
(c) Agriculture Projection Economist: responsible for
evaluation of inputs requirements in liaison with
Agriculturist and estimates of operating costs for
major crops in Turkey and on-farm investments.


﻿26
(d) Marketing and Processing Expert: responsible for
off-farm credit requirements for agriculture devel-
opment. He should be experienced in marketing, proc-
essing, or storage enterprises, and familiar with
credit needs of such enterprises,
(e) Planning Expert: responsible for organizing neces-
sary sub-surveys. He should be experienced in Gov-
ernmental planning operations and organizational
problems.
(f) Auditor-Accountant.
(g) Statistician: responsible for analyzing data and of
preparing tables and graphs.
(h) Four or five Interviewers for farmer surveys.
(i) Five clerical and secretarial personnel.
(j) Two-Three Interpreters with knowledge of financial
and/or agricultural terminology.
4. Reports. The reports would include an interim report
after six months and a final report after twelve months, to
be submitted to the Borrower and reviewed in consultation
with the Bank and the Association. Reports would be made
in Turkish and in English, and 25 copies in each language
would be printed.


