Document of
The World Bank    vs                       ; 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.2531a-BT
BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
September 26, 1979
Energy and Water Supply Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BOTSWANA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit               =  Pula (P)
1 Pula                      =  100 Thebe = US$1.20
US$1                        =  P 0.83
Weights and Measures
1 Imperial Galloi (Ig)      =  1.2 US gallons = 4.55 liters (1)
1 cubic meter (m )          =  220 Ig, 264.2 US gallons, or
1 kiloliter (kl)
1 liter per capita per day =  lcd
1 million Imperial gallon              3
per day (Imgd)            =  4,546 m /day
1 meter (m)                 =  3.28 feet (39.37 inches)
1 millimeter (mm)           =  0.039 inches
1 kilometer (km)       2    =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )   =  0.386 square miles = 247 acres (ac)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AfDF              =  African Development Fund
BPC               =  Botswana Power Corporation
CIDA              =  Canadian International Development Agency
DCs               =  District Councils
DWA               =  Department of Water Affairs (MRWA)
FTC               =  Francistown Town Council
Gibb              =  Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners
Government (GOB) = Government of the Republic of Botswana
GSD               =  Geological Survey Department (MRWA)
GWEU              =  Gaborone Water & Electricity Unit
IDRC             =  International Development Research Center of
Canada
MFDP              =  Ministry of Finance & Development Planning
MLGL              =  Ministry of Local Government & Lands
MOH               =  Ministry of Health
MRWA              =  Ministry of Mineral Resources & Water Affairs
MWC               =  Ministry of Works & Communications
NDP-IV            =  National Development Plan, 1976/77 - 1980/81
ODM               =  Overseas Development Ministry (UK)
RSA               =  Republic of South Africa
SIDA             =  Swedish International Development Authority
UK                   United Kingdom of Great Britain & Northern Ireland
UNDP              =  United Nations Development Programme
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
WUC               =  Water Utilities Corporation
Fiscal Year (FY)
April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE DISPOSAL SECTOR ........... .........                  1
Country Background .....               1................    ....*          1
Water Resources            ..........................................      1
Sector Legislation ..............         . .... .....................     2
Sector Organization               ......................................   2
Cost Recovery             ............................................     4
Manpower and Trainiug *......*.**.****.****s****e@*s......                 4
Present Service Levels .....               ...... ........................  5
Service Level Goals               ......................................   6
Sector Development ......         **e*****...*.....                        7
Possible Constraints               .....................................   8
Previous Bank Group Projects                 .............................  8
II.  POPULATION, SECTOR SERVICES AND DEMAND IN PROJECT AREA ........                   9
Location .       .....9.....                                               9
Regional Development Prospects                 ...........................  9
Sector Agencies                                                            9 ........................................  9
Existing Water Supply and Waste Disposal Systems ** 9....e.    10
Population Served and Standards of Service .......*........               10
Population Projections and Demand for Service                ............   12
III. THE PROJECT .........    ............    13
Genesis ......*...                    ...............................    13
Objectives ..............   ********** **.....................*.    14
Technical Alternatives and Service Standards                 .............   14
Description of Project Components                 ........................    14
Cos t Es timates . . . . . . . ............................               1 5
Project Financing .....99999999............................    17
Implementation ......9999999999999999999999999999999999999                17
Procurement ..................................                            17
Disbursements .........................................                   18
Water Resource Aspects                ...................................    18
Environmental and Health Aspects                 .........................    19
This report was prepared by Messrs. N. Tin, E. LaBahn and J. Boutan and is
based upon information obtained during a mission to Botswana in February 1979.
This document has a restricted dbtribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
IV.  THE BORROWER AND THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY ......... ..               ...........    19
The Borrower and the Beneficiary .........................                 19
Transfer of Water Supply Operations from FTC to WUC ......                 20
Organization, Management and Staff                    .        .           20
Personnel Development and Localization ......... ..........    21
Accounting and Audit .....................- 22
Billing and Collection ...............        ..     ..................    23
V.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS .......................                                          23
Introduction               .......................  23
WUC's Past Operating Results and Financial Position ......    23
Financial Performance of Francistown Water Supply
Operations              .............................................   26
Financing Plan:   Francistown Undertaking ................ .               26
Financing Plan:  WUC Consolidated ....             ....................    28
Tariffs             ..................................................     30
Affordability               ............................................   32
Future Operations and Financial Position ....               .............    32
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ...... ..............              .....................    35
Institutional Objectives ..............        ..      .................    35
Meeting Demands and Improving Water Service ....               ..........    35
Public Health and Urban Poor ............         ..     ...............   35
Least-Cost Solution .................        ..     ...................    36
Return on Investment .................       ..      ...................    36
Project Risks        .......................     ......................    36
Project Monitoring System ............        ..      ..................   37
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .........................    37
Agreements Reached .......................................                 37
Recommendation   ...... ..............           ......................    38



- iii -
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX                            DESCRIPTION
1.1       Population by Level of Service, 1978
2.1       Francistown Water Demands
2.2       Projected Francistown Service Levels:  1981/82 and 1986/87
2.3       Francistown:  Projected Future Water Demands on Shashe Source
3.1       Description of Physical Elements of Proposed Project
3.2       Project Cost Estimates
3.3       Proposed Implementation Schedule
3.4       Schedule of Disbursements from Loan
3.5       Water Resources of Shashe Dam Catchment
4.1       Organization Chart of Water Utilities Corporation
5.1       Audited Balance Sheets and Annual Rate of Return Calculations
5.2       Financial Projections
5.3       Assumptions for Financial Projections
6.1       Internal Rate of Return for Francistown Component of Project
6.2       Proposed Monitoring Guidelines
7.1       Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD 14382 - Botswana Second Water Supply Project






BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE DISPOSAL SECTOR
Country Background
1.01      Botswana, which has an area of about 570,000 km  (220,000 sq. mi.),
is landlocked and is bordered by Rhodesia, the Republic of South Africa (RSA),
Namibia, and Zambia. Botswana occupies the central portion of the great
plateau of southern Africa and the ground surface, which is relatively flat,
averages about 1,000 meters (3,000 ft.) in elevation.
1.02      The climate is continental and semi-arid with an average annual
rainfall of 450 mm which is highly erratic and unevenly distributed. 1/ Pre-
cipitation is seasonal, mostly occurring during the period of November through
April.  Temperatures generally range between 5 C and 380C with wide diurnal
variation particularly evident during the winter months (May through October).
1.03      The population of Botswana, mainly situated in eastern Botswana, was
estimated at about 730,000 in mid-1977 and is increasing at about 2% annually.
Although the urban population comprised only about 16% (118,000 persons resi-
dent in five towns) at that time, the country has one of the world's highest
urbanization rates, close to 12% per year. The rural population is growing
less rapidly.
Water Resources
1.04      Although Botswana's total water resources are fairly substantial, 2/
due to their location and/or variability in occurence, the country is water
deficient. Surface water, representing over 85% of the total resources and
initially of good quality, occurs mainly in the Okavango River located in the
north and, to a lesser extent, in border rivers. Except for the Limpopo and
its tributaries located in eastern Botswana, it is little utilized. Surface
water located elsewhere, although more accessible, is ephemeral and small in
volume (representing less than 5% of all surface water).
1.05      Although ground water is believed to underlie much of Botswana, the
majority of boreholes are located in the eastern part of the country where
90% of the population is located. The country has over 5,000 registered
boreholes, and the number of unregistered boreholes is estimated at 50% of
1/   Average annual rainfall ranges from 250 mm in the southwest to more than
650 mm in the northeast;
2/   The total annual resolrce, though not well documented, has 3been estimated
at about 21 billion m of which approximately 18 billion m is surface
water and about 3 billion m is ground water.



-2-
this figure. Yields of individual boreholes are small 1/ and natural water
quality in some areas is unacceptable for human consumption due to high
salinity. Many of the latter are unuseable during extended drought periods
due to lowered water levels and the small storage capacity of individual
aquifers. Further, due to the nature of the aquifers and to inadequate
control of the disposal of waste from livestock and/or humans, high nitrate
concentrations and serious fecal bacterial contamination exists in ground
water underlying many villages and certain of the towns.
1.06      In recognition of increasing water demands in the eastern portion
of the country, the Government of Botswana (GOB) recently investigated the
feasibility of developing supplies from several potentially attractive
sources. The first of these studies, which was financed by the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP), concerned transfer of water from the Okavango
Delta to potential areas of demand. The studies concluded that such a trans-
fer is unlikely to be economic in the foreseeable future. A second study,
financed by the African Development Fund (AfDF), concerned the feasibility of
water development in northeast Botswana. Several attractive schemes were
identified in this study including that of the proposed Second Water Supply
Project (para 3.06). Remaining schemes concern mainly demand centers other
than Francistown. A third study involving the feasibility of developing
supplies from principal sand rivers of eastern Botswana is currently underway
by the Department of Water Affairs (DWA) of the Ministry of Mineral Resources
and Water Affairs (MRWA). Preliminary findings of this study indicate that
sand rivers have potential mainly as supplies to villages and other minor
demand centers.
Sector Legislation
1.07      Various acts dealing purely with sector issues, legislated between
1956 and 1970, together with the Tribal Land Act of 1968 and the Town and
Country Planning Act of 1977, cover the needs of the country reasonably
well.
Sector Organization
1.08      Four different ministries are active in the sector.  Two of these,
MRWA and the Ministry of Local Government and Lands (MLGL), have principal
roles while the Ministry of Works and Communications (MWC) and the Ministry
of Health (MOH) have minor roles.
1.09      MRWA, through the DWA, is concerned with Botswana's total water
resources and their development. It secures and maintains hydrological and
hydrogeological records, plans and implements water supply projects in rural
1/   The yield of a typical successful borehole in Botswana has been estimated
at 100 liters per minute (26 US gpm).



-3-
areas, designs, constructs, equips and, in certain instances, 1/ operates
and maintains village water supplies. It also registers new boreholes,
monitors ground water production and, to some extent, water pollution,
administers special water resource investigations (para. 1.06), and provides
technical training to its own staff and to village water supply operator
candidates recruited by the District Councils (DCs). Another department of
MRWA, the Geological Survey Department (GSD), through its Hydrogeological
Division, is responsible for locating and evaluating the country's aquifers
and assisting in the development of ground water resources. WUC, which
is a parastatal body under MRWA, is responsible for water supply in urban
areas. 2/ Although Francistown Town Council (FTC) formerly was responsible
for water supply in Francistown, responsibility was transferred to WUC on
October 1, 1979.
1.10      MLGL has responsibilities both in rural and urban areas.  In all
urban areas except Orapa, 3/ MLGL is responsible for the preparation of
town development plans including provision for water supply and implemen-
tation of waste disposal and drainage. However, WUC provides MLGL with
planning input relative to water supply and is also responsible for the
implementation of water supply schemes, including the proposed Project in
Francistown (para. 3.06). The individual town councils under MLGL are
responsible for health inspection, drainage, and the collection and disposal
of wastes (including solid wastes and all sanitary wastes, both waterborne
and non-waterborne). DCs, under the MLGL, are responsible for operation and
maintenance of water supplies in smaller villages.
1.11      Relative to waste disposal, several ministries are involved.  MWC
is responsible for technical planning and the development of sewerage design
criteria and the establishment and enforcement of construction standards.
MLGL recently acted as executing agency for a low-cost sanitation research
program covering several urban areas which was managed by the International
Development Research Center (IDRC) of Canada, and financed by the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA).
1/   The DWA is responsible for operation and maintenance of water supply
systems in large villages (with populations larger than 7,000 persons).
Water supplies for smaller villages are turned over to the DCs for
operation and maintenance upon completion;
2/   In Botswana, only towns characterized by significant trade and/or
industry are considered as urban. Currently, five towns meet this
classification, viz., Francistown, Gaborone, Lobatse, Orapa and Selebi-
Phikwe. Although some villages have larger populations than the towns,
they are officially classified as rural since they are oriented toward
subsistence agriculture;
3/   In Orapa, these responsibilities are met by a diamond mining conces-
sionaire who controls all utility operations.



-4-
1.12      MOH currently has  no primary role in the sector but is respon-
sible for: (a) health education, (b) maintenance of health statistics, and
(c) monitoring of environmental sanitation. MOH has developed a substantial
network of health facilities including clinics and health posts which are
well distributed in both rural and urban areas. The health posts 1/ are
staffed by family welfare educators. A National Health Institute in Gaborone
trains junior health personnel while a Health Education Unit, also in
Gaborone, promotes health education in general.
1.13      In urban areas, large water supply and sewerage projects are prepared
and designed by consultants, and financed mainly by bilateral and multi-
lateral assistance agencies. Construction is by contract. Smaller urban
projects generally are prepared and designed by staff of the responsible
government agency.  In such instances, funding is frequently provided by
Government while construction is by force account. In rural areas, planning
and implementation of village water supply projects normally are accomplished
by DWA staff although, due to staff constraints, consultants sometimes are
used for preparation and design of large projects. Financing mainly has been
provided by bilateral assistance agencies, principally the Overseas Development
Ministry (ODM, UK) and the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA),
while construction normally is by force account.
Cost Recovery
1.14      Government policy requires that urban water supplies be economically
self-supporting whereas rural water supplies are subsidized. In urban areas,
other than Orapa, WUC charges for all water supplied based upon metered
consumption. Customers with private connections are charged directly while
the town councils are billed for standpost deliveries for which they, in
turn, levy a flat rate charge on individual plots dependent upon standpost
supplies. Charges for sewer service are included in the annual assessments
levied by the town councils on those plots receiving such service. Sewer
customers are charged at rates that approximate the full cost of service.
Water users taking delivery through public standposts receive a partial
subsidy in the form of a cross subsidy from other water consumers.
1.15      In rural areas, until recently, the DCs levied charges for all
water supplied. Currently, only those consumers having private connections
are charged, with the charges based upon metered consumption. Water and sewer
tariffs are determined by the operating agency, with the approval of the
concerned ministry.
Manpower and Training
1.16      A severe shortage of technical manpower in alL sectors necessitates
the recruitment of substantial numbers of expatriates, mainly professional
but also at the higher levels of sub-professional. The Government is attempt-
ing to increase primary and secondary enrollments while expanding higher level
training through the National University and the establishment of a number
1/   Six of these and one clinic are to be provided in Francistown as part of
the Bank's Second Urban Project.



- 5 -
of other training institutions. Despite these attempts, achievements in
educational quality have been limited, particularly at the primary level.
This is perceived to be the main constraint to increasing the country's supply
of skilled manpower. A proposed Second Education Project, which recently was
appraised by the Bank, would attempt to reduce this deficiency.
1.17      The manpower situation in Botswana's water supply sector closely
follows the country-wide pattern and, as such, all sector organizations are
suffering from shortages of technically trained local manpower. Training in
DWA has been limited to positions at sub-professional levels. Mainly due to
the limited number of Batswana available for training, however, this program
has been slow. DWA will have to continue to depend upon expatriates, although
this need will diminish with time.
1.18      The staffing of water supply schemes turned over to the DCs upon
completion of construction also poses problems. The DCs, along with other
problems, have had difficulty recruiting and/or retaining qualified people
for operation and maintenance. Although many details still must be worked
out, it is evident that significant improvement in the maintenance and
operation of village water supply systems can only occur over the long term
and in coordination with other efforts towards rural development. DWA
will continue to assist the DCs in sector development. Donor assistance will
be required and the Government has indicated that it will continue to look to
SIDA for assistance in this area.
1.19      GSD also has a training division, responsible for in-service
training of cartographers and technical assistants. External assistance,
mainly in financing the costs of equipment and expatriate salaries, currently
is provided by the UK and by the Federal Republic of Germany. Past training
efforts have been ineffective for the reasons noted above. MLGL currently
maintains a fairly substantial in-house training program in drafting,
surveying and cartography.
1.20      Staffing and training for WUC, the executing agency for the proposed
Project, reflects a somewhat better position than the sector as a whole. A
full description of it is given in paras. 4.10 through 4.12.
Present Service Levels
1.21      About 90% of the urban population had access to piped water sup-
plies (mainly from surface water sources) in 1978 and 40% had access to
adequate sanitation. Although similar figures for rural areas in 1978 are
less precise, they have been estimated at about 30% for water supply (mainly
from ground water) and substantially less than that for sanitation. Including
traditional supplies, about 75% of the total population depend upon ground
water supplies which are frequently characterized by poor bacteriological
and/or chemical quality.
1.22      Water service in urban areas generally is good, particularly in
those towns served by WUC. Approximately 45% of Gaborone water consumers
have private connections while in other urban areas the percentages are
substantially less than that (about 15% in Francistown). Remaining water



-6-
consumers are served from public standposts. Service levels in the major
villages, where water systems are operated by DWA, generally are higher than
those in the minor and small villages, where water systems are operated by
the DCs. Design criteria for the major villages currently require supply
capacity averaging 40 lc.  .,aut water pi%is located no further  -ian 400 m from
any consumer. Design criteria for other villages are similar although, in
some instances, supply capacity requirements are based on 20 lcd. These
criteria are reasonable.
1.23      In urban areas, piped wastewater systems mainly are limited to
high cost and medium cost housing plots, certalin institutional, commercial,
and industrial properties in Francistown, Gaborone and Selebi-Phikwe. Treat-
ment is by waste stabilization ponds. Until recently, for other urban water
consumers with private connections, septic tanks generally have been used.
For water consumers using standposts, sanitation facilit[es, if available,
are limited to pit latrines. More recently, more sophisticated 1/ on-site
sanitation units are being used based upon the two-year pilot study on low-
cost sanitation recently concluded by IDRC (para. 1.11). However, numerous
difficulties have been encountered with all of these on-site units due to
relatively high construction costs and/or poor performance, in some cases
caused by too little consideration of siting. This has been complicated fur-
ther by non-acceptance by potential users. The Government plans to continue
using on-site sanitation units in urban areas but, pending additional monitor-
ing and evaluation of the performance of existing units, has not yet decided
on the selection of types.
1.24      Sanitation facilities normally do not exist in rural areas but,
where used, are generally pit latrines.  Due to poor sanitation practices in
some rural areas and in Francistown, ground water quality has been badly
degraded. This situation has been possibly coimpounded by poor practices in
siting and constructing boreholes. Until recently, there has been little
Government recognition of the close linkage between water supply and
sanitation.
Service Level Goals
1.25      Through its integrated water supply program, the Government intends
to provide service to 45% of the rural populatLon by 1981 and 55% by 1986. 2/
These goals, particularly, the 1981 goal, will be difficult to achieve. The
goals for urban water supply have not been enunciated. Based upon the
present state of development and identified targets for housing development,
however, it is intended that all urban populations would have access to safe
water by the early 1980's. The Government has not identified similar goals
for sanitation.
1/   Aqua privy and Reed Odorless Earth Closet;
2/   The goals of the 1977 UN Water Conference in Mar del Plata, Argentina,
by comparison, were "... to provide water for (all) urban and rural
areas by 1990 ..."



-7-
Sector Development
1.26      Sector development accelerated after independence in recognition
of the need for water infrastructure to support urban and mining develop-
ment, and with the initiation of large-scale efforts to improve village
water supply systems. During the period 1973/74 though 1975/76, actual
sector expenditures approximated P18 million (US$22 million), two thirds of
this allocated to urban areas. The majority of these expenditures were met
through external assistance with the main donors being SIDA (mainly for the
implementation of rural water supply schemes), the United Kingdom (UK), the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID), and the World
Bank Group. Implementation was effective during that period. Urban water
supply projects were completed in three towns (Gaborone, Lobatse and Selebi-
Phikwe), affecting a total population of about 70,000 persons. In rural
areas, water supply schemes were completed in over 30 major and medium-size
villages, thus increasing the percentage of rural population served from less
than 5 to about 12. During the period, there was major emphasis placed upon
water supply, as against waste disposal, and actual sector expenditures
slightly exceeded planned expenditures.
1.27      About P26 million (US$31 million) of expenditures are planned
for the Government's current (1976/77 through 1980/81) five-year National
Development Plan (NDP-IV) with about one half of this amount allocated to
urban areas. Projects underway or proposed include major water supply
extensions for three towns (Francistown, Gaborone and Lobatse) and urban
projects with water supply and waste disposal components for four towns
(Francistown, Gaborone, Lobatse and Selebe-Phikwe) to provide service to a
1981 urban population estimated at 160,000. In rural areas, the planned
expenditures reflect completion of water supply schemes in 117 villages, thus
increasing the percentage of rural population served to about 40. About
two-thirds of the total expenditures for the sector, which constitute about
3.5% of the public investment planned for the period, would be administered
through MRWA and the balance through MLGL. The investments would also cover:
(a) various ecological and water resource and development studies; (b) the
Sand Rivers Project; and (c) support of DWA's borehole maintenance units.
The developments included in the plan are reasonable. The majority of
the funds required would be met through external assistance with the main
donors being CIDA, SIDA, the UK and the World Bank Group.
1.28      NDP-IV includes a relatively small sanitation component which
is not separately identified but is instead included as parts of other
programs, most of which are to be implemented through MLGL. These include
sanitation and/or sewerage studies underway for Francistown, Gaborone,
Lobatse and Selebi-Phikwe and sanitation components of the urban projects
mentioned above. They also include the CIDA-financed two-year pilot study
on low-cost sanitation recently completed (para. 1.11).



-8-
Possible Constraints
1.29      NDP-IV places an increased emphasis upon rural water supply develop-
ment and, accordingly, a greater dependence upon local staff to assist with
that development. Manpower and training, particularly that associated with
maintenance and operation, are critical to the success of the village water
supply program (paras. 1.17 and 1.18). In addition to the scarcity of
local staff, which may delay planned sector development or reduce the expected
benefits, a considerable constraint is the possible lack of funds to support:
(a) technical assistance in low-cost sanitation, and (b) public education in
health and hygiene. The need for funds to support technical assistance in
low-cost sanitation and public health education is somewhat uncertain at this
time since programs 1/ containing this technical assistance are still under
consideration by the Government and, although potential donors have been
approached, no commitments so far have been made. Although the framework for
public health education is available on a national basis through the existing
network of clinics and health posts (para. 1.12), an applicable program has
not been developed. USAID recently identified an environmental sanitation
project (which includes health education) to cover selected rural areas in
Botswana. Similar efforts for urban areas, except as noted below, and for
remaining rural areas so far have not been made. However, it is likely
that the UNDP Global Sanitation Project will be asked to assist in this area.
Previous Bank Group Projects
1.30      Four Bank Group projects have assisted sector development in urban
areas. A US$3 million credit was made in 1971 for the Gaborone-Lobatse
Water Supply Project (Credit 233-BT) which was completed in mid-1974, about
two years behind schedule. The Project Completion Report was submitted on
November 12, 1975. With the exception of timing, all project objectives
were achieved. One of the more important accomplishments of this and the
following Shashe Infrastructure Project was the establishment of WUC to
operate on a commercial basis without subsidy (para. 4.04).
1.31      Bank loans for the Shashe Infrastructure Project (Loan 776-BT of
June 30, 1971 and Loan 776-2-BT, dated June 7, 1974) included finance for
a major water supply component to serve the BCL Limited mining complex and
the township of Selebi-Phikwe. The water supply facilities were commissioned
in June 1974 after minor delays due to cost overruns and subsequent financing
difficulties.
1.32      The Francistown Urban Development Project (Credit 471-BT dated
May 9, 1974) included water supply and minor sanitation components. All
construction work included in the original program has been completed while
1/   These programs are proposed as part of, or assisted by, the UNDP Global
Sanitation Project (GLO/78/006), for which the World Bank is the
executing agency. A Project Document under GLO/78/006 was recently sub-
mitted to Government which proposes to support the Bank's ongoing Second
Urban Project in the areas of low-cost sanitation and public health
education.  A similar effort also is planned in rural areas in support
of the proposed USAID environmental sanitation project.



-9 -
minor additional works utilizing surplus funds remain to be completed.
Several problems were noted on this project that have been useful in design-
ing future projects. The Government subsequently decided that future urban
projects should stress: (a) a greater degree of community participation, and
(b) the elimination of subsidies to low-income beneficiaries.
1.33      The Second Urban Project (Loan 1584-BT dated September 11, 1978)
also includes water supply and sanitation components to support urban devel-
opment in Francistown and Selebi-Phikwe. The Francistown water supply com-
ponent consists of: (a) the equipping of existing boreholes; (b) supply
mains; (c) distribution system additions including mains and public stand-
posts; and (d) miscellaneous system additions. The Francistown sanitation
component consists mainly of on-site sanitation units of an as yet undeter-
mined type for approximately 3,000 low-cost housing plots. Project completion
is scheduled for June 1982.
II. POPULATION, SECTOR SERVICES AND DEMAND IN PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01      The Project would mainly benefit Francistown, located in northeast
Botswana, but also would provide technical assistance for the preparation of
a future project for the towns of Gaborone and Lobatse.
Regional Development Prospects
2.02      Francistown and Selebi Phikwe are the only major towns in northeast
Botswana. Francistown was established in the 1890s by a mining and trading
company which owned most of the land in and around the town until the early
1970s when it was purchased by the Government. At that time, the town was
racially segregated, its population poorly serviced and, despite good national
and international transportation ties via air, road, and rail, its commercial
and industrial employment was limited. A more recent influx of refugees from
Rhodesia has tended to worsen these problems. To improve conditions in
Francistown, substantial infrastructure had to be provided and a plan for
socially integrating the town had to be adopted. In 1973, an investment
program based on a town planning study was formulated and this was followed
by three successive urban development projects 1/ launched to assist in
altering the direction of development.
Sector Agencies
2.03      The sanitation service in Francistown is under the FTC, while water
supply operations were transferred to WUC on October 1, 1979 (para. 1.09).
Water supply in Gaborone and Lobatse already is provided by WUC, whereas
sanitation is the responsibility of the respective town councils.
1/   Two of these (Credit 471-BT and Loan 1584-BT) were Bank Group financed,
as noted in paras. 1.32 and 1.33.



- 10 -
Existing Water Supply and Waste Disposal Systems
2.04      Francistown's water supply system is supplied from boreholes with
a maximum production capicity of about 3,500 m3/day but a sustainable yielt
of not more than 2,500 m /day. Ground water underlying Francistown's active
well field, although acceptable relative to other quality criteria, is
characterized by extremely high nitrate concentrations and high bacteriological
counts (para. 2.08).
2.05      Sewer service, which was introduced in the mid-1970's under an
ODM-financed urban project, is limited to commercial and industrial districts
and to a relatively few high-income plots. Due to evaporation, seepage and
under-utilization, the system's stabilization ponds have never filled to a
level which would result in flows being discharged to adjacent surface drain-
age. The present site of the stabilization ponds occupies prime development
land and, in view of this and the potential hazard posed by its proximity to
the new well field, consideration has been given to relocating the treatment
works to a less critical site further downstream. Saniitation service, which
includes the desludging of on-site sanitation units, also is provided.  After
completion of the Second Urban Project, scheduled for 1981, tae number of
on-site sanitation units requiring service in Francistown would approximate
7,000. FTC plans to continue its present practice of disposing wastewater
and sludge removed from on-site sanitation units. Past practices of waste
disposal in the Francistown area are believed to be closely linked with the
observed degradation of ground water quality, although the extent of this has
yet to be confirmed. The large number of individual sources makes it almost
impossible to correct or control pollution after the on--site units are
constructed and placed in service.
2.06      Gaborone's sole source of water supply is Gaborone Dam which,
through the Gaborone-Lobatse Water Supply Project (para,. 1.30), also serves
as a supplemental source of supply for the town 3of Lobatse.  The annual yield
of Gaborone Dam, which is estimated at 26,000 m /day (5 7 lmgd), is con-
sidered sufficient to meet the combined demands of Gaborone and Lobatse until
the mid-1980s and any additional yield required after that time is to be
developed by increasing the height (and storage capacity) of the Dam. To
meet that timetable, engineering investigations and pre:Liminary designs for
raising the Dam would be initiated by 1981.
Population Served and Standards of Service
2.07      Reasonably good information is available concerning Botswana's
urban populations, including income levels and socio-economic indicators.
In 1976, the average annual incomes for Botswana households were estimated
to be P1,236 (US$1,483) for Francistown, P1,790 (US$2,148) for Gaborone,
and P1,140 (US$1,368) for Lobatse. However, urban incomes are severely
skewed and the majority earned substantially less than these amounts.
Countrywide, in 1979, an estimated 45% of the urban population had annual
incomes below the urban poverty threshold of P243 (US$291) per capita. In



I-i  -
Francistown, where squatter settlements are substantial, 1/ approximately 50%
of the total population were estimated to be below the urban poverty threshold
in 1977.
2.08      None of the available public health indicators relate specifically
to Francistown. However, medical statistics compiled by MOH for 1976 on a
regional basis indicate that certain water-related diseases have a high rate
of incidence. Gastroenteritis, in particular, is frequent in the Francis-
town region, where the disease is reported to have the third highest incidence
rate among all new outpatient cases. Reports of total in-patients admitted
to the Francistown region's principal hospital also confirm the seriousness
of water-related disease, particularly enteritis and other diarrhoeal diseases.
Although ground water supplies in Francistown contain nitrate concentrations
in excess of recommended limits, to date no case of methaemoglobinaemia has
been reported. 2/
2.09      Francistown's 1975 population approximated 23,200 and, based upon a
6% annual rate of growth, 1978 population was estimated at 27,600. Approxi-
mately 25,000 persons (or about 90%) of Francistown's population had access
to public water supplies in 1978; about 4,500 persons (15%) through private
connections and 75% from public standposts. The balance of the population,
generally located on high-cost plots adjacent to the Tati River, depend on
private boreholes. In Gaborone and Lobatse, substantially all of the popu-
lations had access to piped water supplies in 1978, although access for con-
sumers in low-income, unplanned areas was sometimes unsatisfactory. Addi-
tional details concerning estimated levels of service for these three towns in
1978 are shown in Annex 1.1.
2.10      The Francistown water system is only partly metered and, as a
result, records of production and consumption are incomplete. However,
through an analysis of metered consumption for representative consumers of
each user category, these records were extended to reconstruct recent total
annual consumption. In 1976, unaccounted-for water production was estimated
at about 30% of production. This is believed to have been at least partly
due to reservoir overflow from overpumping. The extent of the problem has
been reduced and unaccounted-for water is now estimated at about 20%. Addi-
tional details concerning historical water demands are given in Annex 2.1.
Although FTC has no surplus production capacity, use of those boreholes with
the poorest water quality is being minimized as far as possible, and water
quality is being monitored by DWA on an intermittent basis. Upon commissioning
1/   In 1975, squatter settlements accounted for 60% of the population in
Francistown, 27% in Gaborone, and 23% in Lobatse;
2/   According to public health authorities, nitrates have been shown to
present a health hazard to infants if they are present in drinking water
at concentrations in excess of 45 mg/L. Recent sampling of ground water
underlying Francistown has reflected concentrations in excess of 100
mg/L.



- 12 -
the new well field through the Second Urban Project, water quality at Francis-
town is expected to be less of a problem. This situation is expected to
prevail until local water quality improves or until the total demand increases
to levels where it becomes practical to blend the poorer quality local water
with increased quantities from the Shashe source. Raw water quality at
Shashe Dam is excellent and is amenable to conventional treatment measures.
2.11      About 1,000 persons (or 4%) of Francistown's population had access
to sewers in 1978. About 8,000 persons (about 30%) used on-site sanitation
units while the balance of about 19,000 persons had no service at all.
Information concerning estimated levels of service provided by sewerage and
sanitation facilities in Francistown, Gaborone and Lobatse in 1978 is
summarized in Annex 1.1.
2.12      The proposed Project mainly provides for a bulk water supply to
supplement Francistown's existing sources. Consequently, consumers at all
economic levels would benefit and it would have a substantial impact on the
low-income group by assuring supplies to the low-income areas being served
by the Second Urban Project.
Population Projections and Demand for Service
2.13      The Government recently conducted growth studies for each urban
center (except Orapa) in order to set five and ten-year targets for urban
housing and related infrastructure. Francistown's annual growth rate during
the period of 1971-75 averaged 5.7% compounded as against 11.9% for all
Botswana urban areas during the same period. Based upon the 1977 Francistown
Growth Study, future population is expected to grow at a 6% rate, compared to
10.4% projected for all urban areas. Future populations, by level of service,
have been estimated for the intermediate years 1981/82 and 1986/87 and are
shown in Annex 2.2. The 6% growth rate appears reasonable.
2.14      Francistown's future water demands have been projected for the
study period ending 1995/96 based upon unit water demands developed for
various land use categories (see Table 1 of Annex 2.1) and a rate of future
growth in total demand that is proportional to population growth. These
unit water demands were assumed to remain constant for the duration of the
study period based upon the expectation that water costs in Francistown,
which currently are high and are expected to increase further (para. 5.11),
would discourage all but essential water use and that, for the time being,
the majority of residential consumers would continue to be served from public
standposts. The year 1981/82 was established as a base year in estimating
these future demands.
2.15      Demands, which are referred to as "basic consumption", were
subsequently adjusted to reflect: (a) increases in industrial demands



- 13 -
due to expected additions in railway infrastructure, 1/ and (b) sen-
sitivity of demand to expected increases in tariff. Due to the lack of
Francistown records, estimates of sensitivity of demand to tariff increases
are based mainly upon WUC's past experience in Gaborone. Tariff increases
there in 1970/71 and in 1974/75, in conjunction with other factor-, resulted
in marked reductions in demand with an apparent price elasticity ranging
between -0.33 and -0.5.  It has been assumed that price elasticity in Francis-
town would be less than this, possibly -0.25, and that the tariff increase of
about 36% scheduled for 1978/79 would effect a reduction of about 10% in
basic consumption. Tariff increases implemented in subsequent years were
assumed to occur annually and were estimated to cause a 20% reduction in
annual demand. Should the growth in demand occur more rapidly than forecast,
higher-than-expected annual recurring costs would be more than offset by the
increased income generated and the date by which supply capacity should be
increased would have to be moved forward.
2.16      Because of the anticipated improvement in maintenance and operation
practices after WUC takes over the system, unaccounted-for water is expected
to decline from 18% of production in 1978/79 to 15% by 1981/82, and to remain
constant thereafter. Maximum-day system demands are estimated at 1.5 times
average-day demands. Additional details concerning Francistown's future
water demands are shown in Annex 2.1. Prior to commissioning of water system
improvements under the Second Urban Project, scheduled for 1980/81, not all
demands are likely to be met. Projected future Francistown water demands
likely to be imposed on the Shashe source are shown in Annex 2.3 through 3the
period ending in 1995/96. The demand figures are based on up to 1,000 m /day
of Francistown's future maximum-day demands being met from local ground water.
Pipeline losses are estimated to average 2% and treatment plant losses, 5%.
III. THE PROJECT
Genesis
3.01      In response to the area's growing need for water, studies were
carried out in the mid-1970s to investigate the feasibility of developing
water supplies for several existing and proposed demand centers in northeast
Botswana, including Francistown, from each of four basic categories of source,
viz., (a) principal streams of northeast Botswana, (b) the Okavango Delta,
(c) the beds of eleven sand rivers of eastern Botswana, and (d) boreholes.
Although certain of these studies are continuing, summary findings relative
to Francistown indicated that local ground water resources could be used to
1/   This is based upon Government's long range plan to take over all rail-
way operations in Botswana and construct supporting facilities in
Francistown.



- 14 -
meet a portion of the town's future water demands but that they would have
to be supplemented with supplies from other sources. The studies identified
Shashe Dam reservoir as the least costly of all alternatives.
3.02      The Bank-financed Second Urban Project (para. 1.33) included a
small water supply component, consisting mainly of improvements to the
distribution system. However, that loan agreement requires the Government to
furnish a plan of action, including a timetable, to ensure that an adequate
long-term water supply is made available to Francistown. The firm of Sir
Alexander Gibb & Partners (Gibb) was retained in 1978 to prepare such a plan,
using Shashe Dam reservoir as a source, and to make the associated feasibility
studies. In May 1978, the Government requested the Bank's assistance in
financing the Project, which is based upon the Gibb studies.
Objectives
3.03      Principal objectives of the Project are:  (a) to improve and in-
crease Nrancistown's water supply to meet water demands (approximately
5,600 m /day) predicted for 1988/89; (b) strengthen the town's existing water
system; and (c) institute new tariff policy. The Project also would include
engineering investigations and preliminary design for irLcreasing the capacity
of the existing Gaborone Dam reservoir, the principal sclurce of supply of
WUC's Gaborone-Lobatse Division.
Technical Alternatives and Service Standards
3.04      The proposed Project includes only limited utilization of existing
WUC facilities at Shashe Dam due to significantly different operational
requirements for water deliveries to Selebi-Phikwe as compared to Francistown.
The two principal differences are pumping conditions and water quality
requirements. Most of the water delivered to Selebi-Phikwe is used in mining
operations and in power generation and has less severe water treatment
requirements than the water delivered to Francistown, which must meet more
demanding drinking water standards.
3.05      The majority of future consumers will be resident in low-cost
housing schemes included in recently completed and ongoing urban projects
(paras. 1.32 and 1.33). As such, only 4,500 persons (or about 15%) of a
residential population of 33,100 projected to be served in 1981/82 are
expected to take delivery through individual water connections. The balance
is expected to receive delivery through public standposts or from non-public
sources (see Annex 2.2).
Description of Project Components
3.06      The Project, which is more fully described in Annex 3.1, comprises
mainly physical works to be constructed in Francistown, and in and near Shashe
Dam. The main project components are:



- 15 -
(a) Civil works consisting of: (i) raw water pipeline and
pump station; (ii) treatment works, (iii) treated water
storage; (iv) treated water pump stations, (v) supply
mains and primary distribution mains; (vi) staff hous-
ing; -nd (vii) a laboratory and workshops;
(b) Pumping plant;
(c) Treatment plant;
(d) Vehicles, spares, stores, miscellaneous equipment, tools,
furniture, chemicals; and
(e) Consulting engineering services for: (i) design and
supervision of construction of the above works, and
(ii) investigations of foundation and construction
materials, and field surveys and preliminary design for
the raising of Gaborone Dam.
Locations of the various sites are shown on Map IBRD 14382.
Cost Estimates
3.07      The estimated total cost of the Project, exclusive of interest
during construction, is P5.2 million (US$6.3 million) net of duties and
taxes. Duties, which are payable on goods imported into the Southern Africa
Customs Union, are estimated at P35,000 (US$42,000). Goods and services
purchased within the Customs Union would not be subject to duties and taxes
at the stage when such goods and services are acquired directly for the Pro-
ject.  It is not possible to identify duties and taxes which would be paid by
suppliers and contractors at an earlier stage but, in any case, these would
not be significant.  Foreign exchange costs would amount to P3.6 million
(US$4.4 million, equivalent), or 70% of total project costs. A summary of
the project cost estimates and interest during construction is shown below
and a more detailed breakdown of these estimates is included as Annex 3.2.



- 16 -
Summary of Project Cost Estimates
(P1.0 = US$1.20)
Pula (thousands)           US$ (thousands)          %
Local   Foreign   Total  Local   Foreign   Total  Total
Civil Works                 991    1,825    2,816  1,189    2,190    3,379   53.9
Equipment                    54      534       588     65       641       706   11.3
Consulting Services:
(i) Francistown works   169        257      426    203        308      511    8.2
(ii) Gaborone Dam          37       340      377      45       408      453    7.2
Baseline Costs    1,251    2,956    4,207  1,502    3,547    5,049   80.6
Contingencies
Physical                    172      414       586    206       497       703   11.2
Price                       151      277       428    181       332       513    8.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS      1,574    3,647    5,221  1,889    4,376    6,265  100.0
Interest During Con-
struction                  0       313       313      0       376      376
TOTAL FINANCING
REQUIREMENT            1,574    3,960    5,534  1,889    4,752    6,641
3.08      Baseline costs are estimated at December 1979 price levels and are
based upon revised cost estimates prepared by Gibb in July 1979. An allowance,
ranging from 10% to 20%, was added to baseline costs for physical contingencies.
The 20% allowance was applied to Gaborone Dam investigations and to the
construction of the Francistown distribution system reservoir. A 15% allowance
was applied to the Shashe-Francistown supply pipeline, primary distribution
mains in Francistown, the Shashe treated water pumping plant and modification
of existing Francistown pumping plant. An allowance of 10% was assumed for
all other components. An annual price contingency factor of 9%, for 1980 and
succeeding years, was developed for the Project and applied to baseline costs
and to physical contingencies. In developing these factors, no distinction
was made between local and foreign cost components nor between civil works
and equipment since cost information developed from past WUC projects has not
reflected such distinctions. The cost of engineering for design and construction
supervision is expected to average US$4,000 equivalent per man-month.



- 17 -
Proj ect Financing
3.09      The proposed loan of US$4.4 million would be used to finance all
foreign costs and would cover about 66% of the total financing requirement,
including interest during construction. Remaining financing requirements of
about US$2.3 million would be met by a Government loan to WUC (para. 5.06).
Implementation
3.10      WUC would be responsible for Project implementation.  About 125
man-months of engineering effort by consultants are expected to be required
for detailed design, preparation and evaluation of tender documents, and
construction supervision. Additional engineering input of about 15 man-months
would be required late in the implementation period to carry out investigations
and perform the preliminary design relative to the raising of Gaborone Dam.
WUC has retained Gibb, a UK firm which participated in project pre-investment
studies, to carry out all engineering work. This arrangement is acceptable.
It is agreed that WUC will continue to retain engineering consultants whose
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment are satis-
factory to the Bank. Initial engineering work began in March 1979. Commission-
ing of physical components of the Project is planned by December 1981. An
implementation schedule is included as Annex 3.3. Based upon similar projects
recently completed or ongoing in the sector, construction is expected to be
carried out mainly by firms from RSA. Unskilled laborers would be recruited
locally.
3.11      Land will be needed by the Project as sites for treatment works,
reservoirs and pipeline alignments. Since much of the land concerned already
is owned either by the Government or WUC, no problems of land acquisition are
anticipated and any costs incurred are likely to be negligible.
3.12      Although FTC has been responsible for operation and maintenance
of the Francistown water system, this responsibility was transferred to
WUC on October 1, 1979 (para. 1.09). In anticipation of this change, WUC
has completed arrangements for increased staffing and provision for related
facilities, and these are acceptable. Other water system additions, consisting
mainly of minor reticulation elements, are to be provided under the Bank's
ongoing Second Urban Project.
Procurement
3.13      Approximately 81% of the total project costs would involve con-
struction, supply and erection contracts, about 83% of which would consist of
civil works. Equipment and pipe are not manufactured locally and would have
to be obtained from abroad with the most likely source, based upon recent
experience on similar work, being RSA. Three main contracts are planned, viz.,
one each for civil works, pumping plant, and treatment plant. In addition,
"minor" contracts are planned for procurement of vehicles, tools, stores, mis-
cellaneous equipment, and technical services (for modification of existing pump
installations). There is at present no suitable local contractor. Except as
indicated below, all procurement financed by the loan would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines.



18 -
Procurement for each of the "minor" contracts may be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder after solicitation of quotations from at least three
suppliers. Such procurement would be limited to single items costing less
than US$50,000 equivalent each and US$150,000 equivalent in the aggregate.
Disbursements
3.14      Retroactive finance of up to US$120,000 equivalent to finance the
cost of initial engineering is proposed. The loan would be disbursed to meet
selected portions of the Project costs as follows: (a) 65% of total expendi-
ture on civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures or 90% of local expendi-
ture for modification of existing pump installations; (c) 100% of foreign
expenditures or 90% of local expenditures for procurement of pumping plant,
treatment plant, vehicles, spares, stores, miscellaneous equipment, tools,
furniture and chemicals, and (d) 100% of foreign expenditures or 75% of
total expenditures for consulting services. An estimated disbursement schedule
is given in Annex 3.4. Any loan funds remaining undisbursed at the end of the
Project would be cancelled. The proposed closing date for the loan would be
December 31, 1982. This allows a period of about ten months after the esti-
mated completion of work by engineering consultants on the Gaborone Dam
investigations and also allows time for payment of retention moneys.
Water Resource Aspects
3.15      Although ground water currently is utilized in the Project area,
the Project mainly concerns surface water development. Francistown's preser-_
ground water source is constrained both by yield and by water quality (para.
2.04) and would be supplemented through the Project by provision for abstrac-
tions from Shashe Dam reservoir located 25 km south of Francistown on the
Shashe River. Shashe Dam, owned and operated by WUC, was commissioned in
1973 as part of the Shashe Infrastructure Project (para. 1.31). Water
components of that project were designed to meet water demands of a
mining development, a power station, and a township at Selebi-Phikwe whose
total demands currently average about 30,000 m /day.  Based upon recent
growth studies of northeast Botswana, the Government has established the
following projections for future annual water demands of Selebi-Phikwe from
Shashe Dam reservoir:
/a 3
Year          Annual Demana" (m /day)
1978                30,000
1981                34,000
1986                38,500
1996 and later      41,300 lb
/a  These demands do not reflect potential water
conservation practices being considered by
the mining interests;
/b Limited by capacity of existing pipeline
connecting Shashe and Selebi-Phikwe.



- 19 -
Shashe supplies in excess of Selebi-Phikwe demands are available to Francis-
town and/or other regional demand centers and a connection for this purpose
was provided as part of the original Shashe Dam construction.
3.16      At the Lime of constru5tion, Shashe Dam reservoir was estimated
to have a safe yield of 36,000 m /day based on the criterion that it would
survive the most severe historical drought (1911 through 1914). This value
of safe yield was recently revised by the consultants based upon consider-
ation of alternative risks of failure and crest elevations, 1/ and the
receipt of additional hydrological information. Based upon a risk of source
failure of once in 20 years (5%) and an annual reduction in safe yield due to
sedimentation, the existing Shashe Dam could meet the combined demands of
Selebi-Phikwe and Francistown until about 1992. 2/ Should increased yield
be required at that time, Shashe Dam would be raised. Additional details
concerning the water resources of the Shashe Dam catchment are shown in
Annex 3.5.
Environmental and Health Aspects
3.17      The Project would have a significant, though non-quantifiable,
environmental impact through improvements in public health anticipated through
betterment of chemical quality of Francistown's raw water supply and addi-
tional treatment to improve bacteriological quality. However, these improve-
ments may not be fully effective without a complementary program of improved
sanitation and public health education. The Project does not include sani-
tation or public health education components as these are expected to be
satisfactorily addressed through coordination of the Bank's ongoing Second
'Urban Project and the proposed UNDP Global Sanitation Project (para. 1.29).
IV. THE BORROWER AND THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
The Borrower and the Beneficiary
4.01      The Government has requested that it be the borrower of the proposed
Bank loan. It would onlend the proceeds of the loan to WUC for carrying out
the Project. This lending arrangement would be acceptable in view of the
Government's wish to ease Francistown's burden relative to higher water tariffs,
1/   Shashe Dam was designed to be raised, by up :o a maximum of 4 m, and
thereby to increase its storage capacity and safe yield;
2/   Based upon these assumgtions, safe yield was estimated at 61,100 m /day
initially and 46,200 m /day after 25 years of sedimentation.



- 20 -
which are estimated to approximate the long-run marginal cost of water in
FY 87 (para. 5.11). Furthermore, the proposed arrangement would not in any
way affect the degree of autonomy that WUC has enjoyed to date.
Transfer of Water Supply Operations from FTC to WUC
4.02      The responsibility for water supply operations in Francistown
was transferred from FTC to WUC on October 1, 1979 (para. 1.09). This
transfer, which was initiated by Government to facilitate improved maintenance
and operation of the Francistown water supply system, was required as a
covenant under the Second Urban Project (para. 1.33). In advance of the
transfer, Government has provided WUC with necessary funds for establishing
an administrative office and supporting facilities in Francistown.
4.03      Government has argued that it would not be possible to transfer all
of the assets and liabilities of the Francistown water supply operations to
WUC by the proposed effective date, estimated at February 15, 1980. Instead,
it has put forward a draft Tripartite Agreement between the Government, FTC
and WUC, which will provide for this transfer and upon which the Bank has
given initial comments. The terms of the Tripartite Agreement, particularly
the date by which the transfer is to be effected, will be submitted to the
Bank for approval. It was agreed that the authorization and ratification of
the Tripartite Agreement would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Organization, Management and Staff
4.04      WUC was established in 1970 under the Water Utilities Corporation
Act, which had been drafted with Bank Group assistance in connection with
previous Bank Group projects (paras. 1.30 and 1.31). It was established as
a parastatal entity, to be run as a commercially sound public utility. WUC
was set up initially to operate and maintain the water supply facilities
for the Shashe Infrastructure Project, and to replace a government agency,
the former Gaborone Water and Electricity Unit, the sole supplier of water
in the Gaborone-Lobatse region. The Government's general intention is to
expand WUC's responsibility gradually to the remaining towns.
4.05      WUC's Board consists of nine members, all of whom are appointed by
the Minister of MRWA. The Permanent Secretary of MRWA is the Chairman, the
remaining eight members presently comprise four representing the public
sector, and four from the private sector. The Board approves budgets and
decides on policy matters. The Board has also delegated certain authorities
to committees, as the need may arise, to deal with specific matters, such as
contract awards, loan negotiations, hiring and firing of senior staff, etc.
A Chief Executive Officer (Engineer/Manager) is appointed by the Board to
manage the day-to-day business of the Corporation. The Act empowers
the Minister of MRWA to give "directions" to WUC that are consistent with
the Act and are related to policy matters and not to day-to-day operations.



- 21 -
4.06      WUC is organized into two operating divisions:  the Gaborone-Lobatse
Division and the Shashe Division, the latter currently supplies water to the
township, power plant and mine at Selebi-Phikwe. Each divisiorn is headed by a
Divisional Engineer, who is responsible mainly for the operation, maintenance
and routine expansion of the water supply systems in his area. .A addition,
he is also responsible for meter reading, revenue collection, new service
connections and disconnections. The accounting work is currently centralized
in the Accounts Department at headquarters in Gaborone. The Chief Executive
Officer is also assisted by a Principal Administrative Officer for admin-
istrative works and a Divisional Engineer for planning and supervision of new
water works. An organization chart of WUC is shown in Annex 4.1.
4.07      The present organizational structure of WUC is well suited to
its needs and provides a sound framework into which WUC can absorb the water
supply operations in the remaining towns. On transfer to WUC, the Francistown
water supply will be established as a self-accounting operation, named "Francis-
town Undertaking", and headed by a Senior Water Works Superintendent, who has
already been appointed. As shown in Annex 4.1, this Superintendent will
report directly to the Divisional Engineer of the Shashe Division. This
organizational arrangement is satisfactory.
4.08      The present Chief Executive Officer has been in charge of WUC's
affairs since its creation and has proved to be an able engineer and a
competent manager. His services, which have been funded by UNDP since 1973,
are expected to continue until June 1980. However, the Government is attempt-
ing to have UNDP extend its support until the commissioning of the proposed
Project. It has been agreed that WUC shall consult with the Bank before
making any appointment to the position of Chief Executive Officer. In
addition, Loan 776-BT requires that any appointment to the position of Chief
Accountant should have the appropriate qualifications and experience.
4.09      WUC has developed into an effective and well-managed organization.
It has a total establishment of about 350. Of the 19 senior posts, all but 5
are currently occupied by expatriates. WUC intends to staff its Francistown
Undertaking with some of its existing experienced personnel together with
staff to be transferred from FTC.
Personnel Development and Localization
4.10      The steady progress of WUC as an organization over the past
nine years is good evidence not only of the competence of its management,
but also of the efforts that WUC has made in the development of its per-
sonnel. Faced with an acute shortage of trained personnel in the country
(para. 1.16), WUC's practice has been to provide its recruits with the



- 22 -
necessary training, either on-the-job and/or through formal courses, and
to promote them through the ranks depending on the experience and levels
of skill which they acquire over the years.
4.11      WUC has made good use of the training facilities available within
as well as outside the country. It also encourages and finances studies by
its staff whether at local schools or, more usually, by correspondence
courses. Many of the artisan cadre have graduated from the training courses
offered by DWA and the National Center for Vocational Training (mechanics,
plumbing, etc.). Nearly all of WUC's accounts cadre are following upgrading
courses. Although the majority of accounts staff are studying for relatively
low grade examinations (bookkeeping), there are three who are attending
either a three-year afternoon course run by the Botswana Training College
or a four-year evening course given by the Institute of Development Manage-
ment at the University of Botswana and Swaziland. These three accounts
clerks, upon graduating from their courses, should be able to commence
professional accounting studies and could ultimately qualify for promotion
to the professional accountants cadre. With regard to the water technicians
cadre, six staff members have now completed the one-year course for water
works operators held at the Swaziland College of Technology (SCOT). WUC
hopes to send seven more this year, and three more each year thereafter.
These SCOT graduate water technicians are expected to progress to the water
works superintendent cadre after five years of work. The various training
activities, which are described above for the cadres of technicians, accounts
clerks and artisans are well-conceived and should be adequate to meet WUC's
manpower requirements, bearing in mind the relatively small establishment of
WUC.
4.12      The major personnel problem facing WUC has been its reliance on
expatriate staff. Although the cadres of technicians, accounts clerks and
artisans have been completely localized, the other three cadres -- profes-
sional engineers, accountants, and water works superintendents -- are still
staffed by expatriates. The 19 senior posts, most of which are currently
occupied by expatriates as indicated in paragraph 4.09, include 7 at profes-
sional levels (engineers and accountants) and 12 at sub-professional levels
(water works superintendent). With the training efforts mentioned in para.
4.11, WUC envisages being able to localize all the water works superintendent
and accounting posts by 1990. The localization of the professional engineering
posts would not be likely in the near future, as there are presently no
Batswana graduate engineers. According to Government statistics, the first
two civil engineering students (currently on study in the US under USAID
sponsorship) are expected to graduate in 1980.
Accounting and Audit
4.13      The accounting system of WUC is coirinr(i-ally oriented.  It was
developed and implemented during the early years of WUC with assistance from
Cooper Brothers, an accounting firm from the UK. Cooper Brothers also advised
WUC on the initial purchase of accounting machines, which are used mainly for
billing and keeping consumer accounts records. The accounting practices and



- 23 -
procedures are adequate. WUC has maintained separate accounts for its various
water supply operations and will set up similar accounting arrangements for
the Francistown Undertaking (para. 4.02). WUC's accounts are well kept and
its annual financial statements have been published promptly.
4.14      WUC does not currently have an internal auditor's position in its
establishment. Nevertheless, it has conducted certain internal audits on
an informal basis. However, WUC has agreed to formalize its internal audit
function to the extent necessary and compatible with the size of its operations.
WUC intends to appoint a full-time internal auditor eventually but plans to
defer the appointment until it is justified by the size of its operations.
4.15      External audit of WUC's accounts has been carried out by Coopers
and Lybrand, an international accounting firm, and has been satisfactory.
WUC's audited annual accounts, together with the auditors' reports, have
been submitted to the Bank Group within five months after the close of each
year, as required under Credit 233-BT and Loan 776-BT. It has been agreed
that WUC will also submit separate audited accounts for the Francistown
Undertaking, as part of its overall accounts, not later than five months
after the close of each year.
Billing and Collection
4.16      Meter readings are carried out monthly and sent to WUC headquarters
in Gaborone for processing of bills. Because of the relatively small number
of connections (4,000 in Gaborone/Lobatse Division and 1,700 in Shashe
Division), meter readers normally do the readings only during certain days
of the month, and work elsewhere within WUC during the remainder of the month.
This flexibility in work assignments is essential for a small organization
such as WUC. In taking over the Francistown water supply operations, WUC
intends to decentralize the billing responsibility to divisional level.
4.17      WUC's billing is up-to-date.  Its collection record has been good,
with total accounts receivable equivalent to about 35 average day's billings
during the past few years.
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Introduction
5.01      As mentioned in paragraph 4.13, WUC has maintained separate accounts
for the Gaborone-Lobatse and Shashe divisions and will do likewise for the
Francistown Undertaking. Summarized past and future financial statements for
these three operations, as well as the estimated future financing plans for
the Francistown Undertaking and WUC as a whole, are analyzed in the following
paragraphs.
WUC's Past Operating Results and Financial Position
5.02      WUC's income statements for the five years ending March 31, 1979 are:



- 24 -
WUC's Income Statements FY75-FY79
Year Ending March 31                        1975    1976    1977    1978       1979
Sales in '000 m
Gaborone-Lobatse Division                   2,792   2,900   3,541   3,902   4,584
Shashe Division - Potable water               684   1,251   1,702   1,762   2,032
Average Tariff, in thebe/m
Gaborone-Lobatse Division                      20      24       24      33       33
Shashe Division - Potable water a/          n.a.      n.a.      53      54       50
___---------Pula  '000------- -
Operating Revenues
Gaborone-Lobatse Division                     667     837   1,002   1,476   1,709
Shashe Division b/                         2,001   2,248   2,486   2,486   2,609
Total operating revenues               2,668   3,085   3,488   3,962   4,318
Operating Expenses
Gaborone-Lobatse Division                      502    623      785     890   1,112
Shashe Division                                871    890   1,043   1,025   1,129
Total operating expenses               1,373  1,513   1,828   1,915   2,241
Operating Income
Gaborone-Lobatse Division                      165    214      217     586      597
Shashe Division                              1,130  1,358   1,443   1,461   1,480
Total operating income                 1,295  1,572   1,660   2,047   2,077
Operating Ratio, %
Gaborone-Lobatse Division                       75     74       78      60       65
Shashe Division                                 44     40       42      41       43
Rate of Return, %
Actual: c/
Gaborone-Lobatse Division                        4.5    4.4      4.2    11.1    11.5
Shashe Division                                  7.0    7.7      7.5      7.8     8.1
Required: d/
Gaborone-Lobatse Division                        4.5    7.0      7.0      8.0     8.0
Shashe Division                                  7.0    7.5      7.5     7.5      8.0
a/   Including contributions from raw water consumers;
b/   Includes sales of raw water;
c/   See computation in Annex 5.1, p. 2, on net fixed assets for the Gaborone-
Lobatse Division and on gross fixed assets for the Shashe Division;
d/   Under Credit 233-BT for Gaborone-Lobatse Division and Loan 776-BT for
Shashe Division.



- 25 -
As indicated in the above table, WUC has been able to meet the rate of return
requirements of Credit 233-BT and Loan 776-BT except, with the knowledge of
the Bank, for the Gaborone-Lobatse Division in the years ending March 31,
1976 and 1977. However, this situation was subsequently corrected by an
increase in average tariffs of 36% in April 1977.
5.03      WUC's financial position as of March 31, 1979, is summarized below:
WUC's Audited Balance Sheet as of March 31, 1979
-----Pula Millions-------------
Gaborone-                      Water
Lobatse       Shashe         Utilities
Division      Division       Corporation
ASSETS
Net fixed assets                     6.30          16.83             23.13
Current assets
Cash and short-term deposits    1.28              1.63             2.91
Inventories                          0.14           0.06             0.20
Accounts Receivable                  0.22           0.14              0.36
Others                               0.07           0.78              0.85
Total current assets                 1.71           2.61              4.32
Total assets                   8.01           19.44            27.45
LIABILITIES
Equity
Retained earnings                  0.16           1.04              1.20
Others                             1.74           1.23             2.97
Total equity                   1.90            2.27             4.17
Long-term debt                       5.62          15.18             20.80
Current liabilities                  0.49           1.99              2.48
Total liabilities              8.01           19.44            27.45
WUC's debt/equity ratio of 83:17 as of March 31, 1979, was high compared
to other public utilities in the region. However, this represented some
improvement over the position at the time of WUC's creation, when it had
virtually no equity. Such a capital structure was a direct result of the
Government's policy of making financial contributions to WUC's development
program mainly in the form of loans, rather than equity, which are to be
recovered by water consumers through tariffs. WUC's capital structure is
projected to continue to improve (para. 5.19). Accounts receivable as of



- 26 -
March 31, 1979, were equivalent to a one month of sales, which is excellent
(para. 4.17). Inventories were kept at a reasonable level.
Financial Performance of Francistown Water Supply Operations
5.04      From the fragmentary information gathered from the Department of
Local Government Audit, WUC has prepared pro forma income statements for the
Francistown water supply operations for FY78 and FY79, and has made projections
for the half year ending September 30, 1979, when WUC is scheduled to take
over the management of the system. They are summarized below:
Francistown Water Supply: Income Statements
(Pula '000)
Half-year ending
Years ending March 31         1978             1979      September 30, 1979
Operating revenues             135              190             129
Operating expenses             159             136              100
Operating income              -24                54              29
The net operating incomes shown for FY79 and the first half of FY80 are
probably overstated. Operating expenses have been inadequate, as 'the systems
have not been properly maintained.
Financing Plan: Francistown Undertaking
5.05      WUC's financing plan for its Francistown Undertaking for the period
covering October 1, 1979 to March 31, 1984, extracted from Annex 5.2, is as
follows:



- 27 -
Francistown Undertaking: Financing Plan FY80-FY84
___- 000
Pula       US$        %
Sources of Funds
Internal generation of funds
Internal sources                                   961      1,153     13.5
Less:  debt service                                541        649      7.6
Net internal generation of funds               420       504       5.9
Proposed Bank loan                                3,147      3,777     44.1
Government loan for the Project                   1,812      2,174     25.4
Other Government loans                              795        954     11.1
Government equity                                   960      1,152     13.5
Total sources of funds                       7,134     8,561    100.0
Application of Funds
Construction expenditures
Proposed Project                                  4,666      5,599     65.4
Assets taken over from FTC                          605        726      8.5
Urban II water supply component                     190        228      2.7
Secondary distribution system additions             960      1,152     13.4
Total construction requirements             6,421      7,705      90.0
Interest during construction for proposed Project  293           352      4.1
Increase in working capital                           420        504      5.9
Total application of funds                   7,134     8,561    100.0
5.06      The major component of the proposed Project is devoted to Francis-
town (para. 3.06) and would be financed partly by the Bank and partly by the
Government. The proposed Bank loan of $4.4 milliou would finance the foreign
exchange cost of the Francistown component, estimated at about $3.8 million
equivalent, and the foundation investigations and preliminary engineering
studies for raising Gaborone Dam (para. 3.06) estimated at $0.6 million. The
Bank loan would be to the Government for a period of 20 years including a
5-year grace period and would bear the interest rate prevailing at the time
of Board presentation of the proposed Project. It would be relent by the



- 28 -
Government to WUC for a period of 25 years, including a 5-year grace period,
at the same rate of interest. Interest would be capitalized during the
construction period. The 25-year repayment period has been traditionally used
for most loans which the Government has made to WUC. Tlhe relending terms have
been agreed. A subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and WUC,
which will be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan, will specify how
the Government and WUC will share the foreign exchange risk, WUC's share being
limited to a 3% variation of any foreign currency relative to the Pula. The
proposed Government loan of $2.3 million equivalent (P 1.9 million) would
finance the entire local currency costs of the proposed Project as well as
interest charges during construction relative to foreign currency costs (up
to FY82). The Government has decided that it would make concessionary terms
on its loan for the Project in order to prevent the water tariffs from
reaching too high levels in Francistown (para. 5.11). The repayment period
would be 25 years including a 6-year grace period, at an interest rate of 6%
per annum 1/ and the interest due during the grace period would be waived.
The Bank and Government loans for the proposed Project would contribute,
respectively, 44% and 25% to the financing required by the Francistown
Undertaking from FY80 to FY84.
5.07      WUC will use the proceeds of a Government loan to acquire Francis-
town's water supply assets and to finance take-over expenses. Subsequently,
another Government loan will finance the water supply component of the Second
Urban Project and Government grants will finance the secondary water distri-
bution network. These loans will be granted on the same terms as the loan for
the proposed Project. All these Government loans and grants, totalling about
P 1.8 million ($2.1 million equivalent) will provide 25% of the financing
required by the Francistown Undertaking from FY80 to FY84.
5.08      The balance of the financing required for Francistown Undertaking
from FY80 to FY84, totalling about P 0.4 million ($0.5 million equivalent),
would be met from internally generated funds. This contribution, which
represents only 6% of the total financing required, is very low but accept-
able in view of the high tariffs to be borne by water consumers in Francistown
(para. 5.11).
Financing Plan: WUC Consolidated
5.09      The financing plan for the entire WUC for the period FY80 through
FY84 is extracted from Annex 5.2 and summarized in the following table:
1/   For comparison purposes, inflation rates in Botswana approximated
13%, 14% and 10% during CY76, CY77 and CY78, respectively, and are
projected at 10%, 9% and 9% for CY79, CY80 and CY81.



- 29 -
WUC's Financing Plan FY80-FY84
'000
Pula       US$        %
Sources of Funds
Internal generation of funds
Internal sources                                17,459    20,951    108.0
Less:  debt service                             12,339    14,807      76.3
Net internal generation of funds             5,120      6,144     31.7
Proposed Bank loan                                3,647      4,377     22.5
Government loan for the Project                   1,887      2,264      11.7
Other Government loans                            3,110      3,732      19.2
Government equity                                 2,411      2,893     14.9
Total sources of funds                      16,175    19,410    100.0
Application of Funds
Construction expenditures
Proposed Project                                  5,221      6,265     32.3
Other Francistown works                           1,755      2,106     10.9
Other Gaborone-Lobatse works                      6,799      8,159     42.0
Shashe works                                        992      1,190      6.1
Total construttion requirements             14,767    17,720      91.3
Interest during construction for
Proposed Project                                    313        376       1.9
Increase in working capital                         1,095      1,314       6.8
Total application of funds                  16,175    19,410    100.0
The above financing plan indicates that WUC would contribute internally about
32% of its total financing needs during the period FY80 through FY84. Govern-
ment grants would finance about 15% of the total needs; the remaining 53% would
be met with loan funds from the Government and external sources, including the
proposed Bank loan. This financing plan is satisfactory.



- 30 -
Tariffs
5.10      The water tariff levels and structure of WUC's two divisions and of
Francistown water operations on June 1,1979 are summarized in the following
table:
 ---------thebe/m3-- ------
Gaborone-Lobatse   Shashe a/  T17ancistown
Division         Division   Town Council
For the first 10 m /month and for
standpost delivSry                          20               19           22
For the next 20 m 3/month                     30               24           38
For the next 40 m /month            3         40               30           50
For water billed in excess of 70 m /month  35                  24           45
a/   Excluding contributions from raw water consumers.
The first category is a social tariff for small consumers and for standpost
delivery. Although water tariffs in Francistown are expected to increase
substantially over the next few years (para. 5.11), it would not be unreasonable
for WUC to maintain the first tariff scale, i.e., for the first 10 m  month,
at a level comparable to those in other areas, such as Gaborone and Lobatse,
provided that such level would be subsidized by higher tariffs to those who
can afford it.
5.11        3 Average tariffs in Francistown were raised on June 1, 1979, from
P 0.28/m  to approximately P 0.38/m  (US$1.73 per 1,000 US gal). It is esti-
mated that these tariffs would enable the Francistown Undertaking to earn a
rate of return of approximately 11% in FY81. With the proposed Project coming
into operation ie FY82, tariffs wouPd have to be raised substantially, to as
much as P 1.00/m  in FY83 (P 0.77/m , or $3.50 per 1,000 US gal in 1979
prices 1/) if Francistown Undertaking were to earn an 8% return similar to the
1/   Average water tariffs for some East African countries, in US dollars per
thousand US gallons at official exchange rates are: Sudan 2.73; Mombasa,
Kenya 1.81; Nairobi, Kenya 1.59; Lesotho 1.44 (proposed); Mogadishu,
Somalia 1.20; Madagascar 0.87 (proposed).



- 31 -
one required for Gaborone-Lobatse. Such high tariff levels, which far exceed
the estimated long run marginal cost of water supply to Francistown of
P 0.48/mr  in 1979 prices, would make water unaffordable to Francistown con-
sumers. Government's policy is not to subsidize the urban water supply sector.
However, it would make loans to WUC s Francistown Undertaking on conces-
sionary terms (paras. 5.06 and 5.07). Thus, average water tariffs set high
enough in Francistown to meet the operating and maintenance expenses of the
water supply systems, including depreciation, or debt service (whishever is
greater), would approximate the long run marginal cost at P 0.86/m in FY87
(when TUC would begin to repay the Government loan), i.e., equivalent to
0.46/m ($2.09 per 1,000 US gal) in 1979 prices. These tariffs would produce
a rate of return of about 3% in FY87 and in subsequent years. In view of the
high tariffs necessary for Francistown Undertaking to meet its operating
expenses and debt service, and of WUC's desire to raise tariffs gradually to
such required level, agreement has been reached that Francistown's water
tariffs will be adjusted to achieve at least the following rates of return on
annually revalued net fixed assets in operation (para. 5.12), with the under-
standing that higher rates of return could be reached after FY87:
Years ending March 31, 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 and thereafter
Rate of return, %  11       0     0      0     1      2     3
With respect to the Gaborone-Lobatse Division and the Francistown Undertaking,
it was agreed that the stipulated rates of return could be averaged over two
consecutive years, if the earned rate has exceeded the rate stipulated for the
first year, and if the rate projected for the second year is not more than two
percentage points below the rate stipulated for that year. For FY82 and FY83 the
rates of return may be +1% and -1% , averaging 0%, to smooth out increases in
tariffs. On the basis of present forecasts, the estimated average tariffs and
annual tariff increases in Francistown required to achieve these rates of
return would be as follows:
Dates of increases:  April 1,   1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986
Average tariff, thebe/m3                 44    51    59      68   76    86
Annual increase in current terms, %   16    14    17         14   12    12
Annual increase in real terms, %          7     5      8      5    3      3
5.12      Credit 233-BT requires Gaborone-Lobatse's water tariffs to be
adjusted to achieve a rate of return of at least 8% on revalued net fixed
assets in operation. With respect to Gaborone-Lobatse Division and
Francistown Undertaking, it was agreed that revaluation would be calculated
on an annual basis, using the Government's Urban Cost of Living Index for
"All Items" and "All Income Groups", issued by the Central Statistics Office
of MFDP. On the basis of present forecasts, the estimated average tariffs
and annual tariff increases necessary to achieve that rate of return would be
as follows:



- 32 -
Dates of increases:  April 1,   1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986
Average tariff, thebe/m3                36    36    41    41      44   52    59
Annual increase in current terms, %   10       0    15      0       7   18    15
Annual increase in real terms, %         1    -9      6    -9     -2    8      5
5.13      These operating covenants together with Section 19 of the Water
Utilities Corporation Act of 1970, which requires the Corporation "to conduct
its affairs on sound commercial lines" would ensure the financial viability
of WUC as a whole and would provide an overall rate of return of at least 7%.
Affordability
5.14      The urban poverty threshold in Botswana is estimated at P 91/month
per household in 1979, with an average of 4.5 persons per household. From the
income distribution in Francistown, 50% of the population may be considered
as urban poor. The median income was P 55/month/household. If a connected
household consumes about iO lcd in FY87 for its basic needs at the estimated
social tariif of P 0.25/m in 1979 prices (when the average tariff would be
at P 0.46/m in 1979 prices), it would spend about 3% of its monthly income,
which is considered acceptable.
Future Operations and Financial Position
5.15      A summary of forecast income statements for WUC for FY80 through
FY85 is given below (detailed statements are given in Annex 5.2).



- 33 -
WUC's Forecast Income Statements FY80-FY85
Year ending March 31:           1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Sales in '000 m3
Gaborone-Lobatse Division         5,045  5,545   6,182  6,937  7,765  8,563
Shashe Division - Potable         2,070  2,125   2,200  2,296  2,400  2,507
Francistown Undertaking             408    879   1,122  1,207  1,296  1,389
Average Tariffs, thebe/m3
Gaborone-Lobatse Division            32      36       36     41      41     44
Shashe Division - Potable a/         50      57      58      59     60      61
Francistown Undertaking              38      38      44      51      59     68
----------------Pula '000-----------------
Operating Revenues
Gaborone-Lobatse Division         1,790  2,130   2,357  3,001  3,337  3,900
Shashe Division b/                2,708  2,850   2,996  3,128  3,260  3,406
Francistown Undertaking             155    334      496    611    770    944
Total operating revenues c/   4,653  5,314   5,849  6,740  7,367  8,250
Operating Expenses
Gaborone-Lobatse Division         1,194  1,439   1,740  2,065  2,443  2,876
Shashe Division                   1,244  1,346   1,464  1,587  1,717  1,861
Francistown Undertaking              82    217      457    677    770    870
Total oDerating expenses c/   2,520  3,002   3,661  4,329  4,930  5,607
Operating Income
Gaborone-Lobatse Division           596    691      617    936    894  1,024
Shashe Division                   1,464  1,504   1,532  1,541  1,543  1,545
Francistown Undertaking              73    117       39    -66       0      74
Total operating income         2,133  2,312   2,188  2,411  2,437  2,643
Operating Ratio, %
Gaborone-Lobatse Division            67      68       74     69      73     74
Shashe Division                      46      47      49      51     53      55
Francistown Undertaking              53      65      92    111    100       92
WUC Consolidated                     54      56       62     64      67     68
Rate of Return, %
Gaborone-Lobatse Division             10.9    9.9      6.9    9.1    7.7    8.1
Shashe Division d/                    8.0    8.0      8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0
Francistown Undertaking              22.5   11.7       1.0   -1.0    0.0    1.0
WUC Consolidated                      9.5    9.4       7.5    7.3    7.1    7.5
Debt Coverage Ratio, %
Gaborone-Lobatse Division             2.0    1.9       1.7    2.0    2.0    2.3
Shashe Division                       1.0    1.2       1.2    1.3    1.3    1.4
Francistown Undertaking              13.0   10.0    40.0    0.8    1.2    1.6
WUC Consolidated                      1.2    1.4       1.4    1.7    2.0    2.1
a/   Including contributions from raw water consumers;
b/   Including raw water sales;
c/   Total operating revenues and operating expenses differ from the consolidated
figures (Annex 5.2) because sales of raw water from the Shashe Division to the
Francistown Undertaking are eliminated in the consolidation;
d/   On gross fixed assets.



- 34 -
5.16      The above forecast income statements indicate that, with Francistown
water tariffs adjusted to meet the required rate of return (para. 5.11),
the Francistown Undertaking would generate sufficient funds to meet its oper-
ating expenses and debt service. 1/ Since the proposed Project is entirely
debt-financed, Francistown Undertaking should be able to accumulate cash
surpluses totalling about P 0.3 million during the FY79-FY84 period. These
cash surpluses may be needed for possible replacement and improvement of the
existing distribution network, which is not included in the capital works
program presented in this report but which WUC might identify once it has taken
over the Francistown water supply operations.
5.17      The Gaborone-Lobatse and Shashe Divisions would be able to maintain
their required rates of return on operating assets, with only moderate
tariff increases in the case of the Gaborone-Lobatse Division (para. 5.12).
They would generate enough cash primarily to replace the short-life assets,
and to participate in the financing of raising the Gaborone Dam, through an
interdivisional loan on the part of Shashe.
5.18      WUC's consolidated financial performance would be satisfactory,
which is shown by the rates of return and by the debt coverage ratios that
are reached by FY85 (para. 5.15). To ensure that WUC's future borrowings are
commensurate with its ability to service debt, it has been agreed that WUC
would not incur any debts other than those included in the financing plan
presented in this report, in excess of P 55,000, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree.
5.19      WUC's balance sheets from FY80 to FY85 are summarized below (detailed
balance sheets are given in Annex 5.2).
WUC's Estimated Balance Sheets FY80 to FY85
-Pula Millions---------------
Year ending March 31:                 1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Net fixed assets and work in
progress                                25.62  29.69  33.91  35.23  38.28  44.58
Cash                                       3.52   4.30   4.95   5.27   3.87   1.15
Other current assets                       1.33   1.46   1.61   1.79   1.97   2.19
Total                               30.47  35.45  40.47  42.29  44.12  47.92
Retained earnings                          1.68   2.42   3.09   3.73   4.53   5.68
Other equity                               4.29   5.85   7.33   8.77  10.40  12.16
Long-term debt                            22.70  25.16  27.94  27.59  26.90  27.69
Current liabilities                        1.80   2.02   2.11   2.20   2.29   2.39
Total                               30.47  35.45  40.47  42.29  44.12  47.92
1/   Except in FY83, when the Francistown Undertaking may choose to exercise
the option of averaging the rates of return over two years (para. 5.11).



- 35 -
The above estimated balance sheets indicate that WUC's consolidated financial
position would improve steadily during the forecast period. Its retained
earnings would increase steadily from P 1.7 million at the end of FP'8 to
P 5.7 million at the end of FY85, and its debt/equity ratio would improve
markedly from 79:21 to 61:39 during the same period.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Institutional Objectives
6.01      The Government has made an appropriate decision to transfer the
responsibility for Francistown water supply from FTC to WUC. This transfer
will not only bring about an improved water supply situation in Francistown,
but will also mark another important step for WUC toward fulfilling its
designated role as the main organization responsible for urban water supply in
the country. The proposed Project would bring into focus the detailed imple-
mentation of this transfer and the establishment of a unit within WUC, namely
the Francistown Undertaking, which would be sufficiently equipped for proper
operation and maintenance of Francistown's water supply system. The proposed
Project would also help to ensure the financial viability of this system.
Meeting Demands and Improving Water Service
6.02      The proposed Project would directly support the ongoing Second
Urban Project. In fact, under that project, Government is required to ensure
that an adequate, long-term water supply is made available to Francistown.
The proposed Project would relieve Francistown's current water shortages
and would provide adequate quantities of treated water up to about 1988/89.
With later additions to water treatment capacity and pumping capacity, the
Project subsequently would be able to meet demands up to the mid-1990s. The
proposed Project would improve the reliability of water service in Francistown
through provision for additional treated water storage capacity. It would
also finance foundation investigations and preliminary engineering studies for
raising Gaborone Dam, which would be necessary to meet increased water demands
projected for Gaborone and Lobatse after 1985.
Public Health and Urban Poor
6.03      Francistown's present water supply, which is produced entirely
from local ground water resources, is of unsatisfactory water quality due
mainly to high nitrate concentrations and bacteriological counts. Utilization
of the present sources would be reduced, at least for a period of time, once
the proposed Project has been commissioned, until the hazards associated with
current utilization can be eliminated.
6.04      The proposed Project would provide safe water to the entire popula-
tion of Francistown, through individual connections and standposts. Since



- 36 -
only about 15 percent of the current population have private water connec-
tions, the balance of the population (including the urban poor, who con-
stitute about half the population) receive water from standposts. Moreover,
the people in low-income areas (who pay for water as part of a fixed monthly
fee per plot) would also benefit from the subsidized tariff for water supplied
through standposts.
Least Cost Solution
6.05      Previous engineering studies have identified the supply from Shashe
Dam reservoir to be the most economic alternative (para. 3.01). This deter-
mination followed comparisons of the economic costs associated with various
design alternatives including: phasing of construction, siting, pipe
sizing, and reliance on WUC's existing facilities at Shashe. The proposed
Projcct, among the various alternatives, has the lowest present value when
costs are discounted at rates of 8 percent and above. 1/
Return on Investment
6.06      The return on investment is taken to be the discount rate at
which the present value of all capital and associated operating and mainte-
nance costs (excluding duties and taxes) equals the present value of all
revenues attributable to the investment over its economic life. With the
water revenues valued at the average rates necessary to enable WUC to meet
the required annual rate of return on net operating assets (para. 5.11),
the return on investment would be 11 percent for the Francistown component
(Annex 6.1) in terms of constant prices. Sensitivity analyses indicate that,
for each 10 percent increase in costs or 10 percent decrease in revenues,
the above returns would be decreased correspondingly by about 1 and 1.5 per-
cent, respectively, and that, if bsnefits were to be measured at the present
average water rate of P 0.38 per m , the return would be 9 percent. The full
economic return would undoubtedly be higher because consumers' surplus, health
and other benefits, uhich are difficult to quantify, are not reflected in the
tariffs.
Project Risks
6.07      Project construction would be relatively straightforward and would
not pose any significant risks. The transfer of the Francistown water supply
operations from FTC to WUC has been effected and Government has made arrangements
for the vesting of assets and liabilities. WUC's record of good management
gives assurances that the Project will be well operated and maintained after
comnissioning, and that the water supply situation in Francistown will be
greatly improved.
1/   The opportunity cost of capital is estimated to be 12 percent and the
shadow rate of foreign exchange has been assumed at 1.0.



- 37 -
6.08      The only significant risk may be WUC's ability to increase Francis-
town water tariffs to the necessary levels, whicth are estimated to more than
double the present level in current terms in the next seven years. However,
this risk is minimal in view of: (i) the Government s firm policy of not
subsidizing urban services; (ii) WUC's plan to increase Francistown
tariffs in gradual steps each year; and (iii) WUC's intention to maintain a
socially acceptable tariff structure, which would allow subsidized rates to
standpost users, as well as to those with house connections, for mecLing basic
water needs.
Project Monitoring System
6.09      The most important monitoring aspects concern implementation
of the proposed Project and actions on tariffs. Suitable indicators for
monitoring project implementation and for measuring performance against
project goals are set out in the project monitoring systems given in Annex
6.2. It has been agreed that, after completion of the proposed Project, WUC
will prepare a "Project Completion Report" on the basis of an outline to be
agreed with the Bank.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached
7.01      Agreement was reached that:
(a) WUC would continue to retain engineering consultants for project
implementation, whose qualifications, experience. and terms and
conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank (para.
3.10);
(b) the cost of engineering services to be incurred up to
the signing of the proposed loan, estimated at about
US$0.12 million equivalent, would be financed retro-
actively (para. 3.14);
(c)  WUC would consult with the Bank before making an appointment
to the position of Chief Executive Officer (para. 4.08);
(d) WUC would submit its audited accounts, including separate
accounts of its Francistown undertaking together with the
auditors' reports, not later than five months after the close
of each financial year (para. 4.15);
(e) the Government would onlend the proceeds of the proposed
Bank loan to WUC at an interest rate identical to that of
the Bank loan for 25 years, including 5 years of grace,
(para. 5.06);



- 38 -
(f)  the Government would provide a loan to WUC to cover the local
costs of the Project and interest charges during construction
at 6% interest per annum for 25 years including 6 years of
grace (para. 5.06);
(g)  Francistown's water tariffs would be adjusted so as to enable WUC's
Francistown Undertaking to earn a rate of return on annually
revalued net operating assets of at least 11% in FY81, 0% in FY82
through FY84; 1% in FY85; 2% in FY86; and 3% in FY87 and thereafter
(para. 5.11);
(h)  WUC, in respect of Gaborone-Lobatse Division and Francistown
Undertaking , may reach its stipulated rate of return on the basis
of an average of two consecutive years (para. 5.11);
(i)  for the purpose of calculating the annual rate of return
for Gaborone-Lobatse Division under Credit 233-BT and for
Francistown Undertaking, assets would be revalued on an annual
basis (para. 5.12);
(j)  WUC would not incur any debts other than those included in the
financing plan presented in this report, in excess of P 55,000,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree (para. 5.18); and
(k)  WUC would prepare, after completion of the proposed Project,
a "Project Completion Report" on the basis of an outline
agreed with the Bank (para. 6.09).
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan are:
(a)  the authorization and ratification of the Tripartite Agreement,
having terms approved by the Bank (para. 4.03); and
(b)  the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Govern-
ment and WUC (para. 5.06).
Recommendation
7.03      The proposed Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$4.4 million
equivalent to Botswana.
September 26, 1979



- 39 -
ANNEX 1.1
BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Population by Levels of Service, 1978
Water Supply                   Sewerage and Sanitation
A. Francistown
Population Served                       Population Served
Service Level  Number  % of Total       Service Level  Number  % of Total
Water Conn.      4,500      16          Sewer Conn.      1,000        4
Standpost      20,000       76          Septic Tank      3,400      12
No Service       2,300       8          Other Type       4,600       17
Total      L27600       100          No Service      18 600       67
Total       27,600      100
B. Gaborone/!
Water Conn.    27,000       46          Sewer Conn.    27,000        46
Standpost       32,000      54          On Site Unit   17,500        30
No Service     Nil          Nil         No Service      14,500       24
Total       59,000      100             Total        59,000     100
C.  Lobatse
Water Conn.    11,200       65          Sewer Conn.      Nil        Nil
Standpost       6,000       35          On Site Unit   13,200        77
No Service     Nil          Nil         No Service       4,000       23
17,200     100                          17_200      100
a! Population totals for Gaborone differ from official population estimates
and are based on information received in February 1979 from the Gaborone/
Lobatse Urban Coordinator.
September 1979



-40 -                      ANNEX 2.1
Page 1 of 2
BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Francistown Water Demands
Historical Demands
1.        Most, but not all, Francistown private water connections and public
standposts are metered although, in some instances, customer meters are
either inoperative or inaccurate. Few sources of supply are metered and,
consequently, historical records of production and consumption are incomplete.
During the completion of the 1977 Francistown Growth Study (para. 2.13 of the
text), the consultants extended available records of water consumption for
representative consumers for the limited period October/November 1976. By
this means they were able to estimate total annual consumption for 1976. On
a sample of about 600 plots representing four categories of residential
consumers having private connections, average daily water consumption ranged
from 327 to 2,140 liters/plot. 1/ Similarly, for four categories of stand-
post consumers on about 3,500 plots, average daily water consumption ranged
from 26 to 305 liters/plot. 2/ Historical records of consumption for com-
mecial and industrial water usage were also analyzed, but on a per unit area
basis. Average annual consumption for commercial uses was estimated to range
from 4,300 to 20,300 liters/hectare whereas industrial consumption for two
industrial areas was recorded at 2,100 and 11,400 liters/hectare, respectively.
These reconstructed values probably are low based upon the likelihood that not
all water demands have been met. No comparable information was available
on consumption from non-public supplies. In 1976, unaccounted-for water
production was estimated at 29% of production. This is believed to have been
due at least partly to reservoir overflow from overpumping. This situation
is said to have improved.
Future Demands
2.        Francistown's projected future water demands are based mainly upon
land and water uses identified in the 1977 Francistown Growth Study. Unit
water demands for various land use categories (see Table 1 of this annex)
were developed by the consultant and applied to the applicable factors for
the base year 1981/82 in developing average annual demands, in terms of
"basic consumption", for the entire water system. Based upon past surveys,
an average density of 4.5 persons per plot was assumed for residential
plots. The build up of "basic consumption" for the year 1981/82 is shown in
Table 2 and reconstructed past and projected future water demands for the
study period 1976/77 through 1995/96 are shown in Table 3. No change in
1/   Based upon an average of 4.5 persons per residential plot, this is
equivalent to 73 and 476 lcd, respectively;
2/   Equivalent to 6 and 68 lcd, respectively.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2.1
Page 2 of 2
water consumption per unit was assumed to take place throughout Lie duration
of the study period for the following reasons: (a) water charges are expected
to remain high in Francistown while, at the same time, little change in real
income is expected; and (b) extensions to existing sanitary sewerage would
remain negligible, for the time being, due to the high cost of such service
and the Government's unwillingness to subsidize same. Although certain plots
currently possessing septic tanks may eventually utilize sewers instead, no
significant increase in water consumption would be affected. Basic consumption
for the year 1976/77 was reconstructed from historical records. Annual "basic
consumption" figures shown in Table 3 were assumed to increase logrithmically
between the years 1976/77 and 1981/82 and increase annually thereafter by 6%
compounded in direct proportion to Francistown's predicted population growth.
"Adjusted consumption" values shown in Table 3 reflect annual adjustments made
for: (a) proposed future railway development in Francistown 1/; and (b)
constraints in demand growth reflecting future tariff increases. Due to the
lack of Francistown records, the latter is based upon the past sensitivity of
demand to tariff change recently experienced in Gaborone. Tariff increases of
approximately 60% and 30%, respectively, instituted by WUC in 1970/71 and
1974/75, together with other factors, resulted in reductions in demand of
about 32%o and 10% for each of those years resulting in price elasticities
of about - 0.5 and - 0.3. However, it has been assumed that price elasticity
would be something less than this in Francistown, possibly - 0.25. Based upon
this, a tariff increase of about 36% implemented in 1978/79 would affect a
reduction of about 10% in basic consumption. Similarly, tariff increases
likely to be instituted in later years were assumed to occur annually and were
estimated to cause a 20% reduction in annual demand.
3.        "Effective system demand" shown in Table 3 represents "adjusted
consumption" plus unaccounted-for water (in terms of water production). The
latter was judged to be 29% of production in 1976/77 and, based upon ope-
rational improvements undertaken after that time, 19% in 1977/78 decreasing
annually thereafter to 15% by 1981/82, and remaining constant thereafter.
Reconstructed past and annual maximum-day demands for Francistown, also shown
in Table 3, were assumed to be equivalent to 1.5 times the average annual
demand. Projected future water production and demands for Francistown are
shown in graphical form in Figure 1.
1/   Water demands by railway operations are expected to increase after
1980/81 based upon the Government of Botswana's intent to take over
existing operations (in Botswana) of Rhodesian Railways and to construct
regional supporting infrastructure in Francistown.
September 1979



- 42 -
ANNEX 2.1
Table 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Francistown: Proposed Unit Water Demands
Unit
Category of Demand                  Units                Demand-V
Residential
Private connections
High cost plots                        lpd-/                1,560
Medium cost plots                      lpd                    850
Low cost plots                         lpd                    450
Standpost service
Site and service plots                 lpd                    190
Settlement/Upgrading                   lpd                    100
Commercial
Typical                                  lhd-/               14,000
Special use                              lhd                  3,000
Miscellaneous                            lhd                  3,000
Industrial
Central district                         lhd                 11,000
Light industry                           lhd                  5,500
Dumela area                              lhd                  3,500
Other Water Uses
Hospital                                 lbdc/                  350
Hotel                                    lbd                    450
BDF camp                                 lcd-=                  350
Prison                                   lids'                  275
Primary school                           lsd-/                   20
Secondary school                        lsd                      40
Boarding school                         lsd                     100
1/  Liters per day per indicated unit:
a/  Plot
b/ Hectare
cl Bed
d/ Camper
e/ Inmates
f/ Student
September 1979



-  43  -                            ANNEX 2.1
Table 2
BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Francistown: Projected Basic Consumption for 1981/82
Average Daily Demand
Number           Unit          Total
CategorY of Demand                 of units         Demand         Demand
Residential (plots)                                 (liters)         (m3
Private connections
High cost                       314            1,560           490
Medium cost                     176               850          150
Low cost                        512              450           230
Standposts
Site and service                863              190           164
Settlement/Upgrading          4,984              100           499
Commercial (hectares)
Typical                         43.63           14,000           611
Special use                     54.25            3,000           163
Miscellaneous                     2.50            3,000            7
Industrial (hectares)
Central district                 42.6           11,000           469
Light industry                    8.5             5,500           47
Dumela area                      30.6             3,500          107
Other industrial                  -                -              20
Other Categories
Hospital (beds)                   250               350           87
Hotels (beds)                       70              450           32
BDF Camp (campers)                 300              350          105
Prison (inmates)                   360              275           99
Primary schools (students)      7,700                20          154
Secondary schools (students)   2,000                 40           80
Boarding schools (students)        400              100           40
Swimming pool                        1          20,000            20
TOTAL BASIC CONSUMPTION                                           3,574
September 1979



_ 44 -
ANNEX 2.1
Table 3
BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Francistown: Reconstructed Past and Projected Future Water Demands
(m /day)
Average Annual Demand
Effective      Max-Day
Fiscal             Basic   a     Adjusted  b/c/    Systemd,         Systeme/
Year           Consumption-    Consumption- -       Demand-        Demand-
1976/77            1,516            1,516            2,136           3,204
77/78            1,800            1,800            2,222          3,333
78/79           2,136            1,922            2,344           3,516
79/80           2,536            2,029            2,445           3,668
1980/81            3.011            2,409            2.868           4.302
81/82           3,574             3,073           3,615           5,422
82/83            3,788            3,306            3,889          5,833
83/84           4,016             3,551           4,178           6,267
84/85           4,257            3,806            4,478           6,717
1985/86            4,512            4,072            4.791           7.186
86/87           4,783            4,289            5,046           7,569
87/88           5,070            4,518            5,315           7,973
88/89           5,374            4,762            5,602           8,403
89/90           5,696            5,019            5,905           8,858
1990/91            6.038            5.293            6,227           9,340
91/92            6,400           5,582            6,567           9,850
92/93            6,785           5,890            6,929          10,393
93/94            7,192            6,216            7,313         10,970
94/95            7,623            6,561            7,719         11,578
1995/96            8,080            6,926            8,148          12,222
a/  Reconstructed past or projected future hypothetical consumption;
b/  Basic consumption adjusted for projected future increasesin railroad
demand and expected reduction in total system demand as result of future
tariff increases; annual increases to basic consumption due to railroad are
assumed as follows:             3
1981/82        267 m /day
1982/83        345
1983/84        423
1984/85        501
1985/86        578
c/ Annual adjustment in basic consumption, after allowing for incremental
railroad demand, assumed at -10% in 1978/79 and -20%, thereafter i
d/ Adjusted consumption plus unaccounted-for water; annual unaccounted-for water
in terms of production assumed to be: 29% in 1976/77; 19% in 1977/78, 18% in
1978/79; 17% in 1979/80; 16% in 1980/81; and 15% in 1981/82 and in later years
e/ Annual maximum-day demand assumed to be 1.5 times average annual demand.
September 1979



ANNEX 2.21
-   45    -                             Figure  1
BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Francistown   Water Demands and Production Capacity
cl
14 -
*0
, ,2t5 ~~~~~~~~~.........
12-
0~*
>                                   Zi~~~C              Capacity //
Borehole
Capacity
; 10                                                                     Production
Capacity,
Shashe Source
c
,                      \                        |            J                           Maximum -Day System
........I...                                             Demand
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . ." .t ./          
c
0 
2                                                                         ec ve Avrg  - Day.....   System Demand
4   Borehofe Ca acity
5,                             5
4
2 6
0~~~~~~~~~~~0
o     I                             C
1976177           1980/81                 1985/36                1990/91                1995/96
Fiscal Year
oeord yank - 20378



ANNEX 2.2
BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Projected Francistown Service Levels: 1981/82 and 1986/87
Water Supply                           Sewerage and Sanitation
1981/82
Population Served                           Population Served
Number   % of Total                         Number   % of Total
Service Level                               Service Level
Water connection   4,500         13         Sewer connection   1,100          3
Standpost          26,300       80          Septic tank         3,400        10
No service c/       2,300         7         Other on-site      14,900        45
a/                 13,700       42
Total          33,100       100
Total           33,100      100
1986/87-
Population Served                           Population Served
Number   % of Total                         Number   % of Total
Service Level                               Service Level
Water connection   9,600         22         Sewer connection   3,800          9
Standpost          34,700       78          Septic tank         5,800        13
No service          Nil        Nil          Other on-site      29,000        65
a/                  5,700       13
Total          44,300       100
======  ===     Total          44,300       100
a/ Sub-standard level of service.
b/ Based upon 6% average annual growth of population since GOB has not
committed itself to a structure plan for Francistown beyond 1981/82.
j  No service by public water system.
September 1979



-47 -
ANNEX 2.3
BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Francistown: Projected Future Water Demands on Shashe Source
(m3/day)
Required              Required
Shashe-               Shashe
Max-Day          Francistown            Treatment
Fiscal          System            Pipeline              Works
Year            Demand            Capacityb/            Capacitys/
1981/82a/       5,422             4,512                 4,750
82/83         5,833             4,932                 5,190
83/84         6,267             5,374                 5,660
84/85         6,717             5,834                 6,140
1985/86         7,186             6,312                 6,640
86/87         7,569             6,703                 7,060
87/88         7.973             7,115                 7,490
88/89         8,403             7,554                 7,950
89/90         8,858             8,018                 8,440
1990/91         9,340             8,510                 8.960
91/92         9,850             9,031                 9,510
92/93        10,393             9,585                10,090
93/94        10,970            10,173                10,710
94/95        11,578            10,794                11,360
1995/96        12,222            11,451                12,050
a/ Initial year that supplemental supplies from Shashe Dam reservoir
would be available to Francistown;
b/ Assumes that 1,000 m3/day of Francistown's maximum-day demand
would be met from local ground water supplies and that pipeline and pump
station capacities would be increased to reflect pipeline losses of 2%;
c/ Reflects water treatment losses of 5%.
September 1979



- 48 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 1 of 2
BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Description of Physical Elements of Proposed Project
General Criteria
1.        Except as indicated below, all water system improvements would be
based upon water demands anticipated by the year 1988/89. Exceptions consist
of: (a) the raw water pump station; (b) supply mains; and (c) civil works for
treated water pump stations which, due to size and/or configuration, would be
uneconomic to duplicate or extend at a later date. The latter facilities
would be designed for the year 1995/96. Source of supply facilities, treatment
works, pump stations and supply mains would be sized to meet maximum-day
demands, while the design of distribution mains would be based upon peak-hour
demands. Distribution system storage capacity is based upon providing oper-
ational storage, plus emergency storage, with the former equivalent to 0.15
times the equivalent of 24 hours of production at a maximum-day demand rate;
and the latter equivalent to two days of production at an average-day demand
rate. Figure 1 of this annex describes, in diagrammatic form, the facilities
and capacities to be provided.
Source of Supply
2.        Proposed facilities, which would largely operate independently
of existing WUC works, include a connection to the existing outlet works
at Shashe Dam, a gravity pipeline, and a low-lift, raw water pump station.
During normal conditions, Shashe Dam reservoir levels would be sufficiently
high for gravity flow to the proposed treatment works to be assured.
Operation of the raw water pump station would only be required during
extended drought periods when reservoir levels are drawn down.  Source
of supply facilities would be designed with a firm capacity of 12,000 m /day
(2.64 Imgd).
Water Treatment Works
3.        Treatment works would be constructed immediately downstream of
Shashe Dam on the north bank of the Shashe River. The fasilities, which
initially would be based on a nominal capacity of 8,000 m /day (1.76
Imgd), would provide for: (a) coagulation; (b) flocculation; (c) sedimenta-
tion; (d) rapid sand filtration (gravity); (e) chlorination and pH adjustment;
and (f) operational storage. The facilitiss would be designed so as to be
extended to a nominal capacity of 12,000 m /day at a later date.



- 49 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 2 of 2
Shashe - Francistown Conveyance Facilities
4.        A single pump station, to be located at the Shashe site, would
be provided to boost treated water to Francistown. The pump building would
bS sized for the year 1995/96 while, initially, a firm capacity of 8,000
m /day would be provided. Additional yump units would be added later to
increase the firm capacity to 12,000 m /day. Pumps would be electric drive
units and be controlled manually. Communications with Francistown operations
would be maintained using telephone and two-way radio for reserve.
5.        A 26-km (16-mile) long, 350-mm (14 in) diameter pipeline would be
constructed to deliver treated water from Shashe to an existing 6,800 m
capacity ground level storage facility in northeast Francistown. Water
produced from Francistown's boreholes would be blended with Shashe water
in this Sacility. The pipeline would be sized for an ultimate capacity of
12,000 m /day and would be designed for continuous operation.
Water System Additions and Improvements in Francistown
6.        A new supply main would be provided to deliver local water production
from the existing waterworks to the northeast Francistown reservoir for
blending. A Iew booster pump station, with an initial firm capasity of
about 8,000 m /day and designed to be extended to about 12,000 m /day capacity
later, would be constructed to deliver water from the northeast Francistown
reservoir, through proposed primary distribution mains, to elevated storage
riding gn the distribution system. This storage would consist of a new
4,400 m (1.0 Img) capacity reservoir to be located on Nyangabwe Hill. Pumps
would be electrically driven and manually controlled.
Other Additions
7.        Future operations of WUC's Francistown Subdivision would be mainly
centered at Shashe. The Project would provide additional staff housing at
this site sufficient for the anticipated increase in staffing. A laboratory
and workshops also would be provided.
September 1979



50                                                                         ANNEX 3.1
Figure 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Schematic Diagram: Proposed Shashe Dam to Francistown Treatment and Delivery System
Shashe Dam
_                  ~~~~~~and Reservoir
Low Lift           Primary Treatment Works
Pump Station         Nominal Capacity 45,500 M3/Day 110.0 lmgdl
I I              <  _ Selebi - Phikwe
LEGEND                                                          I                           Shashe/Selebi - Phikwe Pump Station
Fac hty              Existing    Project
Raw Water Pump Station
Dam                                                                   Firm Capacity 12,000 M3/ Day 12.64 lmgd)
Pipeline        .--~~           r.ai
Pump Station-.    i                 A
Treatment Works -
Storage Facility- .   Qs
Water Treatment Works
Nominal Capacity 8,000 M3/Day (1.76 lmgdl
Shashe -Francistown Pump Station
Firm Capacity 8,000 M3/Day
Shashe - Francistown Supply Main
Capacity 12,000 M3/Day
Francistown Ground Level Storage
I    Capacity 6,800 M3 (1.5 Img)
Bulk Water      Pump            ,        I
Storage      Station       '*
Chlorination-_                         
Francistown Water Works                  Francistown Booster Pump Station
Firm Capacity 8.000 M3/Day
Nyangadwe Hill Reservoir
Capacity 4,400 M3 (1.0 lmng)
Old                New                                              t
Francistown        Francistown                 Francistown Distribution System
Well Field         Well Field                                                                         World Bank - 20379



BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESThI1ATES
Local Costs                                       Foreign Costs                         Total
Year Ending March 31                             1980    1981    1982    1983    Subtotal           1980    1981    1982    1983        Subtotal       Costs
---------------------------------------Pula x OO's------------------------------------------------
Civil Works
Shashe Supply
Raw water main                                         63        70       7         140                   182       65      13           260        400
Pump stations
Raw water                                           21        23       2         46                    52        30       4            86        132
Treated water                                      123       111      12        246                   298       137      23           458        704
Treatment works                                       591       531      60        1182                 1427       658    110           2195       3377
Balancing tank                                         18        17       2          37                   45        20       4            69        106
Supply main                                          1920      4016    312        6248                  8675      2349    580          11604      17852
Francistown Area Works
Supply main                                            89       123      11         223                  207       187      21           415        638         1
Pump station                                           75        83       8         166                  184       108      15           307        473
Reservoir                                             459       510      51        1020                 1232       568      95          1895       2915
Primary mains                                          61       103       9         173                  145       161      16           322        495
General Plant
Laboratory and workshops                               60        54       6         120                   108       63       9           180        300
Staff housing                                         214        77      15         306                  322       115      23           460        766
(subtotals)                                      (3694)   (5718)  (495)       (9907)               (12877)    (4461)  (913)        (18251)    (28158)
Equipment
Pumping Plant
Shashe raw water                                                 14       1          15           11       70       51       7           139        154
Shashe treated water                                             89       5          94           65     425       309      42           841        935
Francistown booster                                             136       7         143          100      651      471      65          1287       1430
Modify existing pumps                                            11                  11                              94      5             99       110
Treatment Plant                                                   214      11         225          158    1024        742    101          2025       2250
Vehicles, Tools, Stores and Misc. Equipment                        47       5          50          ___                903     47            950      1000
(subtotals)                                               (511)   (27)        (538)        (334)  (2170)   (2570)  (267)           (5341)     (5879)
Consulting Services
Engineering Design                               179     41        27                 247         1600      368       247                 2215       2462
Construction Supervision                          17    920       503                1440            4      230       126                  360       1800
Gaborone Dam Investigations                                       374                 374                           3399                  3399       3773
(subtotals)                             (196)  (961)    (904)               (2061)       (1604)   (598)   (3772)                 (5974)      (8035)
BASELINE COSTS                                   196   4655      7133    522        12506         1938   15645    10803    1180          29566      42072
Contingencies
Physical                                          20    611       1014    74         1719          198    2150      1631      160         4139       5858        X
Price                                             -8    237       1132   144        1505           -80     801      1728      324         2773       4278
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                208   5503       9279   740        15730         2056   18596    14162    1664          36478      52208        S
September 1979



BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Calender Year                                                           1979                    f1980                                                              1981                                        1982
Month                                                 JPFM A MJi JA SON DJi PMAMJ  3    A SON DJi PM A MlJ     A SOIN ID J  PMA MJ  JjA SON D
Numnber of Monthss After Project Appraisal                   1  2  34  5  6  7  B  9  1 01112 13 14 1516  17 18 19 20  21 22 2324 2526  27128 29303113233134 3536 37                                       39 4041 42 434445 46
Parr A - Water Supply ConstructionF                                                                                                                               
Contract No. 1 - Civil Works
Planting. Design and Preparation of Tender Documents             I                            
Period of Tender and Analysis of Bids                                                                                   r
Construct
Raw Water Pipeline
Raw Water Pump Station
Treatm-ent Works 
Treated WVater Storage                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P
Treated Water Pump StationsH
Pipelines
Staff Housing
Contract No. 2 - Pumping Plant                                                                                              *mu                               m     m     u
Planning, Design and Preparation of Tender Documents
Period of Tender and Analysis of Bids                                                                   I--
Manufacture, Test and Transport so Site
Erect Pumping Plant
Raw Water
Treated Water
Contract No. 3 -Wate r Tr eat ment Plan t
Planning, Design and Preparation of Tender DocumentsI
Period of Tender and Analysis of BidsQ
Manufacture. Test and Transport to Site                                                                               I~                                      ii u
Erect Treatment Pelan                                                                                                II 4
Part B - Gaborone Dam Investigations                                                           ~I
Invest igation of Poundation and Construction Materials-                   t     1      {      1                                                                  - --- --- -
Pield Survey and Preliminarn DesignI                                                                                   II           I    ~               jum                    u u          u
LEGEND
Construction, Execution of Activity
------Period of Tender and Analysis of Rids
o     Advertise
*  open Tenders
V  Award Contract                                                                                                                                                                                                   World Bank - 20207            t



- 53 -
ANNEX 3.4
BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements From Loan
(us$ x o00)
IBRD FY          Amount           Cumulative Disbursements
and             Disbursed                           % of
Quarter           in Quarter     Amount              Total
1980
3rd quarter           0             0                  0
4th quarter           0             0                  0
1981
1st quarter          200           200                 5
2nd quarter          800         1000                 23
3rd quarter          600         16oo                 37
4th quarter          600         2200                 51
1982 
1st quarter          700          2900                66
2nd quarter          500          3400                78
3rd quarter          300         3700                 85
4th quarter          250          3950                90
1983
1st quarter          150         4100                 93
2nd quarter          100         4200                 95
3rd quarter          200         44oo               100
September 1979



- 54 -
ANNEX 3.5
BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Water Resources of Shashe Dam Catchment
1.        Rainfall over the upper Shashe River catchment averages about
450 mm (18 inches) with a coefficient of variation of about 40%. This is the
most unreliable rainfall region in eastern Botswana. Although WUC has
favored using a statistical risk of source failure of no worse than once in
50 years (2%), recent Botswana practice has been to adopt a higher factor of
once in 20 years (5%) for the design of major dams. Shashe Dam was designed
to be raised by up to a maximum of 4 m over its original construction con-
figuration, and thereby increase its storage capacity and safe yield.
Consideration of alternative risks of failure and several potential future
crest elevations, gives the following values of annual safe yield for Shashe
Dam reservoir:
Annual Safe Yield, m3
Initial Net
Retention        Reservoir                                     Yield Afte
Level          Capacity              Initial yield             25 years
(m)  =        (m3 x millions)         1:50 -_/ 1:20 e/       1:50       1:20
971.5 a/          75.0                39,400  61,100        29,200    46,200
973.5 b/         113.0                52,300  78,800        44,100    68,600
975.5 c/         164.0                65,200  95,800        59,800    88,300
a/   Existing spillway level;
b/   Proposed level after first stage modification;
c/   Proposed level after maximum probable development;
d/   One year in 50 years (2%) risk of failure of source;
e/   One year in 20 years (5%) risk of failure of source;
f/   Estimated reduction in safe yield due to sedimentation in reservoir
projected as occurring 3at annual rate equivalent to 1% of mean annual
runoff of 99 million m .
2.        Based upon a 5% risk of failure and an annual reduction in safe
yield due to sedimentation occurring at an annual rate of 1% of mean annual
runoff, the existing Shashe Dam could meet the combined demands of Selebi-
Phikwe and Francistown until about 1992.
September 1979



55  -                                          ANNEX 4.1
BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION - ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD
C A.       CHIEF ACCOUNTANT
D.E.       DIVISIONAL ENGINEER
P A.O.     PRINCIPAL ADMINISTRATIVE
OFFICER                                                           PERMANENT EXECUTIVE
P A. (El or (RI PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT                                               C
(REVENUE OR EXPENDITUREI                                               COMMITTEE
CW.S       CHIEF WATERWORKS SUPTDT.
S W.S.     SENIOR WATERWORKS SUPTDT.                       _
MANAGEMENTR
CHIEF EXECUTIVE      .___    t
OFFiCER
I
P         ~~~HEADQUARTERS 
UNDERTAKING                                ADMIN.        REVENUE       EXPEND.      NEWWORKS
s.W.S..                                  P.A.OPA.R                  PA E            D. E.
r                      -I         I                                                                                 I
PHIKWE WORKS       SHASHE WORKS                                                   LOBATSE WORKS      GABORONE .CzcS
I       C.W S.              SW.S.                                                          S.W S.              CWS
REVENUE3-- REVENUEE- 3                                                                            E
World Bank  20295



-  56  -                           ANNEX 5.1
page 1 of 2
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION
Consolidated and Audited Balance Sheets
 ------   pula millions--------------------
Years ending March 31                      1975    1976    1977    1978       1979
-Net fixed assets                          21.05   24.11   23.71   22.56   23.13
Current assets                             1.84    2.22    2.64    3.40    4.32
Total                     22.89   26.33   26.35   25.96   27.45
Equity                                     2.32    2.15    2.24    2.96    4.17
Long-term debt                            18.96   22.37   22.10   20.81   20.80
Current liabilities                        1.61    1.81    2.01    2.19    2.48
Total                     22.89   26.33   26.35   25.96   27.45
September 1979



-  57  -                                          ANNEX 5.1
Page 2 of 2
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION
ANNUAL RATES OF RETURN CALCULATICN
------ 000 Rand -----0 ------ 00 Pula -------
FY                      1975         1976          1977          1978     1979
GABORONE/LOBATSE DIVISION
In terms of Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement
Value of net fixed assets in operation:
at March 31, end of preceding FY                           2,426        4,871         4,932         5,398    5,208
at March 31, end of current FY                             4,871        4,932         5,398         5,208    5.146
7,297        9,803        10,330        10,606   10,354
Average value of net fixed assets in operation                        3,648         4,901         5,165         5,303    5,177
Net operating surplus                                                    165          215           216           586       597
Rate of Return
4.53%        4.38%         4.21%        11.06%   11.53%
SHASHE DIVISICN
In terms of Section 7.01 of the Water Subsidiary
Loan Agreement
Value of gross fixed assets in operation:
at March 31, and of preceding FY                          16,122       16,219        19,058        19,073   18,202
at March 31, end of current FY                            15,914       19,058        19,073        18,202   18,258
32,036       35,277        38,131        37,275   36,460
Average value of gross fixed assets in operation                     16,018        17,639        19,065       18,637   18,230
Allowance for working capital 1/2 of, 1%                                  80           88            96            93       91
16,098       17,72T        19,161        18,730   18,321
Net operating surplus                                                 1,123         1,333         1,443         1,461    1,476
T;I
Rate of Return                                                         T.02%         7.66%        7.53%         7.80%    8.06%
* adjustment of sinking fund interest
September 1979



- 58 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 1 of 14
BOTSWANA: SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION - FRANCISTOWN UNDERTAKING
INCOME STATEMENTS FY1980-1987
(Pula Thousands)
Years ending March 31       1980      1981     1982     1983     1984      1985     1986     1987
WATER CONSUMPTION  000 m3    408      879     1122     1207      1296     1389     1486     1565
AVERAGE TARIFF     th/m3      38.0     38.0    44.2      50.6      59.4    68.o      76.5     85.6
OPERATING REVENUES
TOTAL                ...155     3 3 A    .426               . . ..611 .....2Q ._ . .... 1132.... .... .... 134Q
OPERATING EXF'ENSES
LOCAL POWER                    5       12       16        18       20       23       25        28
MATERIAILS                    70      164      228      267       313      365      426      489
RAW WATER                      0        0       33       68        77       87       97       108
POWER FOR RAW WATER            0        0       21       43        49       55       62        68
DEPRECIATION             .......       41.    .1.........28n. ... 2  _3Z1 .. . ......... .. .. 405
0O TAL                 .. __82      .. .. . 212. . . 2    ...--627   ........ .._.. 9.82   . .......... 1 298
OPERATING INCOME         ........... . .. 23.  1 ......  .:66 . .. .    ..  .. 24. 155 ._ 242
NET INCOME BEF INI            73      117       39       -66        0       74      155       242
INT CHARGED OF'             ..    . .... 15 .. ....     2 .2.5  . .... .. 252 ........25  .258 ............ 401
NET INCOME                    67      1.02      34    --318      -259     -184    --103      -159
RATE OF RETURN             22.5      11.7      I.0   --1.O       0.0       :.0      2.0      3.0
OPERATING RATIO %             53       65       92      111       100       92       86       82
rDEPREC/GROSS PLANT        2.14      3.98     3.99     4.00     4.00      4.00     4.00     4.00
SEPTEMBER 1979



- 59 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 2 of 14
BOTSWANA:  SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION - FRANCISTOWN -UNDERTAKING
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS STATEMENTS FY1980-1987
(Pula Thousands)
Years ending March 31               1980      1981     1982     1983     1984    5-YR       1985     1986     1 9H 7
TOTAL
I NfERNAL SOURCES
-NET INCOME BEF II'                  73      117        39      -66        0      163        74      155       42
-DEPRECIATION                  ..                 ____152 .____280                    _. _._ .... 311 ...__..05
TOTAL                             80      158      198      214       311      961      414       526      647
OFPERATIONAL RE--
OUIREMENTS
-WORKING CAPITAL                     30       39       31        16       26      142        22       40       2 t
-DEBT SERVICE                .        6        15                   ..5 254   .261-  541 __._26Q     330 .. .  551
TOTAL              ... _          36       54        6               . 282 .    683. .282      - .320 .   576
NET AVAILABLE
FROM OPERATIONS                     44      :1.04    :162      -56       24      278       132     1.56       71
CONSTRLJCTION
RElUJ IREMENTS
--PROPOSED PROJECT                  231    2500      1988      240         0    4959          0        0        0
STARTING ASSETS                     605        0        0         0        0      605         0        0        0
URBAN II                              0      t20        0        40       30      190        10       10       tO
SECONDARY ASSETS                 -- 6-0.__ ... _310 .            .. Q   -        _260       . Q 0
TOTAL                        __886    322  ....22Q 2        28 0          .... ._ 30   6214    . 1   .-10 1Q
BAL_ANCE TO FINANCE                842    3116       2136      336         6    6436      -122      -146      --6t
FINANCED BY:
STARf ASSETS LOAN                  675         0        0         0        0      675        0         0   0
URBAN lI LOAN                         0      120        0        0         0      120        0         0        0
PROJ BANK LOAN                     206     t859       916      166         0    3147         0         0        0
PROJ GVT LOAN                       25      641      1072       74         0    1812         0        0         0
-GRANTS              .5._50                 6                                           .... ... .0.. ... .  __ Q  . _ _.- .
TOTAL                           956     3220    2298       240         0    6714          0        0        0
SIJR PLUS(DEFICIT)
OF FUNDS                          114      104      162      -96        -6      278       122      146      zAl
ACCUMULATED                       114      218      380      284       278      278      400       546
DEBT SERRVCE COVERAGE            13.3      10.5    39.6       0.8      :1.2      1.8      1.6       1.6 
SEPTEMBER 1979



- 60 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 3 of 14
BOTSWANA: SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION - FRANCISTOWN UNDERTAKING
BALNCE SHEETS FY1980-1987
(Pula Thousands)
Years ending March 31       1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
ASSETS
PLANT IN OPERATION           655    1405    6560    7430    8129    8871    9679   10560
LESS: DEPRECIATION        ..- __._ 2 _ ____98  ___211 ..___51  .__.__862 __ 1285 _.122  -..2336
NET PLANT                   648    1357    6349    6920    7262    7586    7907    8224
WORK IN FROGRESS            231    2731         0        0        0        0        0        0
CURRENT ASSETS
-CASH AND BANKS
TEMPORARY SURP            114      218      380      284      278     400      546      607
-ACCOUNTS REC                 15      34       50       61       77       94      114      134
-INVENTORIES             .___15           ----- _60         - ---- -- _80 ... .  ......  ll 2Q
TOTAL                    144      297      490      415     435      584      770      861
TOIAL.                  1023    4385    6839    7335    7697    8170    8677    9085
LIABILITIES
EQUITY
-RETAINED EARNINGS           .67     169      203    -115    -374    -558    -661    -820
-GRANTS                      50      650      960      960      960      960     960      960
-REVALUATION RESERVE             .. .. .. _3  __._._152 ._.___223 ._ _1346  .... .. .   ....2682. 339.4
TOTAL                   117      849    :L315    1568    1932    2402    2981    3534
LONG TERM DEBT              906    3526    5514    5752    5750    5748    5676    5526
CURRENT LIABILITIES
-ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                     I _  0   1 . O  .... __._ 5  ...  _  .5     _2 _
TOTAL                      0       10       10       15       15      20       20       25
.                                _  _   ._    _  . _    .  _._   _ _ _ . _ _ ._ .. _ ._ __ _ _ . _ ... _ __ ._ _ ......... _.. .. . _.. .... .. _ _...._   ._.... .........
TOTAL                   1023    4385    6839    7335    7697    8170    8677    9085
DEBT KATIO & EQUITY          89       81       81       79       75      71       66       61
CURRENT RATIO               0.0    29.7    49.0    27.7    29.0    29.2    38.5    34.4
RECEIVABLES/REV %            10       10       10       10       10      10       10       10
RECEIVABLES-DAYS             35       37       36       36      36       36       36       36
NET/GROSS PLANT %            99       97       97       93      89       86       82       78
FLANT INCREASE %              0      115      358        4        0        0       0        0
ANNUAL REVALUATION          0.0      0.0      9.0      9.0     9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0
SEPTEMBER 1979



61  -                                       ANE  5.2
Page4 of 14
BOTSWANA: SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION - TRANCISTOWN UNDERTAKING
DEBT STATEMENTS FY1980-1987
(Pula Thousands)
Years ending March 31     1980     1981     1982      1983     1984      1985     1986     1987
PROJECT BANK IOAN
-BORROWINGS               206      1859      916       166        0         0        0         0
-AMORTIZATION                0        0        0         0        0         0       69       74
--BALANCE                 206     2065      2981     3147      3147     3147     3078      3004
-INTEREST                  10       105      204      243       249      249      249       244
-IDC-%                     40        86       98         0        0         0        0        0
-:I[C                       4       90       199        0         0        0         0        0
FROJECT GOVT LOAN
BORROWINGS                25       641     1072        74        0         0        0        0
-AMORTIZATION                0        0        0         0        0        0         0       53
-BALANCE                   25       666     1738     1812      1812     1812      1812     :1759
*rNTEREST                   0         0        0        0         0        0         0      109
STARTING ASSETS
-BORROWINGS               675         0        0         0        0         0        0        0
-AMORTIZATION               0000000                                                          2
-BALANCE                  675       675      675      675       675      675       675      655
-INTEREST                   0         0        0         0        0        0         0       40
URBAN II
-BORROWINGS                  0      120         0        0         0        0        0         0
-AMORTIZATION                0        0         0        2        2         2        3         3
-BALANCE                     0      120      120       Li8      116       114      iLL       108
-INTEREST                    0        0         0        9        IO        9        9         8
DEBT SUMMARY
-BORROWINGS                906     2620      1988      240         0        0         0        0
-REPAYMENTS                  0         0        0         2        2        2        72      150
-BALANCE                   906     3526      5514     5752     5750      5748     5676      5526
-INTEREST                   10       105      204      252       259      258      258       401
-IDC                         4        90      199        0         0        0         0        0
-DEBT SERVICE                6        15        5      254      261       260      330       551
SEPTEMBER 1979



-62-                                ANEX 5.2
Page 5 of 14
BOTSWANA: SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION - GABORONE-LOBATSE DIVISION
INCOME STATEMENTS FY1980-1987
(Pula Thousands)
Years ending March 31   1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
WATER CONSUMPTION 000 m3 5045    5545    6182     6937      7755    8563     9461    10462
AVERAGE TARIFFS  th/m3    32.5     35.7    35.7     41.1      41.1    43.8     51.6      59.3
OPERATING REVENUES
SALES OF WATER         1640    1980    2207    2851    3187    3750    4880    6204
MISCELLANEOUS                -        .._._ 15Q ----_15Q  ...-_15Q ____15Q  -- _15Q_ .____150
TOTAL   .. -122Z --2130 .__._2352  __._3001 .__._3332  _   _3200 ---_SQ30 __._6354
OPERATING EXPENSES
_____._____________
SALARIES                410      490      585      700      836      999    1194    1427
MATERIALS               207      248      298      357      428      513      615      737
CHEMICALS                37       45       54       65       78       94      114      137
ELECTRICITY             305      360    -425       501      591      698      823      972
DEF'RECIATION        ..-_235    ____226 .____328 ___._443   _51Q0  ___522 ____801  _Q.1061
TOTAL             -._124 _.__1432 __1Z4Q _._2065 _2443 _._2826 ___.3542 --.-4334
OPERATING INCOME        596      691      617      936      894    1024    1483    2020
INT. REC.   ___ -6Q  -- ___8Q                  --- ......  _12__122 ____14 __140_._14...1Q
NET INCOME BEF INT    656        771      719    1058    1034    1164    1623    2160
INT CHARGED OP        --342                                - 5..22 __529 __82 __.__566 __228 __228
NET INCOME              307      330      222      464      452      598      625    1182
RATE OF RETURN        10.9      9.9      6.9      9.1      7.7      8.1      8.1      8.1
OPERATING RATIO X        67       68       74       69       73       74       71       68
DEPREC/GROSS FLANT   3.36    3.30    3.30    3.30    3.30    3.30    3.30    3.30
SEPTEMBER 1979



- 63 -                                    Page 6 of 14
BOTSWANA: SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION - GABOROINE-LOBATSE -T-TSION
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS STATEMENTS FY198o-1987
(Pula Thousands) -
Years ending March 31     1980     1981     1982      1983     1984   5-YA        1985     1986     1987
TOT AL
INTERNAL SOURCES
-NEr INCOME BEF IN         656      771      719      1058     1034      4238     1164     1623    2160
-DEPRECIATION          ...235  ___226 .____328 ----443 ____51Q          1862 ____522 ----801  --1061
TOTAL                  891      1067     1097     1501      1544     6100      1736     2424     3221
OPERATIONAL RE-
QUIREMENTS
-WORKING CAPITAL           136      -32        17       58       26       205       46       100      119
-DEBT SERVICE            _444  . .... _.561 ...... __638 __.__258 ____52  ---3160 ___._262 __13Q 5 . .... s .... 1314
TOTAL                       - 580  522 ____655 ____816 ____285  ---_3365 __.__815 __.14Q5 -.- --- _1433
NEI AVAILABLE
FROM OF'ERATIONS          311      538      442       685      759     2735       921     1019      1788
CONSTRUCTION
RE UJIREMENTS
OTHI:R WORKS              :l459     625      585       435      235     3339       135      235       235
-P-ROPOSED PROJECT           0        0      575         0        0      575         0         0        0
SOUJRCE AUGMENT,        .. ..... _3Q   ___25QQ  ---_3460 ---5380 __._1240  __52Q
TOTAL               ....-.145Y ._.-.-._625  .__1240     _ ...2...235 _...._234  --..5515  ....._ 25 ........._Z55
BALANCE TO FINANCE        1148       87     1298       130     1976     4639      4594      956   -1033
FINANCED BY:
PROJ BANK LOAN               0        0      500         0        0       500        0         0        0
P:ROJ GOVT LOAN              0        0        75        0        0        75        0         0        0
OTHER LOANS                925      410      840       690     1350     4215      2790      870         0
-GRANTS                    .             ._.0    -         ..-.O.-534 -                          -.
TOTAL                 :1.459    410      1415      690     1350      5324     2790       870        0
SURPLUS (DEFICIT)
OF FUNDS                 311       323      117      560      -626      685   -1864        -86     1033
ACCUMULATED             1563      1886     2003     2563      1937     1937       133       47     1080
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE     2.0       1.9      1.7      2.0       2.0      1.9       2.3      1.9      2.5
SEPTEMBER 1979



_ 64 -                             A       2NEX_5.2
Page 7 of 14
BOTSWANA: SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION - GABORONE-LOBATSE DIVISION
BALANCE SHEETS FY1980-1987
(Pula Thousands)
Years ending March 31    1960    1981      1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
ASSETS
PLANT IN OPERATION       7387   10532   12405   14414   16513   18134   30413   33905
LESS: DEPRECIATION   __1236 -- _2188 ___2263 ___3455 --94226 _._5233 --- 65Q5 ___8151
NET PLANT                5651    8344    9642   10959   12237   12901   23908   25754
WORK IN PROGRESS         2502      647    1462    1384    3317    8697            25       25
CURRENT ASSETS
-CASH AND BANKS
TEMF'ORARY SURP        1563    1886    2003    2563        1937      133       47    1080
-ACCOUNTS REC             230      213      236      300      334      390      503      635
-INVENTORIES              137      186      223      268      321      385      461      553
-OTHER                ___16D __166 ____1Z2 ----128 ___184 ___.12Q ____126 ____2Q2
TOTAL                2090    2451    2634    3309    2776          1098     1207    2470
TOTAL             110243   11442   13738   15652   18330   22696   25140   28249
LIABILITIES
EQUITY
-CAPITAL                   96       96       96       96       96       96       96       96
-RETAINED EARNINGS        464      794    1016    1480    1932    2530    3155    4337
-GRANTS                 2101    2101    2101    2101    2101    2101    2101    2101
-CAPITAL RESERVE          114      114      114      114      114      114      114      114
-REVALUATION RESER  .___5294 __1033 ___1284 ___2651 ___3632 _.94238 _-_5822 _.__8Q51
TOTAL               3299    4138    5111    6442    7880    9579   11365   14699
LONG TERM DEBT          6592    6882    8156    8682    9855   12442   13005   12669
CUR'NT LIABILITIES
-ACCOUNTS PAYABLE        200       270      319      376      443      523      618      729
-OTHER                _ ._152 ._.___152 __152 ____152 ____152 ____152 ____152 ____152
TOTAL                 352      422      471      528      595      675      770       881
TOTAL               10243   11442   13738   15652   18330   22696   25140   28249
DEBTRATIO  & EQUITY       67        62      61        57       56       57       53       46
CURRENT RATIO            5.9      5.8      5.6      6.3      4.7       1.6      1.6      2.8
RECEIVABLES/REV %          i3       10       10       10       10       10       10       10
RECEIVABLES-DAYS          46       36       36        36       36       36       36       36
NET/GROSS PLANT X         76       79       78       76        74       71       79       76
PLANT INCREASE X           12      34         9        7        6        1       59        2
ANNUAL REVALUATION       0.0      9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0       9.0      9.0      9.0
SEPTEMBER 1979



ANNEX 5.2
- 65  -                             Page 8 of 14
BOTSWANA: SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION - GABORONE-LOBATSE DIVISION
DEBT STATEMENTS FY1980-1987
(Pula Thousands)
Years ending March 31  1980     1981     1982      1983     1984     1985      1986     1987
PROJECT BANK l.OAN
--BORROWING'S            0        0      500         0         0        0        0         0
--AMORTIZATION           0        0         0        0        0         0       11        12
BALANCE                          0      500       500      500       500      489      477
]:NTEREST               1.        4       22       39        40       39        40       39
IDIC-%                  0        0       91         0        0         0        0        0
-IIC                     0        0       20         0        0         0        0         0
F-ROJECT GOVT LOAN
*EORROWINGS             0        0       75         0        0         0        0         0
-AMORTIZATION           0         0        0        0         0        0         0        5
BALANCE                 0        0       75        75       75        75       75       70
-INTEREST                0        0         0        0        0         0        0         2
OTHER NEW LOANS
-BORROWINGS            925       410      840      690      1350     2790       870         0
-AMORTIZATION             0       17       30        44       48        63      145      156
-BALANCE              1569      1962     2772     3418      4720     7447      8172     8016
-INTEREST                 3       99      165      234       23:1     226       668      659
EXISTING LOANS
-AMORTIZATION            95      103      i1l       120      129      140       151.     163
-BALANCE              5023     4920      4809     4689     4560      4420     4269      4:106
-INTEREST              345       338      330      321       311      301       290      278
DEBT SUMMARY
-BORROWINGS            925       410     1415      690      1350     2790       870        0
-REPAYMENTS              95      120      141       164      177      203       307      336
-BALANCE              6592      6882     8156     8682      9855    12442    13005    12669
-INTEREST              349       441      517      594       582      566       998      978
-IDC                      0        0       20         0        0         0        0        0
-DEBT SERVICE          444       561      638      758       759      769      1305     1314
SEPTEMBER 1979



ANNEX 5.2
-  66 -                                   Page 9 of 14
BOTSWANA:  SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION - SHASHE DIVISION
INCOME STATEMENTS FY1980-1987
(Pula Thousands)
Years ending March 31               1980     1981     1982      1983     1984      1985     1986     1987
POTABLE WATER CONSUMPTION 000 m3    2070    2125      2200      2296    2400      2507    2620       2735
AVERAGE TARIFF 1/        th/m3       50       57        58        59      60        61       63        65
OPERATING REVENUES
SAIES OF FOT. WAT.                  497       512      532       559      587      616       647      679
SALES OF RAW WATER                 1578      1626     1704      1772     1814     1859      1904     1950
MISCELLANEOUS                          7        8        8         8        9         9        9        10
DOMEST WATER CONTR        _     ._ __626           . _.__252    _      Z89 _ .__85Q  _.._222   .1QQ9 ._ l5
TOTAL                     -.--2208 __._285Q .__2226  ___3128 _.__326D  ._ 3406 __..-3562 -.._. 3244
OPERATING EXPENSES
RAW WAT. VAR.                       308       338      373       411      454      501       553      611
POT.WAT. VAR.                        82        92      104       120      137      157       179      206
FIXED COSTS                         597       651      709       773      843      919      1001     1091
DEPRECIATION          __.__252 ____265 ____228 ____283 .-.---284 __...._285 .__ .-.286   __282
TOTAL            __l2AA ---_l346 ---1464 _.__1582 ---1717 _ _1861 ._._22  2029
OPERATING INCOME                   1464      1504     1532     1541      1543     1545      1549     1550
OTHER IN. REC.             ._.__   .25     2 __.__232  .__.__292 ____38O  .___8 _ 6 22 ._ -- 22  _._1021
NET INCOME BEF INT                 1516      1736     1829      1921     2029     2167      2346     2571
INT CHARGED OF                 -.f1 3Q4 ___1222 _.__1232 _.__12Q3 ___1165  ---1124 ---1081 ._.__1l34
NET INCOME                          212       464      590       718      864     1043      1265     1537
RATE OF RETURN                      8.8       9.1      9.3      9.5       9.8     10.0       9.9      9.7
OPERATING RATIO %                    46        47       49        51       53       55        57       59
DEPREC/GROSS PLANT                 1.40      1.41     1.46      1.47     1.47     1.48      1.48     1.48
1/ Including the domestic water contribution paid by the raw water consumers to Selebi Phikwe Township.
SEPTEMBER 1979



67 -                                     ANNEX 5.2
a 6ge 10 of 14
BOTSWANA: SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION - SHASHE DIVISION
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS STATIBENTS FY1980-1987
(Pula Thousands)
Years ending March 31    1980     1981     1982      1983     1984    5-Y        1985     1986      1987
TOTAL
INTE:RNAL SOURCES
-NET INCOME BEF IN   1516        1736      1829     1921      2029     9031     2167      2346    2571
-DEPRECIATION         __252 ....._.._265 .__.__228   ____283 ____284 _._._1362 ____285 ____286 ___._282
TOTAL                1773    2001    2107    2204         2313    10398      2452     2632    2858
OFERATIONAL RE-
QUIREMENTS
-WORKING CAF'ITAL       -110      -89         6         9       48     -136        59       72       81
-DEBT SERVICE        ._Wl256 .._lZ221 ___1221  ._._1220 ._._._1220 __.8638 __._1220 _           1-.-.12Q
TOTAL             ..-_.1646  .     _1632 .._l2Z  .. ...122  .__._1Z68 _..-._85Q2 .__._1222 __._1Z222..
NET AVAILABLE
FROM OPERATIONS         127      369       380      475      545      1896      673       840      l057
CONSTRUCTION
REQUlIREMENTS
SHASHE                  187      440       315       15        35      992      515      1055     1015
L/T INVESTMENTS                         .    -- _ 60  __13QQ  ._1200     --_-1200 ___   _ 
TOTAL             ._18Z            .____315 .__.__615 _.__1335  ___2822 ---_1l15 ...._1Q55 ...--- --_115
BALANCE TO FINANCE        60       71       -65      140      790       996     1042       215       -42
FINANCED BY:
- GRANTS              .  12._425  _30Q             0 .........2....._21 ._  .        .....4._
TOTAL                172      425       300        0        20      917         0       40        0
SURFLUS(DEFICIT)
OF FUNDS                112       354      365    --140    -770        -79   -1042       -175        42
ACCUMULATEED           1846    2200       2565     2425      1655     1655       613      438       480
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE    1.0       1.2      1.2      1. 3      1.3      1.2       1.4      1.5      1.7
SEPTEMBER 1979



-68                             ANNEX 5.2
Page 11 of 14
BOTSWANA: SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION - SHASHE DIVISION
BALANCE SHMZTS FY1980-1987
(Pula Thousands)
Years ending March 31    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
ASSETS
PLANT IN OPERATION    18508   18948   19263   19278   19313   19328   19383   19398
LESS: DEPRECIATION    _-1238  .__2352 ___2821 .___3325 ___3862 ---_3251 ___3580 ___32
NET PLANT             16570   16591   16442   15953   15446   15377   15803   16141
WORK IN PROGRESS         19        19       19       19       19       19       19       19
L/T INVESTNENTS           0        0        0      600    1900    3100    3100    3100
CURRENT ASSETS
-CASH AND BANKS
TEMPORARY SURP       1846    2200    2565    2425    1655          613      438      480
-ACCOUNTS REC           110      128      133      140      147      154      162       170
-INVENTORIES             45       51       53       56       59       62       65        68
-OTHER               ---610 _.___634 ___622 ._1Q   .__..265    -_3D B,3.0 .
TOTAL              2611    3013    3428    3331    2626          1659     1573    1712
TOTAL            i 19200   19623   19889   19903   19991   20155   20495   20972
LIABILITIES
___________
EQUITY
-RETAINED EARNINGS   1151       1461    1865    2362    2968    3712    4634    5781
-GRANTS                 224      649      949      949      969      969     1009    1009
-CAPITAL RESERVE   __11Z6 .__1126 ___1126 __1126 _  ll6 ...11_6 -.A1l6 _.          _l6
TOTAL             2551   '3286    3990    4487    5113    5857           6619    7966
LONG TERM DEBT        15203   I4754   14272   13755   13200   12604   11965   11279
CUR'NT LIABILITIES
-ACCOUNTS PAYABLE       986    1138    1193    1240    1270    1301          1333    1365
-OTHER              _ _4 6Q  ____495 .__. _434  ____421         __3.4 Q8  33 .-38 _-_-362
TOTAL              1446    1583    1627    1661        1678    1694    1711    1727
TOTAL             19200   19623   19889   19903   19991   20155   20495   20972
DEBT.RATIO & EQUITY     86        82       78       75       72       68       64       59
CURRENT RATIO          1.8      1.9      2.1      2.0       1.6      1.0      0.9      1.0
RECEIVABLES/REV X         4        4        4        4        5        5        5        5
RECEIVABLES-DAYS        15        16      16        16       16       16       16       16
NET/GROSS PLANT %       90       88       85       83        80       80       82       83
PLANT INCREASE X          1        2        2        0        0        0        0        0
SEPTEMBER 1979



-69 -                            ANN  5.2
Page 12 of 14
BOTSWANA: SEC0ND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION
CONSOLDATED INCOE STATEtlNTS yllX98o01987
(pula Tbouwnds)
Years ending March 31   1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
OPERATING REVENUES
TOTAL             ...4653 _.__5314          ---581   ___66Z2 ___2220Q ___B163 ---_2632  -1133Q
OPERATING EXPENSES
TOTAL       _      2520  __.._3002  ___.3628  ___4261 _..-4B53  _ 552Q  _ 6452 ........ 2518
OPERATING INCOME       2133    2312    2188    2411    2437    2643    3187    3812
OTHER INCOME NET    __112 ____312 ____322 ....-502 ____626 ____262 _--_.232  -._1161
NET INCOME BEF INT   2245    2624    2587    2913    3063    3405    4124    4973
INT CHARGED OP       ..1652 -._Z1228 .-.tZ41 ___2042 ___2QQ6 ---1248 ___2332  ___2413
NET INCOME              586      896      846      864    1057    1457       1787    2560
RATE OF RETUEN          9.5      9.4      7.5      7.3      7.1      7.5       7.6      7.8
OPERATING RATIO %        54       56       62       64       67        68       67       66
SEPTEMBER 1979



- 70 -
ANE   .2
Pae 13of 14
BOTSWANA: SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS STATEMENTS FY1980-1987
(Pula Thousandt)
Years ending March 31   1980     1961     1982      1983     1984    5-YR       1985     1986      1987
TOTAL
INTERNAL SOUJRCES
-NET INCOME BEF IN   2245    2624         2587    2913       3063   13432       3405     4124      4973
-DEPRECIATION            499      602      815      1006     1105     4027      1197     1458      1753
------   -------      -------                               --  -
TOITAL              2744     3226    3402       3919     4168    17459'    4602      5582      6726
OPERATIONAL RE--
QUIREMENTS               56      -82       54        83      100      211       127      212       225
-WORKING CAPITAL   ..2206 ___2292  .--2364 ___2232 ..224Z __12332 ... _2Z42 _3355 _    .3585
-DEBT SERVICE         _2262 _.__2215  _._2418 ___-2815 ---_28AO __12550  __2826 __._3562 ___3810
TOTAL
NET AVAILABLE
FROM OPERATIONS         482     1011       984     1104     1328      4909     1726      2015     2916
CONSTRUCTION
REQUIREMENTS
OTHER GAB--LOB WKS   1459        625       585      435      235      3339      135       235      235
-PROPOSED PROJECT       231    2500      2563       240         0    5534          0        0        0
SOURCE AUGMENTAT          0         0      580      380     2500      3460     5380      1740      520
STARTING ASSETS         605         0        0        0         0      605         0        0         0
URBAN II                  0       120        0       40        30      190        10       10        10
SECONDARY ASSETS         50      600       310        0         0      960         0        0         0
OTHER SHASHE WORKS   187         440       315       15        35      992      515      1055     1015
TOTAL             ..._.2532 _.__4285 ___4353                _.10 .2800I  15080  6040  3Q4Q  1Z8Q
BALANCE TO FINANCE   2050        3274     3369         6     1472    10171      4314     1025   -1136
FINANCED BY:
START ASSETS LOAN       675         0        0         0        0      675         0         0        0
URBAN II LOAN              0      120        0         0        0      120         0        0         0
PROJ BANK LOAN          206      1859     1416       166        0    3647          0         0        0
PROJ GVT LOAN             25      641     1147        74        0     1887         0        0         0
OTHER LOANS             925       410      840        90       50    2315       1590      870         0
-GRANTS              . _ _256 ___ 1Q25 ____610                     .._._2411      _     ._.4o   .
TOTAL               2587     4055     4013       330       70    11055      1590       910        0
SURPLUS(DEFICIT)
OF FIJNDS              537      781       644      324   -1402        884   -2724       -115     1136
ACCUMlULATED          3523     4304      4948     5272     3870      3870     1146      1031     2167
DEBT SERVICE COVER    1.2         1.4      1.4      1.7       2.0      1.6      2.1       1.7      1.9
SEPTEMBER 1979



ANNEX i.2
- 7. -                         Page 14 of14
BOTSWANIA: SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS FY1980-: 187
(Pula Thousands)
Years ending March 31    1980    1981    1982    1983    1-84    1985    1986    1987
ASSETS
PLANT IN OPERATION       26550   30885   38228   41122   43 '55   46333   59475   63863
LESS: DEPRECIATION             __ .......3681 ...4523 ....._5225 .__._20 __9010 __.A1062 __1185Z __13244
NET PLANT                22869   26292   32433   33832   34"45   35864   47618   50119
WORK IN PROGRESS          2752    3397    1481    1403    3;'36    8716         44      44
CURRENT ASSETS
-CASH AND BANKS
TEMFPORARY SLJRP        3523    4304    4948    5272    3Hl70    1146    1031    2167
-ACCOUNTS REC             355      375      419     501      :-58     638     779      939
-INVENTORIES               197     282      336      394     i60      537      636     741
--OTHER I          .-.___2ZQ 800 ___842 __888 __22 ._._1Q20 _1104 ___1196
TOTAL                 4845    5761    6552    7055      1837    334:l    3550    5043
TOTAL                30466   35450   40466   42290   441,18   47921   51212   55206
LIABILITIES
EQUITY
-CAPITAL                    96      96       96       96      96       96       96      96
-RETAINED EARNINGS        1682    2424    3084    3727    4526    5684    7126    9298
-GRANTS                   2375    3400    4010    4010    4030    4030    4070    4070
-CAPITAL RESERVE          1290    1290    1290    1290    1290    1290    1290    1290
-REVALUATION RESER. __524 .__1063 .__1236 .__3324 .__.283 __6238 _._._8581 ._11445
TOTAL                5967    8273   10416   12497   14925   17838   21165   26199
LONG TERM DEBT           22701   25162   27942   27589   26?05   27694   27546   26374
CUR'NT LIABILITIES
-ACCOUNTS PAYABLE         1186    1418    1522    1631    1728    1844    1971    2119
--OTHER             -__-61      2 _.___ 52_86 _  __523 ----56  __._- 545 ____53Q _ __514
TOTAL                 1798    2015    2108    2204    2288    2389    2501    2633
_   _  _  _  _   _  _   _   _  _   _   _  _  _  _  _.   _   _   _  _    ._    _   _.    _  _  _   _   _    _.   _  ..........    ...   ..........................~~~~~~~~...  . .  ...    ...    ...    ...    ...
TOTAL                30466   35450   40466   42290   44118   47921   5121?   55206
DEBT/DEBT I EQUITY          79      75       73       69      64       61       57      50
CIJRRENT RATIO             2.7     2.9      3.1      3.2     2.6      1.4      1.4     1.9
RECEIVABLES/REV %            8       7        7        8       8        8        8       8
NET/GROSS PLANT %           86      85       85      82       80       77      80       78
PLANT INCREASE X             6      14       20        3       2        0       23       1
SEPTEMBER 1979



- 72 -
ANNEX 5.3
Page 1 of 5
BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
1.   Francistown Undertaking
A.   Income Statements
Sales Forecasts
The growth rate in water demand has been derived from the
consultant's projection after discussions with WUC and the
appraisal mission. It is assumed to average 10.5% p.a. between FY79
and FY87 (Annex 5.2, p. 1).
Revenues
The tariff increases assumed in the projections would
provide a rate of return of 0% in FY82 through FY84, 1% in FY85, 2%
in FY86, 3% in FY87 and thereafter, on the net revalued assets in
operation (para 5.11).
Operating Expenses
Direct costs for electricity and the purchase of raw water
have increased by 5% p.a. since these costs can, to some extent, be
protected from inflationary effects.
Other operation and maintenance costs have increased at
the same inflation rates as for the Gaborone-Lobatse Division
(See 2).
Inflation
Inflation rates used are the same as for the Gaborone-
Lobatse Division (See 2).
Depreciation
On the suggestion of WUC, a conservative rate of 4% has
been adopted on the average of gross fixed assets between the
beginning and the end of each year.
Interest
The interest rate for Government loans, either direct or
onlent, is the current rate of 6%.



- 73 -
ANNEX 5.3
Page 2 of 5
B.   Cash Flows and Balance Sheets
Construction Program
The figures for the construction of the Shashe pipeline are
those of the appraisal mission. The other figures are given in Table 1
of the Annex.
Assets
Assets have been revalued each year at the rate of 10% in FY80
and 9%, thereafter, using the inflation rates.
Accounts Receivable
They are assumed to be equivalent to 10% of sales
revenues.
Inventories and Accounts Payable
They are assumed to grow at the same rate as direct
operating expenses.
Long-term Debt
Details are given in the debt statements schedule. The
onlending rate of the Bank loan is 7.9%, the amortization period
is 25 years including a 5-year grace period. Interest during
the construction period is capitalized with the Government loan.
Repayments are equal annuities (principal plus interest).
Interest is waived on the Government loan for the Project
during the grace period (6 years).
Repayment of other loans is on the equal annuity basis,
as is customary between the Government and WUC.
2.   Gaborone-Lobatse Division
A.   Income Statements
Sales Forecasts
The growth rates in water demand have been derived from
WUC's projections (Annex 5.2, p. 5).
Revenues
The tariff increases assumed in the projections would
provide an 8% rate of return on the net revalued assets in operation
(para. 5.12).
Miscellaneous includes meter rentals and the Botswana Meat
Corporation contribution.



- 74 -
ANNEX 5.3
Page 3 of 5
Operating Expenses
Direct operational costs are assumed to grow at the rate
of sales combined with the rate of inflation. However, salaries
are assumed to grow at a rate slightly lower than other expenses
because of gains in productivity.
Inflation
Inflation growth is assumed to be 10% in FY79 and in
FY80, and 9% p.a., thereafter.
Depreciation
The rate adopted is the average used by WJC, 3.3% on
the average of gross fixed assets between the beginning and the
end of each year.
Interest
The interest rate for Government loans is 6% for the
onlent loan, and 8% for the projected loan.
B.   Cash Flows and Balance Sheets
Construction Program
The figures for the Gabarone Dam investigations are those of
the appraisal mission. Similar figures for other construction
activities are given on page 5 of this annex.
Assets
Assets have been revalued each year, at the rate of 10% in
FY80, and 9% thereafter, using the inflation rates.
Accounts Receivable
They are assumed to be equivalent to 10% of sales revenues.
Inventories and Accounts Payable
They are assumed to grow at the same rate as direct opera-
tional costs.
Long-Term Debt
Details are given in the debt statement schedule. The on-
lending rate of the Bank loan is 7.9%, the amortization period is
25 years including a 5-year grace period. Interest during the
construction period is capitalized with the Government loan.
Repayment are equal annuities (principal plus interest).



- 75 -
ANNEX 5.3
Page 4 of 5
Interest is waived on the Government loan for the Project
during the grace period (6 years).
Repayment of loans is on the equal annuity basis, as is
customary between the Government and WUC.
3.   Shashe Division
The projection was prepared by WUC, in compliance with the
Water Agreement between WUC and the mining company (BCL).
The growth rate in water demand has been assumed to be
about 1% p.a. for raw water and about 4.5% for potable water. Sales
revenues have been computed with the same inflation rates as for
Gaborone-Lobatse Division. Assets are not revalued for inflation rates.
The Water Agreement allows revaluation only for exchange rate fluctuations.
No such fluctuations have been forecast in the projections.



Table 1.   PROPOSED WUC CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
(pula thousands)
years ending March 31,           1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987           Total
Francistown Undertaking
Proposed project                          227   2,410   1,789       240      -        -        -       -        4,666
Starting assets                           605      -        -        -       -        -        -       -          605
Urban lI water coQ1ponent                  -      120       -        40      30       10       10      10         220
Secondary assets                           50     600      310       -       -        -        -       -          960
Total                             882   3,130   2,099       280       30       10      10       10       6,451
Gaborone-Lobatse Division
Proposed project                           -       -       555       -       -        -        -       -          555
Source augmentation                        -       -       580      380   2,500   5,380   1,740       520      11,100
Water augmentation                        500     260       50       -       -        -        -       -          810
Broadhurst II and II                      850     300       -        -       -        -        -       -        1,150
Gaborone West Development                  -       -       500      400     200      100      200     200       1,600
Other                                     109      65       35       35      35       35       35       35         384
Total                           1,459      625   1,720      815   2,735   515   1,975          755      15,599
Shashe Division
Various                                   187     440      315       15      35      515   1,055   1,015        3,577
Total                             187      440      315      15       35      515 1J 053   1,015         3,5i7
TOTAL WUC                                  2,528   4,195   4,134   1,110   2,800   6,040   3,040   1,780           25,627
September 1979                                                                                                                 



BOTSWANA: SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN FOR FRANCISTOWN PROJECT V
Years ending March 31,    1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  through 2011
Annual water sales in 106 1, in
excess of 180 106 1, from new
well field                                       471  1027  1116  1209  1306  1385  1469  1558  1652  1752  1857  1970  2089  2215  2348  2348    ---             -
Revenues in 000 P at 38th/kl                       179   390   424   459   496   526   558   592   628   666   706   749   794   842   892   892
Tariffs in current prices th/kl                     44    51    59    68    76    86
in 1979 prices th/kl                        37    39    42    44    45    46    47
Revenues in 000 P at above tariffs                 173   396   464   527   588   640   690   732   776   823   873   926   982  1041  1104  1104
Construction costs in 000 P in
1979 prices                       227   2191   1492   184    -        -     -      -     -    247    -      -      -     16    -      -    120    -
Operating & maintenance costs
in 000 P in 1979 prices            -       -      63   171   180   189   197   203   212   221   231   241   252   263   274   286   299   299
Total coats in 000 P in
1979 prices                       227   2191   1555   355   180   189   197   203   212   468   231   241   252   279   274   286   419   299  _              _
Balance in 000 P at 38th/kl        -227  -2191  -1376   +35   244   270   299   323   346   124   397   425   454   470   520   556   473   593
Balance in 000 P at above tariffs -227  -2191  -1382   +41   284   338   391   437   478   264   545   582   621   647   708   755   685   805
The financial rate of return is, at 38th/ki                             8.65%
ft  "t "t ft at current tariffs, discounted    11.25%
't "t "t "t "t "t                      "        *10.25%  with a 10% increase in capital cost
" t *t "t "       t "    "     "" "      ""                     9 75%  with a 10% decrease in revenues
Assumptions:
Commissioning of the project in mid-1981/82a
Shadow pricing does not require corrections.                                                                                                                                     a
.
1/   The return on investment, or economic rate of return, is taken to be the discount rate at which the present
value of all capital and associated operating and maintenance costs (excluding duties and taxes) equals the
present value of all revenues attributable to the investment over its economic life.
September 1979



- 78 -
ANNEX 6.2
Page 1 of 3
BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Proposed Monitoring Guidelines
General
1.        The following guidelines are prepared to facilitate planning and to
evaluate achievement of technical, financial, management and training goals.
Certain of these will be included in periodic reports to be submitted to the
Bank whereas the remaining data may be included in WUC's annual reports.
Monitoring Guidelines
2.        WUC would develop and maintain Francistown Undertaking records for
the following:
a.   Water System Operating Data
(1) Water production: metered production by month for the following:
(i) individual sources of supply; (ii) treated water from Shashe
source; (iii) treated water from Francistown Waterworks; and (iv)
residual production from all sources introduced to the Francistown
distribution system;
(2) Water consumption: metered monthly consumption for all categories
of water demand and consumption steps including, but not restricted
to, the following land uses: (i) residential; (ii) commercial/
industrial and (iii) governnental/institutional;
(3) Unaccounted-for water by month;
(4) Numbers of connections at year-end listed by consumption step and
category [see para. a(2) above] including residential connections
of the following types: (i) private connections; (ii) public
standposts (per data furnished by FTC); and (iii) other;



- 79 -
ANNEX 6.2
Page 2 of 3
(5)  Numbers of residential plots served at end of year with separate
distinction given to level of service provided, viz., private
connection versus public standpost;
(6)  Interruptions in service:  the extent to which water service was
interrupted on an annual basis with specific consideration of:
(a) frequency, (b) duration, and (c) cause of interruption.
b.   Water Quality
(1)  Physical quality:  Summary of turbidity for Shashe source by
month in terms of maximum, minimum, and mean values as deter-
mined for: viz., (a) raw water; (b) settled water; and (c)
filtered water.
(2) Chemical quality:
(a) All active sources: complete chemical analysis once
annually;
(b) Ground water: water samples will be obtained at appropriate
frequencies and locations to determine representative nitrate
concentrations;
(c) Distribution system: representative points in system will
be sampled and tested monthly for nitrate concentrations and
chlorine residual.
(3) Bacteriological quality:
(a) All active boreholes: minimum of one sample from each
borehole on a quarterly basis;
(b) Distribution system: representative points in system
will be sampled at appropriate frequencies and locations.
c.   Proiect Implementation:  Quarterly forecasts of expenditures are to be
prepared for each contract within three months of signature of contract.
Quarterly reports are to indicate percentage completion of original
forecast and revised forecast of expenditure for remainder of contract.
d.   Financial Indicators (required annually)
(1) Contributions to capital expenditures from internal cash generation
during the Project construction period as measured by historic
performance and WUC's five-year forecast;



- 80 -
ANNEX 6.2
Page 3 of 3
(2) Annual rate of return on revalued average net fixed assets in
operation;
(3) Operating ratio;
(4) Debt service coverage.
e.   Staffing, Training and Localization (WUC, consolidated)
(1) Staffing (end of financial year)
(a) Number of permanent employees;
i.   Professional;
ii.   Subprofessional.
(2) Training: Number of staff trained during financial year by category,
duration, and type of training (viz., on-the-job, off-the-job);
(3) Localization: Water works superintendent and accounting posts
filled versus total numbers of posts authorized;
Consultation with World Bank
3.        The Borrower would consult with the Bank, at least on an annual
basis, relative to the revaluations of average net fixed assets in operation,
and the calculations of annual rates of return relative thereto.
September 1979



- 81 -
ANNEX 7.1
Page 1 of 2
BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.   WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Al. Principal Water Legislation of Botswana:
(1) "Borehole Registration Proclamation", October 1956.
(2) "Waterworks Act", March 5, 1962;
(3) "Water Act", February 9, 1968;
(4) "Water Regulations", September 6, 1968;
(5) "Water Utilities Corporation Act", June 1970.
A2. "Technical Report 2: The Water Resources of Eastern Botswana
and Northern Botswana and their Development", FAO/UNDP 1972,
1 vol.;
A3. "Recommendations and Observations on Water Resource Planning
in Botswana", Charles W. Howe, 1974, 1 vol.;
A4. "Republic of Botswana: National Development Plan: 1976-1981",
Ministry of Finance and Development Planning, May 1977, 1 vol.;
A5. "Pre-Investment Study for Water Development in NE Botswana",
Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners, 1977-78, 3 vols.
B.   PROJECT
B1. "Redevelopment of Francistown: Francistown Groundwater Studies",
Colquhoun, O'Donnell and Partners/Australian Groundwater
Consultants Pty. Ltd., 1973-74. 2 vol.;
B2. "Francistown Growth Study: Engineering Report", John Burrow and
Partners, 1977, 2 vols.;
B3. "Francistown Urban II Project: Water Supply Preliminary Design
Report", Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners, September 1978, 1 vol.;
B4.  "Master Planning for Supplies from Shashe Dam to Francistown",
Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners, 1978-79, 3 vols.
B5. "Francistown's Existing Water Supply and Waste Disposal Systems",
Bank Staff, May 1979, 1 vol.



- 82 -
ANNEX 7.1
Page 2 of 2
C.   SELECTED WORKING PAPERS, MISCELLANEOUS REPORTS, MEMORANDA AND CHARTS
Cl. "Board Paper on Localization and Training", Water Utilities
Corporation, December 1976, 1 vol.;
C2. "Organization Charts for Ministry of Mineral Resources and
Water Affairs", 1976-78, 3 charts;
C3. "Results from Investigations of Francistown's Ground Water
Quality in Francistown", Memoranda by staff of Department
of Water Affairs, 1978, 2 vols.;
C4. "Memorandum on Gaborone Dam Raising", Water Utilities
Corporation, November 1978, 1 vol.;
C5. "Staffing Implications in the Takeover of Francistown Water
Supply", Memorandum by Water Utilities Corporation staff,
February 1979, 1 vol.;
C6.  "Memorandum on Staff Training", Memorandum by Water Utilities
Corporation staff, February 1979, 1 vol.
C7. "Francistown Water Supply: Financial Forecasts, 1977-87",
Projections by Water Utility Corporation staff, January/February
1979, 2 vol.
September 1979



TnW<9         | 0 t    Xr /T~P/Ifne                               AN(O                                          IBRD 14382
FRANCISTOWN
tt)                                            >,\  v/8('-9 ted                                                                         i.~~~~'k    RHODE5t
AIRFIELD                    G-~d                                                                  S        8IOOS
Sh.she-Mooke
Francistown,'
< \:   \  <   r-A                   Shthstre D.r.s 
Selebi Phikwe/4
BOTSWANA                                     /
aGaborone      /
Iff'Rpusuc OfP
-0..   to> ttejI   SOUTH  AMLCA
Mon nyane                        /
BOTSWANA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Lt|gEsist ri WJC focilites constructed under
Shashe lnfrostructure Project
Shosl,e Darn and Reservcir
P.rimary treatmnent works
Punrp stat ions
Pipeline
E.istinq sto-age tanks
0    oposen water syLtem additions*
~# Treatment works
P-mp slat ons
Pipeline
.s e                                v                                                    Main towns
-Main roads
-     Motorable tracks
Rai way
Rivers
K LOMETERS 0           5          10         IS         20         25
MILES  0                                 lo 1I
T-onra        V    
-   f  DS D /    \SE  X                                                             a>~~~~~~~, ^=~~~~r iD_'-=,s_~~~'h- 
|   1l  \                       e                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~FRANCISTOWN
0X7#  .mnmb ,.1/  >Q   * el,nnent worksr/Pun,mp stator,
'E   9\\t -   / <  i    - Gewrnrwee  ,1/   C ound IrVe              6                        *~~~~~~~~~~ Borehole{d
Pca,,~    irn,pelinn,w,nes(5    - .ndi.  nd l0,arg~ ier)
i         - - - B_orehole celery  ons
F''ra   STW Nn
stinpelailiie
* Brek aores
5S\~~~o*wmnm                                          .                                       \ybe  (1h  m da wan  lagr
A f Id ht \ tli - >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -~~Ri,ers
Ar     ~~flrv                                                                                                       M  ETERS 0       500        1000      1500      2000
BEE HAt* t--                                                                                                  FEET 0          200OD        40C0        60'00
Area   *      M       A    _\\                         M     _    .- .       Somerset       \
- - t  L  E       E            Extension-Monrcad
Anrfield~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~StlIt
. fSo  1             _\R~~~~ ~~~iver             \A-e
Pt 0                                   50            0             0
t & X t \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~NEWb WELLFIELD
Masemnnyont                                 Wast %.  Some\n* .P
Area
S1oh,,h.                                                                    -           -       



