LOAN NUMBER 1763 BT
Project Agreement
(Second Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION
Dated    7   c 2/ C,              , 197-9,&'


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1763 BT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    :(CL  cL  i   /          , 197-9, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RCONSTRUCTIN AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION (hereinafter
called the Corporation).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Botswana (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million
four hundred thousand dollars ($4,400,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the Corporation agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Corporation, the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
the Corporation on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS the Corporation, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the. following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Francistown Undertaking" means the separate division
maintained for accounting purposes within the Corporation to
account separately for the financing, construction, operation,
maintenance and income of the water facilities included in the
Project together with such other facilities not included in the
Shashe Division owned by the Corporation and utilized by it for or
in connection with the supply of water to the Francistown area;


﻿-2-
(b) "Shashe Division" shall have the meaning ascribed
thereto by Section 1.02 (32) of the Shashe Project Loan Agreement;
(c) "Shashe Project Loan Agreement" shall mean the Loan
Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank dated June 30, 1971,
as amended and restated on March 15, 1978; and
(d) "Water Agreement" shall mean the agreement between the
Corporation and BCL Limited dated March 1, 1972 for the supply of
water, and the expressions "Section One" and "Water Facilities"
shall have the meanings respectively therein defined.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Corporation shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Corporation in the
preparation of tender documents, design and supervision of con-
struction in respect of Part A of the Project and in the carrying
out of Part B of the Project, the Corporation shall employ consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisians of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Corporation undertakes to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent
to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or in-
stallation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by the Corporation to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Corporation
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. (a) The Corporation shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Corporation: (i) shall maintain records and pro-
cedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Corpo-
ration and the Bank, the Corporation shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Corporation and the Bank
of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Corporation shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Corporation and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 2.06. The Corporation shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Corporation shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. (a) The Corporation shall, at the request of
the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The Corporation shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by the Corporation of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Corporation
Section 3.01. The Corporation shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. The Corporation shall consult the Bank about
any proposed appointment to the position of the chief executive
officer of the Corporation sufficiently in advance of any such
appointment for the Bank to have adequate opportunity to comment
on the qualifications and experience of the person, or persons,
the Corporation is considering for the position and shall make any
such appointment only after consideration of the views promptly
expressed by the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Corporation shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Corporation shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income,
statements of sources and applications of funds and related
statements), including separate accounts and financial statements
of the Francistown Undertaking, for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not


﻿-5-
later than five months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements, including the
financial statements of the Francistown Undertaking, for such
year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
the Corporation and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (a)
the Corporation shall not incur debt in any financial year in
excess of Pula 55,000 in the currency of the Borrower; and (b) for
the purposes of this Section, the term "debt" means all debt
except:
(i) debt maturing by its terms on demand or less than
one year after its incurrence; and
(ii) debt incurred under the Water Subsidiary Loan
Agreement as defined in the Shashe Project Loan
Agreement.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Corporation shall take all necessary steps to establish and
maintain water tariffs and other charges for the water supply
services provided by the Francistown Undertaking sufficient to:
(i) satidfy all provisions of Section 19 of the Water Utilities
Corporation Act, Cap. 72:04; and (ii) earn an annual rate of
return on the value of the net fixed assets in operation of the
Francistown Undertaking of not less than 11% for the finanial
year 1981, 0% for the financial years 1982 through 1984, 1%
for the financial year 1985, 2% for the financial year 1986 and 3%
for the financial year 1987 and each subsequent financial year.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual rate of return shall be calculated by
relating the operating income of the Francistown
Undertaking for the year in question to the
average of the value of the net fixed assets in
operation of the Francistown Undertaking at the
beginning and at the end of each financial year.
(ii) The term "value of net fixed assets in operation"
shall mean the gross value of such assets, less the


﻿-6-
amount of accumulated depreciation, all determined
in accordance with sound and consistently main-
tained methods of valuation, revaluation and
depreciation, acceptable to the Bank.
(iii) The term "operating income" shall mean the differ-
ence between:
(A) gross operating revenue accruing from the
water supply services provided by the Francis-
town Undertaking; and
(B) the operating and administration expenses of
the Francistown Undertaking, including taxes
(if any), adequate maintenance and deprecia-
tion but excluding interest and other charges
on debt.
(iv) The charge to the Francistown Undertaking for water
supplied from Section One of the Water Facilities
shall be calculated on the same basis as that
provided for in respect of the supply of water from
Section One to BCL Limited under Article 6 of the
Water Agreement.
(v) Each financial year shall be identified by the
calendar year in which the financial year ends.
Section 4.05. Whenever for the purposes of this Article it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at
which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable by the Corporation for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, if no such rate is available, at a rate of exchange
acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of the Corporation thereunder shall terminate on the date
on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify the Corporation
thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Corporation:
Water Utilities Corporation
P. 0 Box 127
Gaborone
Botswana


﻿-8-
Cable address:
WUC
Gaborone
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Corporation, may be taken or
executed by the Secretary of the Corporation or such other person
or persons as the Corporation shall designate in writing, and the
Corporation shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the
day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By //4)~(/(./6//c                 K
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Corporation shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Corporation shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified as described
in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Corporation of inland
freight and othar expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 10 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Goods and civil works (including the modification of existing
pumping installations) of an individual value not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent and of an aggregate value not exceeding
$150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded to
the lowest evaluated bidder on the basis of bid invitations to not
less than three suppliers and otherwise in accordance with the
Corporation's normal procurement procedures.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Corporation shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Corporation to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified
of the Corporation's decision, and the Corporation shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts with respect to all contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) before bids are invited, the Corporation shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders;
(b) after bids have been received and evaluated, the Corpo-
ration shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report o. the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that


﻿- 11 -
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Corporation and state the
reasons for such determination;
(c) the terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited; and
(d) two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Corporation shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Corporation and state the
reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Corporation shall
inform the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Corporation and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  9Lb     day of -fnuQU, 19'%12.
FOR SECRETARY


