Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19045
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING LOAN
Loan No. 2922-TU
March 24, 1999
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1998)
Currency Unit   =    Turkish Lira
US$1    =    TL 305,600
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1989      1990       1991      1992        1993        1994        1995        1996         1997
2,120.30   2,606.36   4,168.11   6,864.36   10,965.42   29,669.76   45,678.35   81,035.40   151,238.89
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL  -  Adaptable Program Loan
ECA   -  Europe and Central Asia
FTVE  -  Faculty of Technical/Vocational Education
IBL   -  Industry-based Learning
ILO   -  International Labor Organization
ITU      Industrial Training Unit
LACI  -  Loan Administration Change Initiative
MOE  -  Ministry of Education
MOT  -  Ministry of Tourism
PBIT  -  Policy Board for Industrial Training
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
TA   -  Technical Assistance
TTC   -  Technician Training Centre
TUREM        Tourism Training Centre
UN      United Nations
YOK       Council for Higher Education
TURKEY'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber, ECCO6
Team Leader: Michael Mertaugh, ECCTR
Sector Leader: James Socknat, ECSHD



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING LOAN
LOAN NO. 2922-TU
Contents
PART I.      Project Implementation Assessment
A.           Background and Project Objectives
B.           Achievement of Project Objectives
C            Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
D.           Project Sustainability
E.           Bank Performance
G.           Assessment of Outcome
H.           Future Operations
I.           Key Lessons Learned
PART II.    Statistical Tables
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loansi
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Studies Included in Project
Table 6A:    Project Costs
Table 6B:    Project Financing
Table 7:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:     Bank Resources: Missions
Appendixes:
A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Map
All preceding operations closed



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING LOAN (L2922-TU)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Industrial Training
Loan in Turkey, for which loan (2922-TU) in the amount of US$ 115,800,000 million equivalent
was approved on March 22, 1988, signed on April 8, 1988 and made effective on June 15, 1988.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1998, compared with the original closing date of June
30, 1996. Final disbursement took place on August 23, 1998, at which time a balance of
US$2,314,117.11 was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by Anthony Wheeler, ECSHD, of the ECA Region and reviewed
by Ajay Chhibber, Director, ECCO6. The Borrower provided comments at an early stage of ICR
preparation, but did not respond to the invitation to comment on the completed draft.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission, April 13 to May 1, 1998. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing comments on the draft. Comments were also
received from the implementing agencies.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING LOAN (LN 2922-TU)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    There has been a long program of Bank lending to Turkey in the areas of technical and
vocational education and industrial training, with a view to relieving scarcities of technically
qualified and skilled labour. The Second Industrial Training Loan was targetted on improving
the supply of technicians and trained technical teachers, with a secondary role of increasing the
supply of qualified staff in the rapidly expanding tourism sector.
Project Objectives
2.    The project objectives were: (a) to strengthen YOK's capacity to plan and coordinate
technician and technical/vocational teacher-training; (b) to alleviate scarcities of technicians by
expanding their pre-service training; (c) to meet a projected shortfall of technical/vocational
teachers by expanding the related training and improving its quality; and (d) to improve MOT's
capacity to train skilled workers for the tourism sector. At a late stage in the project it was
amended to add a series of diagnostic studies in higher education, intended to provide a basis for
higher education reform and possible future Bank lending in that context.
3.    These objectives were expressed mostly in quantitative terms (increased student outputs,
etc), which were easily achieved, partly because the relevant parts of the education and training
system expanded far faster than initially envisaged. But related institutional development was
more limited since, while the implementing agencies established effective project
implementation units, higher-level policy-making and leadership capacity made less progress,
due to frequent staff turnover and lack of institutional innovation.
4.    The continued rapid expansion of related training facilities and activities potentially puts
at risk the sustainability of the realization of project objectives, particularly in qualitative terms,
because training institutions tend to become overcrowded, and competent trainers spread too
thinly.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Project implementation was slow in the initial years because Turkish budget constraints
delayed the construction or refurbishment of project training institutions (a counterpart
responsibility), which in turn delayed equipment procurement, instructor-training, and technical
assistance. One other minor project activity - the translation of foreign training materials into



- iii -
Turkish - had to be discontinued because the necessary copyright authority was often
unobtainable.
6.    Experience with foreign technical assistance was generally positive, with YOK's ITU
progressively taking over the TA management, and national staff gradually replacing foreign
expertise in various TA roles, so that the funds could be stretched further than initially
envisaged. Similarly, domestic training replaced most overseas training, being both more cost-
effective and more productive. Equipment procurement was a major activity in the project, with
respect to both diversity and level of sophistication of the equipment, particularly for the YOK
components. In the course of project implementation the ITU staff became very proficient in
operating with the Bank's procurement procedures.
7.    The main difficulty faced during project implementation derived from a high rate of
counterpart staff turnover in the project institutions, among both managers and instructors. Since
all these staff are part of the higher education personnel structure, they tend to move through
project institutions as one phase of a broader higher education career, rather than remaining in
the technical sector and developing related expertise. A separate cadre of staff for the
technical/industrial sector of higher education is needed if the standard of institutional
management and instructor expertise is to continue to be improved. Ironically, in a technician
training project, there has been a continuous shortage of technicians in the training institutions,
due to the limited numbers of established posts for them, and the uncompetitive technician
salaries in higher education. Since all the TTCs and FTVEs in the project are constituehts of
universities, the autonomy of university rectors has sometimes created difficulties in
implementation, since some rectors saw the project as impinging on their authority, and reacted
adversely. The YOK leadership and Bank supervision team had to take remedial actions with
rectors on several occasions.
8.    Sustainability of the (small) MOT component of the project is questionable, mainly
because of repeated turnover of the senior officials responsible for it, so that there has been no
cumulative development of project ownership. YOK leadership has been increasingly supportive
of those project components for which they are responsible, and employers have taken
significant actions to support and enhance the technician training component, responding
positively to initiatives by institutional managers. Moreover, this progress has been sustained in
the interval since project closure. More open to question is the future role of university rectors,
who control the availability of the budget resources needed to purchase consumables and to
update equipment so that training remains effective. Continued pressure from YOK leadership
will be essential to reinforce and sustain the commitment of rectors, and in this context the
inability so far to establish a dedicated unit within YOK to oversee industrial training is
regrettable.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
9.    Although the project has been effectively supervised, it may be questioned whether the
Bank's appraisal team took sufficient note of the institutional environment within higher
education during project preparation. As a result, the extent of the autonomy of university
rectors has sometimes been a source of difficulty in project implementation. The borrower's
implementation performance, particularly in the initial years of the project, was adversely



- iv -
affected by factors beyond the control of implementing agencies. In particular, budget
constraints delayed construction, which in turn delayed other project activities, and political
instability prevented YOK from obtaining legislative approval for needed structural changes.
Nevertheless, overall implementation performance has shown a steadily improving trend, with
the loan 98% disbursed at closure, and several project institutions demonstrating significant
innovative capability in building on the foundations laid through the project. Therefore the
project is considered broadly successful with respect to implementation experience, and also to a
lesser extent in terms of development outcomes.
10.   While MOT has committed itself to sustaining the achievements of its component of the
project through a variety of steps, it is not clear that this is backed by the necessary budget
resources. YOK has a three-year plan of operations for the activities initiated through the
project, which is updated annually. However, this will need the ongoing commitment of
university rectors to be implemented effectively. In addition, the higher education studies which
were added to the project at a late stage at YOK's request have been implemented promptly, and
YOK has expressed the intention to use their findings as the basis for future higher education
reforms, possibly with Bank financing.
11.   The principal lessons learned during project implementation have been the need to take
account of the evolving institutional environment during project preparation and design, the
adverse effect on project implementation of managerial and staffing discontinuities, and the cost
impact of rapidly innovating technology (especially computers) on the continuing provision of
state-of-the-art equipment for technical training. The positive response of employers to the
output of technicians from the project is indicative of the importance of this type and level of
skills in a process of rapid and diversified industrialization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING LOAN (LN 2922-TU)
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Background and Project Objectives
1.    The industrialization of Turkey in recent decades has been marked, and constrained, by
continuing shortages of entrepreneurs, managers, technicians and skilled workers, paralleled by an excess
supply of migratory unskilled workers from rural areas. This situation was exacerbated for many years by
migration abroad, particularly to Germany, which often involved the more skilled among the Turkish
labour force. There have been considerable efforts to expand the secondary and higher levels of the
Turkish education and training system to address these shortages.  The Bank's assistance to the
development of Turkey's education and training system has taken place through a series of loans since
1971. Earlier loans focussed on various aspects of secondary technical and vocational education,
including a first Industrial Training Loan (Loan 2399-TU) which assisted the improvement of post-
secondary pre-service technician training and in-service industrial training. There was also a loan
supporting non-formal vocational training in order to create opportunities for self-employment and
income generation, and most recently the Bank has financed a large APL to assist the extension of
compulsory basic education from 5 to 8 years.
2.    The first Industrial Training Loan confined itself to equipping and developing training programs
in 8 post-secondary Technician Training centres, together with related developments in in-service
industrial training. The Second Industrial Training Loan (2922-TU) had a more extensive set of
objectives, and also was more complex in that it involved two completely separate implementing agencies
- the Higher Education Council (YOK), and the Ministry of Tourism (MOT), in turn requiring two
distinct project implementation units. The project objectives of 2922-TU were:
(a)    to strengthen the institutional capacity of YOK to plan the development and coordinate
the implementation of technician and technical/vocational teacher-training programs;
(b)   to alleviate scarcities of technicians in industry by assisting YOK in the development of
additional pre-service technician training programs targeted to produce about 3,100
graduates per year by 1996;
(c)   to meet a projected shortfall of over 13,700 technical and vocational teachers in
secondary, post-secondary and non-formal skill training institutions through: (i)
expanding and improving the quality of teacher-training programs at three Faculties of
Technical Education and one Faculty of Vocational Education; and (ii) strengthening the
institutional capacity of these Faculties to carry out pre-service and in-service training as
well as research and development in technical and vocational education;
(d)   to strengthen the institutional capacity of the MOT to plan the development and
coordinate the implementation of basic level hotel and tourism training programs at 10
Tourism Training Centres (TUREMs) and thereby meet a projected annual shortfall of
about 1,800 skilled workers in tourism occupations.



- 2 -
3.    At the time of project appraisal, by now some ten years ago, the above objectives were expressed
with a degree of specificity which may have seemed appropriate at the time, but has long been overtaken
by time and the subsequent path of development of the Turkish economy and education/training system.
In the interim, the country has become much more industrialized, and the service sector has also
developed extensively. Also, the relevant sections of the education and training system have expanded
substantially, far beyond the scale envisaged ten years ago - the number of students in post-secondary
education more than doubled from 1988 to 1996, while the number of universities also doubled. At the
time of project appraisal there were 75 Technician Training Centres (TTCs), whereas today the number
has increased to well over 300, with new ones still being opened by universities. Similarly, whereas the
project was intended to focus on one vocational education and three technical education faculties
(FTVEs), the vocational education faculty has split into three more specialized faculties, all still covered
by the project, and universities have sought and received Parliamentary authorization to open further new
faculties, to a total of 15 by July, 1998. With respect to tourism training, the number of TUREMs,
envisaged to expand from five to ten under the project, in fact increased to twelve, and in addition a
number of private training facilities have opened, and tourism training is also being undertaken within the
secondary education system and in the Technician Training Centres on the YOK side of the project.
4.    The project objectives were expressed only in terms of strengthening the institutional capacity of
implementing agencies, and of achieving specified outputs of graduates. There was little or no policy
content in terms of developing the substance and orientation of training, or of strengthening the role of
employers in relation to training. Thus there was little in the project which should have been especially
demanding for the agencies implementing it, and the only aspect which was complex derived from the
volume, sophistication and diversity of the equipment to be procured for training purposes. However the
main implementing agency took the initiative, with Bank support, to engage employers more actively in
improving the quality and relevance of technician training. Responsiveness to changing borrower
priorities was indicated by the agreement between Bank and borrower to include a new component for
higher education studies late in the life of the project, to provide a knowledge base for future higher
education reforms, and possibly further Bank lending for the development of higher education.
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives
5.     The achievement of the quantitative dimension of the project objectives, the expansion of training
outputs, has been more than fully realized, as a function of the greater than envisaged expansion and
diversification of training facilities. Annual outputs of graduates from the projectFTVEs increased from
1,823 in 1990 to 3,100 in 1997, and new enrollments have increased commensurately to 3,775 by 1997,
so that institutions complain of being overloaded and have opened second shifts. Similarly in the project
TTCs enrollments grew from 13,525 to 18,014 between 1995/6 and 1997/8, leading most of the TTCs to
open second shifts also, while graduates increased from 6,706 in 1995 to 8,787 in 1997. Institutional
managers often complain of being overloaded with students, but this is a function of the rapid growth of
the whole education system, and in particular of public demand for greater access to higher education.
There is also a "pull" factor in that teaching staff appreciate the opportunity to teach extra hours and
thereby increase their incomes, which has both good and bad aspects from the pedagogical point of view
- staff turnover is thereby reduced and experienced teachers retained, but class sizes risk becoming too
large, reducing the effectiveness of teaching. However, the institutional development aspect of the
project objectives succeeded only in the narrowest sense, i.e. each implementing agency established a
project implementation unit with a relatively stable staff who became rather effective in the detailed work
of project implementation, e.g. procurement, supervision of technical assistance, reporting, etc. But at the
policy-making level within the respective implementing agencies there was a much less consistent



- 3 -
achievement of institutional development. This point is worth discussing separately for each agency, as
there were some differences between them.
6.     In MOT the project was initially under the direct authority of the Under-Secretary, and
subsequently under the Director-General of Training, a lower-level (though still senior) official reporting
to the Under-Secretary, but conversely the one most directly concerned with the substantive content of the
MOT component of the project. During the last three years of the project the holder of the Director-
General's post changed approximately every six months, perhaps at least in part due to the continuing
political instability in Turkey. This lack of continuity - each Bank supervision mission met with a new
interlocutor - meant that there was no cumulative development of commitment to the project at the senior
management level of the Ministry, and no possibility of establishing improved expertise at this level.
This point will be discussed further with respect to project sustainability.
7.     The situation of YOK was somewhat different, deriving from its distinctive position within the
Turkish governmental structure. The President of YOK, although of ministerial level, is not a member of
the Government, being appointed by the President of Turkey, not by the Prime Minister. This has the
advantage that YOK is, at least to some extent, shielded from fluctuating political influences. But
conversely YOK has less freedom than a Ministry in controlling its internal affairs, e.g. in making internal
structural changes, because it is not an independent budgetary agency, but is restricted by the provisions
of the law which established it. Hence while it was specified in the Staff. Appraisal Report that YOK
would create an Industrial Training Unit (ITU) to be responsible for the development of both technician
training and technical teacher training, in practice it has only been possible to do this in an informal
fashion, i.e. without making ITU a part of the formal structure of YOK, and without having fully-
budgeted posts for the senior staff. Instead, ITU has been staffed on a part-time basis by university
professors seconded from their regular activities. They have generally been assiduous in their ITU duties,
and have been responsive to Bank suggestions for strengthening ITU's role, even beginning recently to
take their own initiatives in this respect, while at the same time also assisting other Bank-financed
projects in areas such as procurement on the basis of their developed expertise. In addition, one member
of the Governing Council of YOK has specific responsibility for industrial training, and the ITU Director
reports to that Council member. But the absence so far of permanent financial provision for the staffing
of ITU raises the risk that, with the closure of the project, the expertise developed in ITU will be
dispersed as staff may return full-time to their previous duties.
8.     Although in the early phases of the project YOK management appeared reluctant to establish a
permanent ITU, more recently they have tried several times to address this issue, but so far without
success. In 1994 proposals were submitted to the Prime Minister's Department for the creation of
permanent cadre posts for ITU's management positions, but the proposal was rejected. After this setback,
YOK prepared legislation to modify its structure to facilitate the creation of new posts, and this was sent
to Parliament for consideration, but Parliament was dissolved through a political crisis before the proposal
could be discussed. Recently, YOK has again submitted draft legislation to Parliament to strengthen its
structure and give it a general power to reorganize itself in the light of changing needs in the future, which
would inter alia permit the formal creation of ITU. This proposal has the support of both the President
and the Prime Minister, but university rectors are nervous that any enhancement of YOK's status will
impinge on their own autonomy, and they have been lobbying in political circles against the proposal, so
its passage through Parliament remains at issue.
9.     In short, the project has realized its quantitative objectives in terms of training outputs, in the
process significantly raising their quality as a result of improvements in training facilities and equipment,
instructor-training, course content and institutional management. At the same time, for the reasons noted
above, the institutional strengthening of the implementing agencies which the project also aimed to
achieve has been less than fully realized, particularly in the case of the Ministry of Tourism.



- 4 -
10.   The additional activity added as the basis for the second one-year extension of the project, namely
the set of higher education studies undertaken as a preparation for possible future reforms, was fully
realized by the target date (see Table 7). Since then, YOK has begun work on reform proposals based on
the findings of these studies.
C.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
11.   Implementation Record. In its initial years the project was slow to disburse, principally due to
delays in the construction of the facilities for the institutions selected to benefit from the project. This
construction was the responsibility of the borrower. The main cause of this delay was the inadequate
availability of Turkish budgetary funds, frequently exacerbated by the delayed release of theoretically
available funds until late in the fiscal year, so that they could not be used effectively during the remaining
months or weeks. Construction delays had an adverse knock-on effect for other project activities.
Procurement of equipment could not be initiated until there were facilities in which to install it, and
similarly the equipment-related aspects of instructor training were in turn delayed. This also meant that
technical assistance for the development of instructors and managers had in part to be postponed. This
cumulation of delays principally affected the YOK components of the project, though by project closure
the single outstanding construction activity was the completion of MOT's TUREM in Gaziantep, the
equipment for which could not therefore be procured. The construction delay was beyond the control of
the implementing agencies, but within the overall control of government.
12.    One other small activity envisaged under the project which could not be realized in full was the
provision within the YOK component of textbooks and teaching aids translated from other languages into
Turkish. In this instance the main difficulty was in obtaining the necessary copyright authority from
foreign publishers and authors. Where this was not available, which was frequently the case, the activity
had to be suspended. Eventually YOK decided that the time and effort spent in failed attempts to obtain
copyrights was counter-productive, and so with the Bank's concurrence this activity was discontinued.
Instead, more effort was devoted to local preparation of indigenous teaching materials and aids. This
factor was clearly beyond the control of either the government or the implementing agency. The MOT
component of the project avoided this difficulty by having all its training materials prepared with the help
of the technical assistance team.
13.    Both implementing agencies made extensive use of technical assistance in the implementation of
their respective components of the project. At an early stage in the implementation of the project, the
technical assistance provided to YOK was discontinued because of a conflict of interest issue, following
which the contract was re-bid and another contractor hired.  After this initial discontinuity the
performance of the technical assistance contractors was generally satisfactory. In the case of MOT the
contractor also handled equipment procurement through its own procurement service, using the Bank's
procurement rules, and this procedure was fully satisfactory. In the YOK components the management of
the technical assistance initially operated in parallel to ITU, but with experience ITU was able to take
over this role itself, so that in the final years of the project it managed a substantial continuing operation,
in the process enabling the technical assistance funds to be stretched further for technical as opposed to
administrative purposes. Initially a large part of the YOK technical assistance funds were devoted to
fellowship training abroad, but it was found that many of the returning trainees had derived limited
benefit from this training, due to inadequate knowledge of English (though they were given prior
language training). Therefore it was decided to concentrate the training of instructors in-country, which
had the further significant benefit of being much cheaper to operate, so that much more training could be
provided, bringing the trainers from abroad, and using interpretation as necessary. In later years, as
project experience accumulated, some aspects of training could be successfully undertaken by former



- 5 -
trainees who were by now experienced instructors or TTC managers, which again allowed technical
assistance funds for training to be used more extensively than initially envisaged.
14.   On the YOK side of the project, equipment procurement has been a major activity, because of
both the extent of equipment provision and the diversity and sophistication of the advanced technical
training promoted through the project. In many respects the items provided through the project are more
modem and advanced than anything to be found in the engineering faculties of Turkish universities.
(This situation has sometimes led to difficulties, because university rectors have wanted to transfer
project-financed equipment to their engineering faculties, but at the Bank's request YOK has stipulated
firmly that equipment may not be moved, but that engineering students may use itin situ at times when it
is not required for technical training purposes.) ITU staff have become very proficient at handling
equipment procurement to the Bank's satisfaction, while at the same time meeting the onerous
requirements of Turkish administrative procedures, e.g. with respect to Ministry of Finance and customs
clearances, and VAT payments. There have been a number of complaints from dissatisfied bidders, but in
all cases these have been resolved, though not without significant effort in several instances, e.g. in one
case with resort to external review of a bid evaluation, which found in favour of ITU.
15.    Both YOK and MOT have kept detailed project accounts, and regular audits have been carried
out by the Turkish Government (Treasury) auditors, as has been the practice hitherto with Bank-financed
projects in Turkey. In general, there has been timely submission of the audit reports for this project. The
only difficulty in this respect derived from the national auditors' reluctance to accept that, because the TA
contractor for MOT's component of the project was a UN Specialized Agency, and detailed auditing of
their activities is routinely carried out by the UN's own auditors, under the Convention governing the
provision of services to Bank-financed projects by such entities, they only present a statement of expenses
to the domestic implementing agency and hence are not subject to the same degree of audit by the
national audit body.
16.   Major Factors Affecting the Project. In the broadest sense, counterpart staff turnover has been a
source of multiple difficulties for project implementation. This has manifested itself in various ways in
all parts of the project. On the industrial training side of the project (TTCs) the fundamental problem has
been the degree of autonomy of university rectors in making appointments to management positions in
the TTCs. Since rectors can appoint anyone of sufficient academic rank, and replace them at will, there
have been instances of appointments of TTC managers with no relevant subject background, and
instances of recently-trained managers being moved on to other assignments. Conversely, there are
instances of managers remaining in the job for some years who have been able to develop a high degree
of expertise and ensure a cumulative improvement in the TTCs that they manage. The need is to develop
a cadre of qualified staff for management of the various types of technical training institutions, promoted
from the ranks of instructors and deputy managers, so that this can become a distinct career stream within
the broader higher education career structure, instead of the present situation where such specialist
positions are simply one step within a professor's career where general academic duties are the longer-
term concern. Similarly, in the technical and vocational teacher-training faculties there has been a
continuing problem of turnover of Assistant Deans, to whom the Deans have usually delegated
responsibility for implementation of this component of the project. One effect of this situation has been
that the Regional Faculty Advisory Councils which were intended to guide their work never remained
effective for very long, because the new incumbents were unaware of their intended role. On the MOT
side of the project the rapid turnover of senior MOT officials has already been mentioned, but there has
been an increasing problem of retention of TUREM instructors, for whom competing jobs in the tourist
industry or in private training facilities have become more available. Similarly, it was never possible to
recruit a local staff to be trained as a trainer in food preparation, even with the carrot of overseas training,
because any competent candidate could earn far more by working as a chef, even without training. (MOT
finally resorted to issuing trainees with recipe books, as a gesture of last resort to supplement their basic



- 6 -
training.) Although efforts have been made during supervision to discuss the various aspects of the
counterpart staff issue with university rectors, and some have been responsive to it, even this tactic has
had a limited effect, because rectors themselves are also subject to replacement, or at least re-election,
after three years in office.
17.    The attitude of university rectors has also been a source of difficulty in another context. Because
of the extremely constrained budgetary situation of higher education in recent years, the ability of training
institutions to earn money from activities such as consultancy and product quality testing, with the
resulting income being placed in revolving funds for future developmental purposes, has been of great
importance. Typically, TTC staff receive a share of the earnings thus generated, which is a valuable
incentive in light of their low basic salaries, and has the additional benefit of increasing their practical
experience. This has not been observed to have an adverse impact on teaching duties. However, while
some project institutions have been able to establish such funds and operate them for their own benefit, in
other instances the rectors have insisted on having a single university revolving fund into which all
income had to be deposited, with no guarantee that the earning institution could then derive the benefit
from its efforts. This has had a deterrent effect in certain instances, because technical training generally
has a low position in the hierarchy of higher education, so is generally not well-placed to compete with,
say, medical or engineering faculties for supplementary funding, even when it has been a source of the
university's earnings.
18.   In a period characterized by weak governments and shifting political alliances, university rectors
have strengthened their power, both individually and as a group, since their numbers have considerably
increased. At the provincial level they rank second to the governor in precedence. Although there is a
formal procedure for budgetary allocations to universities through the government machinery, including
YOK, in practice rectors lobby parliamentarians during the budget approval process to get their individual
allocations increased and finalized. YOK's specific status, with a President of ministerial rank but
appointed by the Head of State instead of the Prime Minister, is the source of both strength and weakness
- strength because YOK is somewhat removed from the political constraints which have frequently
impacted on recent coalition governments, and weakness because YOK itself is not an independent
budgetary agency, so its freedom of action is constrained by the provisions of the law which established
it. Thus YOK's effectiveness tends to be a function of the personal standing and commitment of its
president, in particular vis-a-vis that of the university rectors, both individually and collectively. Since
many of the larger and better - developed TTCs are located within university campuses, and dependent
on the university for all their services, it is scarcely feasible in practical terms to make them independent
of the universities. Rather the need is to strengthen and reorganize YOK and make it more effective in
relation to the universities so that it can play a stronger advocacy role on behalf of technical training and
other relatively neglected aspects of post-secondary education.
19.    The inability of successive governments to have legislation passed through Parliament to
strengthen the independence of YOK, and in particular to give greater status to industrial/technical
training within higher education through the creation of a permanent ITU within the structure of YOK,
has impacted adversely on the project. If such a structure could have been formally established, then it
would probably have been easier to give greater status to TTC management, and hence ensure broader
and more lasting qualitative improvement of the TTCs, instead of the somewhat patchy and intermittent
improvements (though on an upward curve of achievement) which have been the reality. The temporary
staff of ITU have certainly been dedicated to achieving such improvements, but their efforts have too
often been undermined by TTC management turnover or handicapped by inappropriate management
appointments.
20.    A continuing source of difficulty in the project institutions has been the inability to recruit
sufficient numbers of technicians to service and maintain training equipment and prepare laboratory and



-7 -
workshop facilities for training use. This problem has affected both TTCs and Faculties, but particularly
the latter. It has been due partly to the inability to offer sufficiently competitive employment conditions
to attract qualified technicians, but also because university rectors have been unable or unwilling to
provide sufficient technician posts to respond to the expanding needs of the institutions. The MOT side
of the project also suffered from a scarcity of technician support, even though it had a lower need because
of the less sophisticated equipment involved.
D.    Project Sustainability
21.    This issue is best discussed separately for the different components of the project, since the
various implementing agencies have no linkages with one another.
22.    Ministry of Tourism. Although the MOT component has been implemented capably by the PIU,
including the creation of an instructor-training facility, and there has been some successful revenue-
generating activity through the provision of training to several other ECA countries, it is not yet fully
evident that MOT is committed to building on the foundation thus established. In particular the provision
of recurrent budget for the TUREMs established through the project shows a tendency to decline, so that
shortcomings of maintenance are beginning to appear, and the supplies of consumable materials needed
for training are diminishing. The loss of instructors has already been mentioned, and those remaining
have a growing need for updating training beyond the end of the project. A certification system for
TUREM training, which would ensure industry recognition of the training received, has been prepared,
but is only beginning to be implemented. In order to make more intensive use of the TUREM training
facilities, responding to the rapid increase in the number of applicants for training, two years ago a second
annual course was introduced, but MOT has discontinued this initiative. Admittedly it proved difficult to
find in-service training opportunities for all of the second course trainees, because their need for in-
service training came during the tourism "off-season", but this should not have impeded such training in
the main urban centres, where there is year-round use of hotel and restaurant facilities. Recently MOT
has announced an intention to close three of the existing TUREMs, and relocate them in new facilities,
which is only acceptable if the new facilities are ready for use before the existing ones cease operation, so
that there is no interruption to the output of trainees. Although theMOT's Activity Plan attached to its
Project Completion Report proposes to address certain of these issues, the recurrent budget problem is not
mentioned, and neither is the question of TUREM closures and replacements. Hence the extent of MOT
commitment to project sustainability remains open.
23.    YOK. Faculties of Technical and Vocational Education. The project has greatly increased the
capacity of the Faculties to provide improved and updated training through its provision of modem
equipment and facilities, together with related staff training. But a number of conditions will have to be
fulfilled in order to sustain this capacity. Among the factors which will affect the continued satisfactory
provision of training capacity, and which are potentially open to question, are the availability of
technicians to maintain and service equipment, the availability of adequate stocks of consumable training
materials, and the continued capacity to upgrade or even replace training equipment as it becomes
obsolete (in computer-related areas this happens both quickly and repeatedly). The key condition will be
the availability of adequate recurrent budgets and investment funds for updated equipment, both of which
are controlled by the university rectors. In theory Faculty staff could generate extra-budgetary funds for
such purposes from extra-curricular activities, but in practice equipment and staff are used so intensively
that such opportunities are limited. Thus the principal condition for the future effectiveness of this
component will be the continuing commitment of university rectors to provide recurrent budgets, and to
update equipment and staff.



-8 -
24.    YOK  Technician Training Centres. The TTCs are also largely dependent on the support of
university rectors for their sustainability, and for similar reasons. In addition, some rectors have
endeavoured to move equipment out of project TTCs to other parts of their universities, and YOK has had
to prevent this, and must continue to do so as long as the Loan agreement provisions apply. But the
Managers of TTCs have potentially more scope than the Deans of Faculties to generate external support
for their institutions, though this scope varies between different TTCs. In several instances, TTC
Managers have been able to develop extensive relationships with local industry, facilitating placements of
students for in-service training and also after graduation, and receiving donations of equipment in return
for developing new training courses related to a local field of production. Such achievements depend in
the first instance on the initiative (and continuity) of the Manager, but given this willingness, they are
seen in locations where industry is well-developed or rapidly expanding, e.g. Izmir, Tekirdag, Bursa, and
Gaziantep. In these instances it can be said that institutions which were created through the project have
begun to take on a momentum of their own, and to develop in a self-sustaining way beyond the initial
conception of the project. But the scope for such initiatives is much more limited as yet in those areas
such as Elazig or Ordu where industrial development is still at an early stage. However, the fact that
Turkish industrial management has begun to be concerned about the quality of the human resources
available for industrial employment, and has become proactive towards industrial training establishments,
is the best guarantee of project sustainability. An important step in this process at a late stage of the
project was the conclusion of a protocol between YOK and the Istanbul Chamber of Industry for the
promotion of industry-based learning for TTC students, and related certification. This was a Turkish
initiative which the Bank was happy to support, as evidence of a sustainability action. In the same
context, the Ministry of Finance, at the urging of universities, has recently agreed to make supplementary
payments to the TTC instructors who supervise students' industry-based learning - again an initiative
from the borrower's side to address a project weakness.
25.    The project-supported TTCs can also play an important role in the general sustainability of
technician training, in the process making the project's achievements in this component more sustainable.
As mentioned earlier, the project-supported TTCs are only a small fraction, in institutional terms, of the
total system of technician training, though they tend to be the largest, best-staffed, and best-equipped
institutions. Therefore "project" TTCs have been encouraged to become "best-practice" institutions for
the other TTCs attached to their parent universities, e.g. through acting as a focus for staff training,
sharing of new curricula and training materials, etc. This in turn strengthens the potential value of the
"project" TTC to the university rector, and hence its likely access to the necessary budgetary and other
resources.
26.    YOK Management. As already noted, YOK's inability so far to establish a formal Industrial
Training Unit to oversee the development of technical training within higher education has a potential to
impair project sustainability, because it leaves university rectors with a virtual monopoly of control over
the fate of TTCs and Faculties financed through the project. Against this, the decision of YOK's
President, agreed to by the Bank, to apply US$1.5 million of project funds to a series of studies for higher
education reform in preparation for future Bank support of the sector, part of which YOK wishes to be for
industrial training, implies a commitment to sustainability of the present project, failing which future
Bank support would be less likely.
E.    Bank Performance
27.    The initiative for the Second Industrial Training project originally came from YOK, which
prepared a feasibility study with the help of consultants employed by the then ongoing First Industrial
Training project. Although the Bank team which then prepared and appraised the project performed
efficiently, it is not clear, in the light of subsequent experience, that they fully appreciated the



-9-
implications of the institutional environment within which the project would be implemented. In
particular they appear not to have taken into consideration the degree of autonomy of university rectors,
and hence the extent of their control over project institutions. As noted previously, this has caused a
number of difficulties in project implementation, and also is a source of risk for project sustainability. In
the course of successive supervision missions these difficulties came to be better appreciated, and
remedial action was taken accordingly to the extent possible. Thus while Bank supervision performance
has been satisfactory, some deficiency at the time of preparation and appraisal may be noted.
F.     Borrower Performance
28.    Preparation.  Although the borrower (through YOK) took the initiative in project preparation,
and deserves credit for this, it is not clear at this distance in time (some 10 years) that full account was
taken of the specific institutional environment for the project, and its implications. (The MOT component
of the project was only added at a late stage of preparation, and the above comment does not apply to it.)
29.    Implementation.  The borrower's implementation performance has been adversely affected by
several factors beyond the control of the implementing agencies. In particular delays in releasing funds
for the construction of project institutions has in turn caused postponements in the procurement of
equipment, and also hindered the timely action of technical assistance contractors. At a later stage of the
project the unstable political environment has more than once prevented YOK from taking the necessary
steps to establish the formal ITU envisaged in the project design. Thirdly, the turnover of staff, both in
implementing agencies and in project institutions, has had the effect of slowing implementation, and
making some project institutions less innovative than others.  At the operating level of project
implementation units there has been a trend of improving performance, with a significant degree of staff
continuity accompanied by a willingness to learn from the technical assistance contractors, more recently
reinforced by a capacity to take over where the contractors left off, and to innovate in response to
emerging situations. At the senior management level of the implementing agencies the experience has
been varied; earlier in the project YOK management appeared less committed, but has been much more
supportive in recent years, whereas in MOT there has been too much turnover of senior staff, especially in
recent years, for any great commitment to become evident. In sum, borrower performance in project
implementation has progressively improved over the life of the project, which has been reflected in
effective operation of project institutions, but there remains a question mark as to project sustainability,
especially with regard to the MOT component. Overall, borrower performance should be rated as
satisfactory.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
30.    The overall rating of the project is satisfactory with regard to implementation performance,
though as noted above there is reason to question the extent of project sustainability, especially with
regard to the MOT component (but this represents less than 10% of the value of the project). Conversely,
YOK added a new component to the project late in its life (Higher Education Studies), which is intended
to lay the groundwork for a related future project, and which can therefore be regarded as at least in part a
commitment to the sustainability of the current project. Whereas the pace of implementation was slow in
the earlier years, it speeded up more recently, and the Higher Education Studies were completed within a
tight deadline. Although YOK has not so far succeeded in having a formal ITU approved by Parliament,
in its current form ITU has shown a steady improvement in performance.  Successive supervision
missions have observed growing commitment to maintenance and further development of the institutions
realized through the project, on the part of their staffs. As noted earlier, several institutions have taken
significant initiatives on their own behalf, and with the support of industry, to build on the foundations



- 10-
laid through the project, which gives legitimate reason to feel a degree of optimism about the
sustannability and development impact of at least part of the project.
H.    Future Operation
31.   The Ministry of Tourism has indicated that it intends to sustain the achievements of the project by
updating training materials and the knowledge and skills of instructional staff, by regulating training, and
by increasing access to training. However there has been no mention of action to address the financial
constraints which have inrreasingly been limiting the effectiveness of training centres, or of steps to
strengthen industry involvement in support of training.
32.    On the YGK side of the project, ITU has a three-year strategic plan through the year 2000, which
is to be updated annually. This plan, which concerns both TTCs and FTVEs, is intended to: (i) strengthen
the role of ITU with its constituents; (ii) establish an ongoing curriculum renewal process; (iii) enhance
in-service training of administrators, instructors, and support staff; (iv) promote facility and resource
utilization; (v) increase collaboration with industry and business, and the Ministry of Education; and (vi)
bring world-class practices into the Turkish industrial training system.
33.    YOK rapidly and fully implemented the higher education studies which were a late addition to
the project, and which are intended to be a basis for reforms in higher education, particularly in the areas
of govemance and financing. Therefore it is to be expected that YOK will now seek Bank financing for a
future higher education reform project, part of which is also likely to involve further strengthening of the
TTC system, in particular in those universities which did not benefit from the First and Second Industrial
Training projects.
1.     Key Lessons Learned
34.    The main lessons that can be learned from the experience of preparing and implementing the
Second Industrial Training project relate to the institutional context and to managerial and personnel
discontinuities.
35.   Institutional Context. During project preparation and appraisal, and also during the initial phase
of implementation, it is not clear that Bank personnel were fully aware of the institutional environment of
higher education, and in particular of the dominant role of university rectors (although this was a repeater
project, new staff were in place following the 1987 reorganization). The failure to take this into account
during project design has meant that much supervision time has had to be spent on gamering the support
of rectors for project implementation in those institutions under their control. In one or two instances
where rectors were not prepared to abide by Bank rules for utilization of equipment procured under the
project, that equipment, and the related training courses using it, had to be transferred to other project
institutions.
36.    Managerial Discontinuities. A major problem during the project has been the high turnover in
management positions in some project institutions under YOK. Undoubtedly this has been due, at least in
part, to the lack of any distinct career stream for TTC managers within the structure of higher education.
As a result there is no guarantee that an appointee to TTC management will have a related technical
background, with a resulting disincentive to effective management. Also, since TTCs (although at post-
secondary level) are outside the faculty structure of the universities, and so seen by many academics as an
inferior component of higher education, professors appointed to TTC management by rectors often see
themselves as excluded from the academic hierarchy and hence seek an early return to a faculty position.



- 11 -
37.    The problem of managerial discontinuity has manifested itself in a different way in MOT, where
it has been concentrated at the central administration of the Ministry rather than at the level of project
institutions. This is more a function of governmental or ministerial instability, since incoming ministers
tend to install their own appointees at senior administrative levels, or at least to reshuffle the incumbents
of senior posts. In either case the result is a lack of senior management familiarity with ongoing project
activities or objectives, and hence lack of any increase in commitment during the life of the project,
despite successful implementation.
38.    A Lesson for the Future. The pace of growth in the field of information technology has meant
that much of such equipment provided through the project has rapidly become outdated, necessitating
upgrades if not total replacement. Any project which seeks to produce competent high-level technical or
professional staff must address this issue if its training outputs are to continue to be attractive to potential
employers. Because of the technical awareness of YOK staff, and the availability of unallocated project
funds, this problem could be addressed during the project, but it is less clear that this will be so following
project closure. However in the MOT component this issue, though of much less significance, was not
raised until the very end of the project, too late for it to be addressed. This suggests the need in any
similar future project for long-term forward planning of infbrmation technology procurement, with a
margin of provision for unforeseen technical innovations or upgrades, in order to keep training equipment
in a "state of the art" condition.
39.    The Structure of Technical Training. In choosing to focus the project on TTCs rather than
Engineering Faculties, the Turkish authorities correctly recognized the key role of technicians in
industrial development, acknowledging that in many countries this has been the most neglected category
of skills, so that engineers becomes less effective because of the scarcity of qualified technicians to work
with them and exploit their initiatives. It is frequently stated that Turkey has an excess of engineering
graduates, the evidence cited being that many such graduates are unemployed, while some others only
find jobs which do not utilize their professional competence. Conversely, there is growing evidence that
employers seek to recruit TTC graduates, e.g. recruitment advertisements appear which specifically ask
for them. Moreover, in a growing number of instances, employers have been responsive to requests to
invest directly in TTCs to equip new facilities and support new training options, which in turn lead to
potential employment opportunities for their graduates.



- 12 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial        Ne1iibl          Not aMficable
Macro Policies                                       2[3
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                                                  E                 II0  
Institutional Development
Physical Objectives                  3               a                        
Poverty Reduction                                                                          I Cl  El
Gender Issues                       E                E                 0                I
Other Social Objectives             El               E                El
Environmental Objectives            E                E                E                 I
Public Sector Management             1              [                 E                 E
Private Sector Development           Cl                                                 L C
Other (specify)                      n                                E                 E
(Continued)



- 13 -
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                   Unlikely                 Uncertain
(V)                      (/)                       (.1)
Hig
C. Bank Performance                 satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
(/)                     (V)                       (v')
Identification                     II                      I                          II
Preparation Assistance             [                        [                          n
Appraisal 
Supervision                                                 IZ
Highly
D. Borrower Performance             satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
(.1)                    (V)                       (/)
Preparation                        D                       ERK
Implementation                     F                        FC
Covenant Compliance                n                                                  LI
Operation (if applicable)           n                       LI                        LI
Highly                                            Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome           satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
LI)                             LI) U/     



- 14 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS2
Loan l'itle               Purpose                                                          Year ot          Status
approval
10o tocus on quality enhancement and management improvement      199             Active
1. National Education     aspects of the Govemment's broad sectoral development programs
Development Project    through improved student achievement, educational efficiency,
(Ln.3192-TU)            teacher education, and organization management.
Achieve universal coverage in an expanded, eight-year basic                       Active
2. Basic Education I      education cycle (fonrerly five years); to improve the quality and
relevance of basic education; and to mak-e basic education schools a
learning resource for the community.
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                     Date Planned                            Date Actual
Identification                                                                January 28, 1987
Preparation                                            .February 23T 1987
Appraisal                                                                     September 2  1987
Negotiations                                           .February 8 1988
Board Presentation                                                            March 22, 1988
Signing                                                                  . April 8, 1988
Effectiveness                                                                 June 1.5 1998
Project Completion                     December 31. 1995                      December 31, 1997
Loan Closing                           June 30, 1996                          June30. 1998
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ thousands)
FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99
Appraisal Estimates   -.0      2 4.1    45.1    683      89.3    104.1   112.5   115.8   115.8   115.8   115.8
Actual                 15.91         15.94   26.52    56.87   61.69   72.9 | 83.72    104.01   110.04  113.23 |113.45
Actual as% o  estimate   1.1  [6 59              83       69      273       74      9 9     5    98            98 -
Date of ftinal disbursement - August 23 199l
2 All preceding operations closed



- 15 -
TABLE 5: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                Purpose as defined at                 Status                   Impact of Study
appraisal/redefined
1. Establishment of an       These studies were the subject         Completed            As all the studies were
Academic Assessment           of a loan amendment dated                                  completed just before loan
Mechanism and Structure for    July 30, 1996. Their purpose                              closure, it is premature to
Higher Education in Turkey    was to provide information for                             evaluate impact, but the study
higher education reform                                    findings are being used by
proposals, possibly to be                                  YOK management as inputs to
implemented with a future                                  higher education reform.
loan from the World Bank.
2. Development of New                                               Completed
System for Allocating Public
Resources to Individual
Higher Education Institution in
Turkey.
3. Development of                                                   Completed
Informatics Education
Programmes in Turkish
Universities.
4. Analysis of Nationwide                                           Completed
Distance Education
Altematives.
5. Parental Income,                                                 Completed
Educational Expenditures,
Financial and Job Expectations
of University Students.
TABLE 6A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate (UJS$M)             Actual (US$M)
Item                                    Local Costs Foreign Co  Total          Local Costs Foreign CoE T'otal
1. Equipment                           34T0          8.            T11T6.0                  8.TT          81.7
2. 1echnical Assistance                 3.0        '        3       T0.0   0                 31.1         31.1
3. Buildings
Extension to existing facilities      8.2           2.2          10.4         56.5                      56.5
Renovation of existing facilities     3.0           1.0          4.0          1.7                       1.7
Furniture                             1.8           .6           2.4                                               l
4. Textbooks & Teaching Aids            0.             0.0          0.0         0.0         .62            .62
TO7TAL                                   50.          11.8         165.8         58.2         113.5        171.7
(Borrower's costs higher than appraisal estimate because more training centers were constructed than estimated at appraisal)
TABLE 6B: PROJECT FINANCING
_________________  Appraisal Estimate (US$M)  jActual/estimate (US$M)
Source                                 Local Costs Foreign cos :otal           Loca Costs ForeignCOE Totat
IBRD                                  1              115.8        115.8       l              113.5        1T3.5
Government                              T0.0               _       50.0       | 58.2                       58.2
TFOTIAL                               -50.0           11r5.8       165.8 - |37- 58211.                     71.7       l



-16-
TABLE 7: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Republic of Turkey
Industrial Training 11 Project
Compliance with Loan/Credit Conditions
Agreement      Section    Covenant    Status       Original      Revised        Description of Covenant     Comments
Type                 Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
Loan No.      Section                 OK             .                        I he Borrower declares its  All project
2922-TU       3.01 (a) of                                                    commitment to the objectives   institutions
the Loan                                                       of the project. YOK and MOT   operational, and
Agreement                                                      shall carry out their parts as set  YOK and MOT
forth in Schedule 2 of the   are committed
agreement, in conformity    to their
appropriate engineering,    continued
technical, educational and   operation.
administrative practices
.The Borrower shall carry out
Section                                                        the Project in accordance with
3.01 (b) of                                                    the Implementation Program
Loan                                                           set forth Schedule 5 of the
Agreement                                                      agreement.
Section                 OK          03/3189      03/31/T79     Establish by March 31, IY89,   Operation of
5(A) (a).                                                      under the chairmanship of the   the Board. The
Council of YOK a Policy     first meeting
Board for Industrial Training    was held on
(PBIT).                      March 31,
1990, and
subsequent
meetings
thereafter.
Schedule    M                                                  AssignOthelU's oordinatorto
5(A) (b).                                                      operate as the secretary of the
PBIT.
Schedule    M           Pending    03/3r1789     12311779      Organize, by March 31, 1989,  'I'he l''U has
5(B) (1)                                                       an Industrial Training Unit  been formed
(ITU) as a permanent structure   and is operating
capable of coordinating     the three
technician training programs  sections.
and liaison with industry the  Permanent
ITU would have three sections:  support staff
Technician Training;        (12) have been
Vocational and Technical     appointed. The
Teacher Training; and Projects   Director and
Implementation.              other high level
staff are
professors, who
are teaching
about 10 hours
per week.
YOK has three
times submitted
proposals to
Parliament for
the appointment
of full-time
management
staff for ITU,
but continued
political
instability has
prevented their
approval. The
latest



- 17 -
Agreement      Section     Covenant    Status       Original      Revised        Description of Covenant      Comments
Type                  Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date          Date
submission is
still pending
before
I                     ~~~~~~~~Parliament.
Schedule    OtUK                    ()3131189      06/30/93     Established by March 31,      The March
5(B) (2) of                                                     1989, an Advisory Board for    1989 deadline
the Loan                                                        each of the 4 FTVEs with the    was not met
Agreement                                                       responsibility to advise such  due to the
FTVEs on requirements for    longer lead time
teachers of technical subjects    needed to
and on curriculum            define the
development and teacher      operation of the
training in new specializations.   Regional
Boards and
appoint its
members, and
then one faculty
split into three.
The 6 faculties
have now
constituted their
Boards;
The ITU should take all      however there
necessary action, including the  is a continuing
Schedule 5      T          OK         12/31/95                  allocation of funds towards   need to provide
(c) of the                                                      achieving a ratio for 12:1    guidance to the
Loan                                                            trainees to instructor by     Boards on their
Agreement                                                       December 31, 1995.            functions,
related to the
needs of the
MOE as regards
technical and
vocational
teachers.
The ITU has
significantly
surpassed this
target.
Schedule                OK                                      Implementation of the MO''    'I'e
5(D) of the                                                     component shall be through a    Undersecretary
Loan                                                            Management Committee          for Tourism has
Agreement                                                       headed by the Deputy          agreed to
Undersecretary of Tourism and  implement the
will comprise the four       project as
Directors of General Tourism,   envisaged in the
Marketing and Promotion,     Loan
Tourism Investment, and      Agreement.
Training. Also, a General    Collaboration
Secretary will act as        with the DG of
coordinator of an            Training is
implementation unit.         assisting in
achievement of
project
objectives, but
constant staff
tumover has
impaired
improvement of
effectiveness,
except with the
PIU.
Section     1           ()K                                      Ihe Borrower shall maintain  Both YOK and
4.01 (b) (i)                                                    records and accounts, including  MOT maintain
of the Loan                                                     those for the Special Account    good records of
Agreement                                                       for each fiscal year, audited, in  project
accordance with appropriate    expenditures.



- 18 -
Agreement      Section     Covenant    Status       Original      Revised        Description of Covenant      Comments
Type                  Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date          Date
..__________ .._________                                             auditing pnnciples.
Section       T         O -012                                  Ithe Borrower shall not later  I'he audits were
4.01 (b) (ii)                                                   than six months after the end of  carried out and
of the Loan                                                     each fiscal year (June 30),   have been
Agreement                                                       furnish to the Bank an audit    submitted to the
report of such scope and in  Bank, with
such detail as the Bank shall    satisfactory
have reasonably requested.   opinions.



- 19 -
TABLE 8: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance
Stage of   Month/        No. of       Days in      Specialized staff skills   Implementati   Development     Types of
Project      Year       Persons        field           represented           on status     Objectives       Problems
Cycle
Preparation   3/87      4             17           1 Economist
2 Technical Education
I Implementation
Specialist
6/87      4              14           1 Economist
2 Technical Education
I Implementation
Specialist
Appraisal    10/87      5             12           1 Economist
2 Technical Education
I Implementation
Specialist
I Operation Assistant
Appraisal    3/88       1                          1 Economist
through
Board
Approval
Board        6/88
Approval
through
Effective-
ness
Supervision   6/88     4              25           1 Economist
I Implementation
Specialist
2 Education Specialist
2/89      2              18           i Economist                                             Need to focus
I Technical                                            faculties on
Educator                                                production of
teachers rather
than engineers
10/89     2           118             1 Operation Assistant   2               2
I Technical Educator
12/89     1             10            I System Analyst
5/90      3             2             1 Project Officer        2              2               MOT Personnel
I Technical Educator                                    changes. Lack
I Implementation                                        of ITU
Specialist                                              Personnel
Construc-



- 20 -
tion delays -
TTC Language
problem for
fellowship
12/90      1             16            Technical Educator        2               2               TTC cons-
Truction, ITU
staffing
5/91      2               12           1 Project Officer         3               3               Institution
I Technical Educator                                     building - YOK
TTC
construction
Fellowship
training MOT
PIU problems
2/92       3              18           1 Project Officer         3               3               YOK/ITU
I Technical Educator                                     University
I Employment &                                           autonomy.
Training Specialist                                       Construction
delays
9/92       3              18           1 Technical Educator      2               3               In-service
I Project Officer                                        training of
Resident Mission                                          instructors
1/93      4              22            1 Technical Educator      2               3               Delay in TA
I Project Officer                                        negotiation,
I Computer                                               computer
Specialist                                               installations
I Resident Mission
6/93       4              16           1 Technical               2               2               TA delays
Educator                                                  impacting on
I Project Officer                                        procurement
I Resident Mission                                       and on Faculty
course
development
4/94       3              17           1 Economist               2               2               ITU's broader
I Technical Educator                                     mgmt role, and
I Computer Specialist                                    rectors'
independence.
Technician
scarcity.
Overdue audits.
10/94     3              11            I Economist               S               S               Scarcity of
I Human Resources                                        technician
Specialist (Resident                                      scarcity. and
Mission)                                                  consumables.
I Training Specialist                                    Limited
capacity
Of MOE to hire
FTVE
graduates.
Impact on non-
project TTC
and Faculties.
4/95       3              18           1 Economist               S               S               Consumables.



- 21 -
I Human Resources                                      Commitment to
Specialist (RM)                                        practical
I Training Specialist                                  training Faculty
delays for
equipment
installation
10/95     2             9             1 Economist              S              S               YOK Faculty
I Human Resources                                      delays equip
Specialist (RM)                                        installation
preparation
Project TTC to
be center of
excellence for
rest of system.
MOT Food
production
expert
Expansion of
Applicants.
GAZIANTEP
contract.
3/96      2              19           1 Economist              S              S               New
I Human Resources                                      procurement
Specialist (RM)                                        embargo by
Govt. Admin of
1 BL GAZ
delay.
9/96      2              18           1 Economist              S               S              Govemment
I Human Resources                                      fall before ITU
Specialist                                             legislation
passed. GAZ
delay. IBL
admin.
5/97      2              10           I Economist              S              S               Counterpart
I Human Resources                                      funding to
Specialist (RM)                                         cover VAT on
equipment.
Find payment
of ILO TA.
YOK
guidelines for
managerial
appointments.
11/97     2              10           I Economist              S              S               GAZIANTEP
I Human Resources                                      TUREM.
Specialist (RM)
4/98      2              17           1 Economist                                             Technicians,
I Human Resources                                      consumables
Specialist (RM)                                         and equipment
updating.
Position of
rectors, MOT-
certification of
training, staff
salary levels.






- 23 -
Republic of Turkey                                            World Bank
AIDE MEMOIRE
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING II PROJECT - LOAN 2922-TU
PROJECT COMPLETION MISSION - APRIL 13-MAY 1, 1998
I. INTRODUCTION
1.  A project completion mission was carried out by Mr. A. Wheeler (Education
Economist) and Ms. Ferda Sahmali (Project Officer and Human Resources Specialist,
RMT), in order to provide inputs to the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
above project, and to assist the implementing agencies in preparing their
contributions. The mission was received by the President of YOK and by the Under-
Secretary of the Ministry of Tourism (MOT), and worked closely with the respective
staffs in the Industrial Training Unit (ITU) of YOK and the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) of MOT, and with the concerned Treasury officials. The mission made
field visits to TTCs in Kahramanmaras, Gaziantep, Sanliurfa, Bilecik, Izmit, Tekirdag,
and Kayseri, to the Faculty of Technical Education in Marmara University and the
Vocational Education Faculties in Gazi University, and to TUREMs (MOT tourism
training centres) in Kutahya, Istanbul, and Urgup. The members of the mission wish
to express their sincere thanks to their counterparts for their assistance to the work of
the mission, and to the staffs of the institutions visited for their kind reception and
efforts made to contribute to the mission's work.
2.  Since this aide-memoire is a step in the preparation of the Project Completion
Report, it does not follow the usual format previously used in supervision mission
aide-memoires. The PCR will follow the standard Bank format, but the aide-
memoire concentrates on those parts of the PCR dealing with the achievements,
outstanding problems, and likely sustainability of the components of the project under
the different implementing agencies.
II. YOK COMPONENTS
3. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT -- PERMANENT ITU. Despite more than
one attempt, YOK has so far failed to realise this component of the project -- a further
attempt is currently in progress. Modification of the structure of YOK to incorporate
a new unit such as a perrnanent ITU requires Parliamentary legislation to provide the
legal basis for creating the necessary cadre positions to staff it, and continuing
political instability has impeded this. An earlier attempt to pass legislation failed
because Parliament was dissolved before the proposed legislation could be
considered. There is currently before Parliament legislation to allow YOK to make
some adjustments to its structure, and also to modify some practices of the higher
education system. If this passes successfully, it will allow YOK to create a filly-
staffed ITU as intended under the project, and YOK leadership has indicated its
intention to use this opportunity accordingly.



- 24 -
FACULTIES OF TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.
4. (a) ACHIEVEMENTS. At the time of project preparation it was envisaged that
there would be three technical education faculties and one vocational education
faculty, whereas in fact there are three of each, the original vocational faculty having
been subdivided into three, with different areas of specialization (vocational,
commerce and tourism, and industrial arts).  Thus the project has successfully
equipped six faculties instead of four, and provided the appropriate staff training.
With extensive inputs of the latest equipment and related curriculum and equipment
training for instructors, the Faculties have been able to significantly raise the quality
of graduates from technical and vocational teacher education, which in turn can help
to raise the quality of education in the secondary technical and vocational schools
operated by the Ministry of Education. Because of the general pressure for entry to
higher education, the Faculties are operating at or beyond their theoretical capacity in
enrollment terms, since they operate evening as well as day courses. In addition, the
Faculties are providing in-service training for the existing teachers in technical and
vocational schools through summer courses, so that their facilities are well-used year-
round.
5. (b) PROBLEMS. (i) The most serious immediate problem facing the Faculties is
the shortage of technicians to maintain the sometimes sophisticated equipment which
they now have at their disposal. In the long run this could seriously impair the
effectiveness of this component of the project. (ii) A second concern is the
availability of the consumable materials needed to use equipment, which will be a
function of the access of Faculties to the necessary recurrent budget through their
respective university rectors. (iii) Given the pace of technological development in
many of the areas for which this component provides training, in particular in relation
to computers, there is growing concern among project personnel as to how they can
upgrade or even replace equipment in order to stay up-to-date. (iv) Concern has also
been expressed about the utility of the overseas fellowships provided to instructors in
the earlier stage of the project. Faculty staff feel that short-term (three-month)
fellowships were the least useful, whereas rectors preferred to spread the believed
benefits as widely as possible by emphasizing short-term awards. However, it was
also the case that there was a dearth of candidates with adequate foreign-language
capabilities to benefit from long-tern fellowships leading to advanced degrees.
6. (c) SUSTAINABILITY. Several of the foregoing problems raise questions as to
the sustainability of this component of the project. Undoubtedly, the project has
achieved a quantum leap in the capabilities of the participating Faculties, but the
scarcity of technicians and limitations of recurrent budgets will progressively impair
equipment utilisation unless these issues are addressed promptly, and this in turn will
impact adversely on the quality of training. The university Rectors control access to
the resources to remedy both of these deficiencies, so that their support is crucial.
Keeping equipment up-to-date is a somewhat different issue, since it affects the
continued relevance of training, and assumes Faculty staff are willing to make the
effort to continuously adapt training to reflect technological advance. Besides the
willingness of Rectors to provide the necessary budget for equipment updating, an
additional consideration is the capacity of Faculty staffs to undertake income-



- 25 -
generating activities beyond their usual training duties, in order to provide the
Faculties with extra-budgetary resources. But given the extent to which training
facilities are currently utilised, along with staff time, the scope for income generation
may well be limited.
TECHNICIAN TRAINING CENTRES.
7. (a) ACHIEVEMENTS. The project has fully equipped 22 major post-secondary
Technician Training Centres in various regions of the country, as well as developing
curricula for the related range of new programs, and providing management training
and training to instructors. The Government contribution was mainly in the form of
related construction and furnishing of facilities, and of course counterpart staffing. As
a result of these investments, the standard and range of education provided through
the TTC system has been improved significantly, including a period of direct
industrial experience as part of the courses of study; there has been growing
competition among students for places in the project institutions, and employers
increasingly seek to recruit their graduates. To a growing extent, the project TTCs
are able to play a role as "centres of excellence" in relation to neighbouring non-
project institutions which generally are less well-equipped and offer fewer study
options. Assistance so provided includes staff training, new curricula and teaching
materials, and opportunities for staff and students of the non-project institutions to be
introduced to new equipment. A benefit of this component of the project which was
not fully foreseen has been the development of the better institutions, in particular
those in the more industrialized areas, as centres of expertise for local industry.
They provide technical services such as product testing and application of industrial
standards, introduction of industrialists to new equipment, and consultancy in
industry. These can provide significant extra-budgetary income for TTCs. Also in
return, in several instances industrialists have equipped new workshops or laboratories
related to their fields of production, with a view to employing their future graduates.
YOK has also developed a protocol with the Istanbul Chamber of Industry Foundation
to establish training standards for technicians, leading to a system of certification
which will be recognised by employers.
8. (b) PROBLEMS. (i) A potential difficulty which has manifested itself in certain
instances derives from the dominant position of university rectors, who control both
staff appointments, including managers, and budgets in the project TTCs belonging to
their universities. An unsympathetic rector is able to block any significant initiative
by a progressive TTC, and many rectors tend to favour their engineering faculties over
TTCs. Thus it is important that TTC managers cultivate the support of their rectors,
assuming that the rectors have appointed forward-looking managers ready to promote
continuing innovation. (ii) The project has made considerable efforts to improve the
quality of TTC management, but this can only be effective for as long as the
incumbents are in post. (iii) A specific problem parallel to that in the Faculties is the
scarcity of technicians to maintain TTC equipment -- again, rectors control their
appointment. (iv) The ability of TTCs to find budgetary resources for consumables
and maintenance of equipment, in order to continue to deliver training effectively, is
also to a large extent controlled by the rector. (v) Similarly, the ability to obtain spare
parts for equipment, or to upgrade it in response to technological progress, will be a
factor in deternining whether the project TTCs maintain their capacity to deliver



- 26 -
state-of-the-art training. (vi) Overseas staff training was less than fully effective in
the earlier stages of the project, many trainees returning dissatisfied due to language
difficulties or the inappropriateness of courses. As a result, overseas training was
discontinued and replaced by a combination of targetted domestic training and
selective group study tours abroad, and this appears to be better appreciated by
instructors.
9. (c) SUSTAINABILITY. As indicated above, the role of rectors will be crucial for
the sustainability of this component, and the dedication and initiative of TTC
managers will also be a key factor. Therefore, continuity in office of good managers
is something to be encouraged by YOK wherever possible. Similarly, the ability to
retain trained instructors is also very important, and TTC managers are beginning to
develop incentives such as periods of experience in industry as an aid to retention.
The ability of TTCs to generate extra-budgetary income can help them to address the
issues of consumables and equipment maintenance, but not all TTCs have the same
capacity to generate such income, the extent of local industrialization being a factor in
this, along with managerial initiative.
10. HIGHER EDUCATION STUDIES. This series of studies, dealing with
governance and accreditation, alternative sources of higher education finance, distance
education, informatics education, parental incomes and student expectations, was
added to the project at a late stage at the request of YOK, with the intention that their
findings could serve as inputs to a possible subsequent project in support of higher
education. All of the studies, by both Turkish and international consultants, have
been completed on schedule (or close to it), and their findings are now available to
YOK and the Bank, which will review them and provide comments. YOK is using
the findings as inputs to proposals for future policy and investment actions.
III. MINISTRY OF TOURISM COMPONENT
11.  This component of the project was added late in the preparation process,
leading to the involvement of a second implementing agency. It involved the
strengthening or new creation of a series of tourism training institutes (TUREMs),
their equipment, staff training, and development of curricula and training materials.
Most of this work was carried out through a technical assistance contract implemented
by ILO. The component has been capably implemented by MOT's PIU and ILO, but
serious questions are emerging as to the continued ownership of the project by MOT,
and hence as to its sustainability.
TUREMs.
12. (a) ACHIEVEMENTS. The project has brought into existence 12 TUREMs,
more than originally envisaged, and also strengthened the National Centre for
Advanced Training for the Hotel and Tourism Industry (OTEIEM). Assistance
included the provision of training equipment, instructor-training, and the development
of curricula and training materials. As a result graduates of this training tripled during
the project, and moreover the number of applicants for training increased even more
than this, so that there is clearly unsatisfied demand. In this context a number of
private training facilities have recently opened. There is also demand from the



- 27 -
tourism industry for some of the courses prepared by the project, and in particular for
training materials such as handbooks and audio-visual materials. The reputation of
the training provided has also spread abroad, so that courses or seminars have been
provided for personnel from Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, Black Sea countries,
and Cyprus. The technical assistance also developed a certification system for
tourism training, which has been further refined by OTEIEM experts, but is not yet
being applied to the graduates of the training.
13. (b) PROBLEMS. (i) Construction of the final TUREM scheduled under the
project, in Gaziantep, could not be completed by MOT due to budget constraints. As
a result, the equipment to be provided through the project for the operation of this
facility has not been able to be procured. (ii) The TUREM staffs complain that they
lack a viable recurrent budget for operating expenses and maintenance. (iii) Also,
instructors are being lost from both TUREMs and OTEIEM because their salary levels
are not competitive with other career opportunities in the industry. (iv) There is a
progressive need for instructors to receive updating training, but no action has been
taken in this direction. (v) Two years ago a second training course was initiated in
certain TUREMs in order to make better use of the facilities, but MOT has not
authorized the continuation of this practice. (vi) As mentioned above, the
certification system prepared for TUREM training is not yet being applied, so that
industry recognition of the training is thereby reduced. (vii) The mission has been
informed that MOT has announced an intention to close three of the TUREMs in
1999, in Istanbul, Vak-fikebir (Trabzon), and Alacati (near Izmir), on the ground that
their facilities are too degraded to be repaired. Istanbul TUREM was visited during
the mission, and there appeared to be only minor problems with the facilities, indeed,
they had been renovated recently. IT IS NOT ACCEPTABLE TO THE BANK
THAT SUCH CLOSURES SHOULD TAKE PLACE UNLESS THE MINISTRY
FIRST ESTABLISHES ALTERNATIVE FACILITIES FOR THE CONTIINUATION
OF THE TRAINING ACTIVITIES WHICH WOULD BE DISPLACED BY SUCH
CLOSURES. Also, as part of the project completion process, MOT, as an
implementing agency, has to provide the Bank with detailed proposals for the
project's future operation, which may well be subject to a performance audit by the
Bank at a later date.
14. (c) SUSTAINABILITY. Although the MOT component of the project has been
capably implemented by the PIU during the project's lifetime, there is so far no
evidence that the MOT admniristration has assumed ownership of the project's
achievements, or shows any readiness to ensure continued successful operation. It is
also understood that the Ministry is considering opening a new TUREM in Isparta.
The utility of this seems questionable when there is already a TUREM operating
nearby in Burdur, and when the Gaziantep facility, located in a growth region lacking
other training facilities, still awaits completion. The first training priority of the
Ministry should be to ensure that existing training facilities can continue to operate
viably, and indeed further improve themselves, whereas the reality appears to be that
their effectiveness is gradually diminishing as they are starved of operating resources.
Given the amount of resources that the Ministry has invested in past years to create
these institutions, this is a particularly unsatisfactory situation.



- 28 -
IV. CONCLUSION
15.  Following the completion of this mission, and the receipt of final information
requested from the implementing agencies, the Project Completion Report will be
prepared in Washington during May-June, 1998.  In particular, YOK and MOT
should provide the Bank with their proposals for the future operation of their
respective project components by the end of May, 1998. The Project Completion
Report will cover, inter alia, the achievement of project objectives, the
implementation record, project sustainability, Bank and borrower performance, an
assessment of the outcome, future operation, and the key lessons learned.



IBRD 241 10
~~     ANAKEALE    -RKLAZER
T~~~~~ER  M  DENIC(I  SPARTA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     AMEI
L,ARAAP  __   Al F  V  I  I  I  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                    NE  
RJSSA                                                                                                                          J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5A4
~~~LRIALA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~~~~~ ~~~~~ TV  -.                                                                                ) i/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ILA I
KIRSEHiR ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ELEBR19



