Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7038-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
March 7, 1988
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa
TWis document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
US$1.00 = TL1120 (February 1988)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
MOEYS     Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports
MCT       Ministry of Culture and Tourism
MOS       Ministry of State
MIT       Ministry of Industry and Trade
YdK       Council for Higher Education
SEGEM     Industrial Training and Development Center
SEE       State Economic Enterprise
PPAR      Project Performance Audit Report
TA        Technical Assistance
TTC       Technician Training Center
TTU       Technician Training Unit
ITU       Industrial Training Unit
VSHE      Vocational School of Higher Education
FTVE      Faculty of Technical/Vocational Education
FTE       Faculty of Technical Education
FVE       Faculty of Vocational Education
PBIT      Policy Board for Industrial Training
TUREM     Tourism Training Center
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
CTA       Chief Technical Advisor



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY        .      . .....    ...... .       (i)-(iii)
I. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING .............          1
Economic Development  .      . .. ................. .          1
Industrial Training        . ..       ......... . ...... .     2
Technician Training    .      .. ...... . .......... .     3
Technical and Vocational Teacher Training ........         4
Government Industrial Training Policies
and Budgetary Support .......... ..t**                         7
Government Industrial Training Policies ..........         7
Budgetary Support for industrial training ........         7
Bank's Ro4e in Education and Training .................        8
Bank Lending Strategy .. .................... .            8
Past Experience       .....   e . ....         ....        8
_I. THE PROJECT       OT.... . ..............                          9
Project Origin     r        i       gin........... ...........  9
Project Objectives ........ . .... ........ ...                9
The Project .....................                             10
Detailed Project Description.....................O...         11
Management of Industrial Training...............          11
Industrial Technician Training...............             11
Curricula and subject development.............         12
Training of Trainersa..... .. .r. .. .. ....... *.-    12
Technician Training Centers..e...s...........          13
Technical and Vocational Teacher Training........         13
Technological Content.........................         14
Pedagogical focus      o ...........................   15
Research and Development ......................        15
Teacher Training Facilities...................         15
Tourism Sector Training ................ . ..15
Strengthening of MCT's Training Department....         16
Instructor Training. ................. .               16
Tourism Training Center s..........                    16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Turkey in September/October, 1987. The mission comprised
Mesdames C. Lee (economist, mission leader), P. Kleysteuber (operations
assistant), Messrs. I. Goodine (technical educator), S. Sigurdsson
(implementation specialist), and L. Briggs (technical educator).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION         17
Cost of the Project ..... .        ...... . .                  17
Project Financing ............... ...................          20
Project Management .       .. .................................  21
Status of Preparation .      .. .    .............................  25
Supervision Requirements ............................. .       25
Disbursements, Accounts and Audits               ...           26
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS                  .....    27
benefits ................................... . .. . o.      27
Risks                   .......   27
V.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....... o ....       29
Annexes:
1. The Council for Higher Education (YoK)
2. Starting Monthly Salaries of Engineers, Technical Teachers
and Technicians
3. Projected Enrollment in 20 Technician Training Centers
4. Requirements for Instructors in 20 Technician Training Centers
5. Projected Enrollments and Output by Type of Program for the
Faculties of Technical and Vocational Education
6. Unit Costs of Equipment Per Training Place
7. Price Contingency Allowances
S. Summary Account by Project Component
9. Technical Assistance Program: Fellowships and Expert Services
10. Requirements for Trained Manpower in the Tourism Sector
11. Requiremeuts for Instructors in Hotel Specializations
12. Technical Assistance Program for Tourism Sector Training
13. Related Documents Available in Project File
Schedules:
I. Implementation Schedule
II. Disbursement Schedule
III.Implementation Schedule for hotel, catering and
Tourism Training
Charts:
1. Organization Chart of the Council for Higher Education
2. Proposed Management Structure for Industrial Training
3. Organization Chart of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism
4. Proposed Management Structure for Tourism Sector Training
Map: Institutions supported under the Second Industrial Training Project
(IBRD Reference No.19975)



(i)
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:   Republic of Turkey
Amount:   US$115.8 million
Terms:  Seventeen years, including a four-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Descrirtion:   The project supports the Government's efforts to improve the quality
and increase the quantity of trained technicians for the industrial
sector, to meet urgent needs for well-trained technical and
vocational teachers in secondary, post-secondary and non-formal
vocational/technical training institutions and to increase the
supply of trained hotel, catering and other service personnel for
the tourism sector. The project would assist the Council of Higher
Education (YnK) in developing: (i) a national system of higher-level
technician training, initial support for which is being provided
under the Industrial Training Project (Loan 2399-TU); and (ii) a
system of high-quality technical and vocational teacher education in
four Faculties of Technical and Vocational Education (FTVEs). In
addition, the project would support the Ministry of Culture and
Tourism (MCT) in developing a national training system for hotel,
catering and tourism occupations. Specifically, the project would
support the conversion of 20 outmoded, ill-equipped and
inappropriately staffed Vocational Schools of Higher Education
(VSHEs) into proper Technician Training Centers (TTCs), the
expansion and upgrading of existing instructor training programs at
the FTVEs to meet a projected shortfall of over 13,400 technical and
vocational teachers by 1991, as well as the upgrading and expansion
of 10 tourism training centers (TUREMs).
Benefits
and Risks:     The project would increase the supply of well-trained technicians
and technical/vocational instructors to improve industrial
productivity, leading to higher output and increased foreign
exchange earnings. The project would also provide post-secondary
training for women in specializations such as commercial studies,
financial administration and tourism. In addition, the project
would meet the urgent need for trained manpower in the rapidly
expanding tourism sector which is anticipated to have foreign
exchange earnings of about US$1.6 billion in 1988. There is a risk
that roK does not have the capability to manage the industrial
training system on a continuing basis. This risk would be minimized
through technical assistance to strengthen and expand YUK's



(ii)
Technician Training Unit (TTU) into a permanent agency resnonsible
for coordinating technician and technical/vocational teacher
trair.ing. There is also a risk that training programs may be
compromised by an overly academic orientation due to the attachment
of the TTCs to the universities. This risk would be diminished by
the strong commitment of YoK to make technician training programs
relevant to the needs of industry and by cooperative arrangments for
the training with industry. Since many FTVE graduates currently
prefer to work in industry, there is a risk that the Ministry of
Education (MOEYS) may not be able to attract sufficient FTVE
graduates to teach in its secondary schools. To alleviate this
risk, the MOEYS has proposed to improve the terms of service for
technical and vocational teachers. The Bank fully supports the
recommendations of the MOEYS which are being considered seriously by
the Government in view of the critical shortage of teachers in
technical/vocational institutions. The proposed project would
assist in improving recruitment and retention rates of teachers
through: (a) re-orienting FTVE programs towards teacher education
to ensure that the end-products are trained to teach and not serve
as engineers; and (b) improving teacher quality and involving the
MOEYS in curriculum development and standards setting for teacher
training, thereby eliminating the need for an external examination
in which the passing rate is only about 50 percent. The MOEYS would
also simplify recruitment procedures for teachers in order to
shorten the waiting period for candidates. Finally, there is a risk
that the MCT may not be able to implement project activities in a
timely fashion. To reduce this risk, disbursements against
expenditures incurred under the tourism training component will not
start until the Bank has reviewed and agreed on the details of an
implementation program for the component.



(iii)
Estimated
Project
Costs:
Local    Foreign   Total a/
(US$Million)
Management of Technician Training (YoK)    0.2         1.5        1.7
Industrial Technician Training              28.1      64.9      93.0
Technical/Vocational Teacher Training        7.9      25.2      33.1
Tourism Sector Training                      2.2       4.9        7.1
Total Baseline Costs                        38.5      96.5     134.9
Contingencies
Physical                                   3.0       7.6      10.6
Price                                      8.5      11.8      20.3
Total Project Costs                         50.0    115.8      165.8
Financing
Plan:           Govermnment                                 50.0        -        50.0
Bank                                          -      115.8      115.8
Total                                       50.0    115.8       165.8
a/ Details of items may not add up to totals because of roundings
Estimated
Disbursements
(US$million):  -          -
Bank Fiscal
Year           1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
Annual        10.0   14.1   21.0   23.2   21.0   14.8       8.4    3.3
Cumulative   10.0   24.1   45.1   68.3   89.3  104.1   112.5  115.8
Ecor.omic Rate of Return not applicable.
Staff
Appraisal
Report:         No. 7038-TU
Map:            IBRD No. 19975



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
I. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING
Economic Development
1.01     Industrial production and, in particular, manufactured exports have
been the mainstay of the sustained economic growth experienced since 1981.
Between 1980 and 1985, manufactured exports grew by almost 41 percent per
year, which doubled industry's share in exports from 36 percent to 75
percent. However, the industrial sector faces major technological problems
that could jeopardize future export growth and the competitiv6.iess of Turkish
products in European markets. These problems which include low labor
productivity, poor product quality, low design and engineering capability,
weak production management skills, and poor preventive plant and equipment
maintenance, are directly linked to the serious shortage of highly skilled
technicians and specialized manpower in the country'.
1.02     Industrial employers frequently report that well-trained technicians
are in short supply, particularly in exporting industries which require high
standards of quality control, modern production techniques and specialized
machinery. These qualitative labor market signals have been confirmed by an
industrial training needs survey conducted in early 1986 to assess the demand
for technicians in export-oriented manufacturing industries-'. Survey
results indicate that approximately 40,000 additional technicians3/ would be
required by the top 500 export-oriented industrial firms during the five-year
period of 1986 through 1990, of whom about a third or 12,500 would be
higher-level technicians or "tekniker" with strong theoretical backgrounds.
Hence, the total demand for higher-level technicians by the manufacturing
industries could be estimated at about 2,500 per year. The impact of labor
migration on this demand would be minimal because: (a) the outflow of workers
to Europe has been declining since 1981: and (b) recent reports indicate that
the majority of those leaving for the Middle East are semi-skilled and skilled
workers, and not higher-level technicians.
1/  See: (a) IBRD: Private Manufacturing - Assessment of the Impact of Past
Policies and Future Adjustment Needs, Report No. 6684-TU, July 1987; and
(b) IBRD: Turkey Industrialization and Trade Strategy, Report No. 3641-TU,
February 1982.
2/  This survey was conducted by the Council of Higher Education (YoK) as part
of a pre-investment study for expansion of the higher-level technician
training system under its jurisdiction. The survey covered 268 industrial
firms (with an average of 800 employees) located in 37 major cities - a
sample representing 20 percent of the top 500 export-oriented industrial
firms in Turkey. Ranking of these top 500 firms was based on the annual
output value of their exports.
3/  The term "technician" as used in Turkey, includes semi-skilled and skilled
workers as well as bona fide technicians, who are called "tekniker" in
Turkish.



-2-
1.03     The scarcity of skilled technical manpower points to insufficient
investments in human resource development in general, and to inadequate
industrial training in particular. Programs for the training of bona fide
technicians are qualitatively and quantitatively lacking. As a result, many of
the "technicians" currently working in industry are actually either graduates of
secondary technical schools who have subsequently acquired their skills
on-the-job, or university graduates or dropouts willing to accept
technician-level jobs. Outside the formal education system, training
opportunities for skilled workers and technicians are limited since only a few
major industries offer in-plant training. Hence, in launching the structural
adjustrent program in 1980, the Government recognized that a major undertaking
was needed to expand and improve industrial training in order to produce an
adequate supply of well-trained, productive and skilled manpower.
1.04     Scarcity of trained manpower in also constraining the expansion of the
tourism sector which is becoming an increasingly important source of foreign
exchange earnings for the countrys'.  Based on the anticipated increase in the
capacity of licensed accomodation facilities (100,(X00 beds by 1989), additional
requirements for trained manpower in the sector have been estimated at about
4,000 hotel, catering and other tourism related service personnel per year. Of
this number, about 1,800 would be skilled workers. Consequently, the Ministry of
Culture and Tourism (MCT) which is responsible for tourism promotion activities
as well as the training of skilled manpower at the basic levelZ', is strongly
committed to improve both the quality and quantity of trained manpower in tourism
occupations.
Industrial Traning
1.05     Pre-service training of semi-skilled and skilled workers is undertaken
mainly by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports (MOEYS) through the
secondary technical schools, trade schools and night schools, as well as through
an apprenticeship training program. Previous bank sector work 3' has indicated
a clear need to extend and improve the skill training programs of the MOEYS to
improve the quality and quantity of semi-skilled and skilled workers. However, a
more pressing priority is technician training, of whicii there is little in
Turkey. The expansion and improvement of technician and 3ther skill training
programs is however, constrained by a lack of well-trained technical and
vocational teachers. Another high priority is therefore to address this problem
by improving the system of technical and vocational teacher training in the
country. Finally, since expansion of the tourism sector which is increasingly
important to the economy is constrained by the serious shortage of trained
manpower in hotel, catering and tourism occupations, a concerted effort has to be
made to upgrade and expand training programs in these specializations.
1/ Foreign exchange receipts from the tourism sector increased from US$381.3
million in 1981 to US$l.2 billion in 1985 and are anticipated to reach US$1.6
billion in 1988.
2/  Training in tourism occupations is currently done at three levels:  (i) basic
level training for skilled workers provided by the MCT at 5 Tourism Training
Centers (TUREMs); (ii) secondary level training provided by the MOEYS in 11
hotel schools; and (iii) university level training in hotel and tourism
management at 18 colleges under Yok.
3/ See IBRD: Education and Training Sector Survey, Report No. 6249-TU,
September 1986.



-3-
1.06     Technician Training.  The Council for Higher Education (YoK) is the
key Government agency responsible for training higher-level technicians in
Turkey. TYK was established in 1981 as a semi-autonomous Government agency
which reports directly to the Head of State on matters pertaining to
post-secondary education, including universities and the two-year
post-secondary Vocational Schools of Higher Education (VSHEs) attached to
various parent universities. YoK's responsibilities include the training of
teaching staff and the appointment of the senior staff and management of the
*_niversities and VSHEs. A detailed description of YoK and its organization
structure are given in Annex 1 and Chart 1, respectively.
1.07     There are currently 75 VSHEs under YoK with an enrollment of about
35,000 students in two-year courses in business studies, secretarial studies
and tourism, as well as in technical fields such as electronics and
instrumentation.  These VSHEs suffer, however, from an over-formalized
approach to training, inadequate premises, out-dated curricula, lack of
equipment and a shortage of appropriately trained instructors. Furthermore,
the unusual administrative structure which places technician training within
the university system gives rise to several concerns, foremost of which is the
issue of staffing the VSHEs. The current practice of assigning instructional
staff from various faculties to teach at the VSHEs on a part-time basis is
unsatisfactory because such staff generally do not have appropriate
qualifications to train technicians and tend to treat technician training as
the first phase of an engineering program. This obscures the objective and
dilutes the quality of training. The attachment of technician training
institutions to universities also presents the risk that training programs may
be compromised by an overly academic orientation.
1.08     Another weakness of the administrative structure is that Y5K does not
have the institutional capacity to ensure that its policy decisions are
effectively carried out by the various universities responsible for the
VSHEs. A Technician Training Unit (TTU) was established in YoK in 1983 to
carry out coordinated planning and supervision of technician training on a
continuing basis; however, inadequate staffing of the unit has prevented it
from effectively carrying out these functions. The lack of qualified
permanent staff at the TTU to plan the development of training programs in
accordance with projected manpower needs, and to coordinate the implementation
of training policies with parent universities of the VSHEs, has resulted in ad
hoc expansion of the post-secondary vocational training system.
1.09     On the positive side, many VSHES have established unusually close
linkages with local industries which are maintained through advisory
committees and by the inclusion of a four-month industrial attachment in the
training program. During such an attachment, trainees are graded by their
supervisors in industry in cooperation with staff from the training centers
and the results are incorporated into the requirements for graduation. Y5K
has also utilized advice from industry in developing a coherent national
policy on technician training.



-4-
1.10     A scheme is now being implemented by YoK to systematically upgrade
selected VSHEs so that they are more capable of meeting the needs of
industry. As a first step, eight VSHEs-' are being developed into
industrially-oriented Technician Training Centers (TTCs) with assistance from
the Bank under the Industrial Training Project (Loan 2399-TU) which became
effective in 1984. A major component of this project consists of equipping,
furnishing and minor refurbishment for eight TTCs, a fellowship training
program for instructors, and technical assistance for the development of new
curricula for eleven specializations. Currently, four of the TTCs have
enrolled students in new training programs, and from 1991 onwards, total
annual output from all eight TTCs would be about 1,200 technicians.
1.11     Technical/Vocational Teacher Training.  Although new initiatives on
training are underway, both ongoing and planned training efforts are
constrained by the severe shortage of instructors and qualified senior staff
to manage the expanding technical/vocational training system. YoK and the
MOEYS are experiencing difficulties due to the lack of qualified staff to
undertake the administration of training institutions, plan new programs and
curricula and conduct applied research in response to the changing needs of
industry.
1.12     The training of technical teachers is carried out at three Faculties
of Technical Education (FTEs) while vocational teacher training is done at one
Faculty of Vocational Education (FVE). These faculties are attached to
universities in the western, central and eastern parts of the country. The
Faculties of Technical/Vocational Education (FTVEs) have not kept pace with
developments in instructor training in the last decades and are not producing
teachers of the right quality and in sufficient numbers to staff the
Government's training institutions.
1.13     A major reason for poor teacher quality is that the FTVEs see their
role as producers of technical manpower (engineers) for industry and not as
teacher training institutions. Consequently, they have oriented their
training programs to suit industry, even entertaining the idea of awarding
engineering degrees in place of the present teaching degree. As a result,
there is an over-emphasis on engineering practice and production work with a
corresponding neglect of technical teaching skills and pedagogical
development. Graduates of these programs are therefore ill-equipped to serve
as effective teachers, and as such, are frequently rejected by the MOEYS.
1.14     Apart from the poor quality of output, the supply of graduates from
the four-year programs in the FTEs falls far short of the demand for technical
teachers. The best demand estimates have been done by the MOEYS and YoK based
on current shortages and projected enrollments in their training
institutions. As shown in table 1.1, during the five-year period of 1987
through 1991, over 17,000 technical teachers would be required. Current
annual output from the FTEs is only about 1,200 teachers or about 6,000 over
1/ These VSHEs have been selected on the basis of: (a) their proximity to
local industry; (b) the level of support for the program from local
industry; and (c) the adequacy of the existing buildings for technician
training programs.



-5-
five years, which will create a shortfall of 11,000 teachers. Clearly,
alternatives to the four-year pro-service courses are needed to close the gap
between demand and supply. During the ame five-ye-ir period, additional
requirements of about 12.650 vocational teachers have been projected. The
source of such teachers is the FVE which offers four types of training
programs: (a) a four-year degree program to prepare teachers for the high
schools offering technical education for girls; (>) a four-year degree program
to prepare teachers for tourism and commercial high schools; (c) a two-year
certificate program to prepare teachers for vocational and non-formal
vocational education; and (d) a two-year certificate teacher preparation
program for girls' technical education. Annual output from these programs,
however, is only about 2,000 vocational teachers or about 10,000 over five
years which will create a shortfall of 2,650 teachers. In summary, if annual
enrollments at the FTVEs remain at current levels, there would be a shortfall
of about 13,700 technical and vocational teachers by 1991.
1.15     In addition to the problems of poor quality and quantity of output
from the FTVEs, the MOEYS L,as not been able to attract and retain sufficient
numbers of technical and vocational teachers in their training institutions.
The main reason for this is the unfavorable terms of service (low salaries and
lack of career prospects) for technical and vocational teachers. As indicated
in Annex 2, a technical teacher receives only about 10 percent more in
starting monthly wage than a fresh technical high school graduate even though
the former has invested in an additional four years of higher education.
Conversely, 6 newly-graduated engineer who joins the public sector earns about
60 percent more than a technical teacher even though both have had the same
number of years of post-secondary education. As a result, many of the
graduates of the FTVEs prefer to work in industry rather than teach. If the
current poor recruitment and retention rates of such teachers peraist, the
:IOEYS would face a more serious shortage than the projected shortfall of
technical and vocational teachers shown in Table 1.1.
1.16     Another weakness of the current technical/vocational teacher training
system is the poor linkage between the FTVEs and one of their major clients,
the MOEYS. The lack of a formal channel of communication between the two
parties has resulted in the FTVEs planning and implementing training programs
which do not meet the needs and/or the standards set by the MOEYS for
technical and vocational teachers. Since the MOEYS and the FTVEs have not
agreed on a set of qualification standards for teachers which could be
incorporated into the training programs, graduates are required by the MOEYS
to pass an external examination before they could qualify as teachers. The
MOEYS' dissatisfaction with the quality of the training programs is reflected
in the low passing rate of this examination (about 50 percent). The problem
of low recruitment rates is further exarcebated by the slowness of the MOEYS'
selection procedures for teachers. On average, it takes a prospective teacher
from six to eight months following graduation to secure a position.  In that
period, many of those who could qualify as teachers are able to find
alternative jobs in industry. Consequently, only about 20 percent of
graduates actually become teachers.
1.17     Tourism Sector Training.  The MCT is responsible for basic level
training of hotel, catering and tourism personnel at 5 Tourism! Training
Centers (TUREMs) located in Western Turkey, Western and Central Anatolia.
These 5 centers which provide training for about 400 students a year, are
insufficient to meet the needs of trained manpower in the to,urism sector
(para. 1.04). Although the MCT is strongly committed to meeting the serious
shortages of trained manpower in the tourism sector, expansion and improvement
of basic level training programs are constrained by the lack of: (a)
appropriate training facilities; (b) up-to-date equipment; and



-6-
(c) well-trained instructors. Furthermore, the Training Department of the MCT
lacks professional staff who are able to plan and develop training programs in
accordance with projected manpower.
Gmernment Industrial Training Polieies and Budgetary Support
1.18     Government industrial training policies. The main thrusts of the
Government in industrial training are to: (a) improve the effectiveness of
existing programs; (b) increase the scale of industrial training; and (c)
establish an appropriate institutional framework for industrial training. To
improve the effectiveness of training programs, agencies engaged in industrial
training have begun to link their training more directly to the needs of
industry. In 1983, the MOEYS introduced a new program aimed at linking the
secondary technical school curriculum to the needs of industry. More
recently, a new Apprenticeship and Vocational Training Act was passed in June,
1986 to establish the legal and financial basis for industrial employers to
participate in the apprenticeship training program of the MOEYS. To increase
the scale of industrial training, the Government has not only expanded public
training programs but also encouraged private sector participation in
industrial training. In addition to the Industrial Training and Development
Center (SEGEM) affiliated co the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MIT), large
private corporations such as Koc Holdings, and many State Economic Enterprises
(SEEs) in coal, textiles and mining, have developed an in-service training
capacity. In the longer term, the Government aspires to establish an
institutional framework for industrial training through a national scheme
which would rationalize the provision of industrial training and provide
financial incentives to employers to provide training. The groundwork for
this is being laid by the MIT, through SEGEM.
1.19     Budgetary Support for Industrial Training. According to the most
recent (1985) data, total expenditures of the MOEYS and YoK on education and
training accounted for 8 percent of all central government expenditures - a
share that is lower than normally found in countries at Turkey's level of
development, such as Portugal (22 percent), Tunisia (19 percent), Korea (21
percent), and Jordan (10 percent). In 1985, technical and vocational
education at the secondary level accounted for 14 percent of all MOE
expenditures or 0.9 percent of all central government expenditures.
Post-secondary technical education expenditures for that same year accounted
for about 8 percent of all higher education expenditures, or 0.1 percent of
all central government expenditures. Hence, total expenditures for technical
and vocational education amounted to only about 1.0 percent of all central
government expenditures in 1985. Both the Government and the Bank concur that
this amount is insufficient, given the size of the technical and vocational
training system and its rapid expansion in response to skilled manpower needs.
1.20     To mobilize additional resources for education and training, the
Government has begun to institute some cost recovery measures and to encourage
private sponsorship of education and training. Beginning in academic year
1984/85, all students of post-secondary institutions are required to pay
tuition fees ranging from TL40,000 to TL100,000. In 1985/86, fee income from
post-secondary institutions was about TL 10 billion or 6 percent of the
recurrent YoK budget that year. Under an edict, fees collected at the
university level should not cover more than 20 percent of recurrent costs.
Hence there is scope for increasing the revenue from fees. The private sector
is also being mobilized for the industrial training programs of the MOEYS.
Private schools now account for nearly 2 percent of the total enrollment at
the secondary level. Under the new Apprenticeship and Vocational Training Act



-7-
Table 1.1 Projected Requirements for Technical
and Vocational Teachers
Type of                                  Year
Institution and/or *-------------------------------------------------
Program             * 1987 a/   1988    1989    1990    1991   Total
_…_____________ *…__________________________________________
2-year post-sec.       1,590     200     200     200     200    2,390
VSHEs/TTCs (Y5K)
Technical Secondary    6,190   3,100   1,350   2,200   1,860   14,700
Schools (MOEYS)
Demand for Technical   7,780   3,300   1,550   2,400   2,060   17,090
Teachers
Vocational and         1,520   1,670   2,320   2,710   3,020   11,700
Non-Formal Voc.
Training Programs b/
Skills Acquisition       190     190     190     190     190       950
Schemes
Demand for Vocational  1,710   1,860   2,510   2,900   3,210   12,650
Teachers
Total Demand for       9,490   5,160   4,060   5,300   5,270   29,740
Technical and
Vocational Teachers
Total Supply           3,200   3,200   3,200   3,200   3,200   16,000
(FTEs and FVE) c/
---------------------------------------------__
Shortage               6,290   1,960     860   2,100   2,070   13,740
a/ Figures for this year include existing vacancies in the MOEYS and YoK
training institutions, as well as additional requirements of
technical and vocational teachers.
b/ These include technical education programs for girls, programs in
commercial and tourism schools, as well as the apprenticeship
and non-formal vocational training programs of the MOEYS.
c/ Assuming that annual enrollments between 1987 and 1991 remain at
current (1987) levels, average output per year from the FTEs and the
FVE would be 1,200 and 2,000 teachers, respectively, or 3,200
teachers in total.
Source: YoK Project Preparation Document, August 1987



-8-
of 1986, industrial firms will contribute 1 percent on top of their corporate
income tax, to a Training Development and Extension Fund, as well as provide
on-the-job training to students of secondary industrial schools.
he Bank's Role in Education and Tra1nig
1.21     Bank Lending Strategy.  Since 1971, the Bank has assisted the
Government in developing Turkey's education and training system through four
loans aimed at increasing and upgrading capacity to train technicians and
skilled workers for the industrial sector. The First Education Project (Loan
748-TU) which was signed in 1971 and closed in 1981, provided a loan of
US$13.5 million to upgrade secondary technical education including technical
teacher training, and skill-training programs for adults. The Industrial
Training Project (Loan 2399-TU) which became effective in 1984, is providing
US$36.8 million in assistance to improve post-secondary pre-service technician
training and in-service industrial training. A third project, the FY85
Industrial Schools Project (Loan 2536-TU) is the basis of a loan for US$57.7
million to upgrade pre-service industrial training programs at the secondary
level to improve the quantity and quality of semi-skilled and skilled
workers. An FY87 project, the Non-Formal Vocational Training Project (Loan
2776-TU) provides a loan of US$58.5 million to assist the Government in
developing a comprehensive program of non-formal vocational training focussing
on creating opportunities for self employment and income generation.
1.22     In 1986, the Bank completed an extensive survey of the education and
training sector which identified several priority areas for action including:
*i) qualitative improvements to the education system; (ii) selective expansion
of technical and vocational training in accordance with projected manpower
needs; and (iii) resource mobilization and utilization for education and
training. The Bank's future role in the education and training sector would
be to assist the Government in addressing these priority areas. In line with
this objective, the proposed project would help the C-overnment increase the
supply of well-trained technicians required to improve industrial
productivity.  Further project support for YoK, the MOEYS and other key
industrial training agencies is likely to be requested by the Government in
the future, in areas such as in-service and pre-service teacher education,
research and development, and the use of education technology to improve the
outreach of the education and training system. It is important for the Bank
to ascist YbK, which is a relatively new agency, in its future development as
an institution responsible for planning and coordinating post-secondary
technical education.
1.23     Past Experience.  Lessons learned from past lending have been
incorporated in the proposed project. The Project Perforwance and Audit
Report (PPAR) for the First Education Project (Ln.748-TU) cited the lack of a
well-defined Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with adequate authority, as a
weakness of the project. The PIU created in YUK under the Industrial Training
Project (Ln.2399-TU) is functioning well and would be further strengthened
under the proposed project. The PPAR noted the lack of Government connitment
to the technical assistance program under the First Education Project. The TA
for the proposed project has been fully discussed with YdK and agreed upon.
YoK has successfully implemented the TA under the ongoing Industrial Training
Project (Loan 2399-TU) and should have no difficulty in implementing the TA
for the proposed project. However, YhK has shown limited success to date, in
establishing a permanent capacity in YdK for managing the technician training
system. The proposed project would provide substantial technical assistance
to strengthen the existing management unit for technician training in YMK.



-9-
IJ. THE PROJECT
Project Orin
2.01     The ongoing Industrial Training Project (Ln. 2399-TU) is assisting
the Government, through Y5K, to develop a system of pre-service industrial
technician training. A pre-iavestment study included in this project has
indicated that further expansion of the system would be required to meet
industry's needs for higher-level technicians. The Bank's 1986 survey of the
education and training sector recommended selective expansion and improvement
of the technical/vocational education system, particularly: (a) development
of a country-wide system of higher-level technician training for industry; and
(b) upgrading the quality of instructor training for technical and vocational
education. Based on the findings of these studies, the Government has
proposed a second phase of assistance to develop and expand training programs
in areas where technicians have been identified by employers to be in
shortage. Bank missions visited Turkey in March and June, 1987 to assist the
Government in preparing the proposed project which was subsequently appraised
in September/October, 1987. Subsequently, the Government requested that
additional support be given to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism (MCT) in
developing a national training system for hotel, catering and tourism
occupations. The specific information required for appraisal of this new
component has been reviewed and found to be fully satisfactory.
Project Objectives
2.02     The Project objectives are as follows:
(a)    to strengthen the institutional capacity of YoK to plan the
development and coordinate the implementation of technician and
technical/vocational teacher training programs;
(b)    to alleviate scarcities of technicians in industry by assisting YoK
in the development of adnitional pre-service technician training
programs targeted to prodlLce about 3,100 graduates per year by 1996;
(c)    to meet a projected shortfall of over 13,700 technical and vocational
teachers in secondary, post-secondary and non-formal skill training
institutions through: (i) expanding and improving the quality of
teacher training programs at three Faculties of Technical Education
and one Faculty of Vocational Education: and (ii) strengthening the
institutional capacity of these faculties to carry out pre-service
and in-service training as well as research and development in
technical and vocational education.
(d)    to strengthen the institutional capacity of the MCT to plan the
development and coordinate the implementation of basic level hotel
and tourism training programs at 10 Tourism Training Centers (TUREMs)
and thereby meet a projected annual shortfall of about 1,800 skilled
workers in tourism occupations.



-10-
lbe Projeet
2.03     Over a period of eight years, the project would support the four
components noted below:
1.    Management of Industrial Training at YoK (US$1.7 million).  This
would strengthen the capacity of Y5K for coordinating the industrial
training system wh,ch includes technician and vocational/technical
teacher training. The existing management unit for technician
training in YoK (the Technician Training Unit) would be strengthened
and expanded to enable it to carry out additional responsibilities in
technical/vocational teacher training, and to implement the proposed
project according to its established objectives. To reflect its
extended role, this unit would be redesignated as the Industrial
Training Unit (ITU) and would receive technical assistance to: (a)
develop key staff capable of planning and coordinating training
programs at the TTCs and the FTVEs on a continuing basis; and (b)
assist staff of its Project Implementation Section in implementing
the proposed project.
2.    Industrial Technician Training (US$93.0 million).  This would
increase the supply of technicians for industry by developing and
expanding priority training programs in 20 Technician Training
Centers (TTCs). These 20 TTCs have been selected on the basis of a
pre-investment study included in the ongoing Industrial Training
Project (Ln.2399-TU). Inputs for this component include: (a) expert
services for curricula and subiect development (US$1.3 million); (b)
fellowship training for TTC instructors (US$12.8 million); and (c)
equipment, furniture, and renovations or extensions to existing
buildings for 20 TTCs, as weli as study tours for their directors to
enhance knowledge of training center management (US$68.7 million).
3.    Vocational and Technical Teacher Training (US$33.1 million).  This
would assist in meeting the growing requirements for technical and
vocational teachers (shown in Table 1.1) through improvement and
expansion of technical and vocational teacher training programs in
four Faculties of Technical and Vocational Education (FTVEs). To
achieve this objective, US$9.4 million in technical assistance would
be provided to establish new improved and shorter courses at the
FTVEs to attract a broader group of entrants, leading to increased
enrollments and hence, output. To improve the technological and
pedagogical content of the existing 4-year program and to ensure the
quality of new programs, expert services and fellowships would be
provided to establish a Technology Department, a Technical/Vocational
Education Department, and a Development and Instructional Support
Unit at each FTVE. Finally, FTVE facilities would be upgraded
through the provision of US$20.4 million for equipment, furniture and
renovations or extensions to existing buildings.
4.    Tourism Sector Training (US$7.1 million).  This would assist the MCT
in meeting the urgent need for trained workers in the tourism sector
(Annex 10). To achieve this objective, US$2.0 million in technical
assistance and followships would be provided to strengthen the
capacity of MCT for planning and implementing basic-level tourism
training programs and to establish training courses for instructors
at the TUREMs. In addition, equipment, furniture, renovations and/or
extensions to existing buildings for 10 TUREMs costing US$5.1
million, would be provided.



-ll-
Detailed Project Description
Management of Industrial Training (US$1.7 million)
2.04     To address the problem of a lack of managerial and technical skills
in YhK to effectively manage the industrial training system, the proposed
project would include staff training to improve the coordination of technician
training at the TTCs and technical/vocational teacher training at the FTVEs.
About 9 additional professional staff would be trained for the existing
Technician Training Unit in YoK to strengthen its capability for planning and
coordinating training programs at the TTCs. Technical assistance in the amount
of US$1.3 million would be provided to train these key staff in areas such as
labor market analysis and program development for technician training. These
YhK staff would work closely with qualified individuals at the TTCs to develop
curricula for technician training. To enable the Technician Training Unit to
carry out additional responsibilities in teacher training, it would be
expanded and redesignated as the Industrial Training Unit (ITU) to reflect its
broadened mandate. A full time coordinator for the ITU would be appointed.
The project would provide US$0.5 million in technical assistance for this
purpose.
2.05     Specific project inputs for this component include about 21
staff-months of tellowships and about 135 staff-months of expert services for
ITU staff to enable them to: (a) assist TTCs in course development; (b)
monitor academic standards and supervise administration of examinations; (d)
evaluate the external efficiency of technician training programs and assist
student placement in training and employment; (e) ensure that TTCs and the
FTVEs are appropriately staffed; and (f) implement the proposed project.
Since the ITU would be required to manage two significantly different and
substantial technical assistance programs for technician training and
technical/vocational teacher education, a team leader would be hired to
supervise each program and to train counterparts in the ITU. These two team
leaders would report to the ITU coordinator who would ensure that the
activities of the TA teams are compatible. Details of the fellowship and
consultative services program for the ITU are given in Annex 9.
Industrial Technician Training (US$93.0 million)
2.06     Although the 8 TTCs supported under the ongoing Industrial Training
Project (Ln.2399-TU) would produce about 1,200 higher-level technicians from
1991 onwards, the results of a pre-investment study included in the same
project indicate that at least 20 additional TTCs would be required to meet
the projected requirements for higher-level technicians in industry (para.
1.02).  The proposed project would therefore convert an additional 20 VSHEs
lacking in equipment, appropriate curricula and teaching staff into TTCs
capable of offering high-quality training programs. This would require
support for: (a) curricula and subject development; (b) training of trainers
for the 20 TTCs; and (c) improvement of TTC administration and facilities.
The VSHEs have been selected based on geographic and economic criteria such as
proximity to local industry, commitment of employers to training programs, and
location in areas targeted by the Government for development. The geographic
location of these TTCs is shown in the attached map.



-12-
2.07     Curricula and subiect development. To meet current and projected
needs for technicians and specialized manpower in priority areas, support would
be provided to develop 9 new specializations and to expand 11 existing ones in
the 20 project-assisted TTCs. These 20 specializations, identified in the
pre-investment study (para. 2.01) correspond to the needs of th,e industrial
sectors targeted for expansion in the Fifth Five-Year Development Plan. To
ensure that training programs for these specializations would fit the specific
needs of industry, participation of employers in curriculum development would
be encouraged through Advisory Boards which have already been formed for this
purpose (para. 1.09).
2.08     Although the main focus of the proposed project is on technician
training, 4 of the 9 new programs would be in non-technical specializations
(commercial studies, administrative services, financial administration and
tourism) to meet the needs of employers in industry as well as in the rapidly
expanding services sectors, for personnel in these specializations. These
non-technical specializations would provide 930 training places, an estimated
eighty percent of which would be taken up by women. The 5 new technical
specializations to be added include chemical, food processing, textiles,
medical electronics, and computer repair and maintenance, while the 11
existing ones to be expanded include civil, electrical, controls and
instrumentation, communications, industrial electronics, mechanical, air
conditioning and refrigeration, fouudry, agricultural mechanics, computers,
and petrochemicals/petroleum technologies. Together, these 20 specializations
would provide 6,660 new training places at the TTCs, giving an annual output
of about 3,100 graduates from 1996 onwards.-' This output would meet the
projected annual requirements of about 2,500 higher-level technicians per year
in industry (para. 1.02) and in addition, be available to other employer
groups such as the power and services sectors. Annex 3 details projected
enrollments by subject area and distribution of specializations by TTC.
Development of the 9 new specializations and expansion of the 11 existing ones
would require about 84 and 33 staff-months of expert services, respectively.
These expert services costing US$1.3 million are detailed in Annex 9.
2.09     Training of Trainers. The proposed project would assist Y6K in
meeting its short-term requirements for trainers in the 20 project-assisted
TTCs through a fellowship program costing US$12.8 million. This substantial
fellowship program is the most expeditious and effective way of producing
qualified trainers for the new TTCs, given the importance of starting up
priority technician training programs with the minimum of delay. Trainers who
have benefited from the fellowship program are contractually obliged by YhK to
serve for a mandatory period of 18 months at the TTCs and this has been
proposed to be extended to 24 months. Furthermore, inappropriately trained
staff at the TTCs (para. 1.07) could be phased out when fellows return after 9
months of overseas training. Lon&sr term needs for trainers would be
addressed through project support fur improving the output of technical
teachers from the FTEs. To ensure that YdK would be able to recruit a
sufficient number of instructors for the 20 new TTCs, the Governmentprovided
assurances during negotiations, that it would allocate funds for creating additional staff
poitions for instructors, based on a ratio of 12 students to 1 instructor.
1/ Attrition rate for the 2 year post-secondary programs is estimated at
about 4 percent from historical records.



-13-
2.10     The fellowship program would enable about 444 teachers of specialist
subjects and 28 teachers of general (core) sutjects to be trained in
appropriate overseas institutions. These 472 fellows would be selected for 9
months of training according to criteria which would be reviewed by the Bank.
Professional aptitude and proficiency in a foreign language would be among the
main criteria for selection. In total, the proposed project would provide
about 4,248 staff-months of fellowships. The distribution of fellowships by
area of specialization is given in Annex 4.
2.11     Technician Training Centers. The current facilities in the 20
selected VSHEs are inadequate for technician training. To upgrade these
facilities for the new and expanded training programs, the proposed project
would provide equipment, furniture, anid renovationg or extensions to existing
buildings. Only equipment designed for institutional training would be
provided for the 20 specializations supported by the project, since any
training requiring heavy plant or production equipment would be undertaken
during the in-plant training period for trainees. Preliminary equipment lists
for the new specializations have been prepared by YoK and reviewed by the
Bank. Equipment lists for the existing specializations have already been
developed under the ongoing Industrial Training Project (Loan 2399-TU). To
improve the administration of the 20 centers, study tours of three weeks each
would be provided to the directors to visit appropriate institutions abroad
and learn about efficient management of training centers. Project assistance
for these improvements to the TTCs would amount to US$68.7 million.
Technical and Vocational Teacher Trainina (US$33.1 million)
2.12     As shown in Table 1.1, there is a projected shortfall of about 13,740
well-trained technical and vocational teachers by 1991. The proposed project
would address this issue by improving the quality and increasing the quantity
of technical and vocational teachers through support to three Faculties of
Technical Education in Western Turkey, Central and Eastern Anatolia, and one
Faculty of Vocational Education in Central Anatolia''.  To improve teacher
quality, the proposed project would assist the FTVEs in improving their
existing teacher training programs by: (a) improving the technological and
pedagogical content of programs, and reducing the emphasis on engineering
practice and production work (para. 1.13); and (b) establishing appropriate
training standards. To achieve this, a Technology Department, a
Technical/Vocational Education Department and a Development and Instructional
Support Unit would be established at each FTVE. Curriculum development for
technical/vocational teacher training programs would be undertaken at the
Technical/Vocational Education Departments and would involve relevant experts
from the technology departments. In the longer term, these departments would
have the capability to advise the MOEYS, the major client of the FTVES, on
curriculum development for its secondary industrial and technical high
schools. The proposed project would also upgrade training facilities in these
new department/units, and improve faculty administration.
1/ The three Faculties of Technical Education are located at Gazi University
in Central Anatolia, Marmara University in Western Turkey and Firat
University in Eastern Anatolia. The Fatculty of Vocational Education is
located at Gazi University in Central Anatolia.



-14-
2.13     To increase output of technical and vocational teachers, the proposed
project would assist in the development and implementation of new improved and
shorter courses at the FTVEs. The new courses include: (a) one-year
post-graduate courses for graduates in relevant specializations; (b) two-year
courses for graduates of post-secondary institutions such as the TTCs who
require a total of four years of higher education to qualify for a teaching
degree; and (c) modular in-service training programs for suitably qualified
persons in industry who wish to be teachers, and for currently employed
teachers who wish to upgrade their skills for career advancement. These
courses would be developed in consultation with MOEYS and other client
ministries/agencies, as well as industry. They would be designed to tap new
sources of entrants with higher levels of education and/or relevant
technical/vocational skills without affecting the overall length of the
training period (four years of post-secondary education) required for trainees
to attain a university degree in teaching. Training flexibility would also be
enhanced since the new courses would impart the necessary pedagogical
knowledge to entrants already equipped with appropriate technical/vocational
skills, to enable them to teach in various specializations. Addition of these
courses would allow enrollments in the FTVEs to increase to the levels
indicated in Annex 5, leading to a doubling of annual output by 1991. Output
of graduates would therefore be sufficient to meet the requirements for
technical and vocational teachers shown in Table 1.1.
2.14     To address the issue of recruitment and retention of technical and
vocational teachers in the Ministry of Education's secondary skill training
institutions, terms of service for these teachers would have to be improved
(para. 1.15). The proposed project is however, not the proper vehicle to
bring about this improvement as it would entail reform of personnel policies
having widespread ramifications in the civil service. However, MOEYS is
strongly committed to improving the terms of service for its technical and
vocational teachers and has submitted a proposal on the subject for Government
approval. Other important issues impacting on teacher recruitment and
retention (para. 1.16) would be addressed through the proposed project. Loss
of potential teachers would be reduced by about 30 percent through: (a)
improving teacher quality and involving MOEYS in curriculum development,
thereby eliminating the need for an external examination in which currently 50
percent of the candidates fail; and (b) simplifying MOEYS recruitment
procedures to shorten the waiting period for candidates.
2.15     Technological content. Expertise would be developed in the Technology
Departments to revise the curricula of existing technology courses and the
teaching methodology for instructor training programs, which are too heavily
oriented towards engineering. To assist in this task, a total of 16
technology education specialists would be provided at the rate of 4 per
faculty for 6 months each. To increase teaching competency in technology
subjects, 68 staff in the Technology Departments would be sent on 9-month
overseas fellowships. The technical assistance program for these departments
would amount to US$3.0 million.



-15-
2.16     Pedagogical focus. The role of the Technical/Vocational Education
Departments would be to provide the pedagogical focus to training programs
that is currently missing, and to develop curricula for instructor training
programs in conjunction with the Technology Departments. To help the
Technical/Vocational Education Departments develop a capability for assuming
this role, the project would support: (a) staff 'development through
fellowships for about 12 faculty members to obtain Ph.D. Degrees in technical
education, and 24 others to obtain Masters Degrees in the same field; and (b)
development of teacher education curricula and instructional materials through
a consultative services program of 144 staff-months. Total cost of this
technical assistance package would be US$5.0 million.  Duringnegotiations, the
Government provided assurances that it would establish by March 31, 1989, a Department
of Technical Education at the three designated Faculties of Technical Education, and a
Department of Vocational Education at the Faculty of Vocational Education to provide
the pedagogical focus to teacher training programs.
2.17     Research and Development. The Development and Instructional Support
Units would be responsible for: (a) developing new training materials; (b)
establishing training standards for pre-service and in-service programs in the
irVEs; and (c) providing the leadership for research and development in
technical and vocational education. The Project would assist in the
establishment of these units through provision of 48 staff-months of expert
services for preparing teacher edu^ation materials, and about 240 staff-months
of fellowships for staff to enable them to develop skills for research and
development in technical education. Support would also be provided for the
development of library staff for Learning Resource Centers. Total support for
the Development and Instructional Support Units would amount to US$1.4
million. In the longer term, these units would have the capacity to develop
instructional materials for other training agencies and for in-plant training
programs of industrial firms. Income derived from such services would
contribute to cost-recovery on training at the FTVEs.
2.18     Teacher Training Facilities.  Facilities in the FTVEs would have to
be upgraded for the new and improved training programs. To upgrade training
facilities, the Project would provide equipment, furniture and renovations of
and extensions to existing buildings. Equipment would primarily be used to
support pedagogical and methodological improvements in the training programs;
only a limited amount would be provided for the technology departments to
replace obsolete equipment. Preliminary priced equipment lists have been
prepared by Y6K and reviewed by the Bank. Finally, to update senior
administrative staff in the organization and administration of education
faculties, 22 staff-months of study tours would be provided. Total cost of
this sub-component would be US$20.4 million.
Tourism Sector Training (US$7.1 million)
2.19     The MCT has projected an annual shortfall of about 1,800 basic-level
tourism workers by 1989. In addition, the expansion of training programs is
constrained by the lack of well-trained instructors. To address these two
issues, the project would support: (a) strengthening the capacity of MCT's
Training Department for planning and implementing tourism training programs;
(b) establishment of new and improved instructor training programs in four
main areas of hotel specializations; and (c) improvement in the quality and
quantity of trained tourism workers through the ugrading of 5 existing TUREMs
and the development of 5 additional such centers at existing hotels operated
by the MCT.



-16-
2.20     Strengthenins of MCTs Training Department.  To plan, organize and
monitor a national training system for tourism occupations, the Training
Department of the MCT requires well-trained professionals in manpower and
training needs assessment, curriculum development, and training centers
management, among other key functions. Since such professionals are currently
lacking, experts' services and overseas training fellowships for MCT staff
would be provided to assist the Training Department in planning and
implementing a national training strategy and to carry out the activities
under the proposed tourism training component. The technical assistance
program is summarized in Annex 12.
2.21     Instructor Training.  A critical factor in the development of TUREM
programs is the MCT's capacity to provide the required number of
well-qualified instructors for the four main areas of hotel specilizations,
namely, front-office, housekeeping, food preparation and food and beverage
services. Requirements for instructors in these areas are detailed in Annex
11. Experts' services and fellowships would be provided to develop and
implement these specific training programs. In addition, about 30 language
teachers would be recruited and trained in the use of language laboratories in
order that TUREM trainees would receive effective instruction in foreign
languages.
2.22     Tourism Training  Centers.  The current facilities in the 5 existing
training centers are inadequate for high-quality training in tourism
occupations. To upgrade these facilities, equipment, technical assistance and
renovations to buildings would be included in the projecL   The existing
centers, however, are not sufficient to meet the increasing needs for
basic-level manpower in the tourism sector. The project would support the
development of 5 new centers in existing hotels presently run by the MCT. To
achieve this objective, the project would include equipment, furniture and
renovations and/or extensions to existing buildings. Finally, to strengthen
the management of the training centers, overseas study tours would be provided
for the directors and assistant directors of the centers.



-17-
III.  PROJECT COSIS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Cost of the Project
3.01     Summary of Proiect Costs. Project costs are estimated at TLira 286.0
billion or US$ 165.8 million equivalent. A summary of project costs by
project item is shown in Table 3.1. Project costs by category of expenditure
are shown in Table 3.2. Details of project costs are shown in Annex 8. These
costs include equipment and technical assistance (specialist services,
language training and fellowships) as well as Government financed construction
of extensions to existing facilities, renovation of existing buildings and
provisioa of furniture. Excluded from project costs are the construction
costs (US$3.0 million) of two project items (Faculties of Technical Education
at Marmara and Firat Universities), which are currently under construction and
expected to be completed by the time of Board presentation.
3.02     Basis of Cost Estimates.  Equipment costs for about 80 percent of the
value of the equipment packages in the TTCs have been estimated on the basis
of detailed equipment lists and specifications in recently awarded contracts
for identical technologies supported under the first Industrial Training
Project (Loan 2399-TU). Equipment costs for the proposed new technologies in
the TTCs and for the faculties of vocational and technical education have been
estimated on the basis of preliminary priced equipment lists for the proposed
new training courses. Technical assistance costs have been estimated on the
basis of recent prices for comparable technical assistance in the the first
Industrial Training Project (Loan 2399-TU) and in the Industrial Schools
Project (Loan 2536-TU). The man-month costs of specialists include housing,
relocation costs, salaries, subsistence, office services, fees, overheads and
recruitment cost. Costs of construction and rehabilitation are based on: (a)
surveys of existing facilities; (b) standard plans of the proposed training
laboratories and workshops; (c) schedules of accommodations; and (d) current
unit costs of construction (US$165/m2 for new construction and $47/m2 for
alterations,) in recently awarded contracts for the technician training
centers that are included in the first Industrial Training Project (Loan
2399-TU). Furniture costs are based on existing, pr'ced furniture lists and
amount to 13 percent of the cost of construction. Base cost estimates reflect
prices as projected for the time of negotiations (February 1988).
3.03     Customs Duties and Taxes.  Project costs include an estimated US$1.8
million in indirect taxes on locally procured civil works and US$17.1 million
in export promotion tax (5 percent) applied to imports and value added tax (12
percent) on equipment.
3.04     Costs per Student.  Construction costs relate exclusively to the
expansion and/or refurbishment of existing facilities; calculations of
construction unit costs and areas per student are therefore not applicable.
Use factors in the technician training centers would be about 70 percent in
classrooms and 60 percent in workshops. Equipment eosts per student in the
technician training centers and the faculties of technical education are
estimated at an average of US$8,662 and 2,810 respectively (base cost), which
is reasonable in comparison with those of other Bank-wide financed facilities
for industrial training of this type (Annex 6).



-18-
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY PROJECT ITEM
(TURKISH LIRA lillion)                       (US   illion)
I Total                                  Z Total
2 Foeisn  kws                            2 Foreisn  las
Local Forein Total  ExchanO    Costs   Lwal Foreign Total Exchang    Costs
:3-===  :3:2333 4z7=33  xz,=33   aszz3x    233 23 33333:t n:33uuau  zzzua:
A. NMAGEIIENT OF INDUSTRIAL TRAINING
COORDINATION OF TECHNICIAN  ftGs YOK         0.19    1.09   1.28         85        1   0.18    1.07   1.25         85       1
OORD, OF VOCITECH. TEACHER TRG               0.07    0.41   0.48         86        0   0.06    0,41   0.47        .U6       0
suo-Total iANAGEKENT Of INDUSTRIAL TRAINING        0.25    1.51   1.76          96       1   0.25    1.48   1.72         86        1
S. INDUSTRIAL TECHNICIAN TRAINING
CURRICULA AND SUIJECT DEVELOPHENT            0.20    1.13   1.33         85        :   0.20    1.10   1.30         85       1
TRAINING OF TRAINERS                         0.80   12.21  13.01         94        9   0.78   11.97  12.75         94       9
TECHNICIAN TRAINING CENTER6                 27.68   52.89  80.57         66       59  27.14   51.86  78.99         66      59
Buo-Tatal INDUSTRIAL TECHNICIAN TRAINING          28.68   66.24  94.91          70      69  28.11   64.94  93.05         70       69
C. VOC. ANL TECH. TEACHER TRAINING
… -  - -  -------
TECIOLGY DEPARTENTS                         0.26    2.78   3.04         91        2   0.26    2.73   2.98         91       2
TECHNICAL EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS              0.42    4.66   5.08         92        4   0.41    4.57   4.98         92       4
DEVELOPMENT AND INST. SUPPORT UNITS          0.13    1.26   1.39         91        1   0.12    1.24   1.36         91        1
TEACHER TRAINING FACILITIES                  7.29   16.96  24.24         70       18   7.14   16.62  23.77         70      18
Sub-Total VOC. AND TECH. TEACHER TRAINING          8.10   25.66  33.76          76      25   7.94   25.16  33.10         76      25
D. TOIRISH SECTOR TRAINING                         2.22    4.97   7.20          69       5   2.18    4.88   7.06         69        5
Total kASELINE COSTS                                39.25   98.38 137.62          71     100  38.48   96.45 134.92         71     100
Phvsical Contirkimncies                           3.11    7.71  10.91          71       8   3.05    7.55  10.60         71       8
Price Contingencies                              45.27   92.27 137.54         67      100   8.48   11.80  20.28        S5        15
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 87.62  198.35 285.97          69     208  50.00  115.90 165.80         70      123
-  ,= = _ -      = .,         : ,   -=,==-- -=: = =    -- -3--: :-



-19-
TABLE 3.2 PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE 1/
(TURKISH LIRA Billion)                      (US$ Million)
2 Total                                 Z Total
Z Formin 2m                               Forwin  Due
Local Foreign Total Excha-de   Costs   Local For*isn Total Exehmni   Costs
22=23 3822323 =22=Z3 323323323asm 32*2  3*323 3228332 332332 333*32223 323233
I. IWVESTMENT COSTS
A, EQUIPIENT
EQUIPIIENT                           26.70   69.61  96.31        72      70  26.17   68.25  94.42        72      70
Sub-Total EWUIP10NT                     26.70   69.61  96.31        72      70  26,17   68.25  94.42        72      70
S. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
_ ___.__ _
OERSEAS FELLOUSHIPS                   1.00   18.74  19.74        95      14   0.99   18.37  19.35        95       14
LANGUAGE TRAINING                     0.15    0*04   0.18        20       0   0.14    0.04   0.19        20       0
SPECIALISTS                           1.18    6.60   7,78        85       6   1.16    6.47   7.63        85       6
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE           2.32   25.38  27.70        92      20   2.28   24.88  27,16        92      20
- B 8UILDIN65
EXTENSIOIIS TO EXISTING FACILITIES    6.36    2.11   8.47        25       6   6.24    2.07   8.30        25       6
RENOVATION OF EXISTING FACILITIES     2.44    0.80   3.24        25       2   2.39    0.79   3.18        25       2
FURNITURE                             1.43    0.47   1.90        25       1  1.40    0.46   1.86         25        1
Sub-Total BUILDIN6S                     10.22    3.38  13.61        25      10  10.02    3.32  13.34        25      10
Total BASELINE COSTS                        39.25   98.38 137.62        71     100  39.48   96.45 134.92        71     100
Phwuical Continunies                      3.11    7,71  10.81        71       8   3.05    7.55  10.60        71       E
Price Contirdsncies                      45.27   92.27 137.54        67     100   8.48   11.80  20.28        58      15
___ --   -- - -   -  -  ---   -- -                      _  _ --   -
Total PROJECT COSTS                         87.62  198,35 285,97        69     208  50.00  115.80 165.80        70     123
1/ Total project costs include US$ 18.9 million of identifiable duties and
taxes.



-20-
3.05     Contingency Allowances.  Project costa include a physical contingency
allowance equal to 8 percent of the estimated cost of all project items.
Price contingencies between negotiations (February 1988) and the end of
project implementation are estimated at US$20.3 million equivalent, or 14.0
percent of base cost plus physical contingencies. Total contingencies
represent 23 percent of the base cost. Because Turkey's trade pattern is
predominantly oriented towards Europe, the estimated price contingency
allowances (Annex 7) for imported equipment differ from world-wide price
contingency estimates.
3.06     Foreimn Exchanse Component.  The foreign exchange component was
estimted as follows: (a) construction and refurbishment of existing
facilities - 25 percent; (b) furniture - 25 percent; (c) equipment - 72
percent; (d) specialist services - 85 percent; and (e) fellowships - 95
percent. These percentages have been determined by: (a) estimating the
indirect foreign exchange of construction and furniture; (b) assuming that all
equipment wopld be imported; an.' (ci estimating that about 85 percent of all
project financed specialists wo Md 'e foreign.  Including contingencies, the
resulting foreign exchange com,poneiv. is estimated at US$115.8 million, or
about 70 percent of total cost&.
3.07     Recurrent Costs.  Under the proposed project, additional recurrent
costs for rdk would be generated by: (a) the recruitment of additional
instructors to augment the staffing of the technician training centers and the
faculties of education; and (b) needs for incremental budgets for training
m_terials and equipment maintenance to sustain the proposed improvement in the
training of industrial technicians. Since project buildings are limited to
eztensions and refurbishment of existing facilities, only modest additional
recurrent costs would be generated by building maintenance. The total
additional recurrent (base) costs generated by these items when all the
project institutions are in operation would be TLira 2.8 billion.  This sum
represents 1.9 percent of the YoK recurrent budget in 1986.  In addition,
about TL 1.0 billion in annualized capital costs would be incurred as a result
of the proposed project.  The sum of the recurrert costs and the annualized
capital costs would represent about 2.7 percent of the annual ThK budget. For
the MCT, additional recurrent costs as a result of the project are estimated
at about TL1.6 billion per year when all 10 TUREMs are in operation. This
aoount represents only about 1.0 percent of the 1986 MCT recurrent budget.
Proiect Fhnmncin
3.08     The proposed Bank loan of US$115.8 million would finance the foreign
exchange component of the proposed project. The Government would finance the
balance of project costs. Project financing would be in accordance with Table
3.3.
Table 3.3: FINANCIAL PLAN
Bank
Category of Expenditure        Gov't  Bank   Total Financing
Buildings & Furniture          17.0    0.0   17.0    0.0
Equipment                      28.2   78.4  106.6   73.5
Overseas Fellowships            1.1   21.5   22.6   95.0
Language Training               0.2    0.0    0.2   95.6
Specialist Services             0.5    8.3    8.8   95.0
Unallocated                     3.0    7.6   10.6   71.7
Total                   50.0  115.8  165.8   70.0
- ------------------------------- -  --------------- - ----_



-21-
Project Management
3.09     Overview.  The proposed project would be implemented by the Council
of Higher Education (YnK) through its existing Technician Training Unit (TTU),
which wo-.ld be modified to carry out its expanded responsibilities (para.
2.04). The TTU was formally established within YoK in 1983 with a mandate to
develop technician training as an important emerging part of the higher
education system. Originally, the Coordinator of the TTU reported directly to
the President of YoK, but a Y8K council member has subsequently been nominated
on a full time basis to direct the operations of the TTU and to act as a
spokesman on all aspects of technician training on behalf of YoK. The TTU
has, until recently, focused its attention on the development of the eight
Technician Training Centers (TTCs) under the Industrial Training Project (Loan
2399-TU).
3.10     Management Structure.  Under the proposed project, there would be a
renewed emphasis on the role of the TTU as a coordinator of technician
training programs and as a liaison agency with industry. Its mandate would
also be broadened to cover new issues related to teacher training for
technical and vocational secondary schools and TTCs. To assist the unit in
carrying out its expanded role, management of the TTU would be fully
integrated with the proposed technical assistance (TA) program summarized in
Annex 9, which would be designed to leave behind a permanent organizational
structure to manage and coordinate all aspects of technician training and
technical teacher training. To reflect its expanded functions, the TTU would
be renamed the Industrial Training Unit (ITU). A full-time coordinator would
be appointed to manage the ITU. The ITU would also identify and tap local
technical expertise in the TTCs and technical universities for curriculum
development, training materials production and the drafting of equipment lists
and specifications. The ITU would hire these staff on a part-time basis as
currently is being done in the first Industrial Training Project to provide
local support to the project specialists working on the above tasks.
Participation of these local experts would assist in the dissemination of
project concepts to training institutions which are not included in the
proposed project.
3.11     The ITU would receive its directives from a proposed Policy Board for
Industrial Training (PBIT), under the chairmanship of the YBK council member
referred to in para. 3.09, and with membership from the Ministry of Education,
Ministry of State, the four Faculties of Vocational and Technical Education,
Chambers of Commerce and Industry. Through the PBIT, decision makers in the
concerned ministries/agencies would be able to decide jointly on policies for
industrial training. The secretary of this PBIT would be the ITU
coordinator. Within the ITU there would be: (a) a technician training
section; (b) a vocational/technical teacher training coordinator; and (c) a
service and project implementation section. The proposed management structure
including the numbers of key staff is shown in a schematic form in Chart 2.
Descriptions of key positions are listed in paras. 3.12-3.14. During
negotiations the Government provided assurances that: (a) it would establish the PBIT by
March 31, 1989 under the chairmap of a YoK member responsible for technician
training and technieallvocational teacher training; (b) the PBIT would have
representation from the entities coneerned with the development and management of
technical education and training; and (c) the existing Technician Training Unit responsible
for project implementation would be expanded into an Industrial Training Unit (ITU)
having a full-time coordinator (who would also serve as secretary to the PBIT), and a full
complement of key staff by March 31, 1989.



-22-
3.12     Within the ITU, the Technician Trainina Section would be responsible
for: (a) advising and assisting the PBIT in establishing objectives for the
technician training system; (b) planning, developing and evaluating programs
appropriate to those objectives; and (c) advising and assisting technician
training centers in securing and managing the human, physical and financial
resources needed to implement the planned programs.  In this section, a small
group of key staff would work closely with the experts on technician training
for the proposed project (for details of experts, see Annex 9). A section
chief (with a background in technical education and at least two years of
administrative experience), would function as the principal counterpart to t'
leader of the TA team working on Technician Training. Under the section chie
there would be two staff working as counterparts to the specialist on manpower
data and employment issues. Their duties would include maintenance of a
comprehensive information system on manpower needs and employment
opportunities, liaison with chambers of commerce and industry, and carrying
out periodic employers' surveys. Two staff training officers would organize
the process of selection and recruitment of fellowship candidates, assist in
the selection of overseas training programs and institutions, and coordinate
the induction of returning fellows. Additionally, there would be about two
staff responsible for testing and evaluation of training programs. Finally,
two staff, working as counterparts to the curriculum and program development
specialists, would be responsible for identifying suitable institutions in
Turkey as the focal points of curriculum and materials development, and
recruiting qualified individuals to carry out these tasks.
3.13     The Vocational and Technical Teacher Training Coordinator would be
the principal counterpart to the TA team leader for technical/vocational
teacher training, and the liaison officer with the Deans of the Faculties of
Technical and Vocational Education. The incumbent would assist in the
planning of technical and vocational teacher education programs, including
assessment of the required capacity of facilities, timing and introduction of
new courses, and teacher requirements. During project implementation, the
incumbent would also assist in the design of suitable overseas study tours for
key faculty staff.
3.14     The Service and Project Implementation Section  would carry out all
the necessary support functions for the Technician Training Section, and for
the Vocational ard Technical Teacher Training Coordinator, including in
particular, preparation of designs, procurement related activities, keeping of
project accounts, preparation of progress reports, keeping of project accounts
and personnel related matters.  This section would have six key staff.  It
would be headed by a section chief, responsible for monitoring overall
progress, and staffed with the following additional staff: (a) an accountant
and a budget officer responsible for keeping project accounts and controlling
technical assistance budgets; (b) an architect responsible for preparing
inventories of existing facilities and preparing schematic designs and
equipment layouts for new facilities; (c) a procurement officer responsible
for the coordination of bid document preparation, bid invitation, bid
evaluation and contract awards; and (d) a personnel officer, responsible for
personnel administration within the ITU.
3.15     Faculty Organization.  To promote increased emphasis on (i) pedagogy;
(ii) subject matter development; and (iii) curriculum development and
in-service teacher training (in contrast to the current emphasis on
engineering skill development), each Faculty of Technical/Vocational Education
would be reorganized into: (i) a Technology Department, responsible for
keeping abreast of and disseminating to the other departments, technological
development in the TTCs and abroad; (ii) a Department of Technical/Vocational



-23-
Education with prime responsibility for developing pre-service teaching skills
through an appropriate mix of pre-service teacher training courses (para. 2.16);
and (iii) a Development and Instructional Support Unit responsible for conducting
in-service teacher training and ensuring relevance of curriculum materials. Each
department would be headed by a vice dean. To ensure that technical and
vocational teacher training curricula and training methodologies are relevant and
responsive to regional requirements, and to provide linkage between the FTVEs and
their clients, the Government provided assurances during negotiations that: (a) by March
31, 1989, a Regional Advisory Board would be established at each faculty to advise the dean,
the faculty council and the faculty executive committee on requirements for teachers of
technical subjects, requirements for teacher training courses in new specializations and on
curriculum development issues; and (b) its membership would include local technical and
vocational schools, regional universities, TTCs and industry.
3.16     Management of Tourism Sector Training.  As shown in Chart IV, a
management committee for tourism training would be established under the
chairmanship of the Deputy Undersecretary for Tourism. This committee would
comprise the General Director of Tourism, the General Director of Marketing and
Promotion, the Director of Tourism Investments and the Director of the Training
Department. The Deputy Undersecretary would nominate by December 31, 1988, a
General Secretary who would act as the Coordinator of an implementation unit
within the MCT. Implementation of the activities under the proposed tourism
training component would be carried out by the staff of this unit. Other key
members of the implementation unit would include an auditor and a procurement
officer.
3.17     Evaluation of Programs.  To strengthen YdK's capability for evaluating
the external efficiency of technician training programs, overseas fellowship
training would be provided to about two suitably qualified ITU staff to enhance
their skills in testing and evaluation.  These staff would be responsible for
assessing the effectiveness of training programs and providing relevant feedback
to ITU and TTC staff involved in curriculum development.  In the longer term, the
FTVEs would have additional expertise for testing and evaluation.
3.18     Architectural Design Services.  Standard plans for new workshops and
laboratories in YoK institutions have been prepared by the consortium of Turkish
and foreign consultants who have been responsible for designing renovations and
extensions to existing facilities under the Industrial Training Project (Loan
2399-TU). Schematic designs for alterations, preparation of working
drawings/tender documents, and supervision of construction of the proposed
extensions and renovations would be prepared by consultants who would be hired as
a part of the technical assistance package (Annex 9).
3.19     Location of Project Activities.  All project items will be located in
renovated and expanded existing facilities, and will be accommodated on existing
sites.
3.20     Maintenance.  The Government has a good track record in terms of
maintaining training facilities, and its policy and practices in this respect are
expected to continue.
3.21     Procurement.  The procurement procedures for the proposed
project are summarized in Table 3.4:



-24-
Table 3.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
Proiect Element                       ICB     LCB    Other    Total
Buildings & Furniture                  0.0    0.0    18.1      18.1
(0.0)  (0.0)   (0.0)    (0.0)
Equipment                            107.1    5.0      2.0    114.1
(78.7)  (3.7)   (1.5)   (83.9)
Technical Assistance                   0.0    0.0    33.6      33.6
(0.0)  (0.0)  (32.0)   (32.0)
Total Cost:                   107.1    3.0    53.7    165.8
Bank financing:               (78.7)  (3.7)  (33.5)  (115.8)
a/ Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the
proposed Bank loan.
The exceptions to ICB procurement would be as follows:
(a) Contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent
each, which in the aggregate would not exceed US$5.0 million and which would
not be expected to interest foreign suppliers because of the variety of the
contents of each contract, would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with local procedures to be
acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) Sundry items not exceeding US$25,000 in each contract and aggregating a
nmximum of US$2.0 million equivalent would be purchased on the basis of a
minimum of three quotations, in accordance with local procedures to be
acceptable to the Bank.
3.22     Buildings and Furniture for Yok Institutions.  Because of the small size
(US$14.4 million in the aggregate and less than US$1.0 million per site), and
dispersed nature of the proposed sites for civil works (see Map), bids would be
invited under local bidding procedures on the basis of one contract per project
site (i.e. a total of 22 contracts). Contracts for furniture (US$2.2 million in
the aggregate for 22 contracts) would be awarded with on the basis of requests
for at least three price quotations from schools or training centers which are in
the business of furniture production. Both of the above procedures are proving to
be economical and efficient during their ongoing use in the first Industrial
Training Project (Loan 2399-TU). All civil works and furniture contracts would be
financed exclusively by the Government.
3.23     Invitations to bid on equipment for Yok institutions would be issued in
two phases because tender documents (including equipment lists and
specifications) are already available for a first phase which includes equipment
for technologies identical to those under the Industrial Training Project (loan
2399-TU). The value of equipment in the first phase (US$60.8 million) would
account for about 60 percent of the total value of equipment (US$ 102.4
million). Bids in each phase would be grouped into about 28 packages of goods,
the contents of which could typically be provided by one supplier. All these
packages suitable for International Competitive Bidding (ICB), would be reviewed
by the Bank prior to bid invitation and would be procured in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (May, 1985).



-25-
3.24     In comparing bids for equipment to be procured through ICB, domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent, or the
existing customs duty, whichever is lower over the c.i.f. prices of competing
imports. The two invitations to bid and the proposed award of all equipment
contracts would be reviewed by the Bank prior to final award decisions.
3.25     Technical Assistance for Yok Institutions.  Because of the large size of
the TA program (US$ 31.2 million) and the different nature of the assistance to
be provided to the TTCs (para. 2.08) and the Faculties of Vocational and
Technical Education (para. 2.14), two separate bids would be invited to provide
integrated packages of specialist services and fellowships (including necessary
management support) for the project items. The preparation of tender documents
for the contract is nearing completion and the start of technical assistance has
been carefully timed to ensure continuity with the technical assistance program
under the Industrial Training Project (Loan 2399-TU). The consultants would be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures acceptable to the Bank on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency." At least three training institutions
would be requested to submit proposals for each package, following a
short-listing of institutions acceptable to the Bank. To ensure that the two
technical assistance contracts for technician training and technical/vocational
teacher education would have an identity of objectives, a proposed steering
committee on technical assistance would be established to ensure coordination of
the two technical assistance packages. The two TA team leaders would report to
the ITU coordinator who would be responsible for ensuring that the teams would
work closely together.
Status of Preparaton
3.26     The proposed project would be completed in about seven and a half years
(1988-1995) in accordance with the implementation schedule (Schedule I). A
supplementary implementation schedule for the activities to be implemented by the
MCT is attached as Schedule III. The project is in a state of preparation that
would permit timely implementation because: (a) construction of buildings is in
progress for two major project items, and the remaining construction would be
limited to extensions and renovations of existing facilities; (b) equipment lists
with bid specifications have been completed for about 80 percent of the
technologies in the TTCs, and draft equipment lists exist for the remaining TTCs
and for the faculties of technical and vocational education; and (c) the
technical assistance packages, including terms of reference are expected to be
fully defined by February, 1988, and proposals are expected by August, 1988.
According to the Implementation Schedule (Schedule I), project completion would
be December, 1995 and the Closing Date would be June 30, 1996.
tgyvnEion Reuimrements
3.27     An initial and crucial supervision mission would be scheduled for
September, 1988 to discuss YoK's evaluation of the technical assistance (TA)
tenders and to review the proposed contract terms for the selected TA agencies.
A second carefully timed supervision mission would take place shortly after the
arrival in Turkey of the two leaders of the TA teams for technician and
technical/vocational teacher trainiag (January, 1989). The task of this mission
would be to brief the team leaders and local counterparts in YMk's ITU as well as
the staff of MCT's PIU, on all aspects of project implementation as well as
reporting requirements vis-a-vis the Government. This would ensure that ITU and
MCT staff would be able to implement the project according to its established



-26-
objectives, and to produce issue-oriented reports which could form the basis for
Government reporting to the Bank. Once the reporting system has been
established, Bank supervision would rely heavily on it to keep abreast of
progress and to identify project issues. Subsequent supervision would: (i)
emphasize problem solving; (ii) ensure that the Bank's procurement guidelines are
being fodlowed; and (iii) ensure that there is progress towards meeting project
objectives.
Disbursements, Accounts and Audits
3.28     The current country disbursement profile (from date of Board
presentation) is eight years. The EMENA regional profile for education projects
is in excess of ten years, which is due to the early stage (i.e. unacquired
sites, no tender documents for equipment and technical assistance) at which
education projects have hitherto been typically appraised. The proposed project
would be disbursed over a period of about eight years, which is considered
reasonable because of the advanced stage of project preparation. Disbursements
(estimated at the equivalent of US$83.8 million for equipment and US$32.0 million
for technical assistarce) would be made against:
(a) Equipment: (i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly
imported items; (ii) 100 percent of ex--factory
expenditures for locally manufactured items; and (iii)
83 percent of local expenditures for other items
procured locally.
(b) Specialist services and fellowships: 100 percent of total expenditures.
The disbursement schedule follows the normal profile for education projects in
the country. Disburcements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
However, disbursement against expenditures incurred under the tourism training
component will not start until the Government and the Bank have agreed on the
details of a program of implementation (Schedule III) for that component. A
Bank mission will visit Ankara in June, 1988 to review such a program.
3.29     Disbursements against contracts for goods and services exceeding
US$200,000 equivalent would be made against normal documentation.
Disbursements against contracts below that level would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures available for examination by Bank missions. To
facilitate timely project implementation, the Government would establish,
maintain and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a
Special Account in the Central Bank of Turkey to which the World Bank would
make an initial deposit, equivalent to about US$10.0 million (the average
disbursement amount over a four month period). The Special Account would be
replenished as appropriate in accordance with established Bank guidelines.
3.30     Accounts and Audits.  The Industrial Training Unit would maintain
separate accounts for the project and would prepare, at the end of each
quarter, a statement of progress, including a statement reflecting project
expenditures. Project accounts including the Special Account (para. 3.29)
would be audited in accordance with the March, 1982 Bank "Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank". The
Bank would be provided within six months of the end of each fiscal year, with
an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request,
including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements made on the basis
of a statement of expenditures.



-27-
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01     The proposed project would improve industrial productivity through
the expansion and upgrading of pre-service technician training programs, and
of the technical/vocational instructor training programs. The 20 Technician
Training Centers (TTCs) to be financed in the proposed project would produce
about 3,100 graduates per year by 1996. This output would meet the projected
demand for higher-level technicians in manufacturing industries, and, in
addition, cover a significant percentage of total demand for such personnel in
other sectors such as the power and services sectors. More importantly, the
proposed investment would put into place a dynamic training system that would
respond to the needs of changing industrial technology. An indication of the
returns on this type of investment is provided by an evaluation of the
benefit/cost ratio for the development of 8 TTCs uider the Industrial Training
Project (Loan 2399-TU). The evaluation indicates that by undertaking this
form of investment, the Government will enjoy a return to its resources of
about two and one-half times the level it presently enjoys.1' Also, through
the provision of training programs in commercial studies, financial
administration and tourism which are attractive to women (estimated 80 percent
of enrollment), the proposed project would increase the labor force
participation rate of women in these areas. Finally, the project would meet
the urgent needs for trained manpower in the tourism sector which is becoming
an increasingly important source of foreign exchange earnings.
Riks
4.02     Under the ongoing Industrial Training Project (Ln.2399-TU), there is
a risk that YoK may not be able to bring on board, as soon as needed, specific
skills required to manage the technician training system on a continuing
basis. This risk would be minimized in the proposed project through the
support to strengthen the existing TTU to enable it to undertake additional
responsibilities in respect of technical/vocational teacher training. The TTU
would be redesignated as the Industrial Training Unit (ITU) to reflect its
expanded responsibilities. Assurances would be obtained from the Government
that YoK would recruit the requisite number of full-time staff for the ITU by
March 31, 1989.
4.03     The existing arrangement of attaching technician and technical
instructor training to the universities presents the risk that training
programs would be compromised by an overly academic orientation. This risk is
considerably reduced by the strong commitment of YoK to make technician
training programs relevant to the needs of industry and by cooperative
1/ See IBRD: Republic of Turkey - Industrial Training Project, Report
No. 4755-TU, February 28. 1984.



-28-
arrangements for this training with industry. In addition, the proposed
project would include a management structure for technical/vocational teacher
training which establishes strong linkages between the faculties and their
clients such as the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of State, to ensure
that the training system would always be responsive to the job-oriented needs
of the clients.
4.04     Since many FTVE graduates currently prefer to work in industry, there
is a risk that the Ministry of Education (MOEYS) may not be able to attract
sufficient FTVE graduates to teach in its secondary schools. To alleviate
this risk, the MOEYS has proposed to the Government that the terms of service
for technical and vocational teachers should be significantly improved. The
Bank fully supports the recommendations of the MOEYS which are being
considered seriously by the Government in view of the critical shortage of
teachers in technical/vocational institutions. The proposed project would
assist in improving recruitment and retention rates of teachers through: (a)
re-orienting FTVE programs towards teacher education to ensure that the
end-products are trained to teach and not serve as engineers; and (b)
improving teacher quality and involving the MOEYS in curriculum development
and standards setting for teacher training, thereby eliminating the need for
an external examination in which the passing rate is only about 50 percent.
Finally, the MOEYS would also simplify recruitment procedures for teachers in
order to shorten the waiting period for candidates.
4.05     Finally, there is a risk that the MCT may not be able to implement
the tourism training component in a timely manner. To reduce this risk,
disbursements against expenditures incurred under the component will not start
until the details of an implementation program have been reviewed and agreed
by the Bank.   This is expected to be done in June/July, 1988.



-29-
V. AGREEMEINS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During loan negotiations, the Government provided the following
asurances:
(a)    that it would allocate funds for creating additional staff positions
for instructors, based on a ratio of 12 students to 1 instructor, for
the 20 new Technician Training Centers (para. 2.09);
(b)    that it would establish by March 31, 1989, a Department of Technical
Education at the three Faculties of Technical Education in Gazi,
Marmara and Firat Universities, and a Department of Vocational
Education at the Faculty of Vocational Education in Gazi University
to provide the pedagogical focus to teacher training programs (para.
2.16);
(c)    that:  (i) it would establish a Policy Board for Industriall Training
(PBIT) by March 31, 1989 under the chairmanship of a YdK meL)er
responsible for technician training and technical/vocational teacher
training; (ii) the PBIT would have representation from the ertities
concerned with the development and management of technical education
and training; and (iii) the existing Technician Training Unit
responsible for project implementation would be expanded int, '.ao
Industrial Training Unit (ITU) having a full-time coordinator (who
would also serve as secretary to the PBIT), and a full complekent of
key staff by March 31, 1989 (para. 3.11);
(d)    that:  (i) by March 31, 1989, a Regional Advisory Board wo"dt be
established at each Faculty of Technical/Vocational Education to
advise the dean, the faculty council and the faculty executive
committee on requirements for teachers of technical subjecti;,
requirements for teacher training courses in new specializations and
on curriculum development issues; and (ii) its membership would
include local technical and vocational schools, regional
universities, TTCs and industry (para. 3.15);
5.02     During negotiations, the terms of reference for the technical
a4sistance program were reviewed and confirmed.
5.03     Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project provides a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$115.8 million to the Republic of Turkey.



-31-                     Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRUiL TRAIDNG IU PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
The Council for Higher Education (YoK)
1.       roK is a semi-autonomous Government agency, in effect a mini-
ministry, which was established by a law passed by Parliament in 1981 and
entered into the constitution. Its functions are to plan, organize,
administer and supervise education provided by institutions of higher learning
including the 29 universities, the specialist academies, and the 75 two-year
post-secondary technician and other training institutions. YbK's
responsibilities include the training of teaching staff and the appointment of
the senior staff and management of the universities and institutes.
2.       The President and six members of the 24-member governing council of
rYg are appointed directly by the President of the Republic of Turkey and the
YK Pres;.dent reports to him. Other members of the council are nominated by
the Cabinet, Ministry ef Education, the Inter-University Council and the
General Staff of the Armed Forces, and subsequently appointed by the President
of the Republic of Turkey. The chief administrative officer of YoK is the
Secretary General who administers YoK through a number of Assistant
Secretaries General who in turn, administer Directorates, which include
Education and Training, Planning, Research, Budgets and Investments, Library
and Documentation, Data Processing, Coordination, Construction, and
Administration (Chart 1). A Student Selection and Placement Unit is
responsible for the country-wide selection and placement of the nation's
approximately 400,000 students in higher education and also monitors
university examinations. A Technician Training Unit is responsible for the
development of technician training. Both these units report directly to the
President of YoK.
3.       Government funds for higher education amounted to TL 151.7 billion in
1985, or 23 percent of total expenditures on education. YoK administers this
budget and provides funding for each institution under its control and ensures
proper use of financial resources.
4.       The Technician Training Unit (TTU) was established formally in 1983
to be responsible for the development of technician training, including the
transformation of eight existing post-secondary xvcational training
institutions into Technician Training Centers (TTCs) for which bank assistance
is included in the Industrial Training Project (Loan 2399-TU). Originally,
the Coordinator of the TTU reported directly to the President of YoK, but a
Council Member of YhK has subsequently been appointed to direct the operations
of the TTU. The Coordinator now reports to this Council Member on the
day-to-day operations of the TTU.



-32-
Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
5.       The proposed project would further assist YoK in converting an
additional 20 post-secondary vocational institutes into TTCs. The TTU will
administer all 28 bank-assisted TTCs and in addition, will also be responsible
for the coordination of technical and vocational teacher training programs at
three universities. To reflect its expanded functions, the TTU will be
redesignated as the Industrial Training Unit (ITU).
6.       Within the Industrial Training Unit is the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) for the proposed project.  At appraisal, the organization and
management system of the ITU, the composition of the PIU, and institutional
links with the universities and industry were reviewed and found acceptable to
the Bank. Chart 2 shows the proposed management system for technician and
technical/vocational training. Details of this proposed system are given in
Chapter 3.
7.       All the existing post-secondary vocational training institutions are
attached, for administrative purposes, to a parent university in the
vicinity. All the 28 bank-assisted TTCs would remain under the administrative
control of their parent universities. The Council Member responsible for
industrial training and the Coordinator of the ITU have direct access to
university rectors on all matters affecting the development of the TTCs and
will, in consultation with the rectors and the President of YoK, advise on the
appointment of TTC principals and other senior staff. A critical factor
affecting the development of technician training under ThK and the proposed
project is the dogree to which the Coordinator can establish effective
relationships with the staff in the universities concerned with the
administration of the TTCs. The high caliber of the present TTU/PIU staff is
likely to assist this process.
8.       The responsibility for curriculum and staff development, and the
budget of each TTC is with YhK, which ensures budget autonomy from parent
universities and independence in program development. The administrative link
with the universities has the advantage that there is a strong local
administrative support for each TTC. However, it carries the risk that the
distinction between university studies and the industrial technician training
programs proposed by the project may be made less clear. This issue is
appreciated at the highest levels in YoK and every effort is being made to
derive the maximum benefit from the administrative liaison with the
universities.
9.       Although YoK is a relatively young organization, it has shown
significant progress in the development of technician training and in the
implementation of the Industrial Training Project (Loan 2399-TU). Four of the
eight TTCs included in the project are already in operation and would be
producing their first graduates in 1988. The staff associated with the
proposed project are well qualified and have benefited from the experience of
implementing the ongoing project.



-33-                           Annex 2
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Starting Monthly Salaries of Engineers, Technical
Teachers and Technicians (as of July 1. 1987)
(Turkish Lira)
_ _ ._Wmz.uum .                  -       .       -              in.
Type of Personnel             Salary        Years of Post-Secondary
Education
Public Sector Engineers a/        157,000                    4
Technical Teachers b/              99,000                    4
Technical High School              88,000           0 + on-job training
Graduates c/
Technician d/                      89,000                    0
ej Graduates from the faculties of engineering who are employed by
government agencies or by state economic enterprises (SEEs).
b/ Graduates of the four-year program in the faculties of technical
education who are teaching in the secondary industrial/technical
high schools of the MOEYS.
c/ Graduates of the secondary industrial/technical high schools of the
MOEYS who are working in industry as semi-skilled and skilled
workers.
d/ Graduates of the two-year post-secondary technical training
institutions (VSHEs/TTCs) under YOK who are working as twchniciarla.
Source: YOK project preparation document, August 1987.
O6OTT



REPUBLIC Of ItkKEt
PfojCtE4t Earuiigmts im 20 i.cbalcla Ira,Dzq Enters
CnJRfLI ELECTRONICS tAlU.   ESAC-   RCI-  AR6t-  CIVIL FlUI-   A1101   CMUUTER  PEIRLEUR  CO1.  FM     TEXTILE  70310N CO1M I.L fl1KEIAL  miNijS-    MIuL
Ililli-    mmCH       EMVLECN RICU.  AMid. CULTU-            OUV      AND      TECH-      TECH-       IEOI-  TECH-  TECH-                STWtES  UKIlIS-   TRAIVE  EIUKLNENI
IINTtruriml           MUremIa.  WAY it                                MAL                    lREID.6 ILOSI    NO.05V 21  KILOS  KILOS6N.5                                 mIATmO    SEovicS
I. UTALIB                       30           30       s0       00                    so 3             30                                                      30         10        30         SO         420
2. 81LECIx                      30           30        30      40  0          30    30       so                                     30      30                                                           390
S. ERiUU                        so           30        30      00      90            so                                                                                                                  27u
4. SIVES                        30           Su        30      ov      9             30                                                                                                                  270
5. MAIN                  o           io        o 0       so           so                                                    so30Jo3                   So         so        io         so         zo
A. DIAIVE                                                      40      90            30                                                                                                                   Ooo
1. lATHS                                                       00          0                             30                                                                                              120
S. 51103FA                                                     000            30    30                30                                    30                                                            270
9. VA                           30           so        s0      60  0          30                      30         30          so     To      30      so        so                                         410
IC. KAYSEh                       so           30        30      00      90            so                                                             30                   Wo                              350
11. ELAI16                       so           so        so      00      w             s                           s0                                                                                      300
12. k*AWIE Z EIESISI             30           30        30      40                    30      so                                                                                                          ito
13.ShIlll                        30           30       30       00  0                                  30                                            so        so         30                              300
14. NSSA                         30           so       so       00                    30                                                                       J0         30         Jo        30         JO
15. 6UZIAITE                     so           s0       so       00     90            so                so        so                                                                 so         so          900
*6  KA.III  rAMR                                                400                  30                30                                            30                   30        30         So         130
17. TEKIUh                       so           so       so       40  0          30                      so                                   Jo                            30        SO5                   420
It. IFLIIESLB                    30           30        so      00  0                 so               30                                                      30         30                              340
19. amE                          30           30       so       00  0          30                      so        30                         so       30                  so         so         so         480
20. KomLi                        so           30        30      40      9030                           W0                    30      30                                                        30         420
fNRllLNElT/SWkIJC           400          490      490   1,200  1,440    150   480         00      3Y)        120         90    120    ISO       ISO       ISO        27u   4u  240                  0,000
…--- ----&   ---- -- -- ----- -- -- ---- ----- --- -- -- --           --- -  ---   -- ---- - - - ---… - -.- - ----- - ---- --- ----- -- -- ------- -  -        ----  
I1 iher. we. the.. options imier this spsulalaatamn, samly, medical elKtrlmaCS, ClWutet repair and Miflitlhci, ad COlmRitatama.
2i lb. P~trOlM tKhfolGqY SPICIAlitattAll Ecar`ams1 tao options: III petrol.. eflpnwrnq (at Satma [tC); and (it) petrocb.uicals fat Eaj aNW local:t TTCs).



-35-
Annex 4
REPULIC OF TURIEY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROECT
Requireefts for Trained Instructors by Subject for 20 Technician Training Centers
Nuaer of    ENROLLIENTS        SPECIALIST
Techtcia         TOTAL          INSTRUCTOIS
Training                         TOTAL
Centers
1. CIVIL ENGINEERING                               16            460                32
2. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING                          20          1,200                s0
3. CONTROLS & INSTItENTATION                       16            460                32
4. ELECTRONICS TECIDLO6Y 1/                        16           4*0                 32
5. INDUSTRIAL ELECTIONICS                          16            480                32
6. IECHAICAL ENGINEERING                           16          1,440                96
7. All CONDITIONING & REfRIGERATION                11            330                22
8. FOIIDRY TECHNOLOGY                               2             60                 4
9. AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING                         5            ISO                10
10. CONPUTER TECHNOLOGY                              4            120                 8
11. PETROLEII TECHNOLOGY 2/                          3             90                6
---..-.-.-   ------.-.----... ---.-..-------
SI-TOTAL                                               S,310               354
12. CHENICAL TECHNOLOGY                              4            120                8
13. FOOD TECMOLOGY                                   5            ISO                10
14. TEXTILE TECHOLOGY                                5            150                10
15. COIIERCIAL STUDIES                               9            270                19
16. ADNINISTRATIVE SERVICES                          8            240               16
17. ADNINISTRATIVE ASSISTANTS/SECRETARIAL            8            240               16
19. TOURISH                                          6            10               12
SUI-TOTAL                                              1,350                90
GRA  TOTALS                                            6,660               444
(  SPECIALIST TEACHERS                             444
RELATED SUUJECTS TEACHERS                      Ill
TOTAL TEACHERS REUIRED:                     555
STUDENT TEACHER RATIO: 12 TO I
1/ Electronics technology comprises three options, namly,  edical electronics,
copeter maintenance and repair, and comunications.
2/ Petrolm  technology comprises toe options: (a) petrolm  engineering; and (b) petrochmicals.



-36-                                ANNEX 5
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Projected Enrollments and Output by Type of Program for the Faculties
of Technical and Vocational Education
Program         1987      1988     1989      1990     1991      1992
4-year 1/             9,902    8,400    8,300    8,300    8,300    8,300
2-year 2/             1,582    2,300    3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000
I-year 3/                 0    1,000    1,400    1,400    1,400    1,400
Nodular 4/                0    1,200    1,800    1,800    1,800    1,800
Total Enrollment    11,484   12,900   14,500   14,500   14,500   14,500
Total Output          3,400    5,200    6,850    6,700    6,570    6,570
1/ These are existing four year programs for high school graduates.
2/ New two-year programs for graduates of post-secondary institutions
such as the technician training centers under YOK.
3/ New one-year post-graduate programs for university graduates of
relevant areas of specialization.
4/ Nodular programs of 6-weeks duration for instructors in the system
and for individuals with appropriate industrial experience who wish
to become instructors.
0070T



-37-
Republic of Turkey
Second Industrial Trainin  PrIoject
Staff Apraisal Report
Unit Costs of Equipent Per Training Place
Comparison of Project Costa with Bank-Wide Costs
Costs   Bank Wide Unit Costs
of  This  ------------------------
Project      Median   let Docile
Cost of Eqt for TTCs in Lira  000       58,839,470
Cost of Eqt for TTCs in US$ '000            57,686
Nwmber of Additional Trainees:               6,660
Cost per training place (1983 US$):                   4,118       6,189
(1988 US$):      8,662       5,298       7,962
Coat of Eqt for Faculties in Lira '000  18,630,280
Cost of Eqt for Faculties in USS  000       18,265
Nmber of Additional Trainee:                 6,500
Cost per training place (1983 US$):                   4,814       7,193
(1988 US$):      2,810       6,193       9,253
1/ Source: Unit Area and Unit Cost Estimates in Education Projectr
OPS, November 1983. Pbst Secondary Non University Technical, Vocational
and Agricultural Institution (TVTI), and University level institutions
(Faculties of Voc/Tech. Education). 1983 prices have been inflated by:
28.6%
Foreign exch Rnte: TL 1020: US$1.00



-38-                              ANNEX 7
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PRICE CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES
Foreign Escalation          Domestic Escalation
Year      Equipment     Other Items            All Items
1987           8.51          5.8X
1988          10.5X          5.61                 25.01
1989           6.31          5.42                 20.01
1990          -5.71         -0.32                 25.0S
1991           1.31          1.32                 20.0S
*  1992           1.31          1.3%                 13.01
1993           1.3%          1.3%                 13.01
1994           1.31          1.31                 13.01
Source:  IBRD, October, 1987
0070T



-39-                                                                ANNEX 8
IEFLIC OF TI3%E
KM  IUU6RIML 1gAI WINS 'OJET!
S&mra  Acco,at bv  *.e  c  Cwowot
.TUIISH LIRAb fidier.)
_BTD CF IZU6TRIAL
TAINIII              INISTiUs:i rICIw  M   hINII1 Vl ACC. AN TECH. TIaE  Tc ININDS
CUIM    IOuu F CM- cr  CiIo                        TECNWCUIIc.  KYL                                 TWIEO      TOURISN
TE,gcIZ       voCFlTEN.      mAUCT   TINIIu CF mOiNN   lM.E                EMOTION   AIOS.   TU1863Si  sECT0
VW       TE10  TO   KWEL T3             M1M6 WIIS    KARTIET    MTTS  ST  UlITS FACILIIIES  1111116    Total
,.  ................ ,f  ,SfCS   , ,,_ ....... .......... tfffsa.. n.nhaea  nal*ll, .fa.aaaat........ s,ss    nafl... a... 
NIWIV1ER COSTS
A.      . .'lj
ECCItitNT                                      -           -       -                - 69,99.05             -          -- 232049.60  3.960.51  96,309.36
- - - --  -          - -- - -  -  - -  - -              -    -           ---- --
Si*-Total £311?-                                                            -          - 69299.05             -                          23049.80   30960.51  76h309.3i
Ph,.ieoI CotaiWcm¢               -                   -            -            -        4* 07.27                 -                 -  159S.9o    274.74   6,i0,.98
Ptie ContOD   tC.s                                   -                   -          - 62,63.45             -                       - 20,834.73  3,579.91  87V.054.9
-  I 160.0I8S COTINKCIS                       -           -             -            136745.77            -          -            - 45,483.50   7-.15.16 I09044.44
-   -         *          - 20,465.37            -          -            -  6407.06   119.62  20,44-.05
-          -97.-3-2.3                                      1-32.34.08  5560.93  '3i22'7.34
'^rL A515TOIC
FEUan9                             BO.9       70.27             -   12,825.97         -    1.954.      3,449.77       843.28         -    515.20  199740.35
__ TAw s                                               -             -  - 183.36           -                                              -         -      183.36
-UALISTt                               1,19.25      406.52       1.327.U          -          -    1,09.38   1.6)4.07         544.69         -  157.36   7,760.94
Sub-Ttal TEOSICAL ASSIST1                   1D279.24     478.79      1,327.68  139009.34         -    39044.25   59013.4        1,187.97         -  2,093.56  270704.65
plhIC4l Cont't  ci.s                       127.92      47.A         132.77    1,300.93         -      304.42     5WU.38        13U0.0         -    209.36    2070.47
Price Conting                              99c4 P7.5a  562.20     1,052.09  14.927.52        4-119.53   5S802.17             29142.30         -    .57.N   30,258.28
Su-Total 1KWI  CTIUEACIES                   2.401.75   1,0".87       24512.54  29Y237.79         -    74.20   119394.39        39669.06         -  2,90.79  607M3.
;ov,sop E%c9a                            2,021.05      o924       2#101.24   27.279.43        -    631M.       10.317.34     3283.14          -  2,s50.62  55.205.62
C. 94iL8116S
EXTERSUNS TO EXISTn  FACILITIEtS               -                         -          -  8,470.91            -          -            -          -         -   8,470.91
3ETIIN O EXISTI     F4CILITIES               -           -             -          -    57h.31            -          -            -    520.72  19142.39   3,239.41
. ITt1E                                        -           -             -          -  1-2u                -          -                  671.36         -     49m.52
8-JTotal lUILiI-                                                            -          -  14.38              -           -            -  t.192.00  1142.39  13.606.84
P1hoS&a CantiAlcf                               -          -             -          -  11.44               -          -            -    119.21    114.24    1,360.88
Price ContiU wmif                                          -             -          - 17.00.72                        -            -  1OM62.10   1.501.44  2,224.34
8*Total 1li1  COITIMUCE                           -          -              -          - 299442.54           -           -            -  2,03.46  2,758.07   3P,94.07
Tam                                            -           -                        -  2944.25             -          -            -    23s    275.81   3519.41
Fortop E_hAi                                               -                        - -.620.84             -          -            -    6n.29    623.13   79917.26
Tota IEDESt I COSTS                           1,279.24      478.79      1,37.0  13009.34 80,573.43    3,044.25  5s0n3.uH          1,387.97  24*241.0   7,196.46  1374M22.8
ftical CantanMsn.w                           127.92       47.86        132.77   1,300.93  5,934.71       304.42     50.3         138.80  1,718.17    5S8.34  10o812.33
Price Cm9iUmncrn                             994.9       5U2.20      1052.09   14,27.52  79,480.17      ,119.53   s3402.17     2.142.30  22,516.91  5,739.23 137.5)6.?1
taUI ll0litS CUTWiN Is                        2*401.75   1.8,7          2,512.54   299237.79 166.10U31    7940.20  11394.39       3,69.06  46,476.9  139534.02 205M9.s
mfnfnn   n_a                *-_aanaw .. .,San   nfiS                        aa a. auaa.a   nan..   .annfl   a.aa
Ts                                                           _                         - 23,409.63           -           -            -  7,106.41  1,445.42  31961.46
Forms ExchwU                                202Q1.0s     92.84       2.10l.24   2279.43 103.923.17    6,731.96  10,317.34      3,233.14  334037.36  8t734.68  198,350.21
oWt    LilE  Ctm                               1.279.24     478.79       1327.6   13,009.34   0eS73.43    39044.25   5,083.84      137V.97 24241.06   7196.46  137.22.96
Fmacal Contirwgmm                              127.92      47.0         132.77   1.38.093  5.94.71        304.42     50.3s        138.80  1.718.17    598.34  10812.33
Prie Contiu .ctes                             994.58      562.20      1,52.09   14,927.52  79,66017      ,119.53   5.2.17       2.142.30  22,516.91  53739.23  13795)6.71
otalECT COSTS                                  2*401.75    1e-.0.        2.512.54   29.237.79 16,1"0.31    794u.20   11*394.39     3669.06  43,476.96  13534.02  265,971.90
n..aa    na-               aa*-.a   -- ssannsa.                  nn           ssn      .a asa         fh      ,aa..aan
T                                                  -          -                         - 23,4963             -           -            -  7,186.41  19445.42  31,961.46
Forunw  Euxim                               2*021.05       2.84       29101.24  27,279.4  1033.17    6731.96  10.317.34         3tM3.14  33.037.3.  8.734.6   19,350.21
Cb.af 1, 190  111:20



-40-                                            ANNEX 9
Table I
REPIMLIC OF TURIEY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
Technical Assistance Progra
Fellowships and Expert Services for the Nanagemt of Industrial Training in Yro
FELLOHSNIPS              SUIJECT
EXPERTS
NAN-MONTHS          NAN-MONTHS
1. PLANING AND DEVELOPMENT                                     3
2. CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT                                      6
3. TESTING AND EVALUATION                                      6
4. TRAINING NEEDS ASSESSMENT                                   ;
S. STUDY TOUR FOR TTC DIRECTORS                               IS
6. STUDY TOUR FOR SENIOR PIU STAFF                             3
6. TEAM LEADER FOR TECHNICIAN TRAINING                             .               42
7. COORDINATOR OF TECHNICIAN CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT                                24
8. COORDINAtOR OF INSTRUCTOR TRAINING FOR TTCs                                     24
9. EMPLOYNENT AND  ANtPONER IWORNATION SPECIALIST
10. COPYRIGHTS AND TRANSLATION SPECIALIST                                            ;
It. PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST                                                           3
TOTAL                                                 36                   99



-41-
Annei 9
Table 2
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
Technical Assistance Program
Fellowships and Expert Services by Subject for 20 Technician Training Centers
FELLOWSHIPS             SUBJECT
EXPERTS
MAN-MONTHS          MAN-NONTNS
1. CIVIL EN6INEERING                                  288                    3
2. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING                             720                    3
3. CONTROLS & INSTRUMENTATION                         288                    3
4. ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY 1/                          288                   21
5. INDUSTRIAL ELECTRONICS                             288                    3
6. MECHANICAL rN6INEERING                             864                    3
7. AIR CONDITIONiNG & REFRIGERATION                   198                    3
8. FOUNDRY TECHNOLOGY                                  36                    3
9. AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING                            90                    3
10. CONPUTER TECHNOLOGY                                 72                    3
11. PETROLEUM TECHNOLOGY 2/                             54                    6
SUB-TOTAL                                   3,186                   54
12. CHEMICAL TECHNOLOGY                                 72                    9
13. FOOD TECHNOLOGY                                     90                    9
14. TEXTILE TECHOLOGY                                   90                    9
15. COMMERCIAL STUDIES                                 162                    9
16. ADOINISTRATIVE SERVICES                            144                    9
17. ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANTS/SECRETARIAL              144                    9
18. TOURISN                                            108                    9
SUB-TOTAL                                     810                  63
GRAND TOTALS                                3,996                  117
1/ Electronics technology comprises three options, namely, medical electronics,
computer maintenance and repair, and communications.
2/  Petroleum technology comprises two options: (a) petroleus engineering; and (b) petrodcmals.



RPOULIC OF TURKEY
SECOhU  I UTIAL TRAINING POJECT
TECahICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Consultants for
Faoulti1s af Vocational ant Technical Education
Areas of                                   --------Faculties of Technical Education----        Faculty of Voc. Educatton
Consultant                            -------1------    -       2                    3                      -----            Total
Activit                               Number   Month    Number    Month      Nuiber    Month      Number    Month       Number    Month
Tech. Education Departmnt
Teacher Educ. Specialists             I        24          1        24          1        24         1        24          4        96
Hat. 0ev. Specialists                 1         12         1        12          1        12         1         12         4        48
Technology Department                    4         6          4         6         4          6         4          6        16        96
In-Service Training                      2         6          2         6         2          6         2         6          8        48
Team Leader                                                                                                                 1        36
TOTALS                                a        72          8        72         a         72         8        72         33       324
Note:                                   Team Leader to be located at Yok in Aakara
Consultant Specialists to be located in respective Faculties except for Technical Teacher education
specialists who will begin with one onth at their assigned Faculty. return to Yok for 6 months of materials
preparation as a group, and then proceed to Faculties for final 17 months of assignwent.
I-;t!1
tO X
Ij %O



SECOND 
Fe'llowS ps fi)r
Faculties of Vocationa' LAn  :ftNLI Teaherr Educati
Areas of                                  -------Faculties of Technical Education---------------  -Faculty of Voc. Education-
Fellowship                                -----1 -------       ------2------          ------3------           -------I-------T
SR2call2ations                            so         "ML        No         RL         NIL        ML           IL           ML           IL 
Tech. Teacher Education
".S.                                 6          24         6          24         6          24           6            24           24           576
Ph.D                                 3          42         1          42         3         42            3            42           12           5604
RID                                  5          12         S          12         5          12           S            12           20           240
Tech. Specializations                     21           9        14           9        10           9          23            9            6S            612
Library/Learning Resources                 2            3        2           3         2           3           2             3             S            24
Study Tours for
Senior Administrators                     5            I        5           1         S           I           5              1           20            20
Vyik                                                                                                                                2             2
Totals                                     42        S30        35         467        31         431          44           546           1S4          3976



-44-                      ANNEX 10
Annual Requirements for Skilled Manpower in the Tourism Sector 1/
A) By Specialization
No. of required personnel
Administration and Accounting                                 200
Front Office                                                  400
Housekeeping                                                  800
Restaurant and Bar                                            S80
Kitchen                                                       600
Purchasing Office and stores                                  120
Maintenance                                                   400
Others                                                        600
Total                                                       4,000
B) By Skill Level
Manager                                                       80
Department Heads                                              200
Supervisors                                                   520
Skilled Workers 2/                                           1800
Unskilled Workers                                             800
others                                                        600
4,000
1/ These requirements are only for tourist class hotels. Manpower needs
of other establishments related to leisure and travel activities such
as bars and cafetarias located in touristic areas, have not been
considered.                                                     T
2/ The Ministry of Culture and Tourism is responsible for training this
category of workers in the Tourism Training Centers.



-45-
Annex 11
Requirements fcr Instructors in Hotel Specializations 1/
at 10 Tourism Training Centers
pecialization            Requirements in 5          Requirements in 5
existing centers 2/       new centers 3/
rant-Office                    10                          5
itchen                         20                         10
?staurant                      20                         10
ousekeeping                     15                         5
-------------------------------------------------------------------
3tals                          65                         30
…---------------------_------------------------------------------------_
1/ In addition to instructors in "technical" specializations, each center
would require three language teachers (English, German and French).
2/  These centers are located at Ankara, Antalya, Istanbul, Izmir
and Urgup.
3/  New centers would be established at existing hotels run by the
Miiistry of Culture and Tourism. The selected hotels are located at
Izmir, Yalova, Istanbul and Urgup.



-46-                         ANNEX 12
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR TOURISM SECTOR TRAINING
A) Experts' Services
-----------------------------------------------------------__------------
Title                                                 Number                Man/Months
-----------------------------------------------------------__------------
Hotel and Tourism Training Planning                             1                    36
and Organization Expert
Food and Beverage Training Expert                               1                    27
Room Division Training Expert                                   1                    21
Food Production Training Expert                                 1                    18
Housekeeping Training Expert                                    1                    12
Maintenance Training Expert                                     1                    12
Hotel Training Centers Layout Specialist                        1                     3
Equipment Procurement Specialist                                1                     3
Language Laboratory Operation Expert                            1                     6
Audio-Visual Aids Specialist                                    1                     3
Water Sports Specialist                                         1                     3
Totals                                                         11                  144
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-
B) Fellowships
-------------------------------------------------._-----------__--_.-------
Subject                                               Duration of           Man-Months
Study Tour (mths.)
I. Management of Hotel Training Centers
- 10 Training Center Directors                        3 and 1/2                    35
- 10 Training Center Assistant Directors              3 and 1/2                    35
II. Strengthening of Training Department
- Chief of Department and assistant                          3                     6
- Training Methodology Expert (2)                            3                     6
- Curriculum Development Expert (4)                          3                    12
- Equipment Procurement Officer                              3                     3
- Financial Controller                                       3                     3
Tot-------------s------(30---------fellows)----------------- 100---------
Totals (30 fellows)                                                               lOC 
- ---.-- -- -- --- -- -- ------ ---- - --- -- - ---- --- -- ---- - - -- --- -- - ------__ - -- -- ---



-47-
Annex 13
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Related Documents Available in Pro ect File
IBRD     Turkey:  Education and Training Sector Survey, July 1986, No. 6249-TU
IBRD     Turkey:  Industrial Sector Strategy Paper, February, 1983
IBRD     Turkey:  Industrial and Vocational Training, July 1983, No. 4496-TU
YhK      Proposed Project Document (Ankara, August 1987)
YSK      Equipment and Specification List, August 1987
MCT      Preparation Documents for Tourism Sector Training, Ankara, February
1988.
EMlPH*  Working Papers
*Population and Human Resources Division, Country Department I



eMIC of Tnmw\
SEC    EUnTSIAL Tulnuc PIECT
STAFF wuMISaK umm
eve?         89,6         O9tto5 09                                8992         iota             4          slow1
J..   Jul   Jaa   Jul   Jaa   Jul   Joa   Jul   Joe   Jol   Jo*   Jul   J              jl   Jo e      i    Ja      Jl    Jn
Board Approval                            -           I                I I           I     I      I      I      I     I      I      I     I 
toloo So^n a                                        >_}
P Loam Eif ecve                                   I      ).)
liECII(AL as-is.lsaxe:                 *     *-  *         *      a     *      *      *      a     a      a      *     *      *      *      a      a      *
ISl" EaOn ea^too *A £.tr
62 be Me 2nd 1I   omt0.
si Mae TO Rod Ii. usenbt  rpa. 
i4,   a .  hareits tPr*at:                    *   )).             a      *      a      a            a      *                          I o                  a
IS igano O*oewe SofA* |
is *m.'te It   Sid                                 I    =)
I? iwaluate ta Side 1                                      =
is 94ic"uSI Iti (eiotvac£   oe 
V Mama Review of draft C           act    a  *      *      a       *       *      *          a *      *          a *      *          a      a      a      ,
S IA (Cotract S1isnen                              3
Jl I  *4s,lax6t,s,n
*2 Start I& ueot&
!) lit ;16 iob *.640trw                                          )
24 prepof Uane.*d .       pdu  .       *      *   g*        * c                                                  a      a p           a      *      C      a
21 lamS of lae; etdw  S Ca" . p
S& Select l.t eoSIou                              I                -
;? lot l-- ISt*10v *t                              I,
'5 le  i.IarmaS  *                                 Iev*t                                     
lI Croup teachin                        m       £
I  solect 2nd lIC ISntract4  roup           , toot
lnd II  la-iuawtrv   *                          8V_
2.d tIC 11aterna   i,                                                                  ___
.nI(, au e La e                  E        t*   3*          a     a      at  ,      ,        ,      *      a      a  "                *      a      * '    *
.2n4 M 'om 0;* Leave
*2d lI( M   4rop leach$*g* 
fir * for itr,.EmpoertO                          S>
3? *odml,  OTC -.rricula 96%oslet.bo)              I
Oi now I % Cuiticutat 16rat( Ig
so Fl"E (CI  It. calntr V                     *   * a      a      -                                             5.      .                  *
11 Prep Ear  Fil'E Currlc la Ia
46    t-0   att    fl tot IO$ ,. I                   I      I     I      I     I       I     I      I t          I     - i- -        t-   -         p *
oQ:
I--I   ACtiv,ty not on the critical path.                                                                                                        ¢(t
I-           ACtivity on the critical path.



UPIC U TOMV
SUMUNM-aimm a
S1A _PPISK I_l i
Jon   J      Jos   J      Jn   Jus   Jos   Jos   Ja    Jos    J         J      Jo    J      Ja            Jan    J t
EEcestG 1i( Spe,C§4'mCi: Liii,.
lEst 1IC lender deo"                             I              -
Ee   I  SedidI,Prd 
E~  tI t    e u:teeub, et lids        *      9   l*       *       )_>9        *     *      C            9                                                
fE"l lIC *^**e ltore**                                           I
1.el tC  Cue ea. period
e iwC SI     e (mcl Lii,                                                        >
11ee tI  tender _Eec.r|t                                                         
19610 ii'       bedi e PeId09                                          '                           
N..  ti.  Ivate  .4  4esI.                                                                                                                       9      9      .-
FIVE ti    sai Ses.                              t
FluqE Lut  £ Sp1ec.                   *8                                                                              *     *      *      *      *
FleE lo*ddn  P-Oct d                             I
FI"E *91|w§
FilE  C aIetI   of Dd                            I                                                                     -)      -
FIVE peeantes  r                                          *                                                    *      *     *      *      * 
FIVsEwwclouea  S fUUluE                          * I
lie Sietchle esian, '(emeutlam ite,
Picrult Pr'.iciaI Archimtects                   'I
Weri8ne1sr.uAnge4.rIie                *      *   I. *     *      *   >-> r           *     *      *      *     *      *     *      *      *
E m ddl r.t  far   C r(-cstr   d   s            I 
ZCI.v.Imobriles                          I
atard (onir S tebXllee                           I                              -
M%struct sen Perted                              I                                                          I
'Weroan1e  Feriod 
4"*r"     bear   'Con.tent
fl"ft $booh beei  S -^ Itsl=
Fill* UWorkins  r.aw1a                           Si
flsE l$edd t for consctri .           9      *   I*****
F' S'NE Evolvetees of coftor.:t i.n              J        9       
vI ilF Overd coeestr. ?-em,.                     I                                                9      9     9
Feral S KCgr"*rO  Se-eel.                        I                                              .
Fir::8 an  Namsara*eret.'rd
a1z  *e.,ellemgn                      *      4   *                     9      9     4      9                              99       4 _  *              * 
*.a:e .ar,anete persi1d
L~......gActhvstY nOt an the critical path.
L-        ,  ACttsvty  on the critical path.                                                                                                       N



-50-
Schedule II
3Z?J3JC OF TURKE
Wow IDUB             72  o  PROJECT
STAFF APNUIAIL REPORT
Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ MILLIONS)
IBRD Fiscal        --DISBURSEMENTS…-------                        Country
Year and                                                          Average
Semester           Semester    Z       Cumulative   S            for Turkey *
1989
1                   10.0    8.6          10.0      8.6
2                     -      -           10.0      8.6              6.0
1990
1                   6.1     5.3          16.1    13.9
2                   8.0     6.9          24.1    20.1               18.0
1991
1                  10.0     8.6          34.1    29.4
2                  11.0     9.5          45.1    38.9               36.0
1992
1                  12.0    10.4          57.1    49.3
2                  11.2     9.7          68.3    59.0               55.0
1993
1                  11.0     9.5          79.3    68.5
2                  10.0     8.6          89.3    77.1               72.0
1994
1                   8.8     7.6          98.1    84.7
2                   6.0     5.2         104.1    89.9               86.0
1995
1                   4.2     3.6         108.3    93.5
2                   4.2     3.6         112.5    97.1               95.0
1996
1                   2.2     1.9         114.7    99.0
2                   1.1     1.0         115.8   100.0              100.0
* The country profile for Sector Investment Lending.



RE?MJ8LIC OP TURCEY
HOTEL, CATERING AND TOURISM TRATNINC
DIPTEWATIO  SCBEDULE
C O M PONENT                                             1989               1190                1991
STRENOZrTENNG Or MCT TRAINDUG DEPARTHW:
Nanpower survey preparation, execution and analysis
- Evaluation of present training system
- Formulation of training pla
- Setting up of operational organization                                                                        -
- Permanent evaluation of manpower and training needs                                                   _
- Elaboration of pedagogical means
- Language training of NCT Training Department personnel               -
- Fellowships for NCT staff except procurement officer
- Creation of centralizel A.V. production unit
- Implementatlon of courses as per training plan and aetb_dol                              _            _
n
0 .



REPUBLIC aF TUMEY
HOTEL. CATERING AND TOURIS' TRAINING
INLMMMATI  SCEEDULE                     _ _ _ _                _    _    _
COXPONENT                                                    989               1990                  1991
MAnGn CET
- Rehabilitation survey of all institution - plans
- Tendering                                                                  -
- Contract implementation                                                           -
EQUIPMENT l
- Final equipment lists                                                     -
- Equipment lay out
- Equipment tender documents and contracts .
- Delivery and installation                                                           -
MAINTENANCE WORKSEOP:
- Selection of building
- Layout plans
- Final equipment list                                                                                -
- Delivery and installation
- Operation                                                                                                          _
e)n
0 _
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
EOTEL, CATERING AND TOURISM PRDJECT
IMPLEMENTATION.SCHEDULE
C O M P O N E N T                                         1989               1990                1991
TRAINING OF INSTRUCTORS AND T.C. MANAGER
- Selection of future instructors
- Training course for kitchen instructors at Kemer                                    _
nO       it   ONF    &   8     .I_
_ TO Front-office              N
ni      nO  .2                 6iP                                                                                      n
- Follow up and evaluation of instructors performance
- Recruitment of la:iguage teachers                                       -
- Course for languacte teaching
- Program es for language teaching
- Selection and recruitment of managing staff for T.C.
- Language course fcr managers
- Fellowships and study tour  for managers
- Seminar for managqri* and assistants                                                        -
OQ 
em 
0 s



REPILIC OF Tong
CouRcll for IU4r   ptoa
OraSstloru Chet
|ONwL  OF HGHER  DUCATK)N (iOK)
-MR   I  H             r  ------- IDENTT£
COUNCIL      r           RSDN                .pf5fTT
VICE PRESEN TS
LMNAGVIT O            STWr SElECTION AM           SECRETARY GENERAL         SOARD OF lN|ECT
ZUOST SL RAINING      PLACEMEN'! CENTER                                                    TO
ASSISTANT 5tAREUY :CEW::K
=O"EI 1E OFDIRECTOAIE
1   lRFINING   |                           | ~~~~~~~~~PERSONNE  fAlR~AS 
DVMiES _I                                            DIRECTORATE OF
AND COOFI9N[O              ON£                     .Ft4       Gb
DOCUMIENTATION     l        ULCRELATIONS    |    |  M          N AND
I  -I_pjLlc              M~~~AIMNTNCIE
TORJJE OF DATA



-55-
Chart II
PROPOSED MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE FOR INDUSTRIAL TRAINING
Proposed Policy Board
for Industrial Training
(PBIT), chaired on a full <         -
time basis by a desig- '
nated YoK Council Member                  Feedback on policy issues
_ _ --__-_-_----                             in technician training and
I                            technical teacher training
Industrial Training Unit
(and secretariat of PBIT),
managed by the coordinator          _
for Industrial Training
Service and Project
=== Implementation Section
For details, see para 3.14
I                            I              ___
Technician Training                  Vocational/Technical Teacher
Section                          Training Coordinator
For details, see para 3.12           For details, see para 3.13



THE ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND TOURISM
TECNNI    X  UIVE UNITSNSPE                       |
TSM                            M I NI    S T E R                COUNCIL     |
LOGAL         .                                               PUBLIC RELNSR
ADVISERS                                                      PRES P UIBLIIC
1±]                                                      DE-T   E]_
rAVWDESEEAR                                                   REXCRETARY FOR|
| ADVISERS   .       t                        4 ~~~~~~~~CIVIL DE
DEPUT
-1UNERSE:CRET
TECINICAL-EX=ZTIVE UNITS
E STAT EI
FFoDMETCOFIE
OTBE REL;TE  DEPARIEN5E
tDM.OFICS                     ARSONND                                 - 
KWM. ON                        F3
AT.               DEPT.
OTErr:R RETATED DEPAR.MENTS ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     .*                    IF



-57-
Chart IV
Proposed Management Structure of the Tourism Training Component
of the Project
DEPUTY UNDERSECRhErARY FORl TOURISM
MANAGEMENT CoMITTRE I
TRAINING INSTITUTIONS



I ,I__                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IFiRD 19975R
B U L G A R I A    f- -                                  30-                                                    55                                                     40a 
[~ ~ ~~~~~Ein   Kikarll                                              _                         r     °eoP Sio                                                                                     U.  S.S.  R. 
25                                                        30"                               3':'5E                                                                               ' :
CS.04
40*        *CIlfke aleh
Zonguldak  ur                                                               Hopo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on                     (IA
Karadeniz Ereglisi                   Samsunr.                                                                    I                  {/A
AnomBf0[r'H                                                                                    0            100           200           300
j;           '2  C       I mit a,-  N                                                                                 Od                  TrabzonLOtETERS
-35°'                 ~~~~TURKEY                                                               -<                       SYRiANM:                                                                                                 35:8vssafxkoneec
SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING    '--CYPRU5S                                                                                    A R A B                                  '-,-_-'~-*,'- 
PROJ ECT                                             X                JiR E P U B L I C                                                          IGQSJ t8ASO I~ wituoryO n fldO(SOrflGft 0 CtRfCotfr0
-400  anakka e ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
*    Tourism Centers to be Creatert                                                                                                      ______________________________________
*    Existing Tourism Training Centers                                                            //POLAND)
*    Tedmnician   Training   Centers                                                             /.                                                                    s.         S         RI
13D  Faculties of Technicat Education                                                            I                                        ZCI'i(                        -                   Pf
7j   Facutty of Vocational Educotion                                                            J_,4,,-~
A     Management  System   for Industrihl TrainIng                                                                                                          I P-,  jC
Roads                                                                                                                                                 '*/      -> -~ kA   R0UArds _
*- - - Railroads                                                                            I-~  W                                                                                                        <1    5 \
6 9   N a t i o n al   C a p i t al                                                /i                                                 ' p                     S          a                                  4
| -.-Ilil~~~~e     m                                      E s k il ml   h o /i".e ..r   1.sF~J    
UX.-                   ItrntonlBonzrega                                                                                                                                                                A I~      ri,
/                             s >        <tr  9            ~~~~~~~~~Ankoro           ., -
er cRm; Kti                    vT UaR  KEY                                                                 \  IS LA        M
anisd                               yon                                                                                                               Bingbi 35  ||  CRETE   2   CYPRREPUBLIC
/f  ~ ~ ~  ~        ~                            --'             SYRIAN~~~~~~~~~~1.OF
zmi ~  ~    ~     0.1~                                                                                                                                                  ~.RDIIni   RQ              IA
spprto       onyo                                                                                                           I rt~-    I 
iyom ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ARH18



