Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2922 TU
               (Second Industrial Training Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated April 8, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2922 TU
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April  8,  1988,  between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Page  2
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in   the   General  Conditions  have  the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "YOK" means  the  Council  for  Higher  Education of the
Borrower,  established  and  operating  under  the  Borrower's Law
No. 2547 of 1981;
     (b)  "TTC"  means  any  of  the  Technician  Training Centers
referred to in Part B of the Project;
     (c)  "FTVE"  means  any  of  the  Faculty  for  Technical and
Vocational Education referred to in Part C of the Project;
     (d)  "PBIT" means the  Policy  Board for Industrial Training,
to be established within YOK pursuant  to  Part A of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement;
     (e)  "ITU"  means  the   Industrial   Training   Unit  to  be
established within YOK pursuant  to  Part  B  (1) of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement;
     (f)  "MCT" means the Ministry  of  Culture and Tourism of the
Borrower; and
     (g)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the Loan
Agreement, an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to one
hundred   fifteen   million   eight   hundred   thousand   dollars
($115,800,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits into,
and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one  percent  (1/2  of  1%)  above  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
Page  3
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry  out Parts A, B and C of
the Project through YOK and Part D of the Project through MCT with
due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appropriate
engineering, technical, educational  and administrative practices,
and shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower  and the Bank shall
otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
Page  4
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
       (i)    maintain or cause  to  be  maintained, in accordance
              with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  records and
              accounts reflecting such expenditures;
      (ii)    retain, until at least  one  year after the Bank has
              received the audit  report  for  the  fiscal year in
              which the last withdrawal  from the Loan Account was
              made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
              bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
              expenditures;
     (iii)    enable the  Bank's  representatives  to examine such
              records; and
      (iv)    ensure that such  records  and accounts are included
              in the annual audit referred  to in paragraph (b) of
              this Section  and  that  the  report  of  such audit
              contains a separate opinion  by  said auditors as to
              whether  the  statements  of  expenditure  submitted
              during  such   fiscal   year,   together   with  the
              procedures and internal  controls  involved in their
              preparation, support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Undersecretary  of the Treasury and Foreign
Trade of  the  Borrower  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section  6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Basbakanlik
          Hazine Ve Dis Ticaret Mustesarligi
          Vekaletler Caddesi No. 3
          Bakanliklar, Ankara
          Republic of Turkey
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               HAZINE, ANKARA              821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
                                           821-42689 (ANK-TR)
     For the Bank:
Page  5
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
                   By /s/ Hikmet Ulugbay
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Wilfried P. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Equipment                                  100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
     (a)  for Parts A, B        75,200,000      100% of local
          and C of the                          expenditures
          Project                               (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 80% of local
     (b)  for Part D of          3,200,000      expenditures for
          the Project                           other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(2)  Consultants'                               100%
     services and
     fellowships
     (a)  for Parts A, B        27,600,000
          and C of the
          Project
     (b)  for Part D of          2,200,000
Page  6
          the Project
(3)  Unallocated                 7,600,000
                               ___________
          TOTAL                115,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made  in  respect  of:  (a) payments made for
expenditures  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement;  and  (b)
expenditures under  Categories  (1)  (b)  and  (2)  (b)  until the
Borrower and the  Bank  shall  have  agreed  on  a program for the
implementation of Part D of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are:  (i)  to strengthen the
capacity of  YOK  to  plan  and  coordinate  training programs for
technicians and for  technical  and  vocational  teachers; (ii) to
improve  the  quality  and   increase   the  quantity  of  trained
technicians for  the  industrial  sector;  (iii)  to  increase the
supply of trained technical  and  vocational teachers; and (iv) to
improve the quality and  increase  the  quantity of trained hotel,
catering and other service personnel for the tourism sector.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Management of Industrial Training
     Expansion  and  strengthening   of  the  existing  technician
training  unit  of  YOK  and  its  conversion  into  an industrial
training unit (ITU), through:
     (a)  training fellowships for  its  staff  to  enable them to
assist  in  course  development  at  the  TTCs,  monitor  academic
standards, assist in student placement in training and employment,
monitor the adequacy of staffing  at  the  TTCs and the FTVEs, and
carry   out   their    technical   responsibilities   in   Project
implementation; and
     (b)  the  provision  of   experts'  services,  including  the
employment of two technical  assistance  team leaders to assist in
supervising the implementation of the activities included in Parts
B and C of the Project.
Part B:   Industrial Technician Training
     Conversion  of  20  existing  vocational  schools  of  higher
education into TTCs through:
     (a)  improvement  of  curricula,   with   the  assistance  of
experts, including the  development  of  9 new specializations and
the expansion of 20 existing ones;
     (b)  provision of overseas  training fellowships for trainers
at such TTCs and of short study tours for their directors; and
Page  7
     (c)  provision of  equipment  and  furniture and renovations/
extensions to buildings for such TTCs.
Part C:   Technical and Vocational Teacher Training
     Improvement and expansion, with the assistance of experts, of
training  programs  at  4   FTVEs   at  Gazi,  Marmara  and  Firat
Universities through:
     (a)  the development of new  courses, including courses for a
one-year post-graduate program and  two-year program for graduates
of post-secondary institutions, and for modular in-service teacher
training programs;
     (b)  the establishment  of  a  technology  department in each
such  FTVE  to  revise  the  curricula  and  teaching  methods for
existing  technology  courses,  and   the  provision  of  overseas
training fellowships for the staff of such department;
     (c)  the establishment  of  a  technical/vocational education
department in each such FTVE, to be supported through:
          (i)  overseas fellowships for  post-graduate degrees for
               its teaching staff, and
         (ii)  the development of  teacher education curricula and
               the provision of instructional materials; and
     (d)  the establishment  of  a  development  and instructional
support unit in each  such  FTVE  to be responsible for developing
new training materials,  establishing  training standards, and the
provision of fellowships for  the  staff  of such unit in research
and development in technical education.
Part D:  Hotel, Catering and Tourism Training
     (a)  Strengthening of the existing  Department of Training in
MCT  through  the  provision  of  language  training  and overseas
training fellowships for its staff  to  enable them to develop and
implement a national training strategy for the tourism sector.
     (b)  Improvement and expansion of 5 existing Tourism Training
Centers (TUREMs)  and  development  of  5  additional such centers
through: (i)  improvement  of  curricula,  with  the assistance of
experts;  (ii)  provision  of  overseas  training  fellowships for
trainers at such TUREMs and of study tours for their directors and
assistant directors;  (iii)  provision  of  experts'  services for
setting up  in-country  training  programs  for  trainers  at such
TUREMs;  and  (iv)  provision   of  equipment  and  furniture  and
renovations and/or extensions to buildings for such TUREMs.
                           *     *     *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
     beginning November 15, 1992
     through   November 15, 2004                4,455,000
On May 15, 2005                                 4,425,000
________________________
Page  8
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
     Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured in Turkey may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items of equipment estimated  to  cost  the equivalent of not
more than $100,000 per  contract  and  $5,000,000 in the aggregate
may be procured  on  the  basis  of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Items of equipment estimated  to  cost  the equivalent of not
more than $25,000 per contract and $2,000,000 in the aggregate may
be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers.
Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  9
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost more than $100,000  equivalent,  the  procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in the implementation of the
Project,   the   Borrower    shall    employ   consultants   whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Such  consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank  on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  The  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
Part A:   Project Management
     In order to  provide  policy  directives  and guidance on the
overall  requirements   of   industrial   training   and   on  the
implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  establish and adequately staff  by March 31, 1989, under
the chairmanship of  the  council  member  of  YOK responsible for
technician and  technical/vocational  teacher  training,  a policy
board for industrial  training  (PBIT),  with members representing
the entities of the  Borrower  concerned  with the development and
management of technical education and training; and
     (b)  assign the ITU's  coordinator,  referred  to in Part B.1
(b) below, to operate as the secretary of PBIT.
Part B:   Responsibilities for Implementation of Parts A, B and C
          of the Project
1.   The responsibility for the implementation of Parts A, B and C
of the Project shall be  assigned  to YOK, acting through ITU. For
this purpose,  and  in  order  to  develop  ITU  into  a permanent
structure capable of coordinating technician training programs and
liasing with industry,  the  Borrower  shall,  by  March 31, 1989,
Page  10
organize, as the ITU, the  existing Technician Training Unit so as
to include the following sections:
     (a)  the Technician Training  Section:  to be responsible for
managing the implementation  of  Part  B  of  the  Project and for
planning,  developing   and   evaluating   similar   programs  for
technician training.  The  Technician  Training  Section  shall be
headed by a person with  managerial experience and a background in
technical education, and shall  include staff responsible for: (i)
manpower  and  employment   data,   including   maintenance  of  a
comprehensive information system on  manpower needs and employment
opportunities, liaising with chambers of commerce and industry and
carrying  out  of  periodic   employers'  surveys;  (ii)  training
activities, including  organization  and  selection  of fellowship
candidates and of overseas training programs and institutions, and
coordination of the  induction  of  returning  trainees; and (iii)
curriculum and  program  development,  including identification of
local  institutions  suitable  as   the   focal  points  for  such
development and the recruitment  of  qualified individuals for the
carrying out of tasks included in it.
     (b)  the Vocational and  Technical  Teacher Training Section:
to  be  headed  by  a   coordinator  and  to  be  responsible  for
coordinating  the  implementation  of   Part  C  of  the  Project,
including  assessment  of  the  capacity  of  required facilities,
preparation  of  plans  for   introduction   of  new  courses  and
assessment of teacher qualification requirements.
     (c)  the Services and  Project  Implementation Section: to be
responsible for the provision of support services for the sections
referred to in (a)  and  (b)  above,  including the preparation of
architectural   designs,   the   implementation   of   procurement
procedures, the maintenance  of  Project accounts, the preparation
of Project progress reports  and  the  handling of other personnel
and administrative matters.
2.   In order to ensure  the  relevancy  of curricula and training
methodologies at the  four  FTVEs  referred  to  in  Part C of the
Project to regional needs, the Borrower shall establish, not later
than March 31, 1989, an  advisory  board  for each such FTVE which
shall  include   representatives   from   industry   and  regional
universities, TTCs and technical  and vocational schools and which
shall be responsible for  advising  such FTVEs on the requirements
for  teachers  of  technical  subjects  and  for  teacher training
courses in new specializations, and on curriculum development.
Part C:   Staffing of TTCs
     In order to ensure  the  proper  operation  of the TTCs to be
established under Part B of  the  Project, the Borrower shall take
all necessary measures, including the allocation of funds, towards
the achievement at each such TTC, by December 31, 1995, of a ratio
of 12 trainees to 1 instructor.
Part D:   Responsibilities for Implementation of Part D of the
          Project
     The responsibility for the  implementation  of  Part D of the
Project shall be  assigned  to  MCT,  acting  through a Management
Committee headed by the  Deputy  Undersecretary  for Tourism.  The
Committee will  comprise  the  General  Director  of  Tourism, the
General Director  of  Marketing  and  Promotion,  the  Director of
Tourism Investments and the  Director  of the Training Department.
The Deputy  Undersecretary  for  Tourism  will  nominate a General
Secretary who will  act  as  the  coordinator of an implementation
unit.  Other key members of  the said unit will include an auditor
and a procurement officer.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
Page  11
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special  Account   shall   be   made   exclusively   for  eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On  the  basis  of  such  requests,  the Bank shall
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible  expenditures.  All  such
deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account
under the respective  eligible  Categories,  and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall  have  been justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)   Notwithstanding  the  provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions of Article  V  of the General Conditions
               and  paragraph  (a)   of   Section   2.02  of  this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories, minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions shall  be  equal  to  the  equivalent of
               twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Page  12
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account  (i)  was  made  for  any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the Bank,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, deposit into  the  Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, refund  to  the  Bank  for crediting to the Loan
Account) an amount equal  to  the  amount  of  such payment or the
portion thereof not so  eligible  or justified. No further deposit
by the Bank  into  the  Special  Account  shall  be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
