Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13408-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
NADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
FEBRUARY 28, 1995
South Asia Department II
Agricultural Operations Division



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs.)
US$1.00   =   Rs.32
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



ABBREVIATIONS
ACF          Assistant Conservator of Forests
ANR           Assisted Natural Regeneration
CCF          Chief Conservator of Forests
CF           Conservator of Forests
DCF          Deputy Conservator of Forests
DGS&D        Directorate General of Supply and Disposal
DEA          Department of Economic Affairs
DFO           Divisional Forest Officer
EDP           Ecodevelopment Program
EDSF         Ecodevelopment Support Fund
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FPC           Forest Protection Committee
FRR          Financial Rate of Return
FWP          Forest Working Plan
GIS          Geographic Information System
GOI          Government of India
GOMP         Government of Madhya Pradesh
HRD          Human Resource Development
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICFRE        Indian Council for Forestry Research and Education
IDA           International Development Association
ILU           Industrial Liaison Unit
JFM           Joint Forest Management
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
MFPF          Minor Forest Produce Federation
MIS          Management Information System
MPFD          Madhya Pradesh Forestry Department
MPFDC        Madhya Pradesh Forest Development Corporation
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
NTFP         Non-Timber Forest Product
NVDA         Narmada Valley Development Authority
OCC          Opportunity Cost of Capital
ODA          Overseas Development Administration
OPM          Orient Paper Mills
PA           Protected Area
PAU           Policy Analysis Unit
PCCF         Principal Chief Conservator of Forests
PU           Project Unit
PME          Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
PRA           Participatory Rural Appraisal
RDF           Rehabilitation of Degraded Forest
SCF          Standard Conversion Factor
SFRI         State Forest Research Institute
SOE          Statement of Expenses
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
VRDP         Village Resource Development Program
VRSF         Voluntary Relocation Support Fund
WL           Wildlife






INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Table of Contents
CREDIT  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY    .................................    i
I.  THE  FORESTRY  SECTOR   ................ ..1..................... 
A.  Forestry in the National Economy   .............................    1
B.  Forestry  in the State of Madhya Pradesh  .........................   3
C.  Lessons from  Past Bank Lending  .............................    15
II. FUTURE DEVELOPMENT OF THE FORESTRY SECTOR  ...... ........  17
A.  Objectives .............................................   17
B.  Strategy   ..............................................                                                   17
III.  THE  PROJECT  ..............................................                                                       22
A.  Rationale for Bank Involvement   .............................    22
B.  Project Objectives and Design    ..............................    22
C.  Summary Description  ............                            .........................    23
D.  Detailed Features  .               .......................................    25
IV.  PROJECT  COSTS  AND  FINANCING    ........... ..                                        ................   31
A.  Project Cost Estimates   ...........                         .........................    31
B.  Proposed Financing Plan    ..................................    32
C. Procurement ............................................ 32
D.  Disbursements  .              .........................................    37
E.  Accounts and Audit  .............                           .........................    39
V.  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION                             ................                ..................   40
A.  Sector Strategy            .       .......................................    40
B.  Project Organization  and Management  .........................   41
C. Project Supervision . ....................................... 49
E.  Reporting, Mid-Term  and Completion  Reviews.    ..................   49
VI.  PROJECT  BENEFITS  AND  JUSTIFICATION    ........                                   ..        .............   51
A.  Benefits   ..............................................   51
B.  Economic and Sensitivity Analysis  ............................    51
C.  Financial Analysis   . ......................................    52
D. Environmental Effects . .................................... 52
E.  Impact on Women   .               ......................................    53
F.  Tribal Peoples Development Strategy   ..........................    54
G. Institutional Benefits ...................................... 54
H.  Project Risks  ...........................................    55
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION ........................  56



FIGURES
1     Elements of GOMP strategy for the future development of the forestry
sector
2     Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation. Structure and Linkages
3     Project Unit. Structure and Linkages
4     Extension, Technology and Research. Structure and Linkages
ANNEXES
1     The State of Madhya Pradesh. Natural and Human Resources
2     Technologies for Forest Management
3     Institutions
4     Forest Development on Private and Community Lands
5     Village Resource Development Program
6     Conservation of Biodiversity
7     Issues and Actions
8     Management Development
9     Monitoring and Evaluation
10     Information Systems
11     Extension and Research Centers
12     Planting Stock Improvement Program
13     Adaptive Research
14     Project Costs
15     Procurement
16     Six-Monthly Project Report Format
17     Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
18     Project Committees
19     Project Implementation Schedule
20     Project Supervision
21     Economic and Financial Analyses
22     Environmental Review
23     Tribal Development Strategy
24     Documents Available in Project File
MAP   1        The State of Madhya Pradesh (IBRD 26171)
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Madhya Pradesh in March,
1994, with a follow-up mission in June, 1994. The mission comprised I Hill (Mission Leader), P.
Guhathakurta (Forestry Specialist), M. Jansen, R. Crooks (Environmental Specialists), G. Morgan (Planning
and GIS Specialist), P. Francis (Rural Sociologist), K. N. Venkataraman (Procurement Specialist), Ms. A.
deLigne (Consultant Agroforestry Specialist), M. Varadan (Consultant Institutional Specialist) and D. Shields
(Consultant Economist). Messrs. Jones, Asibey and Contreras were peer reviewers for the project. The
report is endorsed by Mr. H. Vergin (Department Director) and Mr. S. Barghouti (Division Chief).



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, Acting by its President
Implementing Agency:    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Department (MPFD), Government of
Madhya Pradesh (GOMP)
Amount:                  IDA Credit of SDR 39.4 million (US$58.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard, with 35 years maturity
On-Lending Terms:        From GOI to GOMP as part of central assistance to the state for
development assistance on standard terms and conditions applicable
at the time
Poverty Category:        Program of Targeted Interventions
The project main beneficiaries, tribal peoples and forest fringe
villagers, belong to the poorest sections of society. Tribal
development concerns are central to the project and are addressed in
an integral fashion under the rubric of social impact, participation
and equity, rather than as a subsidiary tribal development plan. The
project also incorporates specific measures to safeguard the interests
of the landless and women, through participation in village
committees, employment preference, and gender sensitive
monitoring.
Project Description:     Objectives and Design. The main objective of the project would be
to assist with the implementation of the GOMP strategy for
development of the forestry sector in Madhya Pradesh. Future
development of the forestry sector in Madhya Pradesh will involve
long-term programs, so a strategic plan is needed for the provision
of IDA support to the sector over a period of about ten years.
Given the area of forest in Madhya Pradesh and its economic and
environmental importance to both the state and the nation,
investments over a ten-year period could total more than US$200
million. However, the GOMP strategy for the sector, described
above, involves substantial change in the way the sector is managed
and the introduction of innovative programs for participatory
management of forests. Lessons from previous Bank lending show
that these changes take time and may slow implementation.



ii
Consequently, strategic planning for the provision of IDA support to
the sector, is based on a two-stage approach. The first stage would
be a project of four years duration, which is described below.
Approval for a second-stage project of up to five years duration
would be sought during the last year of implementation of the first
stage. This flexible design allows MPFD to develop the new
processes, systems and skills required for implementation of the
National Forest Policy and to modify these in the light of experience
as necessary.
Project Components. The project would have four main
components as follows: (i) Management Development to improve
the management of the sector through: changing the approach of
MPFD from a predominantly regulatory role to one in which
communities are treated as partners in the management of forest
resources; increasing policy analysis capabilities; and improving the
management skills of senior MPFD staff, supported by the
introduction of improved management systems, for planning,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation procedures, together with
improved management information and geographical information
systems; and (ii) Forest Development involving: (a) the promotion
of natural forest regeneration, supported by enrichment planting,
improved silvicultural practices, and forest floor management over
an area of about 160,000 ha; and (b) a Village Resource
Development Program based on participatory planning, and
management and protection of forest resources, integrated with
activities to generate alternative incomes or resources, to reduce the
pressure on the forests. A total of about 1,140 villages would be
involved, managing an area of about 74,000 ha of forest land, in
which silvicultural improvements would have been started during the
project period. The phasing of activities for this component would
be determined by progress in training staff in participatory planning;
(iii) Extension, Technology and Research programs with provision
of necessary infrastructure and facilities for the development of
extension and research service centers in each ecological zone,
coupled with staff training, providing a base for improved forestry
extension services, tree seed improvement programs, demonstration
nurseries and adaptive research trials; and (iv) Biodiversity
Conservation through improved management of 12 high priority
Protected Areas (PAs) by providing support for development of
management plans, staff training, equipment and facilities. Special
Funds would be created to support the development of alternative
resources or income for communities resident within PAs and in
areas peripheral to them. A lower level of project funding would be
available for 12 lower priority PAs, whilst the identification and
planning of linkages to complete the PA Network would be
financed.



Estimated Project Costs:
Component                           Foreign     Local      Total
........... .US$ million.
Management Development                  1.7       3.4        5.1
Forest Development                      2.9      33.4       36.3
Extension, Technology and Research      2.1       6.8        8.9
Biodiversity Conservation               1.2       8.4        9.6
Total Baseline Cost                     7.9      52.0       59.9
Physical Contingencies             0.6        2.5        3.1
Price Contingencies                0.6        3.7        4.3
Total Project Costs 1/                  9.1      58.2       67.3
1/ Including duties and taxes of US$2.4 million
Financing Plan:
Soure of Finance          Foreign    LOcW     Total
........... US$ million.
IDA                       9.1      48.9      58.0
GOI 1/                    0.0       9.3       9.3
Total                9.1       58.2      67.3
I/ Including duties and taxes of US$2.4 million
Estimated IDA Disbursements: (US$ Millions)
FY96    FY97    FY98    FY991
Annual       7.8    12.8      17.0   20.4
Cumulative   7.8    20.6      37.6    58.0



iv
Economic Rate of Return: 11.5 percent
Benefits:                The project would increase, directly or indirectly, the production of
wood, NTFP, and animal products which would benefit the rural
poor and improve the supply of wood to forest-based industries.
The project would support a program of assisted natural regeneration
in about 160,000 ha of forest. About 1,140 village communities, of
which a very high percentage would be tribal peoples, participating
in the management of about 75,000 ha of forest would receive direct
benefits from the project. The benefits include not only the
improved access for communities to forest products, but also the
benefits of improved agriculture and alternative income generating
activities generated through the Village Resource Development
Program and the Ecodevelopment Program. The project would have
important benefits in terms of equity as about 18.3 million person-
days of employment would be generated, a benefit which would be
almost wholly captured by the poorest and landless households.
Processors and marketers of wood and NTFPs would also benefit
through increased supply of raw material. The direct and
quantifiable economic costs and benefits of the project are mainly
due to investments in both closed and open forests. The Economic
Rate of Return (ERR) for the project as a whole, in terms of direct
forestry outputs, and excluding the biodiversity and research
components, is estimated at 11.5 percent. However, this understates
project benefits as significant indirect and environmental benefits
have not been included. These are benefits such as: protection and
management in watershed and other areas, including measures to
reduce soil erosion and improve moisture conservation; maintenance
of biodiversity, including conservation of endangered plant and
animal species and critical habitats; and increased productivity of the
forest to reduce pressure on the environment. Other environmental
benefits may include CO2 absorption, river flow regulation, and
meso-climatic and other effects. These were calculated by means of
an environmental premium, associated with each hectare included in
the project, to reflect the flow of external benefits, which is
estimated to be about US$12 per hectare per year.
Risks:                   The main risks facing the project are: (i) the degree of commitment
within GOMP to make the necessary policy and institutional changes
that would be necessary for the implementation of the agreed
strategy for the sector; (ii) the effectiveness of participatory
arrangements for the management of forest resources; (iii) the ability
of MPFD to provide the private sector with technological advice, in
order to take advantage of a changed policy environment. The first



v
risk is being addressed through agreement on a sectoral strategy
with associated policy changes formalized through the issue of
necessary Government Orders. In addition, as this four-year project
forms the first stage of a planned phased approach to sectoral
development, it provides a means for GOMP to demonstrate
commitment to change. The project would minimize the second risk
through an intensive program of training for staff in the principles
and practice of participatory forest management, through building
links with NGOs and other government departments involved in
village development, and by rigorous monitoring and evaluation of
the program. Project support for forest extension programs, research
programs targeted on the needs of producers, and the creation of an
Industrial Liaison Unit within MPFD would reduce the third type of
risk associated with the project.






INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
I. THE FORESTRY SECTOR
A. Forestry in the National Economy
1.1  In 1991, the recorded area of forest in India was 77 million hectares, but only
about 64 million hectares, or about 19 percent of the land area of India, is covered by
forests. The distribution of forest cover is uneven, with more than 50 percent in five
states: Madhya Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Orissa and Maharashtra.
More than 80 percent of Arunachal Pradesh is forested, while the forest cover amounts to
less than 4 percent in Rajasthan and Punjab. Forest cover is concentrated in the northeast,
in the Himalaya and Siwalik ranges, the central belt, along the Western Ghats and in
patches of mangroves.
1.2   Forested areas play an important role in the conservation of environmental quality
through conservation of soil and water resources and biological diversity. They are the
principal source of timber and wood, for which the demand in 1988 amounted to 260
million m3. About 90 percent of this demand was for fuelwood. Forests are also the
main source of fodder and non-timber forest products. The contribution of the forestry
sector to GNP has been estimated at less than 2 percent, but this does not take into
account the numerous non-market and external benefits, nor the fuelwood and timber that
are harvested illegally and, therefore, unrecorded. Nor does it reflect the great importance
of the forests to supporting the enormous cattle population.
1.3   Most of India's forests are degraded and productivity is poor. Only about half the
forests have a crown density of over 40 percent and the resources are under pressure due
to over-exploitation and encroachment. Forest degradation and deforestation are due to
the severe land scarcity in India, which is increasing with the rising population. Poor
farmers and the landless sometimes encroach on forest areas, whilst many derive their
income from the sale of fuelwood and other forest produce. Other important pressures on
the forests are the demands for timber, pulp and fuelwood to supply industries and urban
consumers. Over-exploitation of grazing resources in forested areas may further
accelerate degradation.



2
1.4    Government is addressing the problems of the forestry sector through policy
reforms, legislation and afforestation. Historically, Indian national policy focused on
forests as a resource to be managed by government as a source of wood products and to
raise revenue. The new National Forest Policy, issued in 1988, is to treat forests: first as
an ecological necessity; second a source of goods for use by the local populations, with
particular emphasis on non-timber forest products; and only thirdly as a source of wood
and other products for industries and other non-local users. The Policy encourages
industries to obtain raw materials from farm forestry. Forestry activities are regulated by
the Indian Forest Act, the Wildlife Act and the Forest Conservation Act. A number of
states have introduced Orders to regulate Joint Forest Management and define benefit
sharing arrangements. GOI has sought to increase the area of forest by planting on
wastelands and encouraging tree planting on private lands. It is estimated that, since
1985, about 5 million hectares have been developed from a total of about 74 million
hectares of wastelands and marginal agricultural lands, paralleled by an increase in
agroforestry activities. However, much of the land identified as wasteland may be used
by local populations for other purposes, particularly seasonal grazing. The Eighth Five
Year Plan (1992-97) further emphasizes investments for rehabilitation of degraded forests
and farm forestry.
1.5    A World Bank review of India's forest sector ' endorses the need to improve
forest protection and management as the most important forest policy goal for the next
decades. This will require the cooperation of local populations and agencies in forest
protection, management and development, which will depend on improving incentives for
local participation, the technological means of production and the effectiveness of public
sector forest management, and on prioritizing the areas to protect and develop. The report
highlights the need to improve the productivity of the sector, through improved planting
materials and practices, a strengthened research system and an effective forestry extension
service.
1.6   Forestry was the sole responsibility of state governments until 1977, when it was
classed as a concurrent subject, that is, GOI and the state governments share responsibility
and control over forestry matters. However, management responsibility remains with the
states, which decide on the staffing and resources required to implement policies. Whilst
India. Forest Sector Review. World Bank Report No. 10965 - IN. 1992.



3
the National Forest Policy emphasizes the environmental importance of forests, state
governments are faced with pressures for forest products, land to satisfy a growing
population and industrial interests, and revenue constraints. However, state forestry
departments have generally introduced programs and schemes that respond to the
objectives of the new forest policy, but a number of issues remain to be addressed. These
may vary from state to state, but as recognized in the World Bank Review (op cit), can be
grouped into four categories: (a) local people have not been sufficiently motivated to
cooperate in forest protection and development and the staff of forestry departments need
to be oriented to work closely with local people for this purpose; (b) government
regulations and procedures discourage the private sector from engaging in farm forestry
and agroforestry and make these activities less profitable than they could be; (c)
technological development in forestry operations has not kept pace with the investment in
afforestation programs, so the productivity of plantations is below the optimum; (d)
traditional forest administrations and arrangements for human resource development need
change for the efficient implementation of the new forest policy; and (e) the prominent
position of forest departments has discouraged other public and private sector agencies
from sharing responsibility for sector development. Issues which pertain more specifically
to Madhya Pradesh are discussed in the following section.
B. Forestry in the State of Madhya Pradesh
Factors of Production
1.7   Natural and Human Resources. The State of Madhya Pradesh has an area of
44.3 million ha, or about 14 percent of the geographical area of India. It encompasses the
major part of the highlands of central India and constitutes parts of the upper catchments
of five principal river systems, the Yamuna, Ganga, Mahanadi, Godavari and Narmada
(Map 1). Maintenance of the ecological balance in the State is of critical importance to
the nation as a whole. Rainfall varies from less than 800mm per year in western parts of
the state to about 1500 mm in the east and south east. About 19.6 million ha, or 44
percent of the area of the State, are classed as agricultural land, of which 4.3 million ha
are irrigated. In 1987, the livestock population was estimated at 45 million head, and
migratory herds are thought to number about 2 million head during the year. The total
human population of the State was estimated as 66.18 million in the 1991 census, growing
at a rate of 2.6 percent per annum between 1981 and 1991. Of the total, 15.3 million are



4
tribal peoples and 9.6 million scheduled castes. Poverty in rural areas is a concern as
almost 41 percent of the rural population is below the poverty line, compared to 20
percent in urban areas. Average population density is 149 persons per square km. More
information on the natural and human resources is presented in Annex 1.
1.8   Forest Resources. Legally designated forest lands, amounting to 15.4 million ha,
are under the control of the Madhya Pradesh Forestry Department (MPFD) and are
classified as Reserved Forest (8.3 million ha), Protected Forests (6.6 million ha), and
Unclassified (0.5 million ha). Forest vegetation types vary with agro-climatic zones and
include dry thorn, dry and moist deciduous, sub-tropical semi-evergreen, and tropical
moist evergreen forests. Canopy closure varies greatly with human interference. Closed
forests, that is, with canopy density greater than 40 percent, cover 9.5 million ha, or about
60 percent of the total. The remaining four million ha are referred to as open forest, with
canopy density of between 10 and 40 percent. Three main forest types are distinguished
for management purposes: (i) Teak dominated (2.7 million ha) in which the predominant
species is Tectona grandis; (ii) Sal dominated (2.5 million ha) in which the main species
is Shorea robusta and; (iii) Mixed hardwoods (10.2 million ha). Bamboo, mainly
Dedrocalamus strictus, occurs as an under-story in dry to moist deciduous forests.
1.9   A total of 305,000 ha of forest plantations have been developed in Madhya
Pradesh of which about half were planted prior to 1975. The remainder were mainly
developed by the Madhya Pradesh Forest Development Corporation (MPFDC) between
1976 and 1990. Most of the earlier plantations were of teak and mixed species, whilst the
later plantations were mainly teak and bamboo. About 5,000 ha of eucalyptus plantations
have been developed privately.
1.10  About 2.2 million ha of forest land was legally excised from the forest estate
between 1957 and the present. This represents an annual loss of 0.4 percent of the current
area, or 61,500 ha per year. This is probably an underestimate, as much land is
deforested before it's change of status is recognized legally. There is little data on
degradation of existing forests, though the high proportion of forested land with crown
density less than 40 percent points to degradation.



5
1.11  Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation. Forest Working Plans (FWPs) provide the
basis for planning the management and development of the forest sector, containing
baseline data and management prescriptions. FWPs often provide only a poor reflection
of conditions on the ground, severely limiting their usefulness as practical tools for forest
management. This is, in part, due to the fact that inventory and survey teams are often
inadequately staffed and equipped to work effectively in the field. However, there are
also problems associated with the nature and content of FWPs, which are not oriented
toward multiple objective management and rarely address resource conflicts. The system
for monitoring the progress of investment programs and special schemes focuses on the
achievement of physical targets.
1.12  Forest Development Technology. The prescriptions of FWPs can be grouped into
four silvicultural systems, described in more detail in Annex 2. They are applied to teak-
dominated, sal-dominated, and mixed hardwood forest types:
-     Coppice with reserves on short rotations for all three types;
-     Shelterwood on long rotations in teak and sal types;
-     Selection and selection cum improvement in all three types.
-     Conversion by clear felling into plantations of mixed hardwoods in either
short or long rotations. This system is no longer practiced;
1.13  The main issues related to forest development technology include:
The fact that the prescriptions of the FWP have, in many cases, not been
implemented, as reflected in a drop in roundwood production. This is
partly due to unrealistic assessments of sustainable production, but also due
to lack of funds for proper implementation of the FWPs;
Management of plantations has also suffered from establishment at too high
a density, and a neglect of thinning and other silvicultural practices;



6
The need to develop technologies and management practices focused on
regeneration of natural forests, with the active participation of communities;
The need to address the problems of the impact of livestock on forests, in
particular the supply of fodder and grazing;
The need to increase the role of the private sector in forest production.
1.14   Planting Material Production. Records indicate that survival of planted trees is
sporadic and often poor by international standards. There are many reasons for low
survival rates, but the poor quality of planting stock is a major contributory factor. This
starts with poor quality of seed, due to the lack of properly identified seed sources, and
inadequate seed harvesting and cleaning procedures. Vegetative propagation is
increasingly important in forest tree establishment, but is constrained by the lack of
properly selected parent trees. The quality of seedlings produced from forest nurseries is
a further limitation. Procedures tend to be standardized for all species in all ecological
conditions and nursery managers have little access to modern nursery technologies.
1.15   Research. The State Forest Research Institute (SFRI) was established at Jabalpur
in 1963, with a large campus and generous provision of buildings, and ten regional sub-
centers. Decisions on research priorities are mainly based on experience of regional needs
and constraints, and the needs or returns to particular species or groups of users. The
main constraints affecting forestry research in Madhya Pradesh, in particular within SFRI,
relate to:
the lack of any strategic medium or long-term research strategy;
the lack of a career structure for scientists with specialist skills, coupled
with the poor support and status offered to research activities;
the transitory nature of many research appointments;



7
The Market for Forest Produce
1.16  Supply. The total growing stock in Madhya Pradesh is estimated to be about 600
million in3, corresponding to an average of about 47 m3 per hectare of forest land. This is
lower than the average in India of 65.4 m3 per hectare, due to the degraded nature of
much of the forest. Recorded annual wood production is about 1.6 million m3 and the
unrecorded production, which includes fuelwood and headload removals, is estimated to
be about 3.0 million m3, giving a total production of about 4.6 million m3. In addition,
there is a large production of Non-Timber Forest Products (NTFP).
1.17  The total quantity of logs and poles supplied from MPFD has declined from over 1
million m3 in 1982 to about 650,000 m3 in 1992. A further 100,000 m3 is estimated to be
derived from private farmland. Data on the supply of pulpwood and bamboo for paper
manufacture are uncertain. It is known that little pulpwood is available and it is estimated
that about 170,000 tons of bamboo were supplied from within the State in 1992. A
further 110,000 tons of bamboo were supplied for civil works and the urban markets.
Fuelwood supplied by MPFD has decreased from over 2 million m3 in 1982, to less than 1
million m3 in 1992, though the total supply is probably maintained through unrecorded
collection. Quantitative data are only available for certain types of NTFP, but the
collection of tendu leaves has shown a steady increase.
Demand
1.18  The demand for forest products comes from industries, primary processors, forest
based cottage industries, and domestic users. Demand for forest products considerably
exceeds supply as the actual capacity utilization of most of the forest based industries is
only about 50 percent, due in large part to shortages of raw material. The demand for
forest products is further demonstrated by the fact that many industries only achieve the
present production by the import of raw materials, either from other parts of India, or
from abroad. The two paper mills in Madhya Pradesh each have agreements with MPFD
to supply 100,000 tons of raw material, mainly bamboo. In 1992, only 30 percent of the
agreed total was supplied to the Government owned Nepa Mills and about 85 percent to
the Orient Paper Mills, and the supply has declined further in the last year. The
remain4der of the raw material is imported, mainly from Assam. Only 5 percent of logs
used by the veneer industries are of local origin and most are imported from Burma. On



8
a national basis, demand for forest products is enormous and growing. The paper industry
alone provides a vivid illustration. Present national production of paper is about 1.5
million tons. The targeted production of the paper industry in the Year 2000 is 2.5
million tons, requiring at least another 2.5 million tons of raw material, 60 percent of
which will be bamboo and 40 percent wood.
1.19 Marketing Arrangements and Pricing. MPFD plays a significant role in the
marketing of both timber and NTFP, resulting in a number of market distortions and
inefficiencies. The reasons for MPFD involvement have little to do with comparative
advantage in marketing and more to do with previous industrial policies, the desire to
provide forest produce as a social necessity, or prevent exploitation of segments of the
population, or revenue collection. Thus, MPFD is contracted to provide supplies to
industry at concessional rates, though in recent times contracts have not been fulfilled.
Timber is sold by MPFD at auction. Fuelwood is sold at 80 percent of the market price,
at MPFD depots, to meet the needs of the urban population. MPFD also have the
responsibility of providing Nistar rights, which ensure a supply of forest produce to
populations in forest fringe areas. The most time-consuming marketing activity for MPFD
is, however, tendu leaf collection. This absorbs virtually all the Territorial Wing of the
Department for three months from April to June. MPFD is involved in marketing of trees
grown on private land only through the fact that the Department endorses felling and
transit permits issued by the Collector. The main issues affecting marketing and pricing
are thus:
The sale of forest produce at below market price, which is a dis-incentive
for communities and individuals to protect and invest in forest management;
The need to abolish the felling and transit regulations, at least for selected
species, and to simplify the process for other species;
The involvement of MPFD in collection and sale of NTFP requires review
as it effectively halts the Department's program of forest management.
Alternative mechanisms to provide protection for collectors and to ensure
revenue is collected on behalf of the State could be developed;



9
Legislation
1.20  The control, protection and use of forest land and forest resources in Madhya
Pradesh is governed by a legislative framework that sets out the rights of central and state
governments, the rights of people, and the rights of nature. The need for review of some
of these laws is presently being discussed by GOI and the State Government, in the light
of the requirements of the National Forest Policy (1988). The main issues relate to:
the fact that the National Forest Policy is not legally binding on either the
central or state governments and there is a need to reform the Indian Forest
Act (1927) in accordance with the new policy;
the need to amend the Madhya Pradesh Panchayat Management of
Government Lands Rules (1964) to include important features of the
National Forest Act and the Forest Conservation Act, and to ensure
consistency between this legislation and the Government Order on Joint
Forest Management. Such changes are necessary to resolve institutional
issues concerning the relationship between statutory bodies, such as the
panchayats, and non-statutory bodies, such as Forest Protection Committees,
to clarify peoples rights to forest resources, particularly nistar rights, and
peoples rights to reside in forests, particularly in national parks and
sanctuaries.
Public Sector Institutions
1.21  The main public institutions in the forest sector in Madhya Pradesh are the
Madhya Pradesh Forestry Department (MPFD), the Madhya Pradesh Forest Development
Corporation (MPFDC), and the Minor Forest Products Federation (MFPF). Government is
involved with forest based industries through its ownership of a paper mill and the
Narmada Wood Processing Complex, which is managed by MPFDC. Other institutions
that have an important role to play include the District Rural Development Agencies, the
Tribal Development Department, the Narmada Valley Development Authority, NGOs, and
the Panchayats. Activities of the Departments of Agriculture and of Animal Husbandry
also impact on the forest sector, through their involvement in reclamation of non-forest
wastelands and livestock programs. More details of these agencies are presented in



10
Annex 3. MPFD is the agency with primary responsibility for protection, conservation
and production in forest areas, for the promotion of social forestry programs outside the
forests, and for legislation affecting the forest sector. Its role and that of the MPFDC are
evolving in the light of changes required by the National Forest Policy. The main
institutional issues relate to the way in which the organizations are responding, or not, to
these new requirements. They include:
The need for management procedures and structure of MPFD to be adjusted
to facilitate the implementation of the new forest policy, improve the use of
staff and resources, and provide a consistent approach to individuals or
communities participating in the management of forests and social and farm
forestry programs.
The need for training, promotion criteria, and policies on staff postings, to
support the increasing needs of MPFD for staff specialization;
The need to link budgetary allocations to revenue generated from the
forests, with an explicit percentage of revenue generated to be reinvested in
management and afforestation;
The future role and institutional structure of MPFDC, whose original
mandate to convert forests into high value, mainly teak and bamboo, forests
is inconsistent with the changed emphasis of the National Forest Policy and
is prohibited under the Forest Conservation Act;
The need to develop improved mechanisms for coordination between MPFD
and other agencies that impact on the forest sector. This should include
specific means to involve NGOs and local government authorities, possibly
through budgetary support.



11
The Private Sector
1.22  Production. The private sector is not involved in production in a major way, but
provides support to farm forestry programs. Orient Paper Mills (OPM) supports
entrepreneurs to establish nurseries, and subsidizes the sale of seedlings to private
growers. OPM also run an extension service that promotes the concept of planting trees
for profit, and provides technical advice to growers. The scheme does not involve any
buy-back contracts, and the grower is free to sell produce on the open market, though
OPM will buy material at market prices. MPFD has also provided support to the private
sector growers through social forestry programs (See Para. 1.23) and the decentralized
nursery scheme, which was brought to a close in 1993.
1.23  Industries. Forest based industries in Madhya Pradesh can be grouped into those
utilizing round wood, those based on processed wood, and non-wood based industries. Of
the round wood based industries, there is one private paper mill, over 4,000 tiny or very
small saw mills, five slicer mills and one peeler mill for production of veneer, four
plywood mills, two particle board mills and a parquet factory. The Narmada Wood
Processing Complex is state owned and operated by MPFDC. Non-wood based industries
include beedi production using tendu leaves, agarbatti production and oil extraction from
sal seed. Many of the wood-based industries use only a fraction of their installed capacity
due to inadequate and irregular raw material supplies.
1.24  The main issues relating to private sector involvement in the forestry sector
concern the agreements on the supply of raw materials by MPFD at preferential prices,
and the involvement of private agencies in plantation scale production.
Past Development Strategies
1.25  Demand for timber during World War II meant that the prescriptions of working
plans were suspended, so that at the time of independence many forests had been heavily
exploited. During the early five-year plan periods, priority was given to survey and
demarcation, preparation of working plans, plantation establishment and forest utilization.
Subsequently, the policy was to maximize timber production and enforce forest protection.
In 1972, the National Commission on Agriculture recommended that "there should be a
change over from conservation oriented forestry to more dynamic program of production



12
forestry. The future production program should concentrate on clear felling of valuable
mixed forests, mixed quality forest and inaccessible hardwood forests and planting these
areas with suitable fast growing species yielding higher returns per unit area". The
Madhya Pradesh Forest Development Corporation was set up in 1975 to assist with the
implementation of this strategy by attracting institutional finance. By the Sixth Five Year
Plan period (1980-85) ecological balance, economic stability for the poor and greater
forest protection were being given emphasis. The failure to control unauthorized
exploitation and a growing realization of forests as a biological necessity and major part
of the nation's natural resource heritage led to the formulation of the National Forest
Policy in 1988.
1.26  Social Forestry. The introduction of social forestry in Madhya Pradesh, during
the early 1980s, was supported by a USAID project. The principle objective was to make
it possible to meet the needs of the rural population for forest products from readily
accessible community and private lands, not forest lands, thereby reducing the pressure on
productive forests. The work of the project was continued through a number of
government-funded social forestry programs (Annex 4), consisting of individual,
community and village beneficiary schemes. The individual schemes include the payment
of subsidies: for seedling production in private nurseries; for farm forestry involving the
planting of trees on field boundaries or other private lands; and for planting of trees in
public lands. Community beneficiary schemes include the creation of demonstration plots
and village orchards. Village beneficiary schemes were largely focused on the creation of
smokeless chullahs.
1.27  Although the social forestry programs have succeeded in making the forest service
more aware of the needs of people they have not resulted in sustainable plantations, nor
solved the problem of continuing deterioration of the forests. There were a number of
reasons for this, including: (i) people were not sufficiently involved because the
panchayats did not take on responsibilities for planning or management, the poor and in
particular women, were not consulted, and issues related to control of grazing were not
resolved; (ii) land for development was not identified early enough and was frequently in
small isolated blocks that made management almost impossible; (iii) government officials
focused on targets rather than quality; (iv) the programs did not provide sufficient forest
produce and it remained cheaper to harvest from natural forests than to contribute to
social forestry programs; and (v) the focus on social forestry may have meant that



13
funding for maintenance and protection of forests was reduced.
1.28 Joint Forest Management (JFM). JFM has been defined as "the sharing of
products, responsibilities, control, and decision making authority over forest lands between
forest departments and local user groups. It involves a contract specifying the distribution
of authority, responsibility, and benefits" 2, The first major initiative to involve people in
JFM in India was started in the State of West Bengal in 1972. Initial success led to the
formation of over 1,700 Forest Protection Committees covering some 237,000 ha of forest.
Similar programs have been started in a number of other states and more details of these
experiences are presented in Annex 5. In June 1991, GOI issued a circular supporting
joint planning and management of degraded forests in all parts of India.
1.29  JFM arrangements have been initiated in several parts of Madhya Pradesh and over
200 Forest Protection Committees (FPCs) had been established by 1993. The Government
of Madhya Pradesh has issued an order providing the framework for implementation of
the policy, entitled "Community participation in preventing illicit felling of the forests and
rehabilitation of the forests", (Order No. 16/4/10/2/91 of December, 1991). The order is
currently being revised and would prescribe the formation of two kinds of village
committees: Forest Protection Committees (FPCs) would be constituted in sensitive forest
areas where villagers are willing to participate in forest protection; while in degraded
forest areas, Village Forest Committees (VFCs) are to be formed. In both cases, the
committee would consist of a member from each resident family of the village. An
informally constituted executive committee would include, as ex officio members, all the
Panchs of the village Panchayat, the members of the Antyodaya Samiti, and the village
Kotwar, teacher and Mukhia. The Forester or Forest Guard is to serve, ex officio, as the
Secretary. The Divisional Forest Officer has the power to dissolve both kinds of
committee, or to terminate the membership of specific members. A number of issues
relate to the implementation of the Government Order:
Institutional and legal arrangements for JFM need attention as viable and
sustainable local institutions are essential;
The traditional approach of the MPFD with its emphasis on forest
2         Training and Planning for Joint Forest Management. M. Moench. (Undated).
Working Paper No. 8. Ford Foundation, New Delhi.



14
protection and enforcement has left a legacy of hostility and mistrust in
some communities which will have to be overcome;
The management of the MPFD has been hierarchical and suited to the
downward transmission of orders and directives. Effective implementation
of participatory programs will require a change in this culture, accompanied
by decentralization to enable site-specific programs to be developed;
1.30 Ecodevelopment Annex 6. The term ecodevelopment has been used in India
since the 1980s and a number of different definitions have been proposed. Most
commonly, and in this report, it is used in connection with protected areas such as
national parks or sanctuaries to define a strategy for protecting ecologically valuable areas
from unsustainable or otherwise unacceptable pressures resulting from the needs and
activities of people living in and around such areas. It is based on the assumption that if
alternative natural and social resources are created in areas peripheral to the PAs,
exploitation of resources within the PAs will be reduced. There is also the assumption
that the involvement of the PA management in the creation of employment opportunities
or fringe area resources, that may include fodder, veterinary services, water supplies, and
other village infrastructure, will motivate communities to collaborate in the protection of
forested areas. Ecodevelopment involves participatory management of resources, but is
not identical to JFM, as communities do not receive direct benefits of forest produce from
the PA.
1.31  Village Resource Development Annex 5. In Madhya Pradesh the term
ecodevelopment has been used in a more general way to denote economic development of
villages close to forest lands. This more general usage is referred to here as a Village
Resource Development Program (VRDP). It is similar to ecodevelopment in trying to
reduce pressure on forest land by providing alternative incomes or resources. It is also
similar in assuming that provision of the alternative resources by the MPFD will generate
a willingness to cooperate in forest management. It differs from ecodevelopment in that it
explicitly involves communities in protecting neighboring forest areas through Joint Forest



15
Management arrangements, with the associated sharing of benefits. There are a number of
issues related to both ecodevelopment and VRDP:
mechanisms to ensure that communities link the provision of alternative
incomes or resources with their participation in the protection of PAs, or
the management of forest resources, are not well developed;
experience with participatory management of resources in Madhya Pradesh
is limited;
MPFD does not have all the necessary skills or experience to implement
programs outside the forest sector, and the necessary coordination
mechanisms are not well developed.
C. Lessons from Past Bank Lending
1.32 The World Bank has supported ten projects in the field of forestry and resource
conservation in India with lending amounting to about US$500 million. Experiences
gained through project supervision, project completion reports and reviews of the sector in
India, the Asia region, and worldwide, have been assessed. In the past, forestry projects
in India mainly provided support for social forestry and watershed protection activities and
have had mixed success. The involvement of local people in some of these projects was
inadequate. Many of the projects encountered implementation problems due to slow
project start-up, institutional weaknesses and insufficient local funding. The major lessons
from the early projects was that the programs were inadequate to address the complex
issues affecting the forest sector. Other important lessons include: the need for
production of improved planting material; better extension services; more emphasis on
the planning and management of plantations and natural forests in the light of
environmental concerns, including the conservation of biodiversity; better processes to
involve local communities in the planning and management of forest resources and; inter-
agency coordination in project implementation. These lessons have been taken into
account in the design of the proposed project.



16
1.33  State-wide forestry projects have been recently approved by the Board for the
States of Maharashtra (Cr. 2328-IN), West Bengal (Cr. 2341-IN) and Andhra Pradesh (Cr.
2573-IN). The proposed operation would build on the concepts developed for these
projects, adapting them for the particular conditions in Madhya Pradesh. It would also be
consistent with the findings of the Forest Sector Review (Report No. 10965-IN) which
indicates that the strategic focus for forestry development in the next decade will be to
improve forest protection and management through greater participation of communities
and the introduction of technologies to improve productivity and permit better land use.
Implementation of the strategy will be supported by redefining the role of government and
revising regulatory and pricing policies to stimulate more effective private and public
investments in the forestry sector.



17
II. FUTURE DEVELOPMENT OF THE FORESTRY SECTOR
A. Objectives
2.1   The objectives of the future development of the forestry sector in Madhya Pradesh
would be, in accordance with the National Forest Policy of 1988: to ensure environmental
stability and maintain ecological balance; to conserve the national biological heritage; to
increase substantially the forest and tree cover in forest and farm lands; to increase the
productivity of forests; and to ensure the participation of the people in the management
of forests and trees to achieve these objectives.
B. Strategy
2.2   Since these objectives represent a major change from the traditional objectives for
the forest sector, a new strategy for the future development of the sector has been
formulated by GOMP and involves: changes in the sectoral policy framework and the
approach of MPFD; changes in sector management; and changes in program
implementation. To realize the changes will require training for staff and communities, so
human resource development is a crucial element of the strategy. The GOMP statement
of strategy is presented below. The linkages between the various elements of the strategy
are illustrated in Figure 1, and presented in relation to issues and actions in Annex 7.
Framework
2.3   The strategy would involve changes in the framework governing the management
of the sector. These would include changes in sector policy which would focus on
creating a market-oriented environment and an appropriate legislative and administrative
framework for increasing participatory management of forest resources. The strategy
would also involve a change in the traditional culture and approach of MPFD, from a
predominantly regulatory role, to one in which communities are treated as partners in the
management of forest resources.



18
Framework                         Sector                         Programs
Management                  __________
l  Strategic Planning
Conservation
Policy Analysis                     Areas
Departmental
Approach
Closed
Forests
Sectoral                      Management
Policy                         System
Development
Open
Decentralization                    Forests
Planning
Monitoring
Evaluation
Technology                      Private and
Community
Administrative                      Lands
Procedures
Institutional
Structures
Human Resource
Development
FIGURE 1. Elements of the GOMP strategy for the future development of the forestry sector in
Madhya Pradesh.



19
Sector Management
2.4    Changes in management of the sector would support the development of the
sectoral framework through the introduction of strategic planning linked to policy analysis.
Staff orientation programs would promote changes in the approach of MPFD. Other
changes would relate more specifically to the development of management systems. This
would include a focus on decentralization of planning that would ensure programs are
linked to site-specific conditions and priorities, and the needs of participatory forest
management. Budgetary allocations would be linked to these plans. Monitoring and
evaluation would be an iterative process, contributing to both planning and
implementation. Technologies and silvicultural practices would be suited to management
objectives, supported by adaptive research programs. Administrative procedures and
institutional structures would be reviewed and changed as necessary, to meet the
requirements of the changed management priorities
Programs
2.5    The strategy would be to develop implementation programs related to a
classification of the state based on management objectives as follows:
Area                          Primary Management Objectives
1.     Conservation Areas                 Conservation of biodiversity
2.     Closed Forests                     (i)     Maintenance of forest cover.
Enrichment of stocking by natural
regeneration to eventually increase
production
(ii)    Timber and NTFP production
3.     Open Forests                       (i)    Increase in forest cover
(ii)    Production of local community
requirements for forest products
4.     Private and Community Lands        Commercial forestry and involvement of
forest-based industries
5.     Village common lands in forest fringe  Production of local community requirements
areas                              for forest products
3 Management changes are discussed in more detail in Annex 3, monitoring and evaluation in Annex 7 and
silvicultural practices in Annex 2.



20
2.6    Conservation Areas. The strategy for the conservation of biodiversity would be
to focus improved PA management on a number of priority areas of biological
importance, in which human impacts are readily manageable. Management of sites of
lower priority would be maintained, though with fewer resources. PA management would
be complemented by an Ecodevelopment Program (EDP) in areas peripheral to the PA.
The PA Network, in particular, linkages between existing PAs, would be developed
through identification of relatively undisturbed satellite areas and, for the intervening
zones, the preparation of management plans that are compatible with biodiversity
conservation 4.
2.7    Closed and Open Forests. Many aspects of the strategies for these areas are
similar and there is a gradation from one to the other. Both would be based on the full
spectrum of forest products, including minor forest products, fruit, fodder and fuel, as well
as timber s. Community involvement in detailed planning and implementation of
proposed forestry programs, with an agreement clearly setting out the obligations of, and
benefits to, the communities and MPFD, that is, Joint Forest Management, would be a
cornerstone of the strategy in both areas. In closed forest, improved productivity would
be achieved through natural regeneration and enrichment planting with a variety of
species, including those of importance to local communities, and by adopting soil and
moisture conservation measures. In open forest areas, the species providing benefits to
the community would be given priority. JFM arrangements would be integrated with
activities that would include measures to provide alternative resources and income to
reduce unsustainable exploitation of the forest. Together, these activities would form part
of an integrated Village Resource Development Program (VRDP) 6,
2.8   Private and Community Lands. The strategy would focus efforts on promoting
tree planting on private lands. Forest based industries would also be involved in
promoting tree farming on private land to ensure availability of raw material.
Development of the village commons in forest fringe villages would be based on JFM
4         The strategy for conservation of biodiversity is further discussed in Annex 5.
5         Appropriate technologies for natural forest management are discussed in Annex 2.
6         The Village Resource Development Program is discussed in more detail in Annex 4.



21
arrangements as part of a VRDP 7.
2.9    The Role of the Private Sector. The private sector in Madhya Pradesh includes
village communities, graziers, and small farmers as well as large industries. The future
role of the private sector will be to extend their involvement in farm forestry and agro-
forestry in a more meaningful manner. In farm forestry programs farmers would continue
to take full responsibility for production and management. Forest-based industries would
take a more proactive role in securing raw material supplies by providing credit, material,
technological support and buy-back guarantees to small producers. The private sector
would also take a leading role in developing small rural nurseries, and provide industrial
support to farm forestry programs with a view to producing quality planting materials.
Livestock are entirely controlled by private sector owners and their impact on the forest
sector through the enormous demand for grazing and fodder is severe. The future strategy
to minimize grazing pressures would involve the improvement of livestock productivity
through breeding, and an increase in the production of cultivated fodder;
2.10   The Role of the Public Sector. In the future, the role of public sector agencies
would be mainly regulatory and supportive, rather than involved in direct marketing, or
processing. Thus, they would restrict their activities to the formulation and monitoring of
the necessary policy and regulatory framework for the sector, and provide supporting
research and extension services for the development, introduction, and dissemination of
new technologies and management practices. The implementation of this strategy would
require: (i) a review of all the many tasks for which MPFD is responsible; (ii) the
identification of those which can be handled by private sector agencies, including NGOs;
(iii) the introduction of improved management procedures and structures in public sector
agencies to meet the needs of their redefined role; and (iv) staff training and development
to enable the agencies to fulfill their role.
Programs to support tree planting on private and community lands are discussed in Annex 4.



A



22
III. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.1   Future development of the forestry sector in Madhya Pradesh in accordance with
the National Forestry Policy will require long-term commitments. The Bank is one of the
few institutions that could provide the necessary continuity of support. In addition, the
Bank's involvement in similar state forestry projects provides a mechanism for
transferring up-to-date practical experience with project implementation. This experience
enables the Bank to engage in a constructive dialogue on sector management issues with
both state and central governments. The Bank is also in a position to ensure that
improved technology will be made available to MPFD in a timely manner, both through
its support for the national Forestry Research, Education and Extension Project, and
through linkages with international forestry research organizations. The proposed project
would be consistent with the overall country assistance strategy, including the strategy for
Bank assistance to the agricultural sector in India, which seeks to promote increased
productivity through better selection of investments, product diversification, and more
efficient public sector management. It is also consistent with the objectives of the Bank's
forestry policy and the Asia Region's strategy for lending, which links policy dialogue
with major investments in the forest sector.
B. Project Objectives and Design
3.2   The main objective of the project would be to assist with the implementation of
the GOMP strategy for development of the forestry sector in Madhya Pradesh. More
specifically the objectives are: to develop the necessary human resources for the planning,
implementation and monitoring of the strategy; to ensure that management procedures and
the structure and resources of MPFD are appropriate to its role as the nodal public sector
agency in the forestry sector; to assist with the prioritization of various types of land
through improved planning at a macro-scale; to increase both forest cover and productivity
through development of participatory processes for management and use of forest
resources, taking special account of the interests of tribal peoples and other disadvantaged
groups; to adapt and improve existing technologies and to provide technical and
management advice; to improve incentives for forest management and the cultivation of
trees; and to promote the conservation of biodiversity.



23
3.3   Future development of the forestry sector in Madhya Pradesh will involve long-
term programs, so a strategic plan is needed for the provision of IDA support to the sector
over a period of about ten years. Given the area of forest in Madhya Pradesh and its
economic and environmental importance to both the state and the nation, investments over
a ten-year period could total more than US$200 million. However, the GOMP strategy
for the sector, described in Chapter II, involves substantial change in the way the sector is
managed and the introduction of innovative new programs for participatory management
of forests. Lessons from previous Bank lending (Para. 1.27) show that these changes take
time and may slow implementation. Consequently, strategic planning for the provision of
IDA support to the sector, is based on a two-stage approach. The first stage would be a
project of four years duration, which is described below. This is designed to allow MPFD
to develop the new processes, systems and skills required for implementation of the new
GOMP strategy and to provide for necessary investments in the sector. Project support
for improved management would have an impact on the sector as a whole. Investments in
forest development and management would be initiated throughout the state, but in a
small proportion of the 15.4 million ha of forest land and in a representative number of
the 30,000 villages located in forest fringe areas. These would form the basis of larger
scale investments that could be provided in a second-stage project, that would build on
experience gained, and incorporate any necessary modifications to programs and processes
initiated during the first stage project. Approval for such a second stage project could be
sought during the fourth year of implementation of the first stage. It is not possible to be
precise about its magnitude as it would depend on implementation experience. However,
it can be assumed that successful forest development programs would grow exponentially,
so investments would be correspondingly greater.
C. Summary Description
3.4   The project area would cover the entire State of Madhya Pradesh which has been
described briefly in Chapter I and in more detail in Annex 1. The project would be
implemented over a four-year period, from January 1995 to December 1998, and would
have four main components, listed below with the main activities in each:
Management Development. Development of the management of the
sector through: changing the approach of MPFD from a predominantly
regulatory role to one in which communities are treated as partners in the
management of forest resources; increasing policy analysis capabilities; and
improving the management skills of senior MPFD staff, supported by the



24
introduction of improved management systems, for planning,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation procedures. The project would
finance the introduction of improved management information and
geographical information systems, linked to a program of training for all
levels of staff.
Forest Management. This would have two main thrusts: (i) A program of
assisted natural forest regeneration (ANR), supported by enrichment
planting, improved silvicultural practices, and forest floor management over
an area of about 160,000 ha; and (ii) A Village Resource Development
Program involving community based participatory planning, and
management and protection of forest resources, integrated with activities to
generate alternative incomes or resources, to reduce the pressure on the
forests. A total of about 1,140 villages would be involved, managing about
74,000 ha of forest land. Staff training in participatory planning would be
provided and the availability of trained staff would determine the phasing
of activities.
Extension, Technology and Research. Provision of necessary
infrastructure and facilities for the development of extension and research
service centers in each ecological zone, coupled with staff training, would
provide a base for improved forestry extension services, tree seed
improvement programs, demonstration nurseries and adaptive research
trials.
Biodiversity Conservation. Improved management of 12 high priority
Protected Areas (PAs) through provision of support for development of
management plans, staff training, equipment and facilities. Special Funds
would be created to support the development of alternative resources or
income for communities resident within PAs and in areas peripheral to
them. A lower level of project funding would be available for 12 lower
priority PAs, whilst the identification and planning of linkages to complete
the PA Network would be financed.



25
D. Detailed Features
Management Development
3.5   Sector Management Annex 8. The project would finance measures to improve
management of the forestry sector in three main ways: changing the approach of MPFD,
improving the management system and increasing policy analysis capabilities. The
project would provide funds for reorientation and training of staff at all levels. Local and
international management training would be financed for senior MPFD staff. Through the
provision of consultancy funds, the project would also assist the Department to review
management procedures and structures, staffing levels and skills, determining whether any
modifications are necessary to enable the Department to meet the demanding role required
by the proposed strategy. Finance would also be available for the operation of a small
Policy Analysis Unit, responsible directly to the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests
(PCCF), with resources to commission specific policy studies. Short international utdining
courses for present and possible future heads of this unit would be financed, together with
longer Masters or Diploma courses for staff of Deputy Conservator of Forests (DCF)
level. Computing and other necessary supporting equipment would be provided. The
project would further support staff development by providing resources for in-service
technical and management training for officers of Assistant Conservator of Forests (ACF)
rank and above at SFRI, which would fulfill the function of a staff college. Funds for
rehabilitation of the hostel, for training materials and equipment, and for recruitment of
resource persons for specific training activities would be available. Support for the
training of foresters and forest guards would be provided through financing curriculum
development, training of trainers and rehabilitation of facilities at forest colleges 8.
3.6   Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (PME). Annexes 9 and 10. The project
would finance measures to improve the capabilities of MPFD for PME at both macro- and
micro-levels. Consultancies to assist with the design and introduction of improved PME
procedures and supporting systems would be financed as part of the development of sector
management. Funds would also be available for the development of a Management
Information System (MIS) and related Geographical Information System (GIS). The MIS
would be based on PME cells that would be developed at headquarters, territorial circle,
8         Training forms an important part of each project component. An outline training plan is presented
in each of the relevant Annexes.



26
and divisional levels, and in five zonal wildlife offices. These cells would provide
information services to all MPFD activities, that would ensure the conclusions from
monitoring and evaluation work are incorporated in future planning. GIS service units
would be created at headquarters and in four zones, corresponding to FWP circles. The
position of the planned PME Units and Cells and functional linkages within MPFD are
illustrated in Figure 2. Project funds would be available for purchase of computer
equipment and software. Advanced training in MIS and GIS applications would be
provided for selected staff and general computer literacy courses for a much wider range
of staff. The project would also support improvements in MPFD capacity for resource
assessment and inventory through provision of field survey instruments, equipment and
vehicles for FWP survey teams and technology development studies to identify and
implement improved forest survey techniques.
3.7   Project Unit. Project funds would be available for the operation of a Project Unit
(PU). The staffing and structure of the unit is illustrated in Figure 3, together with the
linkages to operational units of MPFD. The project would provide necessary computers,
equipment and vehicles for the PU.
Forest Development
3.8   Assisted Natural Regeneration (ANR). Annex 2. The project would support a
program of assisted natural regeneration of forests, linked to forest ecotypes, rather than
oriented to particular species. Based on improved inventories (Para. 3.6), the program
would include improved management of the forest floor, through control of grazing and
fire protection, and improved soil and moisture conservation to enhance ground vegetation
and humification. Natural regeneration from seed would be supported by enrichment
planting where necessary, and improved silvicultural practices. A total of about 160,000
ha would be treated during the course of the project, including the rehabilitation of some
21,000 ha in which bamboo has flowered. The forest development program would be
supported by staff training and the provision of staff housing and vehicles.
3.9   Village Resource Development Program. Annex 5. The project would finance a
program for joint forest management, integrated with activities to promote the sustainable
use of forest resources. This would be based on village area plans, developed through a
participatory process, leading to agreements that would set out the rights and obligations
of local communities and the MPFD. Success would be in large part dependent on the
availability of trained staff with a genuine commitment to the participatory process. The



27
project would, therefore, fund orientation workshops and the training of staff and
community members. It would also provide for plan formulation through the formation,
training and operation of a VRDP Planning Team in each Division, that would include at
least one woman, who would meet the criteria for selection as a ranger. It would be
difficult for MPFD to recruit women rangers by the date of project effectiveness, so the
project would provide funds for special contracts with suitably qualified women, possibly
recruited through NGO involvement, as members of the VRDP Planning Teams.
3.10  As part of an integrated program for village resource development, project funds
would be available for JFM activities in forest areas used by the communities. A total of
about 1,140 villages would be involved over the project period, managing and protecting
about 75,000 ha of forest land, for which detailed microplanning would have been
completed, and in which silvicultural improvements aimed at the rehabilitation of
degraded forests (RDF) would have been started. This would include planting of bamboo
in selected areas, totalling just over 8,000 ha. The phasing of the program would be
mainly determined by the availability of trained staff. Management practices would
involve new plantings of a variety of species according to ecotype, coppice management,
and silvipasture.  Integrated with this JFM program, the project would provide for
investments in schemes to generate alternative resources or incomes, linked to community
protection of the forest.
Extension, Technology and Research
3.11  Extension and Research Service Centers. Annex 11. The project would finance
the development of twelve service centers and one sub-center, one in each of the major
ecological zones of the state. Buildings, equipment, vehicles and other facilities would be
provided. The centers would provide a focus for extension programs, for seed
improvement programs, for demonstration nurseries, for demonstrations of new
technologies, and for applied research. The centers would also provide facilities for
training of MPFD staff in extension methodology. The linkages between the centers and
these activities, and the way in which these support MPFD programs are illustrated in
Figure 4.



28
3.12  Extension. Annex 4. Project support for forestry extension programs, focused on
farm and community forestry, would be provided in 40 priority Forest Divisions, selected
on the basis of proximity to markets for farm and community forest products, the amount
of irrigated land, population density and the success of previous social forestry programs.
Funds would be available for extension materials and equipment, farmer training,
demonstrations and vehicles or motorcycles. The project would finance training of DFOs
and Rangers in extension techniques.
3.13  An Industrial Liaison Unit would be created under the Chief Conservator of
Forests (CCF) for Industries. Its function would be to ensure forest based industries are
aware of tree improvement programs, technology advances, supply and demand
projections, and market identification for both wood and non-wood forest products. The
head of the Unit, a Conservator of Forests (CF), would be supported by a DCF and staff
in the E&R centers, responsible for collection of data. The project would finance the
provision of a computer, training for staff of the Unit, and special contract studies of
market forecasts or industrial technology.
3.14 Seed Improvement. Annex 12. The project would finance a program to improve
the quality of seed used in all forestry activities in Madhya Pradesh through financing the
identification of superior mother trees, the collection of seed, the development of Seedling
Seed Production Areas, and the development and operation of Clonal Seed Orchards with
supporting shade/mist houses, for those species of greatest importance to the sector.
Project funds would be available to provide facilities for drying, processing, and storage
of seeds. Basic facilities would be provided at each R&E center. A cool store and seed
testing laboratory would be provided at SFRI. As the basis for improvement of exotic
species, project funds would be available for the import of high quality germ plasm. The
project would support staff training in seed technology and tree improvement, and provide
for short-term international technical assistance for the development of seed facilities at
SFRI and the substantial tree improvement program.
3.15 Nursery Demonstration. Annex 12. Project funds would be available for the
development of nurseries in each of the E&R Centers, that would demonstrate modem
nursery techniques. These would act as models for private sector nurseries of a capacity
of between 10,000 and 100,000 seedlings. Construction of the nursery and purchase of
necessary irrigation and ancillary equipment would be provided for.



29
3.16  Research. Annex 13. Due to lack of staff, SFRI research capabilities are severely
constrained. However, the establishment of SFRI as an autonomous agency would
provide greater flexibility in staff recruitment. The project would, therefore, provide a
limited amount of equipment to upgrade key laboratories supporting the seed and tree
improvement programs. Other project support for research would take the form of
funding for contract research programs, to be commissioned by SFRI in universities and
other agencies. In addition, the project would finance consultancies to assist with the
development of a strategic research plan for the State, based on a systematic assessment
of research priorities, that would complement national research programs being undertaken
in Institutes of the Indian Council for Forestry Research and Education (ICFRE).
Biodiversity Conservation. Annex 6.
3.17 PA Management. The project would support improved PA management planning
by financing the operation of five zonal teams, that would provide specialist advice to PA
managers, responsible for developing PA management plans. In addition, the project
would provide funds for information centers, other necessary buildings, communications
equipment, office and field equipment, and vehicles for 12 PAs, selected on the basis of
their biological significance and in which human pressures on the PA are readily
manageable. A lower level of support would be provided for 12 lower priority PAs.
Development of the PA network would be supported through the provision of funds for
the identification and survey of important undisturbed satellite areas, and the preparation
of strategic plans for the management of these areas and the inter-linking, more disturbed
areas. In addition, project funds would be available to contract research on aspects of
biodiversity and PA management, and of the impact on biodiversity, of communities
resident within the PAs.
3.18  Ecodevelopment Program (EDP). Finance would be made available for the
establishment of an Ecodevelopment Support Fund (EDSF), to be used for sustainable
management of forests and for the development of alternative resources or income
generating opportunities, in village areas peripheral to the PA. This program would be
supported through financing the training and operation of five Ecodevelopment Planning
Teams, who would, in turn, provide on-the-job training and assistance to Wildlife
Rangers, Foresters, and Forest Guards planning and implementing village ecodevelopment
programs.



30
3.19  Project Preparation Facility (PPF). An advance of approximately US$275,000
was approved from the PPF. This was to enable MPFD to: (i) initiate orientation and
training of staff, particularly of staff involved in the VRDP and Ecodevelopment Program;
(ii) recruit consultants to assist with the management review; and (iii) establish a Project
Unit (See Chapter V). These measures were designed to ensure rapid start-up of project
activities






31
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Cost Estimates
4.1    Total project costs are estimated at US$67.3 million (Rs.2459.4 million), inclusive
of duties and taxes in the amount of US$2.4 million (Rs.85.7 million). Of this 14 percent
or US$9.1 miillion are foreign exchange costs. Investment costs amount to 94 percent and
recurrent costs to 6 percent of base costs. The base costs are those obtained at the time of
appraisal and have been adjusted for inflation to the time of negotiations. Physical
contingencies amount to 5 percent. Price contingencies of 2.2 percent per year were
added for the foreign exchange component. For local costs, price contingencies were
added at 8.0 percent for 1995, at 7.0 percent for 1996, and at 6.0 percent for 1997 and
1998.
4.2    The table below gives a summary of project costs by component. Additional
summary tables of project costs by year, by component and by summary accounts are
presented in Annex 14.
Project Cost Summary
Component                  Foreign     Local     Total      FE
........ .US$ million.
Management Development
Sector Management                         0.8         1.4      2.2      35
Planning, M and E                         0.9        2.0       2.9      32
Forest Development
Natural Forest Regeneration                1.0       17.9     18.9       5
Village Resource Development               1.9      15.5      17.4      11
Extension Technology and Research
E and R Service Centers                   0.4        2.2       2.6      14
Extension                                 0.1        0.3       0.4      16
Seed Improvement                          0.8        3.1       3.9      20
Nursery Demonstration                     0.6        0.8        1.4     23
Adaptive Research                         0.2        0.4       0.6      33
Biodiversity Conservation                    1.2        8.4      9.6      13
Total Baseline Costs                         7.9       52.0     59.9      13
Physical Contingencies                    0.6        2.5       3.1      20
Price Contingencies                       0.6        3.7       4.3      14
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS 1/                      9.1       58.2      67.3      14
1/ Including duties and taxes of US$2.4 million.



32
B. Proposed Financing Plan
4.3   The proposed IDA Credit of US$58.0 million equivalent would finance 89 percent
of project costs, net of taxes, or 86 percent of total project costs, including taxes. The
credit would finance 100 percent of the direct and indirect foreign exchange costs and 84
percent of local costs. Incremental recurrent costs amount to 7 percent of total costs,
including contingencies. These would include the operation and maintenance costs of
civil works, vehicles and equipment financed by the project. IDA would fund an average
of about 50 percent of the incremental recurrent costs, declining from 60 percent to 50
percent over the life of the project (See Para. 4.15). There would be no incremental staff
so salaries and allowances are not included in project costs. The financing plan below
presents IDA and GOI contributions for the four year project period.
Proposed Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange and Local Costs
(US$ million)
Source of Financing     Foreign       Local      Total
IDA                   9.1        48.9        58.0
GOI 1/                0.0         9.3         9.3
Total              9.1        58.2        67.3
1/   Including duties and taxes of US$2.4 million
C. Procurement
4.4   Civil Works (US$9.6 million). Works would be procured following Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) or Force Account procedures as follows:
LCB. Civil works in the project consist mainly of the construction of
buildings for eco-centers, residential quarters for Forest Guards, Foresters
and Range Officers in remote forest areas, a few quarters for Forest
Officers in Divisional headquarters, and repairs to forest roads. Works to
an aggregate value of US$1.6 million equivalent would be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. The
justification for the proposed LCB for civil works is that they consist of
rehabilitation of existing buildings, or the construction of new buildings in



33
widely scattered interior locations, during the first four years of the project.
The works would be grouped together into convenient packages for bidding,
but the largest contract is likely to be less than US$150,000 so it is unlikely
that foreign firms would find such contracts attractive. Nonetheless, bids
from foreign contractors would not be precluded. Arrangements for
procurement are presented in Annex 15 and a detailed procurement
schedule in Attachment 1 to the Annex.
Force Account, including direct contracting and on the basis of quotations
from a list of at least three contractors, would be used for all small civil
works located in remote areas and valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent
or less, up to an aggregate amount of US$8.0 million and would be
undertaken by MPFD. This would include materials for works carried out
under Force Account, valued in aggregate at US$3.3 million, to be procured
following local shopping procedures acceptable to IDA. The works are not
suitable for competitive bidding due to the small amounts and remoteness
of location. Monitoring of works carried out under Force Account would be
done using procedures acceptable to IDA.
4.5   Forest Operations (US$20.8 million). Force account would be used for most
forest operations, including the cost of establishing identified seed production areas, clonal
seed orchards, seedling seed production areas, and multiplication gardens. This is due to
the operations being located in remote areas and MPFD having the necessary personnel
and skills in place.
4.6   Goods, Equipment, Furniture and Supplies (US$6.0 million). Goods, in
particular, computers to an estimated value of US$1.7 million, would be procured using
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. However, equipment estimated to
cost less than US$200,000, up to an aggregate of US$0.8 million would be procured using
LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Small items of equipment, and some field and
laboratory supplies, would be procured in small lots over the five-year period. As
individual contracts are not expected to exceed US$20,000 they will be procured using
local shopping procedures satisfactory to IDA, up to an aggregate amount of US$2.6
million. Directorate General of Supplies and Disposal (DGS&D), New Delhi, rate
contracts would be acceptable for procurement under local shopping only. Satellite
imagery, aerial photography and maps, valued at about US$0.2 million, would be procured
directly from GOI agencies such as the National Remote Sensing Agency or the Survey of



34
India. Similarly, books and periodicals, extension and publicity materials, valued at about
US$0.7 million, would be obtained under direct contracting procedures. Arrangements for
procurement are presented in Annex 15 and a detailed procurement schedule in
Attachment 2 to the Annex.
4.7   Vehicles (US$3.4 million). Vehicles for the project consist of four-wheel drive
vehicles, cars, motorcycles, light trucks, minibuses, and boats. Vehicles to an estimated
value of US$1.8 million would be procured using ICB procedures. However, some
vehicles and boats would be needed immediately and others would be required in small
numbers in different locations at various times throughout the project period. To meet
these requirements, contracts of less than US$100,000 to an aggregate value of US$1.6
million, would in the case of vehicles be procured through local shopping, using DGS&D
rate contracts. In the case of boats local shopping procedures based on quotations from at
least three suppliers to ensure competitive prices would be used.
4.8    Consultancies, Studies and Training (US$5.7 million). Consultancy services
estimated at US$1.2 million would be contracted on terms and conditions in accordance
with IDA guidelines for the use of consultants 9. Technical assistance estimated to cost
US$1.2 million and training, including a service contract for placement and support of
trainees, to a total of US$3.3 million would be procured using procedures and institutions
acceptable to IDA. A summary of TA arrangements, studies and consultancies is
presented in Annex 15 and detailed training plans are presented in Annex 15, Attachments
3A and 3B.
4.9   Forest Protection (US$14.7 million) are funds available to village communities
for satisfactory protection of forest land undertaken as part of JFM arrangements agreed
with MPFD. The funds, administered by the DFO, would be utilized to finance the
creation of alternative resources, income, or community assets under the VRDP, in
accordance with procedures and criteria agreed with IDA (Annex 5).
4.10 Ecodevelopment Support Fund (US$2.2 million) is designed to provide support
for ecodevelopment activities. The Funds would finance small works and income
generating activities in about 100 widely scattered village locations over the four-year
project period. Procedures for management of the Fund, acceptable to IDA, would be
utilized (Annex 6).
9        Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency. August 1981.



35
4.11   Operating Costs (US$4.6 million) include incremental operating and maintenance
costs of vehicles and equipment, and the purchase of office and computer supplies. Costs
of field experimentation and trials, including labor, seed or other planting materials,
fertilizers, and chemicals are also considered as operating costs to be disbursed following
procedures acceptable to IDA.
4.12   Contract Review. All ICB contracts, and civil works, goods and equipment
contracts valued at US$200,000 and above, and the first two civil works and the first two
goods contracts, regardless of value, would be subject to prior review by IDA. For
consultancies, model documents for inviting proposals, terms of reference for consultants
irrespective of value, all single source contracts regardless of value, all contracts for
assignments of a critical nature, and all contracts valued at US$100,000 or more awarded
to firms, or US$50,000 or more awarded to individuals would be subject to prior review
by IDA. This would result in prior review of about 80 percent of all contracts procured
under ICB or LCB procedures. Contracts below the threshold levels would be subject to
selective post-review by visiting missions. AlLhough this would result in only about ten
percent of project procurement expenditures being subject to prior review, the nature of
the project, with its emphasis on forest operations, is such that a higher level of IDA
review would not have a significant impact on procurement quality.
4.13   Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(i)    Contract award information will be promptly reported by the borrower;
(ii)   Comprehensive half-yearly reports will be prepared by the borrower in the
format presented in Annex 16 indicating:
Revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project;
revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising,
bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual
contracts;
compliance with aggregate limits on the specified methods of
procurement.
(iii)  Preparation of a completion report by the borrower within three months of
the loan closing date.



36
4.14   The project elements, their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement
are summarized below:
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Project Element                      Procurement Method          J  Total
ICB        LCB       Others   |_Cost
............ .US$ Million.
Works
Buildings                                                1.6         8.0          9.6
(1.4)       (6.8)        (8.2)
Forest Operations                                                  20.8          20.8
(18.8)       (18.8)
Goods
Equipment/Supplies                           1.7         0.8         2.6          5.1
(1.6)       (0.7)       (2.3)        (4.6)
Maps, Aerial Photographs                                             0.2          0.2
(0.2)        (0.2)
Books, Periodicals, extension and                                    0.7          0.7
publicity materials                                                 (0.6)        (0.6)
Vehicles                                     1.8                     1.6          3.4
(1.7)                   (1.4)        (3.1)
Consultancies, Studies, Training
Technical Assistance
- Project Implementation                                          i.2          1.2
(1.2)        (1.2)
Studies and Consultancies                                            1.2          1.2
(1.2)        (1.2)
Training                                                             3.3          3.3
(3.3)        (3.3)
Miscellaneous
Forest Protection                                                   14.7         14.7
(I 1 .9)     (I 1.9)
Ecodevelopment Support Fund                                          2.2          2.2
(1.8)        (1.8)
Operating Costs                                                     4.6           4.6
(2.8)        (2.8)
Project Preparation Facility                                        0.3           0.3
(0.3)        (0.3)
TOTAL                          3.5         2.4        61.4         67.3
(3.3)       (2.1)      (52.6)       (58.0)
Note.   1. Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
2. Other methods include force account, shopping, engagement of consultants and training.



37
4.15  Although the Department has some experience of IDA procurement procedures,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that a DCF had been appointed to the PU, in
charge of procurement, with responsibility of coordinating procurement requirements and
prepare equipment specifications, procurement schedules, and bidding documents.
Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that procurement plans would be in
accordance with the Procurement Schedule presented in Annex 15, Attachment 1 and that
standard procurement documents as already agreed with GOI would be used. Progress
with procurement would be reported in the six-monthly project report, in the format
presented in Annex 16.
D. Disbursements
4.16  Disbursements under the Credit would be made for:
(a)   85% of civil works for buildings (including construction of nurseries and
provision of water supplies);
(b)   90% of expenditures on forest development;
(c)   100% of expenditures on forest protection;
(d)   100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local ex-factory costs or 80% of
other local costs of equipment, vehicles, construction materials and
operating costs;
(e)   100% of expenditures on consultant services, training, and studies;
(f)   100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local costs of equipment,
construction materials, and operating costs financed through the
Ecodevelopment Support Fund;
(g)   IDA would finance 60% of incremental recurrent costs, other than staff
salaries and allowances, until June 30, 1997, to enable programs to be
initiated successfully. This contribution would be reduced to 50%
thereafter, representing a phased increase in Government's contribution to



38
incremental recurrent costs. All incremental staff salaries and allowances
would be financed by GOMP so the IDA contribution to incremental
recurrent costs would amount to an average of about 50% of expenditures
on operating costs. These would include the incremental recurrent costs of
operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment, and field expenses of
programs supported through the project.
4.17  Disbursements against civil works and equipment, seeds, fertilizer, construction
materials and supplies, on contracts exceeding US$200,000 equivalent and consultant
contracts exceeding US$100,000 equivalent for firms, and US$50,000 equivalent for
individuals, would be fully documented. Disbursements for other expenditures would be
made against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Supporting documentation for SOEs
would be retained by GOI and GIMP and be made available to Association staff during
supervision. Forest development costs eligible for reimbursement include costs of
nurseries, land preparation, including labor inputs for tree planting, maintenance and
protection. Expenditures for project activities incurred after July 31, 1994, would be
eligible for retroactive financing, up to a maximum of SDR 3.4 million (US$5.0 million
equivalent). All contracts and items to be financed retroactively will have been procured
in a manner acceptable to the Association. Disbursements are projected over a period of
five IDA fiscal years, from 1995 to 1999. The disbursement schedule is presented in
Annex 17. The closing date of the Credit is June 30, 1999.
4. 1 8 To facilitate project implementation and to reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, a Special Account in US dollars would be established in the Reserve Bank of
India, with an authorized allocation of US$5.0 million, which is equal to the estimated
four monthly average disbursement. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOI,
and GOMP would implement a system satisfactory to IDA for channelling funds required
for carrying out the project. An understanding was reached at negotiations that GOI
would release about three months anticipated project expenditure in advance to GOMP,
and that upon receipt of funds from GOI, GOMP will immediately transfer such funds,
together with quarterly counterpart contributions, to project accounts of MPFD as the
implementing agency.



39
E. Accounts and Audit
4.19  MPFD would establish a separate Project Account. This account, together with
supporting documentation, including contributions from GOI and the Credit, would
provide a comprehensive record of project financing and expenditures. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that this account and the Special Account would be subject to
normal GOI and GOMP accounting procedures and controls. Project accounts would
summarize project expenditures under categories to be agreed with IDA, showing: (a)
actual versus planned expenditures for each quarter (b) actual versus planned expenditures
accumulated to date; and (c) financing source for the quarter, and accumulated, by IDA
and GOMP. The summaries, which would provide information for the SOEs would form
part of the project account, including those expenditures for which reimbursement would
be claimed with full documentation. The project accounts would be supported by a listing
with the withdrawal applications submitted for the period. They would be audited
annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles. The Controller and Auditor
General and his Accountants General at the State level would be considered acceptable
auditors. The consolidated audited project accounts, including the Special Account and
SOEs, and the auditor's report, which would include a separate statement on the SOEs
and certified copies of the SOEs, would be submitted to IDA not later than nine months
after the close of each fiscal year. The audit report on SOEs would specifically comment
on their usage and the controls established to ensure their accuracy. The Special Account
which would be maintained by the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) would show
all withdrawal requests disbursed, amounts advanced and reimbursed by IDA, and the
balance at the end of each accounting period. Auditors' reports would reflect the
certification of the balance held by the Reserve Bank of India. MPFD would prepare a
project report on a bi-annual basis, in a format to be agreed with IDA, summarizing
project progress in physical terms by project component, linked to financial terms, which
would be based on the bi-annual unaudited project accounts.






40
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Sector Strategy
5.1   The GOMP strategy for development of the forest sector has been presented in
Chapter 2 and issues and changes identified in the matrix presented in Annex 7. At
negotiations it was confirmed that this statement of strategy for the future development of
the forest sector in Madhya Pradesh, and the proposed sector reforms presented in the
associated matrix has the approval of GOMP. Additionally, it was confirmed that GOMP
had issued Orders to:
Change pricing policy so that: in rural areas less than 5km from the forest
MPFD would charge no more than 50 percent of the market price; in all
other rural areas and urban areas of more than 10,000 population, full
market prices would be charged;
Abolish transit regulations for 31 species of importance for farm forestry,
and provide for panchayats to issue transit passes for other species, with the
exception of nationalized species, which remain under the control of
MPFD;
Amend the Government Regulation on Joint Forest Management in
accordance with the draft prepared by MPFD, June, 1994, to ensure the
representation of women and landless in the village committees;
Phase out MPFD industrial supply contracts by June 30, 1997;
Establish SFRI as an autonomous institution.
5.2   It would be a condition of project effectiveness that all necessary actions for
removing restrictions on felling of trees on private land would be taken. It would also be
a condition of project effectiveness that a contract based on terms of reference agreed
with IDA, would be agreed with consultants, acceptable to IDA, to assist with the
proposed review of the management of the sector. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the review would be completed by June 30, 1996, its findings discussed



41
with IDA, and agreed modifications to management procedures and structures
implemented not later than June 30, 1997.
B. Project Organization and Management l
Project Coordination Committees Annex 18
5.3   Project Steering Committee. A Project Steering Committee would be established
under the Chairmanship of the Secretary of Forests. The Project Director would be
Member Secretary, and members would include the PCCF, CCFs Development, Social
Forestry, and Wildlife, Director FDC, and representatives of the Departments of Planning,
Finance, Tribal Development, Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry, Rural
Development and Rural Industries. The committee would meet bi-annually. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the Project Steering Committee had been established.
Details of the membership and functions of this and other project committees and working
groups are presented in Annex 18.
5.4   Regional Project Coordination Committees. These committees would be
established for each Territorial Circle and would be chaired by the Commissioner of the
region. The CF (HQ) Territorial would be Member Secretary and members would include
the CFs Territorial, Wildlife, Working Plans, Regional Manager FDC, and representatives
of the Departments of Tribal Development, Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry
and the District Rural Development Agency. The Committee would meet biannually, or
more frequently if the membership agrees this to be necessary.
5.5   District Project Coordination Committees. These committees would be chaired
by the Collector and the Territorial DFO (HQ) would be the Member Secretary. Other
members would be all other DFOs in the district and district level representatives of the
departments involved in the Regional Committees, together with representatives of other
departments as necessary. Regional and District Project Coordination Committees would
be established for areas as project activities are initiated and would meet biannually.
[0       Responsibilities are identified according to the present structure of MPFD. Changes will result
from the planned review and development of the management of the sector.



42
Project Implementation Responsibilities Annex 18.
5.6   Project Unit. MPFD would be the main implementing agency for the project
under the overall leadership of the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests. A Project Unit
(PU) would be established, headed by a CCF, assisted by a small staff. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the PU had been established and that the CCF (PU), the CFs
(Project Planning) and (PME) and the DCFs responsible for human resource development
and procurement in the PU had been appointed. Other staff of the PU would be appointed
and in post by July 31, 1995. The PU would be responsible for coordination of all
project-financed activities, in accordance with the summary implementation schedule
presented in Annex 19. The project is, however, designed to ensure that project activities
are integrated into the normal operations of the MPFD, and that the PU does not become
a parallel operational structure. This is illustrated in Figure 3, showing the structure of
the PU and linkages with other functional units of MPFD. These linkages would be
reinforced by the creation of Departmental Technical Working Groups to ensure the
technical quality of project-financed programs. The following Working Groups would be
established: PME Working Group to review the development of improved PME
procedures and ensure that such procedures are followed; Forest Development Technology
Working Group to ensure that silvicultural practices are appropriate and kept up-to-date;
VRDP Working Group to review VRDP plans approved by DFOs and provide a focus for
exchange of experiences; Human Resource Development (HRD) Working Group to
review the development of an HRD plan and approve annual training plans; and the
Conservation of Biodiversity Working Group to review PA Management Plans and the
development of the PA network. Further details of the responsibilities and composition of
these Working Groups are presented in Annex 18.
5.7   The PU would be responsible for the preparation of annual Project Implementation
Plans (PIP). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the PU would, by each
December 31, starting December 31, 1995, prepare in consultation with IDA a PIP for the
following financial year. However, for the first year of the project the PIP would be
prepared not later than July 31, 1995. The PU would coordinate the recruitment of
consultants and the commissioning of special studies. The PU would also be responsible
for project-related procurement and accounting and would be the main contact for project
supervision by the World Bank.



43
Management Development
5.8   Sector Management. In addition to project support for the consultancy to assist
with the review of the management of the sector (Para. 5.2), an important focus of this
sub-component would be management training and this would be arranged through the PU
as discussed in Para. 5.10. The Policy Analysis Unit (PAU) reporting directly to the
PCCF, would be responsible for commissioning policy studies. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the PAU, headed by a CF, would be established by December 31,
1995, with staffing and responsibilities agreed with IDA. Four studies are of particular
importance: the role of MPFD in the collection and marketing of NTFP, particularly tendu
leaves; and the economic and environmental effects of the restrictions on clear felling, on
the introduction of exotic species, and on private investment in forest lands.
5.9   Planning Monitoring and Evaluation. Overall responsibility for the Planning
Monitoring and Evaluation (PME) activities would rest with the CCF Working Plans. At
headquarters, the PME Unit would form a nodal point for system development, the
provision of technical advice, quality control and coordination of training. Changes in
management of the sector for implementation of the agreed strategy would require
changes in the approach to monitoring and evaluation to ensure that these functions
become an integral part of the planning and implementation of the work of MPFD. The
flow of information is illustrated in Figure 2 and discussed in Annexes 7 and 9, in which
a preliminary list of indicators to be monitored is presented. These, together with
monitoring and evaluation procedures, and the development of improved procedures where
necessary, would be reviewed as an integral part of the overall management review
referred to above. The design of PME systems and the choice of hardware and
appropriate software would be dependent on the PME procedures developed and no new
systems would be introduced until the completion of the review.
5.10  Human Resource Development (HRD). Although there is no separate project
component for human resource development, it is an extremely important aspect of the
project, with substantial funding in each component allocated to staff training. The
responsibility for coordinating the selection of staff to be trained, identifying suitable
training institutions or courses, and ensuring timely placement would lie with the PU,
specifically with the DCF (HRD). It was confirmed at negotiations that a training plan
for the first year of the project had been prepared and agreed with IDA. Assurances were



44
obtained at negotiations that annual training plans, acceptable to IDA, would be prepared
not later than July 31 of each year, starting July 31, 1995, in order to ensure placement of
students in academic institutions in the following October. In addition, a Human
Resource Development Plan, setting out a staffing policy linked to proposed changes in
the management system would be completed and reviewed with IDA by June 30, 1996.
The HRD Plan would take account of any necessary reviews of curricula at forest colleges
". The costs of overseas training include funds for student placement services, to
facilitate timely placement of students in appropriate courses. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that a contract for placement and support of overseas trainees, with an
institution acceptable to IDA, would be agreed by July 31, 1995.
Forest Development
5.11   Natural Forest Regeneration. Responsibility for implementation of this
component would lie with the Territorial Wing of MPFD. Areas treated under the project
would be identified according to coup number. The DFO would be responsible for an
assessment of the initial status of the area, and ensuring that treatments are linked to
ecotype, that appropriate silvicultural practices are employed, and that data to monitor
growth and productivity are collected regularly.
5.12  Village Resource Development. Annex 5. Implementation of this component
would be through the Territorial Wing of MPFD. In each Circle, the CF would have
overall responsibility for the program. At the Divisional level, the DFO would take a lead
role in developing the participatory approach, by building divisional teams across the
hierarchical structure of the MPFD. He would also, through the operation of the District
Project Implementation Committee, ensure coordination with other government agencies.
The VRDP Planning Team, that would include women recruited through NGOs or other
institutions, would provide introductory courses and practical on-the-job training in the
principles and practice of participatory village planning and program implementation to
Rangers, Foresters and Forest Guards within the Division. Once trained, these staff would
play a continuing advisory role within the community, with a major responsibility for
timely and appropriate implementation of the agreed plan. At the community level,
responsibility would lie with the village Forest Protection Committee (FPC), which
"1       A review of curricula in forest colleges is presently being undertaken by GOI.



45
includes representatives from every household in the village, and more specifically, with
the members of the Village Executive Committee. The VRDP Departmental Working
Group would have a key role in ensuring consistency of approach in various parts of the
state. The PU, specifically the CF Project Planning would monitor micro-plans and
expenditures and would be a focal point to ensure that the concerns of tribal peoples are
adequately addressed.
5.13        Assurances were obtained at negotiations that implementation of the
program under the project would be in accordance with procedures and criteria agreed
with IDA and that the first three proposals for funding under the VRDP would be
submitted to IDA for approval. Agreed procedures and criteria are summarized in Annex
5. In particular:
An integrated plan for both the village area and the surrounding forest used
by the community would be prepared by the community with the assistance
of trained staff, using Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) techniques. It
would be targeted to meet the needs of the principal users of the forest
resource;
A formal Memorandum of Understanding between the VFC and MPFD
endorsing the agreed VRDP plan would be finalized, prior to the start of
implementation of the village program;
The amount of investment available to the village would be linked to the
cost of protecting the forest in the absence of community participation in
their protection and management. An explanation of the way in which the
amount of the investment to be made available to a village has been
calculated, mechanisms for its management at government and community
levels, and criteria for the types of investments to be financed are presented
in Annex 5. It was agreed at negotiations that the implementation of the
VRDP would be in accordance with procedures and criteria agreed with
IDA, and that the first three proposals for funding under the VRDP would
be submitted to IDA for approval.



46
An independent review of the program would be undertaken in Project Year
3, against the criteria presented in Annex 5. If the criteria are not met,
project funds would be reallocated to other forestry activities within the
state.
5.14 Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) could make a major contribution to the
implementation of the VRDP, and the Ecodevelopment Program, as many NGOs have
experience of participatory processes. Suitably experienced NGOs would be sought to
assist with the orientation and training of MPFD staff and with the implementation of
village level programs. It was confirmed at negotiations that suitable institutions or
NGOs had been identified to: assist with VRDP workshops for the orientation of senior
MPFD staff; wherever possible, to provide women staff to work in VRDP Planning
Teams; and to provide training in PRA and other necessary skills, to members of the
Divisional VRDP Planning Teams during the project.
Technology, Extension and Research
5.15  R&E Service Centers. The centers would be established to provide supporting
facilities and services to research, technology improvement, and extension programs.
Each of the service centers would be managed by a DFO under the coordination of the
CCF (Social Forestry), though for daily operational matters reporting to the CF in charge
of the relevant Territorial Circle. Technical advice and supervision would be provided by
SFRI.
5.16  Extension. Coordination of the extension program would be the responsibility of
the CCF (Social Forestry). Implementation of the extension programs would be the
responsibility of the DFO in 40 selected priority Divisions. The Industrial Liaison Unit
would report directly to the CCF (Industries). Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the ILU would be established by December 31, 1995, headed by a CF with staffing
and responsibilities agreed with IDA.
5.17  Seed Improvement. Planning and technical supervision of the seed improvement
program would be the responsibility of the Seed Technologist and Tree Improvement
Specialists in SFRI. Implementation of the program in the field would be undertaken at
the E&R Service Centers and Range Officers would have specific responsibility for



47
operations, under the guidance of the DFOs in charge of the Centers. Assurances would
were obtained at negotiations that consultants to assist with the development of the seed
improvement program would be recruited by December 31, 1995, with terms of reference
agreed with IDA.
5.18  Nursery Demonstrations. SFRI would coordinate the development of
demonstration nurseries at each of the E&R Service Centers. As with the seed
improvement program, field operations would be under the charge of the DFOs and a
specially trained Range Officer would be appointed, with responsibility for day-to-day
operations. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that consultants to assist with the
development of the nurseries would be recruited by December 31, 1995, with terms of
reference agreed with IDA.
5.19  Applied Research. Responsibility for research would rest with the Director, SFRI.
Applied research trials undertaken at E&R Service Centers would be supervised by the
DFOs in charge of the Centers, but their design and interpretation would be an SFRI
responsibility. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that by December 31, 1995:
SFRI would be established as an autonomous agency with objectives and responsibilities
agreed with IDA; the Research Advisory Committee would be established with a
membership agreed with IDA, as presented in Annex 18; research posts at SFRI for a tree
improvement specialist and a seed technologist would be filled; and that consultants to
assist with the development of a research strategy would be recruited. Assurances were
also obtained at negotiations that the objectives and terms of reference for contract
research would be agreed with IDA, not later than June 30, 1997.
Biodiversity Conservation. Annex 6
5.20  PA Management. Overall responsibility for this component would lie with the
CCF(WL). Five CFs (Wildlife) would coordinate the preparation of management plans
for each of the PAs in their respective zones, providing assistance to the responsible PA
managers through the zonal PA Management Planning Teams. The CFs (Wildlife) would
also be responsible for monitoring and evaluation activities within the zone, for the
identification and survey of links in the proposed PA network, and for preparation of
plans for management of the various types of land in these links. The managers of each
of the priority PAs supported through the project would be responsible for



48
implementation. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the five CFs (Wildlife)
would be appointed no later than September 30, 1995. The management of contract
research on biodiversity and aspects of PA management would be the responsibility of a
Wildlife Research Coordinator, to be appointed in SFRI. Research programs would be
decided by a Sub-Committee of the SFRI Research Advisory Committee. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the coordinator would be appointed no later than
December 31, 1995.
5.21  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that there would be no involuntary
relocation of communities resident within PAs. Any proposals for relocation would be
preceded by a study of the impact of the resident communities on the conservation of
biodiversity. All proposals would be consistent with GOI provisions and would be agreed
with IDA in the light of the recommendations of the Bank's Operational Directives 4.20
(Indigenous People) and 4.30 (Involuntary Settlement). The main recommendations are
summarized in Appendix 3, Annex 6. In addition, an independent monitoring program
would be established.
5.22  Ecodevelopment. Activities financed under this component in areas peripheral to
PAs would be the responsibility of the PA manager. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that: areas which impact on the PAs would be identified on the basis of
criteria agreed with IDA; PA managers would have the responsibility and sufficient staff
to undertake ecodevelopment programs in these areas; at least two trained
Ecodevelopment Planning Teams would be appointed not later than September 30, 1995;
and that responsibilities are defined to avoid duplication of the work of Territorial staff.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that implementation of the ecodevelopment
program under the project would be in accordance with procedures agreed with IDA and
summarized in Annex 6, that presents details of the approach to ecodevelopment,
participatory village level planning, and the management of the Ecodevelopment Support
Fund. Proposals for funding would be selected in accordance with criteria agreed with
IDA. It was also agreed at negotiations that the first three proposals for funding under
the EDSF would be submitted to IDA for approval.



49
C. Project Supervision
5.23  Project Supervision would be closely linked to the implementation schedule
discussed above and would involve monitoring a number of key indicators. Details of the
timing of supervision missions, the key indicators and the skills that are likely to be
needed for supervision are presented in Annex 20. There would be two missions during
each year of the project, and the first mission would correspond with a project launching
workshop, to provide assistance during the critical start-up period. Subsequently, the main
supervision mission would coincide with the review of annual plans for the various project
activities, taking place early in the fourth quarter of each year. In the second year of the
project this main mission would coincide with a project review. There would be one
additional supervision mission in the second quarter of each year. In addition to the usual
indicators of physical and financial progress, which are related to the implementation and
disbursement schedules and to the detailed cost tables, supervision would monitor key
indicators of development impact in relation to the primary management objectives for the
sector, as discussed in Chapter 2. MPFD staff, in particular, PU staff responsible for
monitoring and evaluation, would play a key role in these supervision activities.
Supervision missions would also monitor the planning and implementation of
ecodevelopment programs and PA management, assessing the need for the application of
the requirements of relevant Bank Operational Directives (Para 3.41).
E. Reporting, Mid-Term and Completion Reviews.
5.24  The PU would be responsible for preparing six-monthly progress reports to be
submitted not later than January 31 and July 31 of each year for the preceding six months,
in the format presented in Annex 15. It was agreed at negotiations that no later than
December 31, 1997, a project review would be held and the recommendations of the
review would thereafter be implemented. The review would involve MPFD and IDA and
would establish progress towards the main project objectives and not merely an inventory
of disbursements. To this end, the review would focus on the key indicators presented in
Annex 20, though the more detailed monitoring and evaluation data (See Annex 9) would
also be utilized. The review would pay particular attention to changes in the approach of
MPFD to the management of the sector and to the success of human resource
development programs. Another important aspect would be the impact of VRDP and EDP
on the condition of forest lands and PAs and the socio-economic conditions of



50
participating communities. The operation and management of supporting funds would be
closely examined by the review team. Successful operation of the monitoring and
evaluation system would be an important input to the review. To facilitate the review, the
PU would take the lead in the preparation of project status reports. The reports would be
distributed to all participants four weeks prior to the start of the reviews.
5.25  The project completion report would focus on the achievements of the project and
its impact in relation to its objectives. In particular, consideration would be given to the
development impact of the project, and changes in the management of the sector. In the
light of the findings, recommendations would be made for future development of the
forestry sector in Madhya Pradesh. The report would also examine the successes and
shortcomings of the VRDP and EDP and make recommendations as to how the programs
could be improved. Terms of reference for the review team and its composition would be
agreed with IDA, and the report submitted to IDA no later than six months after
completion of the project.






51
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits
6.1   The project would increase, directly or indirectly, the production of wood, NTFP,
and animal products which would benefit the rural poor and improve the supply of wood
to forest-based industries. The project would support a program of assisted natural
regeneration in about 165,000 ha of forest. Some 1,140 village communities, of which a
very high percentage would be tribal peoples, would receive direct benefits from the
project, managing about 75,000 ha of forest. The benefits include not only the improved
access for communities to forest products, but also the benefits of improved agriculture
and alternative income generating activities generated through the VRDP. The project
would have important benefits in terms of equity, discussed in more detail in Annex 5, as
about 18.3 million person-days of employment would be generated, a benefit which would
be almost wholly captured by the poorest and landless households. Processors and
marketers of wood and NTFPs would also benefit through increased supply of raw
material.
B. Economic and Sensitivity Analysis
6.2   The direct and quantifiable economic costs and benefits of the project are mainly
due to investments in both closed and open forests. Consequently, a time horizon of 135
years was used in the analysis, to reflect the long cycle of forest growth, and to be
consistent with one of the environmental objectives of the project, that is, to conserve and
increase the stock of natural capital for future generations to use for economic purposes.
The Rate of Return (ERR) for the project as a whole, in terms of direct forestry outputs,
and excluding the biodiversity and research components, is estimated at 11.5 percent. In
order to conform with more traditional project analyses, an ERR was also calculated over
a 45 year horizon, giving and ERR of 11 percent. The ERR is less than the current
Opportunity Cost of Capital (OCC) in India of 12 percent. However, this understates
project benefits, as indirect and environmental benefits have not been included. A
relatively small stream of environmental benefits would be sufficient to surpass the 12
percent threshold, as discussed later in this chapter. The project ERR is quite insensitive
to variations in the costs and benefits: a 25 percent increase in costs and a 25 percent
decrease in incremental benefits reduces the ERR to 10.4 percent. The ERR for each



52
component is sensitive to the shadow wage rate, with a switching value of Rs. 15 per day
for the overall project. The analysis is highly sensitive to assumptions about existing
productivity and land use, that is, the without-project situation. The analysis is discussed
in Annex 21 and detailed in Working Paper 6 (Annex 24).
C. Financial Analysis
6.3   Financial benefits to the communities arise from the VRDP, including the benefits
of joint forest management and the benefits derived from improved village infrastructure
and alternative income generating activities, financed from the VRDP Fund. Under joint
forest management arrangements, benefit sharing between communities and government is
based on the Government Order (See Para. 1.26). At the community level, the incentive
to participate depends on the assumptions made about existing land-use and its
productivity. Financial analysis was undertaken for those models involving JFM and on
the basis of these models, there is a positive overall benefit flow from year 1. The rate of
return to the community, after phasing activities over 7 years, is high (60%) with a
negative cash-flow only in year 1. Incremental benefits in year 2 exceed foregone
benefits in year 1. The silvi-pasture model requires 2 years before achieving a positive
cash-flow.
6.4   Farm forestry is market oriented so that farmers would make their own choices as
to whether to grow trees. In addition to direct financial returns, the farmers' decision is
affected by factors such as labor availability and management. Consequently, direct
analysis of the costs and benefits is unlikely to capture the decision-making process for
these farmers. However, the models developed for the economic analysis, based on
relatively poor quality land, show relatively high FRRs, and even on good land where the
alternative uses of land are more attractive, the FRR remains at more than 12 percent.
D. Environmental Effects
6.5    An environmental review undertaken during project appraisal is presented in
Annex 22. The review concluded that the project would have beneficial effects on the
environment and all project activities would have very low environmental impact
potentials. The project addresses many of the priorities in the India Environmental Action
Programme, 1993. Specifically, conservation and sustainable utilization of biodiversity in



53
selected ecosystems, including conservation of endangered plant and animal species and
critical habitats; afforestation, based on community participation in forest protection and
management in watershed and other areas; wasteland development involving private and
community tree planting; and soil and water conservation. Other environmental benefits
may include CO2 absorption, river flow regulation, and meso-climatic and other effects.
6.6   The benefits to be attributed to these externalities were calculated by means of an
environmental premium, associated with each hectare included in the project, reflecting the
flow of external benefits. Under the assumptions set out in Annex 21, the annual flow of
environmental benefits required to obtain an Opportunity Cost of Capital (OCC) of 12
percent, the OCC for India, would need to be about Rs.376 (about US$12) per hectare per
year.
E. Impact on Women
6.7   Women are the predominant collectors of fodder, fuelwood and NTFPs and would
benefit considerably from the project. The proposed JFM arrangements would
significantly enhance the availability of many forest products that are collected to provide
for household needs and secondary income. Effective participation of women in JFM
arrangements would be critical to ensure sustained management of the resource. The
project, therefore, includes a number of mechanisms ensuring the participation of women
and the representation of their interests. These include: women would be full members of
FPCs, encouraged by a change in rules allowing two members per household; village
Executive Committees would include female representatives or a women's sub-committee
would be established; criteria for selecting income generating activities to be supported
under the VRDP would give priority to activities targeted at women; wherever possible
VRDP Planning Teams would include a woman; VRDP training for MPFD staff, in
particular for the VRDP Planning Teams, would include gender issues; MPFD would
actively seek to increase the number of women on its staff; a coordinator for women's
activities would be financed in support of the VRDP, until such time as MPFD can recruit
a suitable woman.



54
F. Tribal Peoples Development Strategy
6.8   The population in and around the forests of Madhya Pradesh consists largely of
tribal communities. Tribal groups would, therefore, be the main participants and
beneficiaries in the VRDP and Ecodevelopment Program. Tribal development concerns
are thus central to the project, and are addressed in an integral fashion under the rubric of
social impact, participation, and equity, rather than as a subsidiary tribal development plan
or component. Although tribal populations have in the past been bypassed by
development efforts, experience with JFM in Madhya Pradesh has been encouraging, as
the Forest Protection Commnittees functioning most effectively are those in tribal villages.
Similar experiences have been noted in other states. This is probably mainly due to the
social and economic homogeneity of tribal communities relative to non-tribal villages.
6.9   The project incorporates a number of activities and institutional mechanisms
intended to ensure the appropriateness of project activities for tribal communities, taking
account of their high level of dependence on the forest; and their effective participation.
These include: giving the CF Project Planning in the PU special responsibility for tribal
issues; including modules on tribal social structures and livelihood systems in the training
of VRDP Planning Teams; participation of the Tribal Development Department in Project
Coordination Committees at all levels. The Tribal Peoples Development Strategy is
discussed further in Annex 23, together with details of specific activities, outline
organization and management, and impact monitoring arrangements.
G. Institutional Benefits
6.10  The project would foster a major change in the approach of MPFD to the
management of the sector, resulting from a strategy based on cooperation with local
communities, rather than on enforced protection. Implementation of this strategy would
also require changes in planning, decentralization of authority, and the contribution of
monitoring to revised implementation programs. The project would support any necessary
institutional reorganization, and the development of improved procedures and information
systems to facilitate the introduction of these changes. Policy changes associated with the
strategy for the sector would provide greater incentives for private sector participation and
project support for an Industrial Liaison Unit, and for a Policy Analysis Unit, would assist
MPFD to encourage the contribution of private entrepreneurs to improved productivity in
the forest sector. Arrangements for project coordination would also serve to create
stronger linkages with other government agencies.



55
H. Project Risks
6.11  The main risks facing the project are: (i) the degree of commitment within GOMP
to make the necessary policy and institutional changes that would be necessary for the
implementation of the agreed strategy for the sector; (ii) the effectiveness of participatory
arrangements for the management of forest resources; (iii) the ability of MPFD to provide
the private sector with technological advice, in order to take advantage of a changed
policy environment. The first risk is being addressed through agreement on a sectoral
strategy with associated policy changes formalized through the issue of necessary
Government Orders. In addition, as this four-year project forms the first stage of a
planned phased approach to sectoral development, it provides a means for GOMP to
demonstrate commitment to change. The project would minimize the second risk through
an intensive program of training for staff in the principles and practice of participatory
forest management, through building links with NGOs and other government departments
involved in village development, and by rigolous monitoring and evaluation of the
program. Project support for forest extension programs, research programs targeted on the
needs of producers, and the creation of an Industrial Liaison Unit within MPFD would
reduce the third type of risk associated with the project.






56
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
Assurances
7.1    Conditions of Project Effectiveness
(a)   All necessary actions for removing restrictions on felling of trees on private
land would be taken (Para 5.2);
(b)   A contract based on terms of reference agreed with IDA, would be agreed
with consultants, acceptable to IDA, to assist with the proposed review of
the management of the sector (Para. 5.2);
7.2   Other Assurances
(a)   Procurement plans would be in accordance with the Procurement Schedule
presented in Annex 15 and that standard procurement documents as already
agreed with GOI would be used. Progress with procurement would be
reported in the agreed format in the six-monthly project progress report
(Para. 4.15);
(b)   GOMP would implement a system satisfactory to IDA for channelling the
funds required for carrying out the project (Para. 4.18);
(c)   MPFD would maintain separate project accounts, which together with the
Special Account to be established by GOI, would be subject to annual audit
(Para. 4.19);
(d)   The consultancy to assist with the review of the management of the sector
would be completed by June 30, 1996, its findings discussed with IDA, and
agreed modifications to management procedures and structures implemented
not later than June 30, 1997 (Para. 5.2);



57
(e)   All staff of the PU would be appointed and in post by July 31, 1995 (Para.
5.6). The PAU and the ILU would be established by December 31, 1995,
each headed by a CF, and with staffing and responsibilities agreed with
IDA (Paras. 5.8 and 5.16);
(f)   The PU would, by each December 31, starting December 31, 1995, prepare
in consultation with IDA a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) for the
following financial year. However, for the first year of the project the PIP
would be prepared not later than July 31, 1995 (Para. 5.7);
(g)   A Human Resource Development Plan for MPFD linked to proposed
changes in the management system, would be developed and reviewed with
IDA by June 30, 1996. In addition, an annual training plan would be
prepared not later than July 31 of each year, starting July 31, 1995 (Para.
5.10). A contract for the placement and support of trainees in overseas
establishments, would be agreed with an institution acceptable to IDA by
July 31, 1995 (Para. 5.10);
(h)   Implementation of the VRDP would be in accordance with procedures and
criteria agreed with IDA. The first three proposals for funding under the
VRDP would be submitted to IDA for approval (Para. 5.13);
(i)   Seed and nursery specialists would be recruited not later than December 31,
1995 with terms of reference agreed with IDA (Paras. 5.17, 5.18);
()    By December 31, 1995: SFRI would be established as an autonomous
agency with objectives and responsibilities agreed with IDA; the Research
Advisory Committee would be reconstituted with a membership as agreed
with IDA; research posts at SFRI for a tree improvement specialist and a
seed technologist would be filled; and that consultants to assist with the



58
development of a research strategy would be recruited (para. 5.19). The
objectives and terms of reference for contract research would be agreed
with IDA not later than June 30, 1997 (Para. 5.19);
(k)   There would be no involuntary relocation of communities resident within
PAs, and any proposals for relocation would be preceded by an independent
study to assess the impact of the communities on the conservation of
biodiversity. All proposals would be consistent with GOI provisions and
would be agreed with IDA in the light of the Bank's OD 4.20 and OD
4.30. In addition, an independent monitoring program established (Para.
5.21);
(1)   The five CFs (Wildlife) would be appointed no later than Septernber 30,
1995 and the coordinator for wildlife research would be appointed in SFRI
no later than December 31, 1995 (Para. 5.20). Areas which impact on PAs
would be identified on the basis of criteria agreed with IDA; PA managers
would have the responsibility and sufficient staff to undertake
ecodevelopment programs in these areas; at least two trained
Ecodevelopment Planning Teams would be appointed not later than
September 30, 1995; and that responsibilities are defined to avoid
duplication of the work of Territorial staff (Para. 5.22);
(m)   Implementation of the ecodevelopment program would be in accordance
with procedures agreed with IDA. Proposals for funding would be selected
in accordance with criteria agreed with IDA. The first three proposals for
funding under the Ecodevelopment Support Fund would be submitted to
IDA for approval (Para. 5.22);
(n)   Not later than December 31, 1997, a project review would be held and the
recommendations of the review would be thereafter implemented (Para.
5.24).



59
7.3   An understanding would be reached that GOI would release about three months
anticipated project expenditure in advance to GOMP. Upon receipt of funds from GOI,
GOMP will immediately transfer such funds, together with quarterly counterpart
contributions, to the project accounts maintained by MPFD (Para. 4.18). Similarly, it
would be agreed that six-monthly progress reports would be prepared in a format agreed
with IDA (Para. 5.24).
Recommendation
7.4   With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for an IDA
Credit of SDR 39.4 million (US$58.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 35
years maturity.
February, 1995
South Asia Department 2
Agricultural Operations Division



0    #~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Work ing                      --------                                 CF
Plan                                                          Teff. Circle
-Teams (22) --------------------------------                           (22)
____________. Teffitorial
fl                ~~~~MIS/GIS
X          ___             Unit
5                         1
#          Fo~~~rest          Divislional
0~~,___              Deparennt              Forest
Activities         OfficeWs (79)
. . . . . . . . . . . .    Divisvities
Administrative s:ructure
- -  -   -   --Informnation Linkage
FIGURE 2. Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation. Structure and linkages.



CC WL                         - -- -- -- -- -- -- ---
L,W
I ZONAL I
|CFs TERR    ---------------                    CFL
I~~~~~~~~__ I                     PROJECT PLANNING 
|CCF ADMi  ------------------------  DCF HRD 
r----------------    DCF                                 CCLP
, -                   VRDP  r                             CCF PU
|CCF DEVT         ----- - -----______-------  DCF ADNIIN 
| CC WP-------r---------------   DC         ---100038;XL 
|ALL CCF  ----
|CFsFTERR|
Direct Responsibility
-------- Coordination
FIGURE 3. Project Unit. Structure and linkages.



CCF            CCF                                                     CCF
IN1D                           SF                                     DEVT
9  9                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~CF
--____------ --S---- -                                        LTERR
0
0
9
DFO~~~~~~F
DFO        --------         --~~~~~ TER
E&R
ServiceEo
Center
Applied
Research                                                  9
Seed                                                    9
Improvement                                                 0
Nursery Demo                                                 9
Demos
Direct Responsibility                                                             9
-------  Technical Advisory  ________      _   FF - Extension Programs - VRD   _J
FIGURE 4. Extension, Technology and Research. Structure and linkages.






Annex I
Page I of 3
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Natural and Human Resources
Natural Resources
1.    Area and Physiography. The geographical area of the state is 443,000 km2. It lies
mainly on the central Indian tableland with altitude ranging from 50 m to about 1,400 m
above mean sea level. The topography is strongly influenced by the underlying geology, in
which basalts predominate, giving rise to large well defined plains, interrupted by undulating
areas and deeply incised rivers in hilly areas. The state can be divided into five
physiogrpahic regions: (i) the Gird region to the north and north east of Gwalior; (ii) the
Malwa Plateau between the Vindhyan ranges and the area to the south of Gwalior; (iii) the
Satpura ridge stretching across the state from the Maikal range in the east towards Nimar in
the West; (iv) the Narmada valley, an area of gently undulating plains bounded by the
Vindhyan Hills in the north and the Satpura range to the south; (v) the Chhatisgarh Plains
lying to the east of the Satpurs Range.
2.    Climate. Mean annual rainfall in the State varies between about 700 mm in the west
to about 1,500 mm in the east and south east. Almost 90 percent of precipitation falls in the
period June through September. Daily maximum temperatures exceed 40C throughout the
State during the summer, but winter temperatures fall in the 5 - 10 C range in areas of higher
altitude. The State has been divided into 12 agro-climatic zones.
3.    Soils. Black soils (Vertisols) predominate throughout the central and western parts of
the State, though their depth is variable and they are often in association with shallow skeletal
soils in hilly regions. In the western parts of the State, red and yellow soils, mainly Ferric
Luvisols, are more common, though they may still be in association with vertisols.
Something on fertility here.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
4.    Land Use. The areas of land in major land use classes are summarized below:
Land Use Class                                                Area
(000 ha)
Forest                                                              14,063
Cropped Land                                                        22,708
Permanent Grazing                                                    2,772
Uncultivated Land                                                    1,774
Unculturable Wasteland                                               2,208
Non-agricultural Uses                                                 I
Total                                    45.866
5.    Agricultural Holdings. The 1985-86 Agricultural Census indicated that there were a
total of 7.6 million holdoings in Madhya Pradesh, with an average size of 2.91 ha. This
represented an increase of almost 19 percent in the number of holdings recorded in 1980-81,
and a decrease in average size of about 15 percent, higher than the national average decrease.
Small holdings predominate, as of the total number of holdings, 36 percent are less than 1.0
ha in size, a further 40 percent are between 1.0 and 4.0 ha in size and only 5 percent larger
tahn 10 ha.
6.    Livestock and Feed Resources. In 1991, the livestock population of the State was
estimated to be 26.8 million cattle, 7.4 million buffalos, 0.9 million sheep, and 7.3 million
goats. In addition, an estimated 1.5 million livestock migrate into Madhya Pradesh every
year, but estimates vary widely. Livestock obtain their feed from: grazing in forests,
wastelands, long-term fallows and village common land; cultivated green fodders; agricultural
by-products; and concentrates. There is no precise data about the productivity of grasses in
forests and wastelands, but an production of 0.6 tons/ha is commonly assumed. About
850,000 ha are devoted to cultivation of fodder crops and the quantity of crop residues can be
calculated for individual crops using conversion factors. The total quantity of feed available
from all sources is estimated at almost 42 million tons. The demand for feed is calculated by
converting all livestock into Adult Cattle Units (ACU), considered to be 250 kg body weight,
and assuming a requirement of 2.6 tons of fodder per ACU per annum. There is an estimated
29.4 million ACUs in the State, so the total fodder demand for feed is almost 80 million tons
so there is a very major deficit in the supply of fodder. The deficit is even larger when the
demand created by the migratory herds is added. All districts in the State show a deficit, with
the five districts in the Chhatisgarh plains showing the largest deficit of about 9.6 million
tons. Apart from the crop residues, most of the feed available is low in Total Digestible
Nutrients (TDN) and in Digestible protein (DP), so the serious situation represented by the
total deficit is exacerbated by the poor quality of the feed available. These data clearly show
the huge demand for livestock feed that is in large part met by grazing in forest lands.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
Human Resources
7.    Population Growth and Distribution. The total population of the State was
estimated at 66.18 million in the 1991 census. The growth rate between 1981 and 1991 is
estimated to be 2.6 percent per annum. Of the total population, 50.8 million, or 79 percent
live in rural areas, in about 75,000 villages. Of these, about 30,000 villages are located
within, or close to, forest areas, which means that about 20 million people live in villages
located in forest or forest fringe areas. Average population density is 149 persons per ki2,
though this is much higher in districts with a large urban population. About 41 percent of the
rural population is below the poverty line, and about 20 percent of the urban population.
8.    Tribal Peoples. The tribal population in the State was estimated to be 15.3 million in
the 1991 census, or about 23 percent of the total population, the largest tribal population in
any state in India. There are 46 different tribes, but only two, the Bhils and the Gonds,
account for 65 percent of the tribal population, and ten make up over 80 percent. Tribal
people live in all of the 45 administrative districts of the State, but they are concentrated in
the eastern, south eastern and south western parts. In six districts, Bastar, Mandla, Surguja.
Dhar, West Nimar and Jhabua, more than 50 percent of the population are tribals.






Annex 2
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Technologies for Forest Management
1.    Strategy. In the past, MPFD has adopted a strategy for the development and
management of natural forest areas in the State, based on: (a) Working Plans for production
areas that specified techniques for the management of natural forest and the creation of forest
plantations; and (b) management plans, schemes and policies for Protected Areas (PAs),
which, in practice, prohibit the harvest of forest produce of any kind. The Territorial
Division of MPFD is responsible for implementing the prescriptions of the Working Plans in
natural forest areas, for collection of non-timber forest products, and for enforcing laws and
regulations. Harvesting of timber from natural forests and some plantations is the
responsibility of the Production Division of MPFD, whilst MPFDC and the Narmada Valley
Development Authority (NVDA) have been responsible for plantation forestry, in the areas
assigned to them. PAs are managed by the Wildlife Wing (See Annex 6). The development
and management of forestry and agroforestry programs on private and community lands are
discussed in Annex 4.
2.    Silvicultural Systems. The prescriptions of the Working Plans can be grouped into
four silvicultural systems, applied to teak-dominated, sal-dominated, and mixed hardwood
forest types:
-     Coppice with reserves on short rotations for all three types;
-     Conversion by clear felling into plantations of mixed hardwoods in either short
or long rotations;
-     Shelterwood on long rotations in teak and sal types;
-     Selection and Selection cum Improvement in all three types.
Experience with these silvicultural systems is discussed below.
3.    Coppice with reserves system. This system has been widely used in teak and sal
dominated forests and to a lesser extent in mixed hardwood forests. Management has tended
to encourage teak and sal because of their high value, their ability to coppice freely, and their
resistance to the adverse effects of grazing and fire. Other hardwoods growing in association
with these two species are not so resistant, so many coppice areas have become almost pure
formations of teak and sal. Many good coppice areas have been degraded by uncontrolled



Annex 2
Page 2 of 6
harvest of coppice material, grazing and fire, which have destroyed natural regeneration from
coppice or seed. The Conversion by clearfelling system system facilitates change of uneven-
aged mixed hardwood forests to commercially viable even-aged plantations. Almost 250,000
ha of hardwood plantations have been established over the past two decades, but in 1986, a
moratorium on clear felling was introduced by GOI to prevent further deforestation and loss
of biodiversity. Production from these existing plantations is being adversely affected by the
lack of appropriate silivcultural practices and management. The Shelterwood system also
facilitates a change to an even-aged forest, but is complex and suited only to long rotations,
as it is dependent on natural regeneration and the opening of the canopy by cycles of felling
prior to final harvest. It has been applied to both teak and sal dominated forests, but for the
same factors affecting the coppice system, has lead to the development of almost pure sal and
teak formations. Selection and Selection cum Improvement systems are generally now used
in place of the shelterwood system, and involve maintaining the health of the crop through
removal of mature and unhealthy trees, with thinning, forest floor management, and other
silvicultural practices to facilitate overall incremental growth.
4.    Constraints. It is apparent that the prescriptions of many working plans have not
been implemented. This is reflected in the drop in production of round wood from 1.55 mm3
in 1974, to 0.86mm3 in 1986 and 0.68mm3 in 1991. Although there are no precise figures,
supplies of bamboos to the paper industry have also declined substantially. This is partly due
to the lack of realistic assessments of the sustainable yield of the prescriptions advocated in
the Working Plans, but also due to a lack of funds to implement the Working Plans properly,
a multiplicity of agencies involved in implementation and insufficient monitoring.
Management of planted areas has also suffered from constraints. In many cases the
plantations were established at too close a planting density, and thinning and other
silvicultural operations have been neglected, adversely affecting incremental growth and the
financial returns from the plantations.
5.    Forest Development Technologies. Forest development technologies to be supported
under the project are designed to meet four basic objectives of forest management: (i) the
restoration of natural ecosystems and the preservation of biodiversity; (ii) reduction in land
degradation; (iii) improvement of natural regeneration through better forest floor
management; and (iv) sustainable production. The technologies would be based on an
ecosystems approach, discussed here in relation to two broad forest types, referred to as open
and closed forests, broadly corresponding to degraded and undegraded forests. The
technolgies also relate to the primary management objectives outlined in the sector strategy
presented in Chapter II. Eight different technologies are listed below that have been used to
illustrate financial and economic returns, discussed further in Annex 21. These illustrative
models of forest development technology should not be considered prescriptive management
models, as in practice, the models must be adapted to the requirements of specific sites.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 6
Forest Type                     Forest Development Technology
Open       Rehabilitation of        1.1   100% coppice resuscitation
Forests    Degraded Forest (RDF)    1.2   50% coppice resuscitation and 50%
planting
1.3   100% planting
1.4   Silvipasture - reforestation with
fodder trees, legumes and grasses
2     Replanting with bamboos
Closed     Assisted Natural          1.1   Coppice management
Forests    Regeneration (ANR)        1.2   High forest management
1.3   Rejuvenation of flowered bamboo
areas
6.    Technical Practices and Criteria. The forest development technologies defined
above involve the use of a number of technical and silvicultural practices. Some of these are
common to all the technologies and these are summarized below. Practices and criteria
specific to particular technologies are then described. Estimated outputs from the various
technologies are presented in Appendix 2. More details of the practices, required inputs and
estimated outputs are discussed in Working Paper 1 (Annex 24).
Technical practices common to all technologies:
-     Contour vegetative barriers for in-situ soil and moisture conservation;
-     Contour planting;
-     Use of improved planting materials from identified seed or clones and
homogenous stock;
-     Planting at 3mx3m or 4mx4m to allow better natural regeneration;
-     Planting density and tree population adjusted to moisture availability;
-     Multi-tier canopy encouraged. A list of economic species is presented in
Appendix 1 to this annex;
-     Improved forest floor management through regulation of grazing, cut and carry
fodder collection, and fire control;
-     Live fencing of treatment areas;
-     Use of organic and inorganic fertilizers;
-     Elimination of nistar operations during regeneration.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 6
Technical practices and criteria specific to particular technologies:
Technology                            Practices and Criteria
RDF 1.1, 1.2, 1.3   -    Use coppice with reserve system
-     Balance teak and associated hardwoods 50:50, and sal
and associated hardwoods 70:30;
ANR 1.1,1.2        -     Use coppice with reserve system. Allow ANR 1.2 to revert to
shelterwood system at the end of current working plan;
RDF 2 and ANR 1.3 -      Encourage other hardwood associates of bamboo;
-     Restrict density to not more than 400 bamboos/ha and less in
arid areas;
RDF 1.4            -     Keep spatial balance between the crown of the trees and ground
vegetation of grasses and legumes. Practice simple coppicing
where feasible;
ANR 1.1 and 1.2    -     For coppice, encourage natural regeneration in the pre-planting
year and follow-up; for selection coupes, use similar treatments
for three years prior to harvest and follow up;
-     Encourage more seedlings of seed origin than of coppice origin.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 6
Phasing of Forest Development
7.    Projections of the areas of forest to be managed under the different proposed
technologies are summarized below.
Development Technology              Ha per Year
1       2        3        4
RDF
Coppice 100%               240      890    2,050     3,430
Coppice/Replanting 50:50    1,460    5,350   12,310   20,570
Planting 100%              240      890    2,050     3,430
Silvipasture               490    1,780    4,100     6,860
Bamboo                     300    1,110    2,570    4,290
Sub-Total               2,730   10,020   23,080    38,580
Cumulative Sub-Total    2,730   12,750   35,830   74,410
ANR
Coppice management        8,000   16,000   16,000    16,000
Forest management        12,000   24,000   24,000    24,000
Bamboos (Flowered)        3,000    6,000    6,000    6,000
Sub-Total              23,000   46,000   46,000   46,000
Cumulative Sub-Total    23,000   69,000  115,000   161,000
Cumulative Total       25,730   81,750  150,830  235,410



Annex 2
Page 6 of 6
Training
8.    The introduction of the proposed management technologies with their emphasis on
adaptation to site specific conditions and participation by communities in forest management
will require training of staff. Training in participatory management is discussed in Annex 5.
Technical training requirements are summarized in Table I to this Annex.
Technical Working Group
9.    To ensure that appropriate silvicultural practices are adopted a Forest Development
Technology Working Group would be established within MPFD, to review existing practices
and recommend improvements or adaptations for specific site conditions.



Training Plan - Technical Forestry
Course              Participants              Objectives               Resource Agencies          Duration              Frequency
1. Forestry           DCF and above        Problem diagnosis; resolution  SFRI, Task Force,          2 days            2, 4, and 4 Batches in
Development                                 of problems; concepts and      Outside experts                              Years 0, 1 and 2
Concepts                                    norms for various development
types.                                   _
2. Technical          DCF, ACF, Forest      Survey; contour alignment;     SFRI,Working Plan         I week             4 courses per year
Refresher Courses (to   Rangers             preparation of site regeration  Officers, Silviculture and
be followed by on-                          plans; coppice silviculture;   Research Experts (Manual
the-job field training                      silvicultural managment,      to be prepared)
of divisional staff                         biometric techniques
3. Technical          Foresters and Forest   -ditto-                       Forrest Colleges, FD staff   I week          6 batches of 50
Refresher courses     Guards                                                                                            participants per year at
each of 11 collegesin
Years I to 4 (3,300 per
year)
I~ P
( X



ILLUSTRATIVE LIST OF ECONOMIC PLANTS
TREES                            SMALL TREES, SHRUBS & CLIMBERS                      HERBS, LEGUMES & GRASSES            |   BAMBOOS & OTHERS
A. Teak (Trectoa grandis) dominated forests
Tectona grandis                              Buchanania larzan                                   Indigofera Spp                              Dendrocalamus stnctus
Terminalia tomentosa/balenca                 Emblica officinalis                                  Cymbopogon martinii                        Bambusa arundinacea
Gmelina arborea                              Soyamida febrifuga                                   Gloria superba                             Cephalostachyum pergacile
Dalbergia paniculata/latifolia               Randia dumatorum                                     Tephrosia purpurea                         Agave sisalana
Lagerstroemia parviflora                     Wrightia tinctoria/tomentosa                         Swertia chirayita
Pterocarpus marsupium                        Elaeodendron glaucum                                 Chlorophytum arundinaceum
Aegle marmelose                              Cochlospermum religiosum                             Nigella sativa
Sterculia urens                              Balaritis roxburghii                                 Curculigo orchioides
Hardwickia binata                            Gardenia turida                                      Tinospora cordifolia
Cassia fistula                               Helecteris isora                                     Achyarenthes aspera
Madhuca latifolia                            Nyctanthes arbortristis                              Calotropis gigantea
Diospyros melanoxylon                        Acacia talsiatpinnata                                Dodonea viscosa
Anogeissus latifolia                         Leucaena leucocephala                                Vitex negundo
Boswellia serrata                            Discorea spp                                         Carissa carrandus
Holoptelea integrifolia                      Caesalpinia bonducella                               Jatropha curcas
Acacia catechutnilotica                      Zizyghus oenoplia
Albizia procera/lebbek                       Butea superba
Pongamia pinnata                             Smilax macrophylla
Gliricidia maculata
B. Sal (Shorea rousta) dominated forests
Shorea robusta                               Grewia telaefolia                                    Curcuma amada/caesia/aromatica/angustifolia   Bambusa vulgaris
Terminalia tomentosa/chebaula/balerica       Emblica officinalis/robusta                          Andogaphis paniculata                      Cephalostachyum pergacile
Adina cordifolia                             Mallotus phillipinensis                              Acorus calamus                             Dendrocalamus strictus
Albizzia odorotissirnalprocera/lebbek        Nyctanthes arbortristis                              Piper largum/betle                         Agave sisalana
Lagerstroemia parviflora                     Holarrhena antidysenterica                           Costus speciosa
Diospyros melanoxylon/embryopteris/          Kydia calycina                                       Asparagus racemosus
montana/tomentosa                          Wrightia tomentosa                                   Rauwolfia serpentina
Acacia catechu/nolotica                      Dioscorea daemona                                    Vetiveria zizanioides
Pterocarpus marsupium                        Gardenia gummifera                                   Cannabis sativa
Pongania pinnata                             Abrus precatorius                                    Puervaria tuberosa
Anogeissus latifolia                         Bauhinia vahlii                                      Curculigo orchioides
Cleistanthus collinus                        Caesalpinia bonducella                               Urgenia indica                                                                    0'0  3
Careya arborea                               Butea superba                                        Pinipenella arisu                                                                   0 
Cordia latifolia/myxa/gharaf                 Calamus guruba                                       Carissa carandus
Dalbergia latifolia                          Combretum ovarifolium                                Dodonea viscosa                                                                      - N
Buchania lengens                             Litsaea sebifera                                     Vitex negundo
Madhuca latifoha                                                                                  Jatropha curcas
Cedrela toons



TREES                           SMALL TREES. SHRUBS & CLIMBERS                      HERBS, LEGUMES & GRASSES  T    BAMBOOS & OTHERS
C..                                                      ...e  h'dwo foe
Albizzia odoratissinmtprocmaIebbrk           Colebrookia oppositifoha                            Imperata cylindrica                         Dendrocalanus strictus
Acacia catecha/nilotica                      Crotolaria sericea                                  Eulaliopsis binata                          Bambusa arundinacea
Anogeussus latifolia                         Flacourtea indica                                   Arundinella setosa                          Agave sisalana
Boswellia sernata                            Gardenia gummiferatresinifera/turgida               Themeda triandra
Caryea arborea                               Dodonea viscosa                                     Vetiveria zizaniodes
Cleistanthus collinus                       Ixora parviflora                                     Thysanolaena maxima
Lagerstraemia parviflora                     Randea durnatorum/numulariatxylocarpa               Albium cepa
Garuga pinnata                               Vitex negundo                                       Sida cordifolia
Hyrddictyon excelsum                         Wrightia tomentosa                                  Mentha arvensis
Kydia calycina                               Diospyros embryopteris/larzan                       Ocimum bacilium
Lannea grandis                               Grewia tiliaefotia                                  Curcumna spp
Ougeinia dabergioides                        Carissa carandus                                    Urgenia indica
Terminalia tomentosatbalericat              Jatropha curcas                                      Curculigo orchioides
chebul/aasuna
Pterocarpus marsupium
Chloroxylon swetinia
Pongamia pinnata
oo* 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"a
I.,' >
I-1X 
01 %)



Estimates of Output from Various Forest Development Technologies
RDF 1.1,1.21v3 ANR 1.1                                         ANR 1.2                                            RDF 2 ANR 1.3                                         RDF 1.4
Yea              Practice             Output            Year             Practce              Output            Year            Practice           Output          Year            Practice          Output
1-3       Full coppicing         Fuelwood:              1-3        Site preparation                             1-3       Site preparaton                           1-3       Site preparation
site preparation      0 to 1 1.2 m'                     vegt conservation                                       vegt conservation                                  vegt.conservauon
vegt.conservation                                       sowing/plantng                                         sowing/planting                                     sowing/planung
sowing/planting
2-3       Identification of                             2-3        Identification of
natural regeneration                                    natural
(for ANR 1.1)                                           regeneration
4        Canopy manipulation    Timber: Im'             4         Canopy               Timber 3m'
(for ANR 1. I)        Fuelwood: 1.5m'                   manipulation         Fuelwood: 4.5 m'
2-7       Establishment                                 2-7        Establishment                                2-7       Establishment                             2-7        Establishment
maintenance                                              maintenance                                            maintenenace                                       maintenance
5-6       Nurturing of natural                          5-6        Nurtunng of
and planted seedlings                                   natural and planted
seedlings
I I       Marking of resrves
1-61       NWFP collection       NWFP: Rp 150 -         1-124       NWFP collection     NWFP: Rp 300 -          2-41       NWFP collection     NWFP: Rp 50         2-31        Grass and legume    Grass: 4 t
Grass and legume      600                                                    1,200                              Grass and legume        - 200                      cutting
cutting               Grass: 0 5 - 1.0 t                                                                        cutting             Grass: 0.5- 1.0
2-61       Pruning, lopping and    Twigs: 0.5 - I.Ot    2-124       Pruning, lopping     Twigs: 0.5 - 1.0 t     2-41       Pruning, lopping     Twigs: 0.5 -        2-30       Pruning, lopping,    Fuetwood: 1.5
singling                                                 Leaf fodder         Leaf fodder 1.0 t                                          1.0 t                       thinning           to 3m'
collection
4 Then 3yr    Multiple shoot         Fuelwood: 1-                                                                                                                      2-30       NWFP collection    Rp 50 - 200
cycle to 57    cutting, singling and  3m'
thinning
11 then 10    Coppicing and         Poles. 300-600      14 then 10    Thinning             Poles: 200-800      6 then 4 yr    Thinning and        Bamboo: 5 -12     6 then 5yr    Reseeding         Grass: 0 5 -
yr cycle to   thinning              Fuelwood: 19 to    year cycle to                       Fuclwood: 13.5 -     cycle to 40    mounding                 t           cycle to 30                      10 t
38m'                  113                             49.5m'
61        Final harvest          Timber: 49nn'          124        Final harvest        Timber: 55m'            41         Final harvest        Bamboo: 12 t        31        Final harvest       Poles:200      'D
Fuelwood: 73m'                                         Fuelwood: 82.5m'                                       Timber: 5m'                                       Fuelwood:      lt    D
Poles: 200                                                                                                                                                      12.7m'         .t    X
O X



Annex 3
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Institutions
Public Sector Institutions
1.    The main institutions in the forest sector in Madhya Pradesh are the Madhya Pradesh
Forest Department, the Forest Development Corporation, and the Minor Forest Products
Federation. Other institutions that have an important role to play include the District Rural
Development Agencies, the Tribal Development Authorities, NGOs, and the Panchayats.
Activities of the Departments of Agriculture and of Animal Husbandry also impact on the
forest sector, through their involvement in reclamation of non-forest wastelands and livestock
programs. Private sector involvement in the marketing and processing of forest produce is
discussed in Annex ..
Madhya Pradesh Forest Department (MPFD)
2.    Mandate. MPFD is responsible for protection, conservation and production in forest
areas and the promotion of social forestry, including farm forestry, as a development function
outside the forest area. The Department is responsible for advising the State Government on
the necessary legislation affecting the forest sector and for its enforcement.
3.    Structure. The Department is headed by the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests,
reporting to the State Government through the Secretary, Ministry of Forests. The work of
the Department is organized functionally according to Development, Production, Social
Forestry, Research and Working Plans, Industries, Wild Life, Land Management, World Food
Program, Coordination, Administration (Gazetted and Non-Gazetted), Budget, and Vigilance
and Complaints. Each functional unit is headed by a Chief Conservator of Forests at
Headquarters, with units at State, Circle, Division, Sub-Division, Range, Sub-Range and Beat
levels. Each of these units is in charge of a Chief Conservator, Conservator, Deputy
Conservator, Forest Ranger, Deputy Ranger and Forest Guard respectively.
4.    The traditional functions of the Department, that is, conservation, protection and
production are organized in 21 Forest Circles, divided into 79 geographical Divisions, referred
to as Territorial Divisions. Social Forestry work is organized in 37 Divisions, and Wildlife
and Working Plans in 12 Divisions each, which are not necessarily spatially the same as the
Territorial Divisions. Functional staff report to the head of their functional unit and there is
no formal mechanism for coordination between units on a geographical basis. This has led to
a compartmentalized working pattern within the same geographical areas, with different



Annex 3
Page 2 of 5
approaches towards the same beneficiary groups. It has also resulted in less than optimum
allocation of staff and other resources, and inconsistent temporal and geographical workloads
for staff.
5.    Staffing. MPFD has almost 39,500 staff of which about 720 are of the rank of
Assistant Conservator of Forests and above. A further 1,670 are Forest Rangers with
graduate qualifications.   The functional organization of MPFD requires staff
specialization, but the training and the tradition of the service work against such
specialization. This is compounded by frequent transfers and the fact that promotion criteria
favor generalists.
6.    Budget. The budgetary allocation to the forest sector in the Eighth Five Year Plan
period amounted to Rs. 297.73 crore or 1.7 percent of the total state plan. In percentage
terms this shows an increase from the Fifth to Seventh Plan periods, when the forest sector
allocation amounted to about one percent. Priorities and budgetary requirements are
identified in the Five Year Plans, whilst annual plans determine the actual disbursement of
funds. Commitment of funds is based on schemes or projects that do not necessarily cover
all the requirements of the working plans. Thus financial planning is divorced from physical
area planning. This may mean that important tasks are not funded, or are under-funded,
particularly as budgets are based on range, division, or circle plans and budget cuts are
distributed proportionately, rather than in relation to tasks. In addition to uncertainty about
the amount of funding approved, funds are often not made available in a timely manner, so
that there is insufficient time to utilize them effectively.  There is further delay due to the
lack of delegation of financial authority. A Divisional Forest Officer in Madhya Pradesh only
has authority for expenditure up to Rs 10,000 and the Conservator for expenditure up to Rs.
30,000. These limits, set several years ago, require upward revision. Monitoring of
achievements against approved budgets is strongly linked to achievements of targets and is
discussed in more detail in Annex...
7.    Total budgetary allocation is not linked to revenue generated from the forests. This
was understandable at a time when forest resources were plentiful. Sustainable use of the
forests requires that a percentage of revenue generated is reinvested in management and
afforestation. Such a requirement should form an explicit part of the National Forest Policy.
A precedent has been set in the State of Karnataka where a Forest Development Tax, levied
at a rate of eight percent on sale of forest resources to industry, is transferred to a Forest
Development Fund, that covers about ten percent of the cost of afforestation. This could be
reinforced by the requirement that all working plans include the costs, not only of protection
and harvesting, but also of compensatory afforestation.
Madhya Pradesh Forest Development Corporation (MPFDC)
8.    MPFDC was established in 1972 to convert forests into high value teak and bamboo
forests by establishing commercial plantations, afforest degraded land, manage existing



Annex 3
Page 3 of 5
plantations, and implement special programs. This mandate, implemented through the
replacement of natural forests by man-made plantations, is inconsistent with the changed
emphasis of the National Forest Policy and is prohibited under the Forest Conservation Act.
MPFDC is divided into 21 Divisions throughout the state. There are a total of just under
2,500 staff in MPFDC, of whom about 80 are professional and supervisory. The MPFDC
was established as a means of attracting institutional finance with an authorized capital of Rs
20 crores. The present paid up capital is Rs. 16.3 crores, contributed entirely by the State
Government. It was envisaged that revenue surplus from management and harvesting of
natural stands would be reinvested in establishing plantations, with a proportion retained by
the State Government. In fact, the revenue surplus attracted corporation tax at 55% and the
State Government would not release more than 50% of revenue for reinvestment.
Consequently, MPFDC lost financial autonomy and worked as an agent of the State
Government on a 2% commission basis, with new plantations funded by the State through
soft loans.
9.    Public Sector Industries. Government owns and operates one paper mill with a
capacity of 80,000 tons, producing newsprint based on pulp made from 50 percent bamboo
and 50 percent eucalyptus. MPFD has an agreement to provide 100,000 sale units (about
100,000 tons) of bamboo per year at a cost of Rs 974 per sale unit, compared with an average
price of Rs. 1,900 per ton. In fact, MPFD delivered only 30,000 tons in 1992 and the
remainder was obtained from outside the state. The State also owns the Narmada Wood
Processing Complex, established in 1979 to promote the utilization of non-teak species in the
production of sawn timber, doors, windows and furniture. The Complex is managed by
MPFDC but activities are presently almost at a standstill.
Other Public Sector Institutions Involved in the Forest Sector
10.   Minor Forest Products Federation. The Federation is charged with the collection
and disposal of tendu leaves and sal seed throughout the State. It operates through Territorial
Divisions and has an authorized staff strength of about 370, of whom 11 are in senior
positions. The Federation is the apex body for 1947 Tendu Patta Cooperatives, which are
grouped into 78 district unions. Members collect tendu leaves and are paid a collection fee.
After processing and bagging, the cooperative sells the leaves and the profit is shared by the
cooperatives after deduction of royalties paid to the State. The cooperatives are entirely run
by MPFD staff and members have little or no involvement in their organization and
management.
11.   Rural and Tribal Development Organizations. There is a District Rural
Development Agency (DRDA) in each of the 45 districts in Madhya Pradesh. The mandate
of the Agency is to channel central and state government funds for special rural development
programs to target groups at the district level. Programs and Expenditure to be updated at
appraisal.



Annex 3
Page 4 of 5
12.   The Tribal Welfare Department. This Department has the responsibility for
administering development programs and special schemes targeted at tribal peoples. There is
a Tribal Welfare Officer in each District, who works closely with the Collector to supervise
the implementation of these targeted programs. Since 1976, the Department has been less
involved with actual implementation, which is the responsibility of other Departments, and is
now more concerned with the administration of funds.
13.   Panchayats. There is a four tier system of local institutions, based on the Gram
Sabha at village level, the Panchayat from a group of villages, Janpath Panchayats at Block
level, and Mandal Panchayat at District level. There are almost 19,000 Panchayats covering
some 71,000 villages. The Gram Panchayats and Janpath Panchayats are mainly responsible
for the distribution of nistar rights. There are examples in Madhya Pradesh where the
Panchayats have been actively involved in the protection of the forest area of a village, and in
the equitable distribution of poles, firewood, grasses and grazing for village livestock.
However-, social forestry programs aimed at raising community plantations were mainly
under-taken by MPFD staff with little input from the panchayats, although their collaboration
was sought. An important constraint to their participation was the lack of funds.
The Private Sector
14.   Production. The private sector is involved in production mainly through farm forestry
programs supported by MPFD. Orient Paper Mills (OPM) supports nursery development,
provides extension advice and subsidizes seedling sales for a farm forestry program to
increase raw material supplies. Although the company will buy produce offered, there is no
buy-back guarantee and the producer is free to sell in any market.
15.   Industries. Forest sector industries can be grouped into round wood based, processed
wood based, and non-wood based. In the first group, there is one paper mill with a capacity
of 85,000 tons of paper per year, that benefits from a similar agreement for provision of
100,000 tons of raw material at concessional prices from MPFD as the government paper
mill. About 85 percent of the agreed supply was delivered in 1992. There are over 4,000
saw mills in Madhya Pradesh, but all are very small with simple equipment. Their aggregate
capacity is estimated at over 2 million m3 per year, but actual throughput is much less as
many operate only for one or two months per year, when logs are available at an
advantageous price. Recovery rates are high, reaching 80 percent for teak and 70 percent for
general species. There are six mills for production of veneer, five based on slicing and one
peeling mill. All are dependent to a large degree on imported teak logs to maintain
production. Five plywood mills and two particle board mills operate in the state and a
factory producing parquet, block board and flush doors. In addition there are numerous small
joineries and furniture industries.
16.   Non-wood based industries include beedi production from tendu leaves, agarbatti
production and oil extraction from sal seed. Beedis are mainly produced through cottage
industry organized by a factory that provides materials and arranges sale and distribution.
Agarbatti production is also largely a cottage industry, though final drying, packing and



Annex 3
Page 5 of 5
distribution of the product is organized by factories, of which there are estimated to be about
1,000 in Madhya Pradesh. Oil extraction from sal seed is mainly undertaken at a plant in
Raipur, which has an agreement with MPFD to provide 10,000 tons of sal seed per year. The
capacity is 30,000 tons per year though production has not been greater than 22,000 tons.
Issues
17.   Institutions. The main institutional issues affecting the public sector institutions relate
to the role, approach, and structure of MPFD. These evolved at a time when the primary role
of the Department was production and protection, based on enforcement of rules to prohibit
illegal exploitation of the forest resources. Changes in the role of the Department required by
the changed emphases of the National Forest Policy, requiring a participatory, extension based
approach have not been reflected in changes to the institutional structure. This has led to the
overlapping functional responsibilities and less than optimum use of staff and resources.
18.   Another important institutional issue is the future role of MPFDC. Its original
mandate as a production oriented agency has been outdated by the requirements of the
National Forest Policy and its future role requires review.
19.   Staffing. The main issues related to staffing involve the need to balance staff
numbers with the functional responsibilities of various Divisions and Units within MPFD, and
to provide a career structure for specialists required by the service. Issues relating to staff
training are discussed in Annex
20.   Budget. The main issue related to budgetary allocations to public sector institutions
in forestry concerns the fact that the allocation is not linked to revenue generated from the
forests. There is a need for some explicit percentage of revenue generated to be reinvested in
management and afforestation. Other important issues are the timely release of funds and
delegation of financial authority to the level of District Forest Officer, who is mainly
responsible for implementation of schemes.
21.   Coordination. The main institutional linkages are, at present, between MPFD and
MPFDC leading to agreements as to which forest areas are to be used by MPFDC. MPFD
also has linkages with the district administration, mainly related to the implementation of
farm and social forestry programs and to obtain general purpose funding under various rural
development schemes. The only clear mechanisms for coordination of the activities of the
various other agencies that work in, or affect the forest sector are the District Development
Committees, under the Chairmanship of the Collector.
22.   The Private Sector. The main issues relating to private sector involvement in the
forestry sector concern pricing policies, the agreements on the supply of raw materials by
MPFD at preferential prices, and the involvement of private agencies in plantation scale
production. These issues have been summarized in Annex .. (Matrix).






Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Forest Development on Private and Community Lands
1.    Social Forestry Programs. A large number of different programs and
schemes have been undertaken in Madhya Pradesh in attempts to increase the
production of forest products on private, community, and revenue lands, or to improve
the utilization of timber. Many of these schemes have been supported by GOI or
external donors. Recent programs implemented mainly through the Social Forestry
Wing of MPFD include:
-     MP Social Forestry Project
-     Decentralized Nursery Scheme
-     Establishment of Gramvan
-     Private Plantations
-     Community Water Source Plantings
-     Creation of Gram Nikunj
-     Fuel-saving Chullahs
-     Improved Crematoria
-     Award Schemes
-     Tree Cooperatives
-     Integrated Wasteland Development
-     Fuel and Fodder Projects
-     People's Nurseries
-     Pilot Agroforestry
2.    Program Results. The programs have succeeded in creating an awareness of
environmental issues, increasing private tree planting, popularizing energy saving
devices, and developing forestry outside forest lands, but it is difficult to estimate the
areas planted. Lessons of experience with these programs can be summarized as
follows:
Low survival rates were due to: (i) poor genetic material; (ii) poor
quality seedlings resulting from poor nursery practice; (iii) species not
always suited to ecological conditions; (iv) inadequate maintenance; and
(v) lack of monitoring and extension advice;
A focus on meeting quantitative targets, often set so late that adequate
preparation was not possible;



Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
Lack of beneficiary participation in program design;
Implementation of programs by MPFD, using beneficiaries as wage
labor, resulting in a lack of ownership and a sense that plantations were
government rather than community owned;
The poverty constraints of the poor and landless, in particular access to
water, often meant they were unable to operate decentralized nurseries
successfully;
Subsidy programs aimed at promoting tree planting resulted in
beneficiaries failing to take financial responsibility;
Lack of market information and inappropriate publicity campaigns.
3.    Related Programs. The Department of Horticulture and Farm Forestry
promotes fruit tree production, but also distributes non-fruit trees to be grown as
windbreaks and protection for the fruit trees. It has its own distribution and subsidy
schemes and its own extension service. The Department of Agriculture has a well
structured T and V Extension system, involving regular contacts between extension
staff and farmers. Some extension messages are relevant to farm forestry, in
particular, those linked to watershed management. However, there is little operational
coordination between either of these Departments and MPFD.
4.    Potential and Constraints. There is a substantial potential for further
development of forestry on private and community land linked to: (i) the high demand
for raw material from wood processing industries; (ii) high productivity and returns on
irrigated land; (iii) an institutional framework with the capacity to deliver extension
services to growers; (iv) implementation of the Panchayat Act that will increase
responsibilities at the local level, and also the need for income from community lands;
and (vi) the possibility of supplementary income from undercropping plantations with
herbs and medicinal plants. However, a number of constraints need to be overcome
including: (i) the quality of planting material; (ii) lack of market information; (iii)
felling and transit regulations that restrict trade in wood products; (iv) difficulties in
obtaining credit for tree planting; (v) negative impacts of on-going subsidy programs
on privatized markets; (vi) high livestock populations that pose a permanent threat to
young plantations; and (vii) limited extension skills amongst MPFD staff.
5.    Strategy for the Development of Private and Community Forestry. Forest
development on private and community lands would be promoted through the
provision of technical advice to individuals, communities and industries for the
establishment of nurseries and for tree planting in plantations or on field margins. The
choice of species to be promoted would be closely linked to market demand.
Individuals and communities would be primarily served by the Extension and Research
(E&R) Centers, detailed in Annex 11. Extension activities would be coordinated in



Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
the 13 E&R Centers, and focused in some 40 priority forest divisions, that have been
selected on the basis of the proximity of markets, the amount of irrigated land,
population density, and the success of previous social forestry programs. Nurseries
would be entirely private sector enterprises, involving no subsidies. It is estimated
that most nurseries would have a capacity of about 50,000 seedlings annually.
Seedlings would be sold at market price. The project would provide training in
nursery technology and demonstrate modern nursery practice at nurseries to be
established at the E&R Centers. Farm and community forestry extension programs
would be associated with the existing T&V program of the Department of Agriculture,
with MPFD extension workers taking advantage of regular meetings with farmers to
provide information on tree production. This linkage would be reinforced by
coordination of training of MPFD staff in extension with that of Department of
Agriculture staff. Staff and farmer training at workshops and field days would form
an essential part of the extension program.
6.    An Industrial Liaison Unit (ILU) would provide a central contact point between
forest-based industries, both wood and non-wood products, private tree growers, such
as farmers, associations, or Panchayats and MPFD. The ILU would maintain supply
and demand projections for a range of products and provide basic market information.
It would also provide technical information or contacts on subjects such as silviculture,
tree improvement and nursery practice
7.    Project Support. The project would provide finance for the implementation of
the strategy. This would include the provision of extension materials, finance for
farmer training, demonstrations and field days, and training of MPFD staff. The
project would also provide funds for special studies, contracts and surveys that would
include:
-     Development of curricula for training MPFD staff in extension methods;
-     Evaluation studies to assess the impact of the extension program;
-     Production of extension videos;
-     Studies and market analysis of supply and demand for wood and non-
wood products.
8.    Program Implementation. The implementation of the proposed extension
programs would be the responsibility of the DFO in charge of each of the E&R
Centers. The DFO would be directly responsible to the CF in charge of the Forest
Circle, but the CCF (Social Forestry) would have functional responsibility for the
extension programs. Linkages within the MPFD are illustrated in Figure .. For the
implementation of the extension programs, each DFO at the E&R Centers would be
assisted by an ACF, a Range Officer and two Forest Guards. The development of the



Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
extension program would be linked to the development of the E&R Centers, that is, 2
centers in the first year of the project, three in the second year, and four in each of the
third and fourth years. Private nursery development would also be targeted in the
same way. This would result in the phasing of project activities as shown below,
together with estimates of the development of nurseries and seedling production.
Cumulative Totals
Year I     Year 2     Year 3      Year 4
No. E&R Centers                 2           5          9          13
No. of Divisions with           6          16          28         40
Extension Programs
No. of private nurseries       51         153        306         510
No. of seedlings produced       2.6         7.6        15.3       25.5
(million)
9.    The ILU would be based in MPFD headquarters in Bhopal and headed by a CF
with a background in economics. He would be responsible to the CCF (Industries)
and supported by an ACF. Staff of at least Range Officer level, would be assigned to
the ILU in each of the E&R Centers, to assist with the collection of supply and
demand data.
10.   Staff Training. Training of MPFD staff in the new approaches for forest
development on private and community land would be an important part of the
function of the E&R Centers. Forest Guard training would be provided on a regular
basis by ACFs or Range Officers, who had themselves completed the extension
training program. DFOs and other senior personnel involved in programs to promote
forestry on private and community lands would participate in regular training
workshops. International and local training in market analysis would also be provided
for selected staff. A training plan summarizing these programs is presented in Table 1
to this Annex.



Training Plan - Extension Program
Course                    Participants             Objectives          Resource Agency            Duration        Frequency
Refresher course             DFO (batch of 20)           Extension           T&V specialists, NGO,      workshop of I      once
techniques         Agricultural University    week
-ditto-                      RFO (batch of 20)           ditto               FD staff/ T&V specialists/   workshop of two   once in Year
NGO                        weeks              I and 2
-ditto-                      FO & RFO                     ditto              Forestry schools, NGO,     workshop           I course per
Agricultural Extension                       year
Training Centers
Forestry technology          T&V staff (ADO & RAEO)   Introduction to        DFO & RFO                  one day            I course per
according to T&V schedule   forest technology                                                year
Training Plan - Market Analysis
Course                     Participants            Objectives        Resource Agency         Duration         Frequency
International training         DFO (1) + ACF (1) of        market analysis    Overseas               3 months         once each
ILU
Local training                 DFOs and staff of the       market analysis    HM (Indian Institute   2 weeks          once
R&E centers                                   of Management)               ._ __x






Annex 5
Page 1 of 12
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Village Resource Development Program
Policy Framework
1.          The National Forestry Policy of 1988 defines the primary goals of forest
management as first, to conserve the natural environment, second, to meet the requirements of
local people (particularly tribal populations and the poor), for forest produce, and third, as a
source of wood and other products for industries and other non-local users. The policy
envisages participation of communities in the management of forest resources as a means of
achieving these objectives. On 1 June, 1990, the GOI Ministry of Environment and Forests
issued policy instructions to all state forestry departments which defined an operational and
institutional framework for the new policy (GOI circular N.6.21/89-FP). These guidelines
highlight the role of suitably experienced NGOs and voluntary agencies as an interface
between State Forest Departments and local village communities, recommending that the
program be implemented under an arrangement between the community, NGOs, and the
Forest Department. Only those beneficiaries organized into institutions specifically for forest
regeneration and protection would have access to forest land atid benefits.
2.          The Government of Madhya Pradesh has issued an order providing the framework
for implementation of the policy, entitled "Community participation in preventing illicit
felling of the forests and rehabilitation of the forests", (Order No. 16/4/10/2/91 of December,
Definitions:
Joint Forest Management (JFM) is the sharing of products, responsibilities, control, and decision making
authority over forest lands, between forest departments and local user groups, based on a formal agreement.
The primary purpose of JFM is to create conditions at the local level which enable improvements in forest
condition and productivity. A second goal is to support an equitable distribution of forest products.
The Village Resource Development Program denotes a combination of joint forest management and
activities, or investments, designed to create alternative incomes or resources in village areas in areas
immediately peripheral to forest land. It provides both incentives for communities to participate in JFM,
and a mechanism for reducing pressure on forest resources.
Ecodevelopment (Annex ..) is similar to VRDP, but is restricted to areas peripheral to Protected Areas. It
differs from VRDP in that communities would not have access to forest resources within the PAs, which
JFM provides within forested land. This lack of access is offset by the greater availability of employment
opportunities within the PAs and the benefits of eco-tourism and other activities associated with the PAs.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 12
1991). The order was revised on January 4, 1995 and prescribes the formation of two kinds
of village committees: Forest Protection Committees (FPCs) would be constituted in sensitive
forest areas where villagers are willing to participate in forest protection; while in degraded
forest areas, Village Forest Committees (VFCs) are to be formed. In both cases, the
committee would consist of a member from each resident family of the village. An
informally constituted executive committee would include, as ex officio members, all the
Panchs of the village Panchayat, the members of the Antyodaya Samiti, and the village
Kotwar, teacher and Mukhia. The Forester or Forest Guard is to serve, ex officio, as the
Secretary. The Divisional Forest Officer has the power to dissolve both kinds of committee,
or to terminate the membership of specific members.
3.        The duties of FPCs and VFCs outlined in the revised Order center on the
protection of the forest. They include curbing illicit felling, encroachment and grazing,
reporting theft and damage to MPFD and, when necessary, arresting offenders. FPC members
would be entitled to full NISTAR rights, and NWFPs, but not to a share in the final harvest.
VFC members would be entitled to intermediate products and a 30 percent share of the final
harvest. These distinctions are summarized in the table below.
Area                       Open Forest                Closed Forest
(i.e. crown cover < 40%)   (i.e. crown cover > 40%)
Village-level institution  Village Forest Committee   Forest Protection
(VFC)                      Committee (FPC)
Management objectives      Production from!           Protection of closed forest
(Committee)                Management of degraded
forest
Management Objectives      Conservation               Conservation / Production
(Forest Department)
Distribution of Outputs:
NISTAR                   No                         Yes
Intermediate products    Yes                        No
Final Products           Yes (30% share)            No
Planning Process           Joint Forest Management /    Working Plans
Village Level Resource
Planning
The mechanism for calculating the net revenue and distributing it among Committee members
is to be detailed in a separate instruction from MPFD.



Annex 5
Page 3 of 12
Current Programs
4.        Although MPFD had begun pilot work with communities prior to the issuance of
the 1991 Order, Joint Forest Management is a relatively recent concept in the state. The
process has been promoted most successfully in Harda and Jhabua Divisions. In Harda, 192
FPCs had been established, and more than three-quarters of the Division now comes under the
purview of these committees. Over 46,000 ha have been closed to grazing and villagers have
been successful in regulating the access of their own stock and excluding the livestock of
outsiders. In Jhabua about 20 FPCs have been established, managing over 20,000 ha of forest
land. FPCs have also been established in other Divisions.
5.        Participatory planning methods have been adopted in most areas where VFCs
have been established, but the level of participation by villagers varies, mainly in relation to
the training and commitment of MPFD staff. In addition, in Harda Division and elsewhere, a
program referred to as "Ecodevelopment " has been initiated. The aim of the program is to
provide alternatives to the forest as a source of income and employment for participating
villagers. This program includes investments such as irrigation infrastructure and equipment,
such as stop dams, wells and pump sets; soil conservation measures; school and community
buildings; inputs such as seeds, fertilizer, and horticultural supplies; training in income
generation activities, for example, sericulture, mushroom cultivation, and apiculture; and the
promotion of fuel saving technologies such as bio-gas plants and energy-efficient stoves. As
the program involves both JFM arrangements and activities to generate alternative resources
and incomes, it is referred to here as a Village Resource Development Program (VRDP).
(See Footnote 1.)
Factors Affecting VRDP Implementation
6.        Over the last few years, considerable progress has been made by the Department
in involving communities in forest protection and management, and the proposed VRDP is
rightly seen by MPFD as an opportunity to gain the confidence of communities. However,
successful and sustainable devolution of natural resource management will depend on a
genuine transfer of responsibility to participating communities, appropriate incentives, and a
viable institutional framework.
7.        The particular factors which affect the implementation of a wider program of
VRDP include the following:
(a)  The traditional approach of the Forest Department with its emphasis on forest
protection and enforcement has left a legacy of mistrust in many communities.
The management of the Forest Department has been hierarchical and suited to the
downward transmission of orders and directives. Effective implementation of
VRDP will require a change in this culture, towards a learning orientation,
accompanied by decentralization of decision making to enable site-specific
programs to be developed.



Annex 5
Page 4 of 12
(b)  The implications of participatory planning are still new to the department. The
administrative ethos of the Forest Department which links budget releases to
working plans and pre-determined targets, does not encourage autonomy and
democratic process at the community level. Flexible, adaptive process will be
needed for the successful implementation of JFM.
(c)  The technical and economic viability of proposed management systems,
investments and activities needs further assessment (e.g. the economic
implications of rotational grazing, the productivity of forest areas under
regeneration)..
(d)  The institutional anid legal arrangements for JFM and Village Resource
Development need particular support and attention, as viable and sustainable local
institutions will be a necessary for the success of the program.
(e)   VRDP has important distributional implications. For institutional arrangements to
be both equitable and sustainable, those, such as headloaders, whose sources of
livelihood are curtailed by new management arrangements (and who often have
few alternatives sources of income), will need to be compensated.
VRDP Strategy and Activities
8.         VRDP would be based on two broad, but related, strategies for involving
communities in forest protection and management. These are: (i) increasing the stake of
neighboring communities in the management and utilization of the forest; and (ii) creating
alternative sources of incomes and employment to reduce pressure on the forest. These two
strategies are respectively reflected in:
(a)   Regeneration of Degraded Forests (RDF), which involves planting and
silvicultural practices and is based on Joint Forest Management arrangement with
VFCs; and
(b)  Village Asset Creation (VAC), which is the investment in stop-dams, alternative
income generation schemes, etc., which have been referred to by MPFD as
ecodevelopment.
9.         The program's main activities would be in the following four areas:
(i) building village institutions for forest management;
(ii) participatory microplanning at village level;



Annex 5
Page 5 of 12
(iii) the sanctioning and implementation of formal agreements between
communities and the Forest Department; and
(iv) investments in alternative sources of forest products, income, and
employment.
10.       Village level institution building. Effective, representative and sustainable
institutions would be the essential foundation for all component activities. If VRDP is to
promote meaningful and sustained local autonomy, rather than a continuing dependence on
subsidized inputs, a massive task of building institutional capacity at village level would be a
fundamental element of the strategy. This would be paralleled by a change in the
management culture of MPFD appropriate to the promotion of responsiveness, learning, and a
client orientation must be fostered.
11.       The proposed revisions to the MP Government Resolution of December 1991 (see
paragraph 1 above) would ensure the representation of women and the poor on Village Forest
Committees, Forest Protection Committees, and their executives. Formal membership of the
committees would include two members, one male and one female, from each household.
Further, the VFC/FPC Executive Committee would be required to include at least two
women, and at least two members of landless households. Elections would be held annually
to the Executive committee.
12.       NGOs have an important role to play in implementing the VRDP. While local
NGOs are not as numerous or prominent in Madhya Pradesh as in other States, there are a
number who have gained the confidence of local communities and whose knowledge and
experience of community development would be a great asset in building new forms of
relationships between the communities and the Forest Department. Such institutions would be
encouraged to work in partnership with the communities and the Forest Department in
formulating and implementing VRD plans. In addition to the implementation of JFM, NGOs
would have a role in training, monitoring and evaluation.
13.       Microplanning. Village Resource Management Plans would be prepared through
a participatory appraisal and planning process. This would take into account: the social,
political and economic structure of the village; the resource base in terms of the amount and
nature of cultivated lands, cropping patterns, livestock ownership, and the distribution, nature
and condition of forest land traditionally used by the community; current patterns of use of
the forest resource, by category of user; traditional or indigenous organizations and
mechanisms for regulating access to forest products; current economic activities, constraints,
and opportunities; previous government and NGO programs and their impact; and expressed
needs and priorities of different social or interest groups. Under the project, particular
emphasis would be given to ensuring that: (a) participatory appraisal would precede the
fixing of both social and territorial management units; (b) interest groups, defined on the
basis of gender, residence, occupation, or resource endowment would be identified and their



Annex 5
Page 6 of 12
problems and priorities assessed through focus group interviewing; and (c) a general
consensus of the group as to its goals and priorities would be established before the election
of an executive committee.
14.       VRDP Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). The planning process will lead
to a formal MOU between the Village Forest Committee and the Forest Department defining
the Village Resource Development Program (VRDP). This agreement will detail Joint Forest
Management arrangements linking defined areas of forest with defined communities, and
specify management and protection measures and responsibilities, product sharing
arrangements, sanctions, and conflict resolution procedures (both within and between VPCs).
In addition, VRDP plans would specify the type and quantity of resources to be made
available to the community for alternative income generation activities in return for the
successful protection and management of forest land. Such resources would be available for
productive activities meeting the criteria of technical, financial and environmental viability
and sustainability, and which are equitable in their distributional implications. VRD plans
would be approved by the DFO and a copy deposited with the District Collector.
15.       VRDP Activities. VRDP Plans would include a range of activities identified by
local communities. Given the nature of participatory planning, which provides the flexibility
for communities to decide their own priorities, it is not possible to define a precise range of
activities. Activities to be included in the VRDP Plan would meet the following criteria:
-  Contribution to reducing pressure on forest resources;
-  Equity considerations and the extent that the activities compensate those
whose incomes have been reduced by the imposition of forest protection;
-  Biomass generation;
-  Individual or family income generation;
-  Benefits to the community resulting from increased agricultural production.
Social infrastructure, such as schools, and other activities that do not result in increased
production of produce or goods, would receive a lower priority, as many could be financed
from other sources.



Annex 5
Page 7 of 12
16.        An illustrative list of activities meeting these criteria, which is not intended to be
comprehensive would include:
-  Establishment of fuelwood and fodder plantations;
-  Agricultural infrastructure - e.g. minor irrigation, soil and water conservation,
etc.;
-  Village infrastructure - e.g. water supply;
-  Apiculture, sericulture, mushroom cultivation;
-  Wages paid for watch and ward activities in the forest areas.
17.       Equity considerations. A number of measures will be taken to ensure that those
whose access to forest products is restricted by protection have the first claim on benefits, and
that the assetless gain a share of the benefits of both Joint Forest Management and related
VRD activities:
(a)  Interest groups would be identified in the participatory appraisal and planning
process, and each would contribute to the formulation of plan priorities and
objectives.
(b)  Where appropriate, sub-villages or occupational groups would be constituted as
VFCs or FPCs.
(c)  Interest groups (including women) would be represented on the committee and its
executive.
(d)  Priority would be given to the meeting of subsistence objectives and needs in
targeting VRDP activities.
(e)   A criterion for the selection of income-generation activities would be their
appropriateness to the needs of the principal users of the forest resource affected
by new protection systems (in particular those with limited alternative sources of
income and employment, such as women and the landless).
(f)   Preference will be given to resource-poor and vulnerable groups in assigning
VRD plan-related employment (for forest protection and management,
construction.
(g)  VRD planners and implementors will be trained in issues relevant to equity and
village social structure, including the significance gender, caste and ethnicity.



Annex 5
Page 8 of 12
These measure are not intended to make the VFC an organization of the poor. The principle
of representativeness implies that all members should have a stake in successful and
sustainable forest management.
Project Support
18.       The project would support the VRDP through: (a) providing funds and; (b)
institution building at the village level and within MPFD, mainly through specially designed
training programs.
Implementation arrangements
19.       The Village Resource Development Program would be implemented by the
Territorial Wing. In each Circle, the CF would have overall responsibility for the program.
The CF Project Planning and the DCF (VRDP) in the Project Implementation Unit would
have special responsibility for overseeing the VRDP. Duties would include assisting the
coordination of VRDP activities, ensuring adherence to participatory principles, and
promoting the exchange of experience between circles. The PIU would also be a focal point
for all tribal issues, ensuring that tribal interests were fully integrated into VRD activities and
processes.
20.       In order to implement the program, Village Resource Development teams,
including all staff involved in implementation, would be built at Divisional level, under the
leadership of the Divisional Forest Officer. VRDP Spearhead Teams would be created in
each Division to support village level assessment and planning. Each would consist of a
Ranger, a Deputy Ranger, two foresters and a female NGO facilitator. The role of these
teams would be to impart participatory planning skills to field staff in the Division involved
in the VRDP. They would be based at the newly created Eco-development Centers in each
Division. The work of these teams would be facilitated by a publicity campaign, that would
be conducted at the beginning of the project to inform the public of the new policy of
transferring responsibility for forest management to local communities and to explain the
objectives and activities of the proposed project.
Funding of the Village Resource Development Program.
21.       The amount of money available to each community for the VRDP would be
related to the area of forest land that the community is protecting or managing jointly with
MPFD and the per hectare cost to MPFD of protecting this forest in the absence of
community participation. The money available would be the product of the per hectare cost
of seven years protection using traditional methods (cattle proof trenches and the employment
of labor for "watch and ward") and the area to be managed by the community, up to a
maximum of 300 hectares. The cost to MPFD has been calculated at Rs.300 per ha per year.
For a community protecting and managing 300 hectares of forest, the cumulative total over



Annex 5
Page 9 of 12
seven years would amount to Rs. 630,000. These funds have been provided in the project
under the category of Forest Protection and may be utilized by communities to finance village
asset creation as part of the VRDP in accordance with the criteria defined in the following
paragraph.
22.        Criteria for the use of Forest Protection Funds. Criteria agreed with GOMP
for the use of project Forest Protection funds are set out below.
-   Completion of an MOU between MPFD and the VFC, specifying amongst other
things, the activities to be financedas indicated in Paras. 15 - 16 of this Annex;
-   Satisfactory protection by the community of the forest land covered by the MOU;
-   Completion of site-specific microplanning for VRDP;
-   Review of plans by the DFO, including an assessment of their environmental and
social impact 2;
-   Endorsement of plans and specific proposals by the concerned VFC and the
completion of a formal VRDP Agreement;
-   Adherence to the agreed administrative procedures for disbursement and
monitoring (see below)
23.        Administrative Procedures. Each DFO would make an annual request for funds
based on the anticipated entitlement for forest protection funds for the VRDP by VFCs within
his jurisdiction. Once drawn down, these funds would be deposited in a Deposit Account
(DA) in the name of the DFO. The DFO would open a separate ledger for the VRDP program
of each VFC. Drawn down, but unspent funds would not revert to Treasury at the end of the
fiscal year, to enable VFCs to accumulate sufficient funds to undertake significant village
improvements.
24.        The expenditure of funds by the DFO would follow the schedule recorded in the
VRDP agreement subject to:
(a)  six-monthly inspection reports made by the DFO indicating the satisfactory
fulfillment of the Village Forest Committee (VFC) obligations for forest
protection and management; and
The environmental and social impact of VRDP plans would be reviewed in the light of the principles
of the GOI Environmental Protection Act, the GOI Wildlife Protection Act, and the World Bank
Guidelines for environment, involuntary resettlement and indigenous peoples that have been set out
in World Bank Operational Directives 4.00, 4.20 and 4.30.



Annex 5
Page 10 of 12
(b)  all debits from the VFC VRDP ledger being on the basis of the MOU agreed by
the VFC Executive Committee.
25.       Each VFC would establish a bank account. The Committee Chairman, and
Secretary would be joint signatories. The account would be used to deposit money raised by
the VFC from any membership contributions, fines collected by the VFC or other sources of
income. Training would be provided to selected VFC members in basic bookkeeping and
related organizational skills.
26.       Funds would be available to the VFC in two ways:
(a)  Up to one-third of the annual entitlement would be paid, on a monthly basis, to
the VFC, either directly or into the VFC bank account to cover the costs of watch
and ward of the protected area. The VFC could use this money to pay wages to
those undertaking the watch and ward, use it for a mutual guarantee fund, or
retain it for investment in village infrastructure. This account could be
augmented by members' savings and interest, and additional income from the
VFC's share of the proceeds of sales of forest produce, as specified in the JFM
agreement, and by fees levied for grazing and headloading, and by fines collected
by the committee;
(b)  The remaining two-thirds of the annual entitlement would be used for investment
in village improvement programs, such as minor irrigation works, as outlined in
the VRDP agreement. The DFO would make direct payment for these works
from the PDA, debiting the VFC ledger account. No expenditure would be
incurred until the DFO had ascertained that the VFC had satisfactorily protected
the forest area for at least one year. On the decision of the VFC, funds could be
accumulated for two or more years, so that more costly works, such as a stop-
dam could be financed. If a VFC satisfactorily protected the forest for two years,
an advance payment, equivalent to the entitlement for the third year of protection
would be made to the VFC, to enable construction of more costly village assets
to begin. Thus, a community that had satisfactorily protected 300 ha of forest for
two years would have an entitlement of 2 X Rs. 90,000. An advance of Rs.
90,000, equivalent to the third year entitlement, would mean Rs. 270,000 would
be available for investment in village infrastructure.
27.       All Deposit Accounts would be subject to regular audit and the DFO would
provide the VFC with a six-monthly summary of the status of the VFC ledger account.
28.       Coordination arrangements. Given the diversity of project activities, inter-
agency coordination will be critical to project success. In both Harda and Jhabua Divisions,
such coordination has been energetically pursued. Relevant agencies include the Animal
Husbandry, Agriculture, Horticulture and Irrigation Departments and the Tribal Development
Agency. Coordination committees of these and other relevant agencies are proposed at State,



Annex 5
Page 11 of 12
District and Block (Taluk) level.
29.       Phasing. A total of about 1,143 villages would be involved over the four year
project period, becoming responsible for 343,000 hectares of forest land (about 74,000
hectares of which would have come under active management). The phasing of the program
would be linked to the training of staff in participatory planning and the principles underlying
the program. Team building, orientation and training during the project preparatory year
would develop the necessary skills in an initial group of staff from nine Divisions. The VRD
program would begin in these Divisions in Year 1, and in 12 Divisions in the subsequent year
(following training and orientation of their staff during Year 1). Work would be undertaken
in 3 ranges within each of VRDP Division. In each Range, 3 villages would enter the
program in the first year of activities, 4 in each of the second and third years, and six in the
fourth and fifth years. It is assumed that there would be significant MPFD involvement in
any village for at least three years. The phasing of activities is shown in the table below.
Details of the VRD component costs are given in Cost Table 2.
Project Year          1       2       3       4
No. of Circles        3       4       4       6
No. of Divisions     9       12       12      18
No. of Ranges        27      36      36       54
No. of Villages      81      216     387    459
Cumulative Total     81      297     684    1143
No. of Villages
Training
30.       As the VRDP represents a significant change in the approach of MPFD, the
project would finance a major program for staff and villager training. This is so critical, that
the whole of the phasing of the VRDP has been linked to the rate at which staff can be
realistically trained in the new approaches and techniques for successful implementation of
the program. The main training needs are identified in the following table and an outline
training plan presented in Table I of this Annex.
31.       Monitoring and Evaluation. The monitoring of the VRDP would be undertaken
as part of the regular monitoring and evaluation process to be established in MPFD, as
discussed in Annex 9, together with a suggested list of indicators. The project would finance
a study to evaluate the VRDP in the third year of the project. Terms of reference for the
study are presented in Appendix 1 to this Annex.



Annex 5
Page 12 of 12
32.       Studies and Consultancies. The project would finance a study of possible
income generating activities that could be supported through the VRDP. The study would
examine the technical viability and financial profitability of a range of income generating
activities. Terms of reference for the study are presented in Appendix 2 to this Annex.



Training Plan - Village Resource Development Program
Course              Particpants                Objectives                  Resource Agencies           Duration               Frequency
1. Orientation for    DFO and above         Familiarization with JFM        TTTI, Academy of              2 x 3-day         12 Workshops
Senior Staff                                concepts and methods            Administration, IIFM, other    modules          in each of Years I and 2
2. Training of VRD    VRD teams (RFOs,    To impart technical, social,      Modules by: NGOs, WALMI,   6 weeks               3, 4, 4, 6 and 6 in Years 0
Spearhead Teams       Foresters, Guards),    participatory planning, and    Academy of Administration,                       to 4. Batches of 21
plus DFO and SDO      training skills                TTTI, IIFM, FD Staff                             persons 3 VRDP Teams
3. Circle Team        CFs, ACFs, DFOs       Familiarization with VRD;       Facilitator                    2 days           3, 4, 4, 6 and 6
building                                     building Circle-level                                                           workshops (by Circle) in
managment teams and common                                                      Years 0 to 4
vision and methods for VRD
4. Divisional Team     DFOs, ACFs, RFOs    Familiarization with VRD;        Facilitator                    2 days            9, 12, 12, 18 and 18
Building                                     building Divisional managment                                                   workshops (by Divisions)
teams and common vision and                                                    in Years 0 to 4
methods for VRD
5. VRD skills for     RFOs, Foresters,      Impart social and technical,    VRDP Spearhead Team            I week            27, 36, 36, 54 and 54
field staff (Range    Guards.               and planning skills to FD field                                                  workshops (by Range) in
level)                                       staff                                                                           Years 0 to 4
6. Training for       Village Committee     Imparting institution building  VRDP Spearhead Team,           variable         Continuous. Courses to be
Village Committee     Members               and income generation skills to   NGOs, Other agencies                          held at Divisional
Members                                      village participants                                                            Ecocenters
o3 ;
D



Training Plan - Village Resource Development Program (Contd.)
couse              Participants               Objectives                 Rsource Agencies            Duraion               tq
7. Experience sharing   DFOs and above     Review of and reflection on    Forest Department              I day            3,4 and 6, in Years 2 to 4
workshops                                  VRD experience                                                                 (at circle level)
8. Annual workshops   All resource and     Coordination of training inputs   n/a                         1 day            I workshop each year in
for trainers          training institutes  and methods                                                                    years 0 to 4
9. Study Tours        Rangers and above     Observation of JFM and         n/a                           10 days          3, 4, 4 and 6 tours in
MPFD Officers (in                           discussion with participants                                                  Years I to 4
country)
10. Study Tours for    Participating       Observation of JFM and         n/a                            I week           9, 12, 12 and 18 tours in
villagers and NGOs    villagers and field  interaction with JFM                                                           Years I to 4
(in country)          staff                 participants
11. International     ACF and above (2     Community forestry, joint      Overseas                      3 months          3 courses each in Years I
training for Forest   per year); Range     forest management, forestry                                                   to 4
Officers              officers (I per year)   extension methods, etc.
rn



Annex 5
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Evaluation of VRDP. Terms of Reference
Objectives
1.    The objectives of the review are: (i) to assess progress in VRDP activities against the
evaluation criteria given below; and (ii) in the light of the findings from (i) to advise on use
of funds allocated to VRDP during project years 3 to 7.
Terms of Reference
2.    The consultants will:
-     Identify 20 percent of villages participating in the VRDP, to form a sample
representative of different ecological and socio-economic conditions.
-     Collate MPFD monitoring data for these sample villages;
-     Undertake field visits to a sub-sample of villages to provide first hand
confirmation of the data;
-     On the basis of the data and field visits, review the viability and sustainability
of the VRDP in the light of the following evaluation criteria;
-     Technical viability of technical packages and recommendations;
-     Financial viability in the long term;
-     Economic implications, including the implications for communities
excluded by new forest management arrangements;
-     Institutional sustainability and the adequacy of the organizational
arrangements for participation;



Annex 5
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 2
Distributional implications, including an assessment of whether the
losers from new management systems adequately compensated, the
distribution of benefits is equitable, and the proportion of benefits
received by women, the landless, marginal farmers, and scheduled
castes;
Environmental implications in the long term of the kinds of activities
promoted under the project.
Timing and Team composition
3.    The evaluation study will be undertaken over a three month period during project the
third year of the project. The review team will consist of three members with skills including
forestry, community development, rural sociology, and institutional development. The report
and recommendations will be delivered in advance of the project mid-term review.



Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Study of Income Generating Opportunities in VRDP
Terms of Reference
Objectives
1.    The purpose of the study is to identify appropriate income and employment generation
activities to be promoted as part of the VRDP.
Terms of Reference
2. The consultants will:
Review the experience of the development of income generating activities in
Madhya Pradesh;
Identify the most promising of these and suggest additional activities;
Assess each of the activities in terms of:
-     Technical viability
-     Financial profitability
-     Marketing
-     Equity and gender implications;
Make recommendations for activities to be promoted as part of the VRDP in
future;
Estimate the costs of initiating the activities and recommend ways in which
individuals, particularly the assetless, can be assisted through the VRDP, to obtain
the necessary funds;
Identify training needs for MPFD staff to promote such activities and for villagers
to implement them;



Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 2 of 2
Timing and Team Composition
3.    The study will be undertaken in two phases. The first will be a review of existing
experience, and the identification of a range of possible activities for the future. This will take
about two weeks. The team for this phase will consist of a financial analyst and a general
technical expert. On the basis of this review, a second phase of the study will assess the viability
of the proposed activities in accordance with the TOR above. This second phase will be
completed in two months by a team consisting of a financial analyst and one or more technical
specialists relevant to the activities being investigated.



Annex 6
Page 1 of 9
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Conservation of Biodiversity
Protected Areas in Madhya Pradesh
1.    Madhya Pradesh is considered to lie within two main biogeographic zones, the
Semi-Arid Zone, occupying 22 percent of the area, and the Deccan Plateau Zone,
occupying 78 percent of the area. The Deccan Plateau Zone is further sub-divided
into three biotic provinces, namely the Eastern Highlands (18.7 percent), Chota Nagpur
Plateau (7.7 percent) and Central Highlands (51.3 percent). The Semi-Arid Zone has
one biotic province, namely the Gujarat-Rajawa Province. Protected Areas (PAs)
have been established in each of these biotic provinces, though they do not represent
all the ecological diversity in the state. There is a total of 11 National Parks and 31
Wildlife Sanctuaries covering 16,592 sq.kms. or 3.7 percent of the total area of the
State and 11 percent of the forest lands. Four of the national parks have been either
included or to be shortly included under the centrally supported Tiger Reserve
Program of the Government of India. Although, the total area of the PAs represents
the largest extent area under protection in any single State of the country, it falls
considerably short of the average national target of 4 to 5 percent. The WH 1/
recommended the creation of two national parks and 16 sanctuaries to strengthen the
PA system of the State.
Biological and Conservation Value
2.    The vegetation of Madhya Pradesh represents the typical Central Indian
Peninsular flora and fauna. Forests, which cover 35% of the land area of the State,
varies from thorn forests in the western part to dry deciduous and moist deciduous
types in the central and southern parts, with some endemic and threatened elements of
plants and animals. Botanically, the Deccan Zone attracts considerable interest,
particularly in the hill areas. The eastern highlands is the biologically richest area and
is the principal catchment for two of India's main river systems (Narmada and
Mahanadi). Within the Satpura range of the central highlands are found elements of
the biologically important sub-tropical hill forest. This forest tract provide a wide
range of environmental gradients and consequently exhibit a rich diversity of habitats
and species. The deep gauges of the Pachmarhi plateau are sites of rare species of
tree ferns and bryophytes. Along the Chambal River in the western part of the State
1/ Rodgers, W. A. and Panwar, H. 1988 - Planning a Wildlife Protected Area Network in India.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 9
are found remnant patches of fast disappearing ravine tropical thorn forests. The last
known population of the highly endangered Barasingha swamp deer occurs within the
State.
Constraints
3.    The existing program for the conservation of biodiversity in Madhya Pradesh
suffers from a number of constraints. The most important are:
-     The present network of protected areas in Madhya Pradesh is not
representative of the full range of ecosystems and habitats in the State;
-     The lack of a clear policy for the maintenance of ecological
connectivity between protected areas and for the management of the
various types of land in the surroundings of the protected areas;
-     The lack of specific programs to manage the human pressures on
protected areas from the small populations resident in the PAs and the
much larger populations in the peripheral areas;
-     Limited managerial capacity to meet the range of planning, monitoring,
evaluation and research needs for improving the protected areas
programs and for conservation of biodiversity;
-     Inadequate staffing and resources within the Wildlife Wing of MPFD
for the implementation of effective biodiversity conservation programs.
Future Strategy for Conservation of Biodiversity
4.    The future strategy for the conservation of biodiversity would have three main
thrusts:
improved management and protection of existing PAs to increase their
ecological viability and diversity;
maintenance of ecological connectivity between protected areas and the
enhancement of the PA network for the State;
reduction in the dependency of communities on PA resource through
sustainable management of forests in areas peripheral to the PAs, and
through ecodevelopment programs to create alternative resources or
incomes for local populations.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 9
Project Support
5.    Area Selection. The project would finance improved planning and
management in 24 of the PAs in Madhya Pradesh. These areas, listed below, are
considered in two groups: those of highest priority, referred to as P1 Areas, in which
the project would provide more comprehensive support for improved management, and
would in addition, finance ecodevelopment activities in areas peripheral to the 12 PAs;
and those of lower priority, referred to as P2 Areas, in which the project would
provide management support, though of a less comprehensive nature, and where there
would be no direct project finance for ecodevelopment programs. The 24 PAs
selected are as follows:
P1 Areas     Bandhavgarh NP, Kanha NP, Madhav NP, Panna NP, Sanjay NP,
Satpura NP, Bori WLS, Achanakmar WLS, Tamor-Pingla WLS,
Palpur-Kuno WLS, Sitandi WLS, Udanti WLS
P2 Areas     Indravati NP, Kanger NP, Noradehi WLS, Pachmarhi WLS,
Pench WLS, Ratapani WLS, Ghatigaon WLS, Son Ghariyal WLS,
Sardarpur WLS, Badalkhol WLS, Chambal WLS, Phen WLS
6.    Areas of biological importance that are outside present PAs would be of
importance in the development of the connectivity of the PA network. These areas,
referred to as P3 Areas are listed below. The criteria for selection of the P1, P2 and
P3 Areas are presented in Appendix 1 to this Annex.
P3 Areas      Choral, South Khargone, Kalibit, West Chhindwara, Sumtara,
Rukhad, Rangawa, Kawardha, Logurkhara, Tururbaria, Balai,
Amarkantak, Golapalli, Sainmura, Hasdobasin, Guna,
Shyamgiri, Chachai
7.    PA Planning and Management. The project would support the preparation or
improvement of management plans in all 24 PAs, through providing for the formation
and operation of five zonal PA Planning Teams, each responsible to the relevant Zonal
Conservator (Wildlife). Each team would consist of two Range Officers, two
Foresters, two Forest Guards and a draftsman. The project would provide training,
equipment, vehicles and specialist consultant advice where necessary. Part of the
management planning process would include planning workshops for each PA to
obtain broad consensus and agreement to the proposed plans from concerned agencies
and specialists from outside the forest department, including NGOs, academics, and
the public.
8.   In each of the priority PAs, a range of development activities would be
implemented, current management programs would be rationalized, and protection



Annex 6
Page 4 of 9
improved, on the basis of the updated management plans. The development activities
proposed in the PAs would include survey and demarcation of boundaries; provision
of communication equipment; construction of guard outposts and patrolling huts;
restoration of degraded habitats by programs of weed control; improvement of water
regimes by the construction of water retention works; and road improvements. In
addition, vehicles and equipment (field, camping and specialized equipment) would be
provided to each of the PAs in support of the proposed program of work.
9.    The project would also finance the development of interpretative programs and
facilities in four PAs, Pachmari, Bandhavgarh, Shivpuri, and Panna. The aim of the
programs would be to create awareness of conservation issues among visitors to PAs
and in neighboring village communities. The programs would be designed as simple,
easy to operate and maintain, using local materials as far as possible, and would
reflect local biological and socio-cultural conditions.
10.   Development of the PA Network. The proposed project would promote the
further development of the PA network through: (a) survey and demarcation of a
limited number of relatively undisturbed satellite areas; (b) implementation of plans for
management of the intervening zones that are compatible with biodiversity
conservation values; and (c) implementation of ecodevelopment programs in the more
disturbed surroundings and intervening areas. The survey and demarcation of the
proposed satellite areas would take into consideration the biological and socio-cultural
values of the area. Although, survey alone may not confer on the area a legal status,
it would nevertheless, enhance opportunities for improving conservation management
and protection in these areas. Specific attention could be focussed on promoting forest
production operations that favor the maintenance or improvement of biological
diversity and ecological processes in the proposed satellite areas and the intervening
zones. Although, the strategy being proposed under the project for development of the
PA network is aimed at the enhancement or maintenance of biological diversity as the
primary objective, this does not preclude the declaration of these areas as PAs, if
concerns of human use and dependencies can be satisfactorily resolved.
11.   Ecodevelopment. 2/ The project would finance a phased program of
ecodevelopment in about 100 villages around the twelve priority PAs, the P1 Areas,
through the provision of site-specific ecologically friendly measures to enhance
sustainable use of existing resources, develop alternatives to the use of PA resources,
and promote income generation activities, thereby relieving pressures on PAs. These
activities would be financed through the establishment of an Ecodevelopment Support
Fund (ESF). Draft criteria and procedures for disbursement of funds from the ESF are
set out in Appendix 2.
2/    Ecodevelopment is defined as a strategy for protecting ecologically valuable areas from
unsustainable or otherwise unacceptable pressures resulting from the needs and activities of
people living in and around such areas.



Annex 6
Page 5 of 9
12.   The project would support three distinct types of ecodevelopment activities:
those based on the use of forest resources, those related to the use of non-forest
resources, and those that would cover the interface between forests and other sectors.
The activities based on the use of forest resources would be geared to the protection,
regeneration and increased productivity of the forest resources of the peripheral areas
for fodder, fuelwood, timber and minor forest products and a greater security of access
to these resources for the local people through the development of participatory
management arrangements with the local people. Improvement and diversification of
non-forest lands would be accomplished through programs for improving productivity
of agricultural lands, horticulture, sericulture, pisiculture, apiculture, soil conservation
and water retention, cottage industries, and other alternative income generation
programs. These constitute the traditional ecodevelopment inputs. The third set of
activities that cover the interface between forest use and other sectors of the village
economy would include programs for livestock and grazing control, and the use of
energy efficient stoves and alternative sources of energy.
13.   The project would largely support the implementation of those interventions
that demonstrate a direct linkage to the protection of PA resources. This will enable
enable local people to perceive a direct correlation between the planned interventions
and the PA. Otherwise, there is considerable danger that ecodevelopment might
become rural development without the direct linkages to improved PA protection and
management that constitutes its central rationale. The chart below is a guide to
determining the basis for the selection of ecodevelopment activities.
Specific Objectives         Target Group              Intervention
Inco- e r  oration      Income deprived           - Employment
households                - Skills training
- Micro-enterprises
- Improved agriculture
- JFM
Resource substitution   Resource deprived         - Biogas plants
households                - Improved stoves
- Improved livestock
- JFM
Community               Villages peripheral to PAs  - Drinking water
cooperation                                       - Soil and water
conservation
- Infrastructure
14.   The planning and implementation of the ecodevelopinent program would be
very similar to the Village Resource Development Program (VRDP), described in



Annex 6
Page 6 of 9
Annex 5. The program would be based on the development of village level, site-
specific, micro-plans through a participatory process, involving all village families.
The amount of funding available to each community would be similar to that available
under VRDP. The main difference with the VRDP is the emphasis given to protection
of PAs, so that communities would not have access to resources within PAs, but only
to forest and non-forest resources in the peripheral areas. This would be offset by the
greater availability of employment opportunities within the PAs, and the benefits of
eco-tourism and other activities associated with the PAs.
15.   Microplanning. An Ecodevelopment Planning Team would be established in
each of the Zonal CFs, headed by an Ecodevelopment Planning Officer, of at least
Assistant Conservator of Forests (ACF) grade. He would be assisted by an Assistant
Planning Officer of Forest Ranger grade, one Deputy Ranger and two Forest Guards.
The planning team would be completed by two NGO staff, and one of these would be
a woman. The planning team would give priority to those communities which have
most impact on the PA. Forest Guards and Rangers responsible for beats in areas
peripheral to the PA would form part of the planning team, whilst it is working in that
particular beat area. Ecodevelopment plans would be approved by the PA Director
and submitted to the State Project Implementation Committee for periodic review.
Consistency of approach would be ensured by a six-monthly review of approved plans
by the Project Steering Committee. Once the plan is agreed with the community and
approved by the PA Director, funding would be released and the local Forest Guard,
Ranger and NGO staff would assist with the implementation of the ecodevelopment
activities. The planning team would move on to the next priority area.
16.   Activities financed under ecodevelopment in areas peripheral to the PAs would
be the responsibility of the PA manager. This would include responsibility for
planning and implementation of alternative income-generation activities and associated
JFM programs in villages peripheral to the PAs. Sufficient staff would be available
with the Wildlife Wing to undertake the proposed activities. Duplication of work by
the Territorial staff would be avoided as this would sent confusing signals to the
people.
17.   Research. There is, at present, no coordinated program of research that
addresses the needs and interests of biodiversity conservation and protected areas in
Madhya Pradesh. The project would, therefore, support between 12-15 problem-
solving research studies, leading to improved management for conservation and
protection of ecosystems and species. Basic research on wildlife and behavioral
ecology would not be given priority over conservation or management-related work.
Research topics would be selected based on PA and management plan needs and
appropriate institutions to undertake the research would be identified. Procedures for
the award of research contracts would be similar to those used for other forestry
research to be commissioned by SFRI. In addition, the project would support rapid
assessment studies to provide a basic understanding of the status of biodiversity within
the State and to determine areas of important conservation value in need of protection.



Annex 6
Page 7 of 9
Baseline information needs for monitoring and evaluation would also be obtained
through the same contract mechanism.
18.   A DCF (Wildlife Research), placed at the SFRI, would be responsible for the
coordination of the research contracts related to the conservation of biodiversity and
PA management. He would also be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the
research work and ensuring that research activities are in keeping with PA needs and
interests. A Wildlife Research Advisory Committee would be established with
responsibility for determining research priorities, approving the terms of reference for
each contract, evaluating proposals, and reviewing research results. The composition
of the Committee would be as follows:
Chairman                 CCF (Wildlife)
Member Secretary         DCF (Wildlife Research)
Members                  Zonal CFs (Wildlife)
Director, SFRI
Representative WIl
Representative University
Representative NGO
19.   Training. A major training program would be supported under the project to
build capacity within MPFD for improved management of the PA system. Particular
attention would be focused on the training of foresters and guards through the
improvement of the training school at Bandhavgarh. Existing infrastructure at
Bandhavgarh would be improved by the provision of additional dormitory facilities,
equipment, furniture and a large vehicle for field training visits. In addition, financial
support would be provided to meet annual training costs for the duration of the
project. It is anticipated that around 50-60 guards would be trained at the school
annually. More details of proposed training programs are presented in Table 1 of this
Annex.
20.   Higher level professional staff would participate in workshops, study tours and
seminars at both national and international levels. Over 60 person months of
international training and over 200 person months of national training in wildlife and
ecodevelopment planning and managenment would be supported under the project. In
addition, the project would support a number of specialized courses to be conducted
within the State with technical support from national institutions. Most of the national
training be done through existing programs at the WIl. This includes the 9-month
diploma and 4-month certificate courses in wildlife management and the 4-month
certificate course in ecodevelopment planning. Specific training for staff for
implementation of village ecodevelopment would be provided through introductory
courses and practical on-the-job training in participatory planning and program
implementation.



Annex 6
Page 8 of 9
21.   Technical Assistance. The project would also finance the recruitment of
specialists to assist with special studies in resource economics, environmental impact
assessment, and data management. Support would also be provided for obtaining
assistance locally for the design and development of the interpretation programs.
Finance to contract services for data entry of PA statistics would be available. The
project would enable internationally recruited specialists to be hired for short periods
to a total of 12 months and local technical experts to a total of 40 months.
22.   Monitoring and Evaluation. Funds would be available for improving
capabilities for planning, monitoring and evaluation (PME). Consultancies to assist in
the design and introduction of improved PME procedures and supporting systems for
the project would also address needs of the conservation of biodiversity component
(See Annex 9). In addition, wildlife data management systems would be established
in each of the five zonal wildlife offices. Project funds would be available for
purchase of necessary computer equipment and software.
Issues
23.   The main issue affecting this component relates to the fact that there are
communities and villages within the PAs. Some are in the peripheries of the PAs and
could possibly be excluded by the redefinition of boundaries as is currently proposed
for the Kanha Tiger Reserve. Some live in the core areas of the PAs. Excluding
these areas would frequently result in a number of islands of uncontrolled land within
the PA, which would not be compatible with management of the area for conservation
of biodiversity. Government is addressing the problem of resident communities in a
pragmatic way. The legal basis for the notification and management of PAs is
provided by the Wildlife Protection Act. Rather than immediately trying to solve the
problem by enforcing the full rigor of the law, which would be socially and politically
difficult, the Government approach is to provide incentives for people to move
voluntarily to the buffer or peripheral areas of the PAs. An incentive package of
support for housing, village infrastructure, land and irrigation is currently provided as
an inducement to people to move out. An added incentive is the provision of
ecodevelopment benefits to people in peripheral areas.
24.   In the light of this approach to the problem of communities resident within
PAs, the strategy to be adopted under the project would be as follows:
PAs to be supported under the project are selected on the basis of criteria that
minimize the problems of human pressures (See Appendix 1);
An assurance would be sought from GOMP that, in keeping with the provisions
of the Wildlife Act, there would be no involuntary resettlement of people
during the project period;



Annex 6
Page 9 of 9
Proposals for relocation would be preceded by an independent study to assess
the impact of the communities on the conservation of biodiversity;
All proposals would be consistent with the GOI provisions for relocation and
would be agreed with IDA, in the light of the recommendations of the Bank's
Operational Directives 4.20 (Indigenous People) and 4.30 (Involuntary
Resettlement). The main recommendations are summarized in Appendix 3 to
this Annex;
An independent program to monitor the relocation would be financed through
the project.






Training Plan - Conservation of Biodiversity
Course           Participants                Objectives                 R urce Agewies        Duration          Frequency
1. Wildlife          DCF and ACF    Impart field techniques, planning of     WII, Dehradun        9 months        3 per year in Years
management           (27)             disease management, socio-cultural                                          1 to 4
Diploma                               analysis, etc.
2. Short course on   ACF (18)        Impart skills in PRA techniques,         WIT Dehradun        4 months        2 per year in Years
Ecodevelopment                        preparation of microplans, and                                              I to 4
implementation of ecodevelopment
programs
3. Certificate in    RO (27)          To impart skills in development of water    WII, Dehradun   4 months        3 per year in Years
Wildlife                              conservation works, habitat manipulation,                                   I to 4
Management                            law enforcement, capture techniques etc.
4. Specialized       CF, DCF, ACF   Training in chemical immobilization and    WII and others     I to 2 weeks    6 per year
courses              (54)             translocation, census methods, PRA
techniques, interpretation, disease
management, data management, etc.
5. Orientation course   Forest Guards    Orientation to all aspects of PA     FD staff in each    I week          Ten courses per
(1800)          management, ecodevelopment, etc.        CF zone                             year (2 per zone =
200 per year in
Years 1 to 4)
I.-a



Training Plan- Conservation of Biodiversity (Contd.)
W00000 f;teOUF   teV; 0 t0Prtic ts  Objectives         R  t;; 0a : :;           X\Pgesoe Ago ncies  Duration  Frequency
6.                   CF, DCF, ACF   Interaction/ update on PA planning and    Various institutions   3 to 5 days  5 per year (Years I
Workshops/seminars   (45)             management, interpretation, ornithology,    in-country                      to 4)
captive breeding, data management, etc.
7. Study tours       ACF, RO,         Exposure to approaches in               Various institutions   2 weeks      10 per year in
Deputy RO       ecodevelopment, habitat management,     (in country)                        Years I to 4
(90)            animal capture, captive breeding
8. Natural resource  CF, DCF (4)      Natural resource management, planning   USA, UK,            12 months       Years 2 and 4
and PA management                     and management of PA, natural resource    Australia, Thailand,
(long-term courses)                   economics, etc.                         Malaysia
9. Specialized       CF, DCF, ACF   Data management, natural resource         Various institutions   I to 3 months   2 per year
training             (18)             management, park interpretation, habitat
management, biodiversity assessment,
resource economics, park management,
remote sensing, etc.
10. Seminars/        CF, DCF, ACF   Park management, ecodevelopment,          Various institutions   1 to 2 weeks    2 per year
workshops            (18)             resource economics, wildlife tourism, data
management, buffer zone management,
immobilization
11. Study tours      ACF, RO (20)    Exposure to park management,             Asia / Africa       2 weeks         Groups of 10 in
ecodevelopment, interpretation, tourism                                     year 3 and 4
development, revenue generation
0
0
:3 
rt
0.



Annex 6
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Criteria for the Selection of Priority Protected Areas
The project would focus on implementation of a full range of conservation management and
ecodevelopment interventions in 12 high priority PAs (referred to as P1 sites); conservation
management interventions in 12 second priority PAs (referred to as P2 sites); and specific
strategies for improving the PA network through boundary demarcation, ecodevelopment and
improved forest operations in a limited number of relatively undisturbed satellite areas
(referred to as P3 areas). The following criteria have been used for the prioritization of the
PAs of the State into the three referenced categories:
Criteria for Selection of P1 Areas
1.    Areas of high biodiversity value or species richness;
2.   Areas representative of the range of biogeographic zones and provinces of the
State; and
3.   Areas where existing human impacts are readily manageable. This may be
justified by the following parameters:
a.   areas which have a reasonably good core area and relatively low
human impact from within the PA itself;
b.   areas in which there is substantial dependency on PA resources
by adjacent villages;
c.   areas having sufficient land to allow for the development of
realistic core, buffer and peripheral people use zones;
d.   areas with on-going experiences with ecodevelopment activities
or other supportive schemes;
e.   areas in which the level of people-PA antagonism does not
preclude meaningful discussion and dialogue; and



Annex 6
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 2
f.   interest and capacity to deal with the ecodevelopment programs
within the PA management structure.
An additional consideration may be the availability of NGOs or parastatal organizations
who can participate in the ecodevelopment process.
Criteria for the Selection of P2 Areas
1.    Areas with high biodiversity value or species richness;
2.    Areas representative of the range of biogeographic zones and provinces of the
State; and
3.    Areas with appropriate PA management structure and capacity.
Criteria for the Selection of P3 Areas for PA Network Development
1.    Areas with high biodiversity value or species richness;
2.    Areas which are relatively undisturbed;
3.    Areas which could be readily linked to the PA network through forest corridors;
and
4.    Areas with sufficient land to allow for the development of realistic conservation
and people-use areas.



Annex 6
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Ecodevelopment Support Fund
Objectives
1.    To provide a means of financing approved ecodevelopment plans the project would
provide for an Ecodevelopment Support Fund. The Fund would have two main objectives.
The first would be to enable the Ecodevelopment Planning Team in each state to provide
finance for any small improvements to community infrastructure that are urgently required.
The works could include items such as the repair of a water point or the improvement of an
access path. Provision of such finance would aim to generate goodwill and show that
ecodevelopment would be more than just a promise. The expenditure on such works to
provide the Ecodevelopment Planning Team with credibility would amount to no more than
Rs.50,OOO per community. The second objective of the Ecodevelopment Support Fund would
be to enable implementation to take place almost immediately a plan is approved. This
would be essential if communities are to actively participate in planned activities.
Criteria for Use of the Ecodevelopment Support Fund
2.    Agreed criteria for the use of the ESF are set out below.
-   Completion of site-specific microplanning for ecodevelopment;
-   Review of plans by the PA Director, including an assessment of their
environmental and social impact ';
-   Endorsement of plans by the concerned community;
-   Identification of community organizations responsible for implementation;
-   Identification of individuals within the organization with responsibility for
management of funds;
The environmental and social impact of ecodevelopment plans would be reviewed in the light of the
principles of the GOI Environmental Protection Act, the GOI Wildlife Protection Act and the World
Bank Guidelines for environment, involuntary resettlement and indigenous peoples that have been set
out in World Bank Operational Directives 4.00, 4.20 and 4.30.



Annex 6
Appendix 2
Page 2 of 3
Identification of individuals within the organization with responsibility for
management of funds;
Adherence to the agreed administrative procedures (See below) for disbursement
and monitoring.
Administrative Procedures
3.    An outline of the procedures for utilization of the EDSF is presented here. More
detailed procedures would be evolved on the basis of experience, particularly at the
community level, but systematic control of funds would be provided as the PA Director
would be responsible for approving individual ecodevelopment plans, which the State project
Implementation Committee reviews on a regular basis.
-      Expenditure from EDSF would be on the basis of ecodevelopment plans
approved by the PA Director;
-      Payments would be in accordance with the schedule of expenditures
provided in the plan;
-      To reduce administrative delays, the State Project Implementation
Committee would delegate authority to the PA Director to make
payments for certain types of ecodevelopment activities.
-      Payments would be charged to a specially created accounting sub-head;
-      Direct payments to community members employed within the PA on a
daily wage basis for PA management related activities, such as bridle
path construction would be authorized by the PA Director. Such
payments would be separated from the regular PA management budget
and would be of particular importance during the transitional phase;
Collaborative or cooperative ecodevelopment activities would be
managed by community Ecodevelopment Committees, or any other
community organization that the has been agreed as responsible;
The community organization would establish a bank account, dedicated
to agreed ecodevelopment activities, with signatories as decided during
the ecodevelopment planning;



Annex 6
Appendix 2
Page 3 of 3
An advance payment would be made to the account for authorized
expenditures. Subsequent payments would be on the basis of
reimbursement against actual expenditures;
All community accounts would be subject to regular inspection by PA
administration, with the assistance of the collaborating NGO. Annual
audits of all EDSF accounts would be mandatory.






Annex 6
Appendix 3
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Procedures and Criteria for Voluntary Resettlement
1.    The project would not involve any involuntary resettlement of communities.
However, GOMP may, in the interests of the conservation of biodiversity, consider
voluntary resettlement of communities resident within PAs. The recommendations of the
Operational Directive on Involuntary Resettlement provide useful guidelines and principles
to be followed in any proposals for resettlement, even if this is voluntary. These
recommendations include:
The preparation of a relocation plan that attempts to restore living
standards, earning capacity and production levels of the displaced people.
It should include provision to;
(a)   assist the displaced people in the relocation move and provide
support during the transition period in the new site;
(b)   assist the displaced people in their efforts to improve their former
living standards, income earning capacity, and production levels, or
at least to restore them. The project would give highest priority for
inclusion of these people in the ecodevelopment program in order to
improve their incomes and resources.
Involving both settlers and hosts in resettlement activities: In designing the
relocation plan, special emphasis would be placed on:
(a)   community participation in planning and implementing of it;
(b)   establishment of social organizations and supporting and use of
existing social and cultural institutions of re-settlers and their hosts,
as far as possible;
(c)   measures to integrate re-settlers socially and economically into host
communities so as to minimize adverse impacts on the host
communities, if applicable.



Annex 6
Appendix 3
Page 2 of 2
Preparation of a time-bound resettlement plan. When displacement is
unavoidable, a detailed resettlement plan should be prepared, with time
table and budget as required. Resettlement plans should be based on a
strategy to improve or at least restore the economic base for those
relocated. The content of the resettlement plans, should normally include a
statement of objectives and policies and other features.
Valuation and compensation for land and other assets affected by the
project. Prior to relocation, people would be provided a compensation
package of support for housing, village infrastructure, land and irrigation to
compensate for lost assets. Compensation would be facilitated by:
(a)   paying special attention to the adequacy of legal arrangements
concerning land title, registration, and site occupation;
(b)   publicizing among affected people to be displaced the laws and
regulations governing relocation and compensation; and
(c)   development of mechanisms to prevent illegal encroachers to take
advantage of such benefits and to prevent nonresidents moving into
those areas vacated by the oustees;
(d)   establishment of a simple grievance mechanism to resolve any
dispute that may arise.
In addition, the project would attempt to provide alternative incomes and
resources to protect the livelihood of the displaced people through the
ecodevelopment program.



Annex 7
Pagel of 7
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Issues and Actions
The GOMP strategy for the future development of the forestry sector in Madhya
Pradesh has been discussed in Chapter 2 of the report. Implementation of the strategy
requires a number of policy changes and actions to resolve issues affecting the sector. These
issues and actions are summarized in the following matrix, which is based on the GOMP
statement of policy.



MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Issues and Actions
ISSUE                        EFFECTS                  PROPOSED CHANGE                              ACTION
Policies Affecting Prcing and Marketing
Pricing. Sale of forest       Forms a disincentive for       Local concessions of forest   GOMP have issued orders for proposed changes
produce by MPFD at below      communities and individuals to   produce known as NISTAR to   in NISTAR policy. (No. F-7-22/93/10/3 dated
market price.                 protect and invest in forest   be restricted to villages lying  26 December, 1994
management.                   within 5km of the forests.
Forest produce to be sold at
market prices for villages lying
beyond 5 km.
Felling and Transit           Disincentive to planting trees  Felling and transit regulations    Amendments have been made to MP Transit
Regulations. Restrictions on  on private land.              to be abolished for all except    Rules (1964) exempting 31 species from Transit
felling of trees on private land                             five nationalized species.    Regulations. Letter issued by GOMP for Gazette
and on transit of wood.                                                                    notification (No. F30/28/94/10/3 Bhopal dated 10
November 1994.
The proposed amendments in felling rules are
under consideration by GOMP and are expected
to be approved by 15 June, 1995.
NTFP. Monopoly collection     Disincentive to private sector  Role of MPFD in NTFP         Study alternative mechanisms for NTFP
of some NTFP by MPFD.         participation. Disrupts MPFD    collection to be phased out.  collection that will provide protection for
forest management programs.                                  collectors and ensure revenue is collected for the
state.
Industrial Supplies. GOMP     System fails to meet the       No further industrial supply  GOMP have decided that all long-term industrial
committed to provide forest   requirements of industry and   contracts to be entered into.  supply contracts will cease to be effective on
produce to industries.        may lead to inefficient use of                               30 June. 1997
resources.
oQ
eD
o) rD



MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Issues and Actions
ISSUE             |          EFFECTS             |    PROPOSED CHANGE           |                ACTION
Legislation
Indian Forest Act (1927).
Does not provide a            National Forest Policy is not  Recast the Indian Forest Act to   GOMP to discuss with GOI the ongoing
comprehensive legal basis for   legally binding.             meet the requirements of the    review of the draft legislation.
the National Forest Policy                                   National Forest Policy (1988).
(1988).
Joint Forest Management.
Govemment Regulation (GR)    Women and landless not          Ensure representation of        GOMP have issued revised GR making
on JFM requires modification.   included in village committees    women and landless in village    provision for representation of women and
committees.                   landless in Village Committees. Other
minor modifications have been made.
(Order dated 4 January, 1995)
Inter-Agency Linkages
Govemment Departments.
Mechanisms for effective      Lack of coordination, leading  Develop inter-agency linkages    GOMP have issued orders for setting up
consultation between          to duplication of effort and   at state, circle and district  state level Project Steering Committee.
departments are lacking, in   inefficient use of staff and   levels.                         Regional Project Coordination Committees
particular with those         funds.                                                         and District Project Coordination
responsible for agricultural                                                                Committees. (No. F-3-69/94/10-2 Bhopal
extension and animal                                                                         dated 23 July, 1994).
husbandry programs.
Linkages with NGOs. Little    NGOs comparative advantage    NGOs to be involved in           12 Spearhead Teams have been
participation by NGOs in      in planning and                participatory village resource  constituted in the divisions of first year
MPFD programs.                implementation of participatory   development programs        operations. Women are included in
activities is not fully utilized.    wherever possible.       Spearhead Teams wherever possible.
NGOs have been associated with staff
training.                                                  ( 
Oct
X



MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Issues and Actions
ISSUE                       EFFECTS                  PROPOSED CHANGE                      ACTION
Sector Management
Management Approach.          Reluctance of communities to    Develop new vision of the role   Terms of reference of contract
Regulatory, rather than       collaborate in participatory  of MPFD.                       for proposed consultancy for
participatory client-oriented  forest management programs.                                 management development
approach to management of                                                                  have been finalized. Contract
the sector.                                                                                award expected by 30 April.
1995.
Management Procedures.        Local initiatives required for  Decision making authority to
Centralized. top-down decision   successful participatory forest    be brought closer to the client    Review management
making                        management, and to ensure     interface, that is, to the users  procedures to empower staff
programs are linked to site   of forest resources.           to make area and situation-
specific conditions and                                      specific decisions.
priorities are restricted.
Planning, Monitoring and      Decisions are based on limited   Improve management          Review PME procedures and
Evaluation (PME). Lack of     information, little input from  information systems. Modify    introduce necessary
iterative procedures and      systematic M&E of ongoing      planning procedures to include   improvements.
inadequate information        programs, and inadequate      the requirements of the new
systems.                      analysis, particularly of     forest policy, site-specific
economic consequences of      needs, economic factors, and
programs.                     feed-back from M&E
programs.
Management Structure.         Overlapping management         Modify management structures   Review management structure
Organization of MPFD is not   responsibilities and inefficient   to meet the requirements of  and responsibilities and make
fully adjusted to the needs of    use of scarce resources.   revised management            necessary modifications.
the agreed strategy.                                         procedures.
CD
O CD
X



MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Issues and Actions
ISSUE                          EFFECTS                        PROPOSED CHANGE                 ACTION
Staffing
Staffing Levels. High staffing    High recurrent expenditure on    Staffing levels to be related to    Formulate staffing policy
levels. Skill mix not related to   staffing. Limited capacity to    functional units of the   related to the functions of
the needs of the sector        implement sector strategy.     modified management             MPFD.
strategy.                                                     structure.
Staff Specialization. No       Lack of staff with specialized  Specialized career development  Identify incentives to
incentives or career structure    skills and no continuity in  to be encouraged.              encourage specialization.
for specialization.            positions that require                                         Ensure continuity of
specialists, eg. research.                                     appointments to specialized
posts. Initiate discussions
with GOI for promoting
specialization within IFS.
Human Resource Development   Many staff lack up-to-date       Staff training to be given high    A training plan has been
(HRD). No systematic HRD       technical and management       priority with appropriate       finalized. Planned project
plan. Many training programs   skills.                        rewards or incentives for       activities include training of
and facilities out-dated and                                  trainers and trainees.          village communities.
inadequate.                                                                                   Undertake study to identify
training requirements linked to
curriculum development.
-D
orn
x



MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Issues and Actions
ISSUE                        EFFECTS          T           PROPOSED CHANGE                  ACTION
Village Resource Development
VRDP Implementation. Varied   Differing levels of support to    Standardize support and     Criteria for activities and
procedures for                VFCs within the state.         implementation arrangements.   funding under VRDP have
implementation.                                                                             been finalized.
VRD Agreements. Village       Responsibilities and benefits of   Formal MOU to be finalized  MOU under consideration by
plans endorsed by VFC but     VRD program not clear to       on completion of village       GOMP
fornal MOU not prepared.      communities.                   planning process.
Protected Areas
Population. People resident   Possible adverse impact on     Determine extent of any        Examine PA boundaries
within proposed PAs.          conservation of biodiversity.  adverse impact and define PA   where legal processes have
boundaries to exclude village  not been completed and
areas where legal processes    undertake studies to assess
have not been completed.       adverse impacts.
PA Management Plans.          PAs not managed to the best    Use PA management plans and   Complete PA management
Incomplete or inadequate of   advantage of wildlife or       associated ecodevelopment      plans, initiate the planning
management plans for PAs      adequately protected from      programs as a basis for        and implementation of
with inadequate funding.      outside interference.          provision of funding.          ecodevelopment programs and
facilitate their implementation
through provision of funds
and staff.
-e
O (



MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Issues and Actions
ISSUE                       EFFECTS                  PROPOSED CHANGE                     ACTION
Technology
Planting Materials Lack of   Poor quality seedlings resulting   Seed stock, nursery practices  Design and implement
effective tree improvement   in poor establishment and     and planting methods to be     programs for seed
programs, and poor seed      growth, with long-term loss of   improved.                   procurement and processing,
selection and nursery        financial and economic                                       and for improving nursery and
practices.                   benefits,                                                    planting practices.
Research. Lack of overall    Research makes little          Research to be linked to key  Identify applied research
research strategy            contribution to management of   development problems and     needs and implement priority
complementing national       the forest resource, to the   adequately funded.             programs.
research programs. Litle     identification of the most
linkage with priorities      productive material, or to
identified in the field.     problem solving in the field.
Inadequate staff and funds.
SFRI. As part of MPFD        Lack of continuity of research    SFRI to be established as an  Orders have been issued
recruitment of specialized   staff due to rotation of deputed   autonomous institution.   establishing SFRI Jabalpur as
research staff is inhibited.  staff.                                                      an autonomous institute (No.
F-316/94/1012 dated 29/10/94)
Exotic Species. Introduction  Loss of economic benefits as    Introduction of exotics to be  GOMP will request MOEF to
of exotic species is restricted.    many exotic species are bighly   decided on economic as well    draft operational guidelines
productive.                   as environmental grounds.     for the introduction of any
new exotic species in forest
areas.
o0 






Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Management Development
1.    The strategy for the future development of the forestry sector (Chapter 2) requires
significant changes in sector management. The changes, which MPFD have already initiated,
would have three main thrusts involving the development of:
A new vision of the role of MPFD and a changed approach, from a predominantly
regulatory role to one in which communities are treated as equal partners in the
management of forest resources, within a strategic policy framework developed
by the Department;
New management systems to implement the new role of MPFD, based on support,
rather than command structures;
Human resources and skills to enable staff to implement the system.
2.    The Role of MPFD. The changed role of MPFD is mandated by the requirements of the
National Forest Policy. Developing the new vision of this role and the changing the traditional
approach would be dependent on changing staff attitudes. The project would assist this change
by providing for an intensive program of orientation workshops and staff training.
3.    Management Systems. Changes in the management system would aim to make the
system:
Client oriented, that is, designed to respond to the needs of the users of forest
resources through empowerment of staff and accountability to the client, and
through ensuring decision-making authority lies close to the client. This would
require the identification of clients, client representatives, programs and program



Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
managers, and the linkages between them '. Further, it would require a support,
rather than a command structure.
Adaptable, that is, responding to creativity and initiative, and promoting the
development of a learning organization.
4.     Operation of the new system would be based on:
-      Decentralization of authority for decision making and budgetary allocation;
-      Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation procedures and data collection to ensure
feed back and application of corrective processes, related to both long-term
planning and evaluation and short-term monitoring and control;
-      Reporting and Administrative Structures;
-      Institutional Structures based on an analysis of strengths and weaknesses and
staffing needs, leading to a strategy for future institutional development;
-      Human Resource Development related to the required skill-mix and adequate
career development for staff.
5.     The project would support the development of the new management system  through
financing a consultancy to assist MPFD to review existing management procedures and
institutional structures, and to develop new management systems. Terms of reference for such
a consultancy are presented in Appendix 1 to this Annex.
Illustrative linkages between clients and programs
. Cl-000  i: nt 0  Client            Linag          Prora                 P =Manager  Pro:a
______i ___________  Representative  _         ;  :___;_____i          i______
Society           CCF WL             Expert Opinion      PA Manager        Conservation of
Biodiversity
Economic Society   CF                Economic Analysis    Ranger           Closed Forest
Management
Village           VFP Committee      Participatory       Ranger            Open Forest
Community                            Planning                              Management
Farmer            Farmer             Individual Choice   Ranger            Private Forestry



Training Plan - Management Development
Course            Participants               Objectives                  Resource Agencies       Duration             Frequency
1. Institution building    CCF (13)      To familiarize with concepts and  IIMs, ASCI                   1 week    Individual courses - Years I to 3
measures for institution building
(structure, systems and processes)
2. Personnel           DCFs and above   To provide exposure to             IIMs, HRD Academy,           I week    Individual courses over years I
management and HRD    (132)              management development and        XLRI, consultants                       to 4
concepts                                 creative use of human resources
3. Leadership and      DCFs and above   To familiarize with leadership     In-house program with        1 week     6 batches over years I to 4
team building                            styles and practical team building  external expertise
measures
4. Project planning and   DFOs           To familiarize with project       In-house program using       2 weeks    2 batches per year in Years 0, 1,
formulation                              formulation methods based on      external expertise in log-              2
client needs                      frame methodology
5. Policy analysis     CFs (3)           Appreciation of policy analysis   Overseas                     3          1 each in Years I to 3
(appreciation)                           methods                                                        months
6. Policy analysis     DCFs (6)          Exposure to practical application  Overseas                    18         2 each in Years I to 3
(applied)                                methods                                                        months
7. Environmental       CFs (2)           To impart concepts of             Overseas                     3           1 each in Years I and 3
Economics                                environmental economics                                        months
(introductory)
8. Environmental       DCFs (2)          Application of environmental      Overseas                     12         1 each in Years 2 and 4
Econornics (applied)                     economics methods                                              months                                       A
9. Study Tours on      CCFs (13)         To expose senior managers to      WWII and similar agencies    2-4        3 per year in Years I to 4        X
Management Practices                     modern management practices at                                 weeks                                        m
work in actual situations






Annex 8
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Development of the Sectoral Management System
Terms of Reference
Approach
1.    MPFD have already made significant progress in assessing the need for change in the
management of the sector and evaluating alternatives for future development. Consultants
would, therefore, assist with an on-going process as an integral part of an MPFD team, rather
than initiating a separate management study. This would require full collaboration with
MPFD staff, with conclusions and recommendations discussed in group meetings and
workshops. Step-by-step endorsement of proposals by MPFD and the Public Service
Commission would be essential to ensure ownership and subsequent implementation.
Terms of Reference
The consultants would:
(i)         Review the present management system and institutional structure and
staffing, and identify the main constraints affecting the system.
(ii)        Identify: clients, client representatives, programs and program managers,
the linkages between them; the level within MPFD at which decisions
affecting these relationships are made; and the role of MPFD staff,
particularly that of the Forest Guard, in relation to the client.
(iii)       Identify mechanisms for operation of the management system at
different levels, based on:
Decentralization of authority for decision making and budgetary
allocation;



Annex 8
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 2
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation procedures and data collection
to ensure feed back and application of corrective processes, related to
both long-term planning and evaluation and short-term monitoring and
control ';
Reporting and Administrative Structures;
Institutional Structures based on an analysis of strengths and
weaknesses and staffing needs, leading to a strategy for future
institutional development;
Human Resource Development related to the required skill-mix and
adequate career development for staff.
(iv)         Organize workshops and discussion groups to ensure endorsement of
conclusions and recommendations by MPFD.
(v)          Prepare a report presenting the agreed recommendations, including
Terms of Reference for any further studies required.
The design of supporting MIS and GIS systems would be the subject of separate and subsequent
consultancies.



Annex 9
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation '
Present MPFD Approach to Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
1.    A range of physical and financial data are presently collected by MPFD and used to
monitor programs and schemes implemented by the Department. The data are designed to
measure progress towards the achievement of physical targets, and to monitor expenditures.
There is little attempt to evaluate the achievements, as there is no systematic mechanism to
monitor their success, or quality. Nor are there means to ensure that the conclusions drawn
from the data are used in future planning.
Future Strategy
2.    M&E in the Management System. Changes in management to implement the agreed
future strategy for the forest sector, would require changes in the approach to M&E, to ensure
that M&E functions become an integral part of the planning and implementation of the work
of MPFD. This requires that M&E Units are not merely surveillance agents, but form part of
the process of management, assisting in decision making through provision of relevant data,
appropriately presented in a timely manner. M&E results would become a critical input to
planning, enabling site-specific variables to be taken into account in the short term, and
providing a realistic framework for strategic long-term planning. Implementation of the plans
followed by continuing M&E completes the cycle. The flow of information would be
facilitated by a Management Information System, discussed in Annex 10.
3.    Under the future strategy, a distinction would be drawn between monitoring and
evaluation. Monitoring is a continuous internal departmental activity, whilst evaluation is an
assessment of performance and impact on populations or areas. Factors to be taken into
consideration in the development of monitoring and evaluation systems are discussed below.
A list of indicators to be used for project monitoring are then considered, many of which
would be applicable to all MPFD programs. However, these are not prescriptions, as final
decisions will depend on system design.
4.    Monitoring. Monitoring is a continuous assessment of the activities of MPFD in the
The discussion of general principles and techniques of monitoring and evaluation presented here, is drawn
mainly from "Project Monitoring and Evaluation in Agriculture" Casley D. J. and Kumar K. 1987. Joint
Publication of the World Bank, IFAD, and FAO. John Hopkins University Press, Baltimore, MD.



Annex 9
Page 2 of 6
context of implementation schedules and of the use of resources. There are two approaches
to the design of the monitoring system and associated MIS. The first is the blueprint
approach, in which detailed objectives, required data, studies and schedules are established in
advance. Although this approach has some advantages it may not give managers sufficient
flexibility to respond to information needs that may arise during implementation. The second,
or process approach, is more evolutionary, in that although recording requirements are
defined, it allows the flexibility for managers to define additional information needed to make
management decisions, based on implementation experience. System design would therefore
be based on:
-     A clear identification of the decisions to be made at each level of management.
This requires agreement on a hierarchy of management objectives for the
sector;
-     The information required to make decisions and the parameters to be monitored
to provide the information;
-     The most appropriate way in which the parameters can be monitored, or the
information collected;
-     The presentation of monitoring data in agreed formats and the degree of
aggregation of data at each level, so that senior managers are not overwhelmed
with detail;
-     Mechanisms to link progress with implementation schedules;
-     A systematic identification of problems and a mechanism to commission
diagnostic studies to resolve the problems;
-     The linkages between functional units and the need for information to be
shared, particularly between allied functions in the same geographical area;
-     Linkages between M&E Units and functional units, with agreement on the
collection of monitoring data on a regular basis by staff of functional units, to
obviate the need for the creation of a separate cadre of data collectors;
5.    Evaluation. Evaluation is a periodic assessment of the relevance, performance,
efficiency and impact of sectoral programs in the context of stated objectives. Although
evaluation uses much of the same data as monitoring, it is a separate activity, with different
objectives, reference periods, and primary users. It is not necessarily such an integral part of
the management system as it deals with formal impact evaluation, measuring changes that
have come about. This is commonly time-consuming and requires information that may not



Annex 9
Page 3 of 6
be required by the manager for decision making. In addition, the impact of a program may
only become apparent after some time, or the completion of a program, so evaluation studies
may be mid-term, terminal or ex-post, rather than continuous. Evaluation would be most
effectively undertaken by an independent agency outside MPFD for following reasons:
-     A measure of independence from functional managers facilitates objectivity;
The range of professional skills required to interpret evaluation data would not
be available within MPFD;
Data from within and without areas affected by MPFD programs are necessary
for purposes of comparison.
Indicators
6.    Indicators to monitor the progress of programs in the forest sector relate to:
Physical delivery of forest programs, structures and services;
Financial records;
-     Beneficiary contact, that is the use of forest resources, siructures and services
by target populations, and the socio-economic and environmental impact of
programs.
Indicators specific to the various project components are presented in the following table.
Most of these would be relevant to all MPFD programs 2.
2  Terms of reference for an evaluation study of the VRDP are presented in Annex .. Appendix 2.



Annex 9
Page 4 of 6
Project Component and Sub-Component                             Indicators
Management Development
Sector Management                         - Nos. staff trained in management
- In-service training courses at SFRI
- Establishment of Policy Analysis Unit
- No. of policy studies commissioned or completed
- Progress of management consultancy
- Completion of HRD Plan for MPFD
- Completion of annual training plans
- Review of curricula in forest training colleges
Planning Monitoring and Evaluation        - Progress of PME system design consultancy
- Nos. staff trained in MIS
- Nos. staff trained in GIS
- Nos. staff trained in computer literacy
- Establishment of Information Unit, Bhopal
- Establishment of PME Units at Circle level
- Establishment of PME Cells at Divisional level
- Establishment of Zonal GIS Units
- Provision of support to FWP teams
Project Coordination Unit                - Establishment of Unit
Forest Development
Natural Forest Regeneration              - Total ha treated
- Location of treatment blocks
- Species planted
- Survival of planted species
- Ha of bamboo rehabilitation
- Estimates of crown cover for sample blocks
- Estimates of MAI for sample blocks
- Cost/benefit analysis for representative blocks
Village Resource Development             - No. of staff orientation workshops
- No. of staff trained in PRA and VRDP principles
- No. of VRDP Planning Teams established
- No. of NGO women recruited for VRDP teams
- No. of VPCs established
- No. of VRDP plans completed
- No. of VRDP Agreements finalized
- Disbursements from VRDP Fund
- Ha of forest under VRDP
- Ha of village land under VRDP
- No. and type of village infrastructure
- No. and type of income generating enterprises
- Cost/benefit analysis for representative villages



Annex 9
Page 5 of 6
Project Component and Sub-Component                               Indicators
Extension technology and Research
Extension and Research Centers             - No. of Centers established
- No. of DFOs (E&R) in post as managers
- Staff assignments
Extension                                  - No. of DFOs (R&E)
- No. of Rangers, Foresters and FGs trained in extension
techniques
- No. of demonstrations established
- No. of farmer training sessions
- Production of extension materials
- Establishment of Industrial Liaison Unit
- No. of ILU staff trained
- Contacts with Industries and nature of requests
- Range of data collected by ILU
- No. of special market studies commissioned by ILU
Seed Improvement                           - No. of staff trained in seed technology
- Recruitment of tree improvement specialist in SFRI
- Recruitment of consultant seed improvement specialist
- No. and species of superior mother trees identified
- Quantities of seed collected
- Quantities of selected seed
- Establishment of SSPAs
- Establishment of CSOs
- Completion of seed processing facilities at E&R Centers
- Completion of seed testing laboratory at SFRI
- Quantities of seed tested at laboratory
- Quantities of seed imported
Nursery Demonstration                      - Recruitment of consultant nursery design specialist
- Completion of demonstration nurseries
- Production of seedlings
- Financial accounts for nurseries to demonstrate profitability
- No. of private sector nurseries established
Research                                   - No. of specialist staff recruited to SFRI
- Introduction of priority setting methodology
- Completion of strategic research plan
- No. of research contracts awarded



Annex 9
Page 6 of 6
Project Component and Sub-Component  |                        Indicators
Biodiversity Conservation
PA Management                           - Revision or preparation of PA Management Plans
- Identification of satellite areas for PA network
- Preparation/completion of management plans for inter-
linking areas
- Completion of baseline and monitoring studies
- Preparation of ecological database
- No. of research contracts awarded
Ecodevelopment                          - No. of staff trained in PRA and ED principles
- No. of ED Planning Teams established
- No. of NGO women recruited for ED teams
- No. of Village ED Committees established
- No. of ED plans completed
- No. of ED Agreements finalized
- ED Costs
- Disbursements from ED Fund
- Ha of forest land under ED programs
- Ha of village land under ED programs
- No. and type of village infrastructure
- No. and type of income generating enterprises
Other Project Activities
Technical Assistance, Studies and        - Preparation of Terms of Reference
Consultancies                            - Number of months/discipline
- Completion of consultant reports
Physical                                - Completion of works and buildings
- Procurement of project-financed equipment and supplies
Financial                               - Expenditure by component
- Expenditure by category
- Audits
Reporting                               - Timeliness of bi-annual reports



Annex 10
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Information Systems
Present Information Systems
1.    Forest Database. There is. at present, no systematic mechanism to collate
information on the geographic extent and physical condition of the forest resource in
Madhya Pradesh. Available information is scattered in numerous Divisional offices, or
included in Forest Working Plans, and not readily accessible. As a result, the
information has not been aggregated or synthesized into an up-to-date State-wide, or
even regional forest database.
2.    Forest Working Plans (FWP). The FWP provide the basis for planning the
management and development of the forest sector, containing baseline data and
management prescriptions. In addition to the problems of the accessibility of
information, FWP often provide only a poor reflection of conditions on the ground,
severely limiting their usefulness as practical tools for forest management. This is, in
part, due to the fact that inventory and survey teams are often inadequately staffed,
and do not possess the necessary instruments, field equipment or vehicles to work
effectively in the field. This also means that FWP are seldom up-dated in a timely
manner. However, there are also problems associated with the nature and content of
FWP, which are not oriented toward multiple objective management and rarely address
resource conflicts. Further problems result from the lack of consultation with local
forest users in the design and implementation of FWP.
3.    Monitoring and Evaluation. The MPFD system for monitoring the progress
of investment programs and special schemes focuses on the achievement of physical
targets. It would be difficult to use the system to evaluate program impacts on forest
resources or intended beneficiaries, or in socio-economic terms. Tracking financial
expenditures and other administrative functions is time-consuming. This situation is
mainly due to the limited availability of modern information management skills within
MPFD and the lack of a strategic plan for information management for the sector as a
whole. Thus, although computers have been available at the Forest Circle level for
some time, trained manpower has been lacking and the systems are under-utilized.
Future Strategy
4.    The strategy for management of information related to the forest sector would
be to develop information flows, so that the information contained in plans is utilized
during implementation, and information obtained during the monitoring of



Annex 10
Page 2 of 4
implementation is fed into the planning process. Such information flows, or loops,
would be developed at Divisional, Forest Circle and State levels, as illustrated in
Figure .. The information required for improved management would be of four main
types: (i) Scheduling, Time Management and Achievement of Physical Targets that
would be handled by the use of software such as Microsoft Project; (ii) Financial
Management using financial accounting and cash flow tracking software; (iii) Impact
Assessment using socio-economic data stored in a conventional database; and (iv)
Geographic Information stored and manipulated on a Geographic Information System
(GIS).
5.    The first three types of information would be the core of a Management
Information System (MIS), facilitating information flows at each level of MPFD. The
MIS would be an integral part of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (PME) Units or
Cells, so that it is clearly seen as a service to management and not a technology-
driven end in itself. An important element of the strategy for information management
would be to decentralize the MIS to the greatest possible extent, so that data are
aggregated from the bottom-up.
6.    The GIS would be developed to provide a means for the recording and analysis
of the spatial distribution of much of the MIS data. The development of the GIS
would have operational, as well as developmental or demonstration objectives. Thus,
by the end of the project GIS should be operational in the following areas:
cartographic and database support to village resource development planning; project
monitoring; multi-variate site analysis; and cartographic support for working plan
development. In addition, GIS prototypes for state-wide forest database development
would be thoroughly tested, together with a range of applications related to
biodiversity data and the management of planning and management of protected areas.
Successfully tested prototypes would be used as the basis of expanded operational
programs in a follow-up project.
7.    There is a need to ensure close integration of the MIS with the GIS. However,
manipulation of geographic data is more complex than the processing of the other
data, and requires more specialized equipment and training, so a less decentralized
system is more practicable, linked to the primary users of geographic information, the
FWP teams.
8.    Management of the forest sector in the future, with its changed orientation, will
require additional and different information from that collected traditionally. A review
of information required for site specific, multiple objective planning, and impact
oriented monitoring and evaluation would be a first step in the development of the
MIS and GIS, as discussed further below.



Annex 10
Page 3 of 4
Project Support
9.    MIS Design. The project would provide for system design, linked to the
information requirements for sector management. This would require a review, not
only of the data to be collected, but of data collection methods, including the
introduction of rapid rural appraisal methods. Of particular importance would be the
data needed for monitoring and evaluation (M&E), which would be dependent on the
M&E procedures, discussed in Annex 9. System design would also be dependent on
an identification of the needs for sharing information among and across administrative
lines. The MIS would be based on the use of personal computers, with appropriate
spreadsheet, database management, computerized project management and word
processing software, but detailed decisions on software would only be possible after
completion of the studies.
10.   Development of MIS Capabilities at Forest Circle and Divisional Levels.
The project would finance the development of MIS capabilities within Planning
Monitoring and Evaluation (PME) Units in each of the 22 Forest Circles. PME Cells
would be developed in all 79 Forest Division. The functions of each of the Units and
Cells would be to collate physical, administrative, and M&E data, in a format that is
most useful to the CFs or DFOs, the local sector managers. Each PME Unit or Cell
would be equipped with a personal computer and appropriate software, with a small
trained staff of one computer applications specialist and three staff capable of data
entry and other intermediate business software applications.
11.   Development of GIS Units at Territorial Circle Level. In order to manage
the geographically referenced data, the project would finance the introduction of
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) in five Territorial Circles on a trial basis. The
main function of each unit would be to develop a comprehensive digital forestry
database for each Territorial Circle. In addition, each Unit would develop and
promote GIS analytical techniques to support the development of forest working plans,
and for the planning and monitoring of major project investments. The forestry
database would be derived primarily from the 1:15,840 stock maps and available
topographic and thematic maps of soils, rainfall, terrain units, etc., where available.
Where appropriate, gaps in the forestry database will be supplemented using satellite
imagery as a raw data source. Each Unit would also provide cartographic and
database management services to MPFD units within the Territorial Circle. Each
Circle GIS team would consist of four technicians: a GIS specialist and a minimum
of two GIS operators. Each Unit would be equipped with a PC-based GIS
workstation, including digitizers, pen-plotters, UPS, printer and GIS software.
12.   Development of Information Services at MPFD Headquarters. An
Information Unit at Bhopal would be responsible for development and coordination of
information services within MPFD. The Unit would not be a repository for all
information in the Department, but rather it would take the lead in MIS and GIS
systems development, identify and evaluate new forest survey technologies, including



Annex 10
Page 4 of 4
satellite remote sensing and the use of the Global Positioning System, and would be
responsible for the organization of training and technical assistance. It would also
provide technical support to all units in the Department involved in MIS, GIS and
remote sensing. The Unit would be headed by an Information Manager at the level of
Conservator, responsible to the CCF (PME). The Unit Manager would be assisted by
a core staff of 8 information technology specialists with advanced skills in MIS and
GIS applications. The Unit would be provided with equipment and software to enable
it to fulfill its function as a nodal technical unit for the Departmental MIS, GIS
equipment similar to that in the Zonal Units, funds to purchase digital image
processing services from State and Regional Centers as appropriate.
13.   Support to FWP Field Teams. The project would provide improved field
instrumentation, field equipment, office and cartographic equipment, and vehicles for
each of the 22 FWP field teams. Teams would receive training in the application of
new survey techniques including air-photo and satellite image interpretation, together
with training in the application of GIS in the development of FWPs. Finance would
be available for the purchase of necessary air photos and satellite imagery.
14.   Training. Computer and information management skills are virtually non-
existent at the field level in MPFD, so skills will have to be built. The project would
finance a modular training program giving emphasis to a large number of short term
training activities. These would include courses to provide basic computer literacy,
DOS training, and introductory and intermediate courses in the use of spreadsheets,
databases, and word processing. These courses would be arranged in existing local
training institutions.
15.   There are fewer institutions in India capable of providing training in GIS
technology. The project would, therefore, finance training at the Forest Survey of
India, or the national Remote Sensing Agency, coupled with software vendor training
available from local distributors. About 30 staff would be given about 6 weeks
training in GIS techniques, in several short courses. International study tours would
also be financed. An outline training plan is presented in Tables 1 and 2 of this
Annex.
16.   Technical Assistance. The project would provide funds to recruit local and
international consultants to assist with program design and implementation.
Terms of reference for these consultants are presented in Appendix 1 to this Annex.



Training Plan - MIS
Course              Participants                Objectives                Resource Agencies         Duration             Frequency
1. Introduction to        ACFs and above   Familiarization with basic           NIC, Private institutes   Iweek            71 courses during Yrs
computers (Computer                          computer concepts and capabilities                                             I to 4
Literacy)                                                                                                                   (710 participants)
2. Data Entry Technician    Clerks           To impart basic MS-DOS, word        NIC, Private institutes   6 weeks (2 three    41 courses during Yrs
processing and spreadsheet                                 week modules)      I to 4
operations skills                                                             (492 participants)
3. Assistant Programmer    Senior Clerks     Intermediate level MS-DOS, word    NIC, Private Institutes   9 weeks (3 three    10 courses during Yrs
processing, and spreadsheet                                week modules)      I to 4
operations programming skills                                                 (120 participants)
4. MIS                    (50)                                                                                              Year 0
(Dx
I- 



Training Plan - GIS
Course                 Participants                      Objective                     Resource Agencies            Duration          Frequency
I GIS Workshop       Officers ACF and above        Introduction to GIS concepts and    Forest Survey of India, NRSA,     3 days        8 workshops in
applications in forestry           Private institutes. State Remote                years I to 4 (240
Sensing Centers                                 participants)
2. GIS Technician    GIS Operators from            To impart basic GIS data entry,     Forest Survey of India. NRSA,     6 weeks (2    14 technicians to be
Territorial Circle and HQ    editing and map production skills   Private institutes, software      three week    trained in first two
GIS units                    (Assistant Programmer level)        vendors                           modules)      years of project
3. GIS Specialist    Head of GIS unit in           Intermediate GIS data processing    FSI, NRSA, State NIC, Private     6 weeks       9 Specialists to be
territorial circle and all GIS    and analytical skills (Pre-requisite   Institutes, software vendors           trained in Year I
staff from HQ GIS unit       GIS Technician course)                                                              and 2
4. GIS               GIS Specialists from          Advanced, comprehensive skills      Asian Institute of Technology     3 months      9 Specialists in
International        territorial circle and HQ     development work in GIS             (AIT) Bangkok, ICIMOD                           years I to 3
Course               GIS units                     applications                        (Kathmandu), ITC (Netherlands)
5. Arc-Info trainers   (4)                                                            RRSSC Jodhpur, FSI, Private        1-2 weeks    Yr 0
Institutes
0



Annex 10
Appendix I
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Management Information Systems Consultant
1.    Scope of Work.    A consultant is required to provide comprehensive services to
the Madhya Pradesh Forestry Department in the field of Management Information Systems
(MIS). The consultant will assist the MPFD to implement a decentralized MIS strategy
addressing priority information management requirements for the department. The consultant
will assist the MPFD to develop and implement a detailed action plan for MIS modernization.
Specifically, the consultant will:
(1)   Prepare a detailed functional requirement analysis (FRA) of current and
expected record keeping functions in Territorial Circle (22) and Territorial
Division (79) offices. The FRA will identify essential business processes and
objectives of the MPFD and it will identify the salient information
requirements for meeting those objectives. The FRA will prioritize those
record keeping and information reporting tasks which are most appropriate for
automation (e.g. expenditure tracking, physical progress monitoring, word
processing, work program planning and budgeting etc).;
(2)   Prepare and evaluate a detailed inventory of all MPFD's existing computer
systems (hardware and software) and available data. The consultant will
recommend a standardized PC based hardware and software configuration
appropriate for record keeping at the Territorial Circle and Division levels.
Emphasis should be given to systems which are low cost, easy to maintain, and
easy to operate under existing field conditions. The consultant will be required
to visit a number of sites to familiarize himself with technical and human
resource constraints in MPFD field offices;
(3)   Define a detailed implementation schedule for introducing automated systems
at the Circle and Divisional levels. The consultant will develop a detailed
phasing schedule including a description of activities to be included under pilot
test phases as well as full scale implementation scheduling;
(4)   Oversee the procurement procedures required to purchase all required hardware
and software. In particular the consultant will help to prepare tender



Annex 10
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 4
notifications, prepare systematic criteria for evaluating bids, and will assist in
the bid evaluation process. The consultant will advise on the upgrading of
physical facilities required for system installation. The consultant will also
oversee the initial phases of computer system delivery, field implementation,
and system acceptance testing;
(5)   Assist MPFD to develop a human resource development plan addressing staff
recruitment and training needs required to achieve MIS objectives. The
consultant will develop a modular training curriculum addressing basic
computer literacy, PC operating systems (DOS), introductory and intermediate
business software applications (i.e. Word processing, Spreadsheets,
Computerized Project Management, Database management systems). The
training program proposed should be comprehensive and should address the
needs of least three levels of MPFD staff: managerial and professional users;
computer specialist, and data entry technicians.
2.    Qualifications. The MIS consultant should have extensive academic and professional
experience in the field of MIS design and applications. The consultant should have at least 7
years experience in the application of a wide range of business software applications. The
incumbent will have detailed knowledge of personal computer based MIS technologies and
should have experience with designing MIS and PC training programs. The consultant will
have experience in the application of principles of Information Strategic Planning (ISP). The
preferred candidate will have some familiarity with forestry information management
requirements. Preference will be given to a qualified domestic individual consultant or
consulting firm
3.    Reporting arrangements. The MIS consultant will report directly to the Project
Director. The incumbent will also be expected to work closely with the CCF for Planning
Monitoring and Evaluation and will liaise on a daily basis with staff of the electronic data
processing cell at MPFD headquarters.
4.    Duration of Consultancy.  12 months
5.    Location.    The consultant will work primarily at the MPFD headquarters in
Bhopal. However, there will be a need for frequent field visits to Circle and divisional
offices throughout the State.
6.    Timing. The consultant will commence the assignment during the first 24 months of
the project. The consultancy need not be a single continuous assignment but may be split
into a number of 2 to 3 month assignments as required.



Annex 10
Appendix 1
Page 3 of 4
Geographic Information Systems Consultants
7.    Scope of Work.    Two consultants are required to provide comprehensive
consulting services to the Madhya Pradesh Forestry Department in the field of geographic
information systems (GIS) design and applications. The consultants will assist MPFD in
establishing PC level GIS capabilities at MPFD headquarters as well as at four Zonal Offices
to support the mapping and statistical analysis needs of 22 Forest Working Plan teams. It is
anticipated that one international GIS specialist and one domestic GIS specialist will be
utilized during the project. Specifically the consultants will:
(1)   Prepare a detailed functional requirements analysis of GIS capabilities required
at the MPFD Zonal and MPFD Headquarters levels. The consultants will
inventory and assess all current mapping systems and data availability with a
view to determining which maps and statistical information will be
appropriately held in a GIS format;
(2)   Make detailed recommendations on the appropriate GIS configuration
(hardware and software) required at the Zonal and MPFD Headquarters offices.
The consultants will identify an appropriate GIS package to handle the
mapping and analytical needs of forest working plan teams. The consultants
should consider issues of compatibility with existing systems being used for
forestry applications India and should consider the use of indigenous hardware
and software products where appropriate;
(3)   Oversee the procurement procedures required to purchase all required GIS
hardware and software. In particular, the consultant will help to prepare tender
notifications, prepare systematic criteria for evaluating bids, and will assist in
the bid evaluation process. The incumbent will also oversee the upgrading
and preparation of physical facilities for GIS and will oversee system delivery,
implementation and acceptance testing procedures to insure that GIS equipment
and software are fully operational in the MPFD field offices;
(4)   Develop a detailed training program which will address the needs of the
MPFD. The preferred training program would emphasize a modular, in-service
approach. As a minimum, the consultants will develop a training program
which focuses on training needs of managers and professional users, GIS
technical specialists and GIS data entry technicians. The consultants should
identify, evaluate, and commission appropriate domestic training facilities in
GIS and he will be required to oversee all vendor provided software and
hardware training. The consultants will also be expected to provide on-site
training and technical assistance on a routine basis;



Annex 10
Appendix 1
Page 4 of 4
(5)   Develop an appropriate database model for structuring forest inventory and
forest resource evaluation data gathered through by field inventory and
surveying teams. The consultants will assist the MPFD to develop appropriate
GIS methodologies for digitizing forest stand maps and recording relevant map
attributes. The consultants will develop standards for all GIS data layers and
attribute table formats and structure. The consultants should establish technical
approaches for structuring and partitioning the Zonal databases;
(6)   Provide overall technical assistance and general quality control at the MPFD
field offices during the first year of the project. The consultants will conduct
periodic field evaluations of digital base map development and will develop
institutional mechanisms for ensuring quality standards are being maintained by
the Zonal teams;
8.    Qualifications.     The consultants should have strong academic and professional
qualifications in the field of GIS. The consultants will have 7-10 years experience in GIS
applications in the forestry sector and should be familiar with forest stand mapping, forest
inventory, forest management planning, and statistical techniques used in the forestry sector.
The consultants should have detailed practical experience in the use of a range of GIS
software products and should be able to configure and troubleshoot technical problems in a
field situation.
9.    Reporting arrangements. The consultants will report directly to the Project Director
but will work closely with the CCF for Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation. The consultants
will work closely with all working plan teams in the State and should liaise on a routine basis
with the project MIS consultant.
10.   Location.    The consultants will share their time evenly between the four zonal GIS
units and the MPFD headquarters in Bhopal.
11.   Duration of Assignment.  The international consultant will be required for a period
of approximately 3 months. The domestic GIS specialist may be required for a period up to
6 months. The assignment need not be contiguous but can be spread over a series of 2 or 3
week field visits.



Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Extension and Research Centers
1.      Functions of Centers. The project would finance the development of twelve
Extension and Research (E&R) Centers, and one sub-center, to provide facilities in the major
ecological zones of the state. The centers would provide a focus for extension programs,
described in Annex 4, providing sound technical advice to individuals, communities, or other
groups involved in tree nursery development, farm forestry, plantation development, or
production of NTFP. The centers would also support planting material improvement
programs, discussed in Annex 12, by provision of facilities for seed improvement and testing,
and demonstration nurseries. The centers would also provide facilities for demonstrations and
applied research programs, planned and implemented by SFRI (See Annex 13).
2.      Location. The location of the E&R Centers would be as shown below, together with
the Districts they would cover:
LAcation                Districts                          Note
Gwalior     Gwalior, Datia, Bhina, Morena,      Based on SFRI sub-center at
Shivapuri, Guna                    Morena
Bhopal      Bhopal, Sehore, Raisen, Vidishi,
Rajgarh
Indore      Indore, Dewas, Dhal, Ujjain, Ratlam,   Sub-center at Jhabua
Manosaur, Shahjapur
Khandua     Khargoni, Khandwa                   SFRI Center at Nepanagar to
be incorporated
Betul       Betul, Chhindwara, Hoshangabad      Based on Betul training center
and SFRI center
Seoni       Seoni, Balaghat, Narangpur
Jabalpur    Jabalpur, Mandla                    Existing SFRI
Sagar       Sagar, Damon, Panna, Chhatarpur,
Tikamgarh
Shahdol     Shahdol, Sidhi, Rewa, Safna
Bilaspur    Bilaspur, Raigarh, Sarguja          Based on Sal Research Center
Raipur      Raipur, Durg, Rajnendgaon
Jagdalpur    Bastar                             Incorporates SFRI center at
Kurandi



Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
3.    Phasing of Development. The E&R Centers would be developed as follows:
ProjectYear 1I  Project Year 2    Project Year 3      Project Year 4 X
Bilaspur, Jabalpur    Betul, Raipur,    Seoni, Gwalior,      Bhopal, Shadol,
(SFRI)             Indore               Jagdalpur, Khandwa   Sagar, Jhabua Sub-
Center
4.    Facilities. All centers will have basic office and simple laboratory buildings and
equipment, vehicles and facilties for field operations. The investments have been calculated
on the basis of upgrading existing facilities where these exist. Details of facilities for the
planting stock improvement and applied research programs, which would be placed at the
E&R Centers are given in Annexes 12 and 13.
5.    Management and Staffing. Each of the E&R Centers would be under the
management of a DFO responsible to the Territorial CF. Functional responsibility for the
E&R Centers would lie with the CCF (Social Forestry), with the Director, SFRI providing
technical supervision of the planting stock improvement and applied research programs. The
linkages are illustrated in Figure .. Staffing of each of the centers for all programs is
summarized below:
Mana*gement?      0  Extension          Planting Stock         Nursery
tAdmnistrton 0                           Improvement,
_____i;;_________     Applied  Research
DFO                 ACF                 ACF                  RFO
Administrative Staff  RFO               RFO                 Forester
FG                  FG                  FG
FG                  FG
Economist/Data
Collection



Annex 12
Page 1 of 3
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Planting Stock Improvement Program
Introduction
1.    Records indicate that survival of the great number of trees that have been
planted annually in Madhya Pradesh is sporadic and often poor by international
standards. There are many reasons for low survival rates, but the poor quality of
planting stock is a major contributory factor. This starts with poor quality of seed,
due to the lack of properly identified seed sources, and inadequate seed harvesting and
cleaning procedures. Vegetative propagation is increasingly important in forest tree
establishment, but is constrained by the lack of properly selected parent trees. The
quality of seedlings produced from forest nurseries is a further limitation. Procedures
tend to be standardized for all species in all ecological conditions and nursery
managers have little access to modern nursery technologies. One of the primary
objectives of SFRI is to increase productivity and an improvement in planting stock
can make a dramatic impact on the productivity of the forest sector. The project
would, therefore, finance a program to improve the production of planting stock, with
SFRI, in collaboration with TFRI taking a lead in the introduction and, if necessary,
adaptation of proven technologies, providing demonstrations and advice to staff of
MPFD and the private sector.
Project Proposals
2.    The project would include support for the following:
Seed Improvement
-     Seed Stands
-     Seed Purchase
-     Clonal Seed Orchards
-     Seedling Seed Production Areas
-     Seed Harvest, Handling, Testing and Storage
Nursery Development
Multiplication of grass and fodder legumes
3.    Seed Stands. The project would finance the establishment and maintenance of
teak seed stands, each of about 50 ha in size, to a total of about 1,600 ha, in high
quality natural forests or plantations. This is to supply an estimated annual
requirement of 400 tons of teak seed. In addition, about 750 ha of seed stands of
miscellaneous species commonly used in forestry operations in Madhya Pradesh would



Annex 12
Page 2 of 3
be selected progressively from natural forests or plantations. Each would be about 25
- 50 ha in size.
4.    Seed Purchase. It is likely that eucalypts will remain the preferred species for
farm forestry initiatives in Madhya Pradesh. Research results indicate that the
commonly planted Eucalyptus hybrid (a form of E. tereticornis) is not the most highly
productive selection for Madhya Pradesh conditions. On the basis of results from dry
areas elsewhere in India, the project would, therefore, finance the purchase of selected
seed of the Petford provenance of E. camaldulensis, as the basis for first stage
selection and tree improvement. Provision would also be made for the purchase of
seed of grass, fodder and legume species, as necessary.
5.    Clonal Seed Orchards. The project would finance the development of clonal
seed orchards for Teak, Gmelina and Eucalyptus. For Teak, the clonal orchards would
be based on the 360 plus trees which SFRI have already selected for superior
characteristics, and further selection to provide a total of 1,000 plus trees. Orchards
would be established with 150 trees per ha, with a total of 500 ha by the end of the
project period. Establishment of clonal seed orchards for Gmelina would follow the
same procedure as for Teak, with selection of plus trees, and the establishment of
about 60 ha of clonal orchards. For Euclayptus, the selection of plus trees would
follow provenance trials with purchased seed. About 60 ha of orchards would be
established in Project Years 6 and 7.
6.    Seedling Seed Production Areas (SSPA). Seed collected from selected plus
Teak trees in natural forests or plantations would be used as the basis for development
of SSPAs. The project would finance the collection of the seed and the development
of the SSPAs to a total of about 625 ha.
7.    Seed Harvest, Handling, Testing and Storage. Each of the E&R Centers
(Annex 11) would be provided with equipment and facilities for collection, cleaning,
handling and storage of seed. This would include an air-conditioned room and
refrigerators for storing orthodox seed. A cold storage facility would be established at
SFRI. Elevated, well-ventilated storage sheds for storing large volumes of teak seed
would be established at Seoni, Betul, Raipur, Jabalpur and Bilaspur. A central seed
testing service would be developed at SFRI, building on the existing staff, laboratory
and infrastructure.
8.    Nursery Development. At each E&R Center, the project would finance the
development of a nursery with a capacity of about 100,000 seedlings, to provide
training to MPFD staff and a demonstration of good nursery practices to the private
sector. The project would not finance the development of a large facility to provide
commercial quantities of clonal eucalypt material, as this would be a private sector
function. A shade house of 300m2 area with mist facilities would be constructed, to
provide for robust vegetative propagation techniques. The use of root trainers would
be an important element of nursery techniques. Irrigation facilities, other necessary



Annex 12
Page 3 of 3
equipment and a tractor/trailer with ancillary equipment would also be financed. A
green house for advanced techniques in vegetative propagation and hardening of tissue
cultures plantlets would be developed at SFRI only.
9.    Multiplication of Grass and Fodder Legumes. Seed multiplication areas of 5
ha will be maintained of 16 selected cultivars of the following priority species: ....
Training
10.   International training in seed technology and tree improvement techniques
would be financed under the project for staff responsible for these programs at SFRI
and the E&R Centers. Training in seed technology would also be provided at FRI,
Dehra Dun. Regional study tours to examine nursery techniques would be provided
and training in nursery techniques would also be provided at institutes and private
sector organizations within India. A summary training plan is presented in Table 1 of
this Annex .
Technical Assistance - Internationally Recruited
11.   Seed Technologist. The appointment would be for four months, two in Project
Year 1 and one in each of Project Years 2 and 3. The specialist would assist with the
establishment of the seed storage facilities and the seed testing laboratory at SFRI.
The specialist would also advise on the development of protocols and procedures.
12.   Tree Improvement Specialist. A one-month visit would be made in Project
Year 1, with a follow-up visit in Project Year 3. The specialist would assist with the
scientific design of the program and advise on a realistic implementation program.
13.   Nursery Specialist. Short-term visits by a specialist would assist with the
design and development of the nurseries at the E&R Centers. The specialist would
advise on the lay-out of the nurseries and the specification and installation of
appropriate equipment.
Studies and Consultancies
14.   Pasture Specialist. A locally recruited specialist would be appointed for two
months in each of the first three years of the project. The specialist would advise on
the selection of species, purchase of suitable seed, and the selection and development
of sites for seed multiplication.






Training Plan - Nursery Technology
Course                  Participants           Objectives            Resource Agency         Duration        Prequency
Nursery technology and training    DFO (13 DFO)      Production of high     T.A.from industry/ ICFRI/  one week      twice (year 1,3)
techniques                                           quality seedlings with    CSIRO at HQ/Jabalpur-
modern technology      SFRI
RFO (batch 5 RFO)                           T.A.from industry/ NGO     two weeks    2,3,4,4, courses in
at SFRI/R&E centers                     Years 1-4
Study tour (industry) for nursery   DFO & RFO (2                            industry                   one week      once per year
technology                      DFO + 10 RFO)
Local training for FO and FG    FO & FG                                     DFO at R&E centers         on-job
Training of private nursery-    farmers or small     Developing private     DFO & RFO at R&E           one week      2,6,8,8 courses in
men/women                       entrepreneurs (600)   quality nurseries     centers                                  Years 1-4
Study tour international        DFO & RFO (1         Nursery management                                4 weeks       once per year
DFO + 3 RFO)
International training          DFO & RFO (I         Nursery management                                3 months      4,6,8,8 courses in
DFO + I RFO)                                                                         Years 1-4
rDx






Annex 13
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Adaptive Research
Research Institutions
1.    State Forest Research Institute (SFRI). This was established in Jabalpur in
1963, as one of only two state forest research institutes. The SFRI research program
is determined by a Research Advisory Committee, chaired by the PCCF, and a
membership consisting of 5 PCCFs, the Director SFRI, and invited specialists. MPFD
is considered the main client, but there is no formal mechanism of identifying research
priorities. At present decisions on research priorities are based on knowledge or
experience of regional needs and constraints, and the needs of, or returns to particular
species or groups of users. These factors are seldom explicitly recognized or
systematically evaluated and there is no long-term strategic research plan for the
Institute.
2.    SFRI is headed by a Director, of the rank of a Conservator of Forests,
reporting to the CCF (Research and Working Plans). He is assisted by a staff of 3
Deputy Conservators, 8 ACFs, 28 Rangers and 55 other staff, all of whom are
members of MPFD. There are in addition, posts for specialist scientists, including a
forest botanist, a soil scientist, a geneticist, a seed technologist, and a number of
technicians. There is a rapid rotation of research staff, many of whom have little
experience of research. Attempts to provide a core of research staff through the
establishment of the specialist research posts at SFRI have failed because of the
difficulty of recruiting well qualified staff to posts with no promotion prospects.
3.    SFRI has a large campus at Jabalpur, with generous provision of buildings.
The Institute also has ten regional research centers, at Seoni, Amarkantak, Betul,
Nepanagar, Morena, Raipur, Bilaspur, Jagdalpur and Indore. All have suffered from a
lack of investment in equipment.
4.    Forest research within SFRI aims to cover the broad spectrum of forestry
related activities. There are Divisions dealing with Silviculture, Mensuration, Forest
Botany, Forest Genetics and Tree Improvement, Seed Technology, Forest Utilization
and Socio-economics, Statistics, Soil Science, Forest Ecology and Documentation. A
seed certification and tree improvement program initiated under an Indo-Danish
program in 1987 has left a valuable legacy of plus trees, seed orchards and seed
production areas. In addition, the Institute has undertaken contract and collaborative
research for a number of government and private sector agencies.



Annex 13
Page 2 of 4
5.    Tropical Forestry Research Institute (TFRI). TFRI, located in Jabalpur, is
one of the ICFRE institutes, with a broad mandate to address generic forest research in
three states, including Madhya Pradesh. An expansion of the Institute is underway
and research programs are being supported through the World Bank assisted Forestry
Research Education and Extension Project (FREEP). TFRI undertakes fundamental as
well as applied research, but FREEP provides for an improved research management
system to ensure that the needs of the users of research results are given a high
priority. This should ensure that research done in TFRI is complementary to that done
in SFRI.
6.    Other Institutions. There are a number of universities within Madhya Pradesh
with well established Botany Departments and two with Forestry Departments.
However, university capacity to undertake research related to the forest sector is not
fully utilized, though the Agricultural University is involved with agro-forestry. There
appears to be little research on fodder grasses and legumes, or the intensified use of
fodder trees within, or adjacent to forest land. The Indian Institute for Forest
Management (IIFM) is involved with a number of research programs with a socio-
economic focus. Private sector organizations are not presently involved in forestry
research in Madhya Pradesh, though Orient Paper Mills have expressed an interest in
becoming involved in tree improvement programs for eucalypts.
Constraints
7.    The main constraints affecting forestry research in Madhya Pradesh, in
particular within SFRI relate to:
-     the lack of a career structure for scientists with specialist skills, coupled
with the poor support and status offered to research activities;
-     the transitory nature of many research appointments;
-     the lack of any strategic medium or long-term research strategy;
-     insufficient resources.
Project Support
8.    Improved Research Management. The project would support the
improvement of research management through the reconstitution of the SFRI Research
Advisory Committee. The Committee would meet once per year and its membership
would be as presented in Annex 18.
9.    The project would also support the development of a methodology for setting
research priorities, that would reflect the needs of the users of research results. To
avoid unnecessary duplication of work, the methodology would be closely linked to



Annex 13
Page 3 of 4
that to be used for setting research priorities within the network of ICFRE institutes,
modified if required, for the specific needs of Madhya Pradesh. Application of the
methodology would lead to the development of a medium-term strategic research plan
for SFRI. The project would finance consultancies to assist with the adoption of the
methodology and the development of the plan.
10.   Adaptive Research Programs. The project would support a program of
adaptive research trials to be undertaken at the E&R Centers. These would be
designed and supervised by SFRI staff, but their implementation would be managed by
E&R Center staff. Project support for tree improvement programs is discussed in
Annex 12.
11.   Contract Research. Given the difficulty of recruiting well qualified research
staff to SFRI, and the research skills available in universities and elsewhere, the
project would also provide funds for contract research. Research contracts would be
for specific priority problems identified by SFRI and form part of the strategic
research plan. Request for proposals to undertake the research would be made to at
least two different institutions. The SFRI Research Advisory Committee would assess
the proposals against criteria set out below. Administrative procedures and contract
details would be agreed with IDA prior to the award of contract.
12.   Criteria for Type of Research. Contracts would normally be for three years in
the first instance, with the possibility of extensions for successful programs. Proposals
would be made in the form prescribed by MPFD and would be assessed against the
following criteria:
-     Relevance to the priorities established by MPFD;
-     Likelihood of success and the probability of producing usable results
within a reasonable time-frame;
-     Complementarity with, or contribution to, past or on-going research in
India or elsewhere, justified by a literature review;
-     Multi-disciplinary approach and the integration of skills available in the
agency applying for the contract;
-     Relationship to the long-term research program of the institution
concerned;
-     Appropriateness of experimental approach and methodology;
-     Ability to complete the proposed research using existing facilities and
equipment;



Annex 13
Page 4 of 4
-     Cost, based on detailed lists of equipment, scholarships and other costs.
13.   Criteria for Type of Expenditure. The expenditure eligible for support under
contract research arrangements would depend on the type of research, but would
include:
-     Equipment;
-     Operational expenses, including the running costs of vehicles and
equipment, the cost of casual labor for field experiments and travel and
subsistence expenses for research staff; and
-     Scholarships or fellowships for post-graduate students participating in
the proposed research program;
-     Publication of research results.
Expenditure not eligible for support under contract research arrangements would
include:
-     Staff salaries and allowances;
-     Staff training and consultancies;
-     International travel;
-     Civil works of any kind.
14.   Training. Short international training courses would be provided in tree
breeding for the SFRI tree improvement specialist and in research management for the
Director, SFRI and his Deputy, during the first year of the project. Attendance at
international workshops or conferences would also be provided for.
15.   Technical Assistance. An international research management specialist would
be recruited to assist with the development of a strategic research plan for SFRI. He
would assist with the development of a methodology for setting research priorities and
the application of that methodology to develop a medium-term research plan. The
appointment would be for two months in the first year of the project, with a follow-up
visit of one month in the second year.



India
Madhya Pradesh Forestry Project
Project Cost Sumary
(Rs Million)                                    (USS Million)
t     ' Total                                    %      I Total
Foreign    Base                                  Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign   TotAl   Exchane  C             L        Foreign   Total   Exchanae  Costs
A. Management Development
Sector Management                             45.0      24.6      69.6        35         4       1.4       0.8       2.2        35         4
Planning M&E                                  64.2      30 1      94-2        32         5       2.0      0Q9        2.9        32         5
Subtotal Management Development                 109.1      54.7    163.8         33          9      3.4       1.7       5.1        33          9
B. Forest Development
Forest Regeneration                          571.3      32.9    604.3          5        32      17.9       1.0      18.9         5        32
Village Resource Development                 497A 6     604    5581           W11       29      15.6       19     17.4          11        29
Subtotal Forest Development                   1,069.0      93.3  1,162.3           8        61     33.4       2.9      36.3         8        61
C. Extension Technology & Research
E&R Service Centers                           71.8      11.9      83.8        14         4       2.2       0.4       2.6        14         4
Extension                                      9.2       1.8      11.0        16         1       0.3       0.1       0.3        16         1
Seed Improvement                              99.4      25.6    124.9         20         7       3.1       0.8       3.9        20         7
Nursery Demonstration                         25.2      18.9      44.2        43         2       0.8       0.6       1.4        43         2
Adaptive Research                         1..22 9        63       19 1        33          1      0 4       0 2       0 6        33         1
Subtotal rxtension Technology & Research    218.5          64.5    283.0          23        15      6.8       2.0       8.8        23        15
D. Biodiversity Conservation                    268 1      391      307.3         13        16      8.4       1.2       9.6         13        16
Total BASSLINE COSTS                           1,664.8    251.6  1,916.4           13       100     52.0        7.9     59.9         13      100
Physical Contingencies                          77.9      20.1      97.9        20          5      2.4       0.6       3.1        20         5
Price Contingencies                            3I7.4      57.6    445 0A2       13        23       3.7      0.6     4i 4          14         7
Total PROJECT COSTS                            2,130.1    329.3  2,459.4           13       128     58.2        9.1     67.3         14       112
Tue Jul 19 15:34:10 1994
9 J-
O P eS
1-1 Project Cost Summary



India
Madhya Pradesh Forestry Project
Project Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies (Rs             Totals Including
Million)                    Contingencies (USS Million)
1995;   1996    1997    1998    Total  1995  1996  1997  1998  Total
A. Management Development
Sector Management                           46.9    16.9    14.3    10.2    88.3   1.4   0.5   0.4   0.3   2.5
Planning M&E                                20.9    31.8    37.8    35.7   126.2   0.6   0.9   1.0   0.9   3.5
Subtotal Management Development                67.8    48.8    52.1    45.8   214.5   2.0   1.4   1.4   1.2   6.0
B. Forest Developmant
Forest Regeneration                         67.8   167.2   240.9   279.7   755.7   2.0   4.7   6.6   7.3  20.6
Village Resource Development                37.6    96.4   205.8   373.0   712.7   1.1   2.7   5.6   9.8  19.2
Subtotal Forest Development                   105.4   263.6   446.8   652.7 1,468.5   3.1   7.4  12.2  17.1  39.9
C. Extension Technology & Research
E&R Service Centers                         14.7    21.6    34.4    42.2   112.9   0.4   0.6   0.9   1.1   3.1
Extension                                    4.7      5.8     2.1      2.1    14.7   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.4
Seed Improvement                            28.2    39.7    44.4    50.0   162.3   0.8   1.1   1.2   1.3   4.5
Nursery Demonstration                        6.8    11.8    18.8    22.2    59.7   0.2   0.3   0.5   0.6   1.6
Adaptive Research                            9.7 _ 7.7        3.6      3.6        24.6   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.7
Subtotal Extension Technology & Research    64.1    86.5   103.4   120.1   374.1   1.9   2.4   2.8   3.2  10.3
D. Biodiversity Conservation                   61.0   121.2   120.5    99.5   40?.3   1.8   3.4   3.3   2.6  11.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                            298.4   520.0   722.8   918.1 2,459.4   8.8  14.7  19.7  24.1  67.3
Tue Jul 19 15:38:54 1994
WQ D
(DA
O P tt
1-1 Project Components by Year



India
M4adhya Pradesh Forestry Project
Mm.sditure Accounts by Comonets - Totals Including Contingences
(US$ Million)
Management               Fo.e-t lsve1 ont
Develo      t                          village                               Ehltension Tcbnno1v L R-sg-rch
Sector      Planning        Forest         Resource       E&R Service                            Seed            Nursery         Adaptive       Biodiversity
RegeneraNtion 2C3MrahiOf Clnt-A rl PDtI ... ionxn x2ym=1   D                              -trx tion    R.. Iarch       coflxtAL   T.ni
I. ZnY.5tmt Costs
A. Forest Operations                          -            -            16.5                -              01                _              2.6               0.2              0.0             1.4  20.8
B. Civil Works                             0.2           0.3             2.6             0.7              1.7                 -              0.1               0.1                 -            3.8    9.6
C. Equipent and Supplies                   0.7           1.8               -             0.4               0.6              0.1              0.6               0.6              0.3             1.1    6.0
D. Vehicles                                0.1           0.2             0.9             0.8               0.2              0.1              0.3               0.1              0.0             0.5   3.4
e. Training, local                         0.3           0.2               -             0.7              0.2               0.0              0.0               0.0              0.0             0.2    1.5
F. Training, international                 0.5           0.1               -             0.1              0.0                 -              0.4               0.4              0.1             0.2    1.8
G. Studies & Consultancies                 0.1           0.2                -            0.1               0.0              0.0               0.0              0.0              0.1              0.5    1.2
H. Technical Assistance                    0.0             -               -             0.9                 -                 -             0.1                 -              0.0             0.2    1.2
I. Ecodevelopment Fund                       -             -               -                -                -                -                 -                -                 -            2.2    2.2
J. Forest Protection                          -            -               -            14.7                 -                -                 _                -                 _               -  14.7
K. Project Preparation Fund                0-3             -                              - -                                  -                -                -                 -                    03
Total Investmnt Costs                           2.2           2.9            19.9            18.6              2.8               0.2              4.1               1.4              0.6            10.1  62.7
xI. acurrt Costs
A. Civil Works                             0.0           0.0             0.1             0.0               0.1                 -             0.0               0.0                 -            0.2    0.4
B. Equipment                               0.2           0.4                -            0.1               0.1              0.0              0.1               0.1              0.1             0.3    1.6
C. Vehicles                                0 1           0-2             0.6             0 s              0 1               0 1              0-2               0 1              0- 0            06   2 6
Total Recurrent Costs                           0-3       0L    6             0 7             0 7              0.3               0 2              0-3               0 2              0.J            1.1   4.6
Total PCSJ? COSTS                                2.5           3.5            20.6            19.2               3.1              0.4               4.5              1.6              0.7            11.1  67.3
Taxes                                          0.1           0.2             0.7             0.6              0.1               0.0              0.2              0.1               0.0             0.4    2.4
Foreign Exchange                               0.9           1.1             1.1             2.2              0.4               0.1              0.9              0.7               0.2             1.4    9.1
Fri Feb 17 16:18 23 1995
(D(
x
L.3
1-1 Expenditure Akccounts by components -Totals Including Contingencies



India
Madhya Pradesh Forestry Project
Expenditure Accounts by Yeaor
Totals Including Contingencies (Rs                Totals Including
Million)                      Contingencies (USS Million)
-1995L    1996    1997    199B    Total  1995  1996  1997  ,1998  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Forest Operations               69.1   175.9   235.5   279.0   759.4   2.0   5.0   6.4   7.3  20.8
B. Civil Works                     49.1     90.9   112.5    95.3   347.9   1.5   2.6   3.1   2.5   9.6
C. Equipment and Supplies          57.4     57.5      54.6    44.4   213.9   1.7   1.6   1.5   1.2   6.0
D. Vehicles                        35.0     34.5      25.1    27.0   121.6   1.0   1.0   0.7   0.7   3.4
E. Training, local                 10.7     12.8      14.5    17.9      55.9   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.5   1.5
F. Training, international         14.3     16.7      16.7    17.6      65.3   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.5   1.8
G. Studies & Consultancies          8.4      12.0     12.5      8.7     41.5   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.2   1.2
H. Technical Assistance             9.8     10.5      13.5     10.1    44.0   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.3   1.2
I. Ecodevelopment Fund              4.5     14.3      25.2    37.1      81.1   0.1   0.4   0.7   1.0   2.2
J. Forest Protection               13.1      60.3   162.0   313.9   549.2   0.4   1.7   4.4   8.2  14.7
K. Project Preparation Fund    10.4 0.4        -    -             -    10.4   0                             0- 03
Total Investment Costs                 281.8   485.5   671.9   851.1 2,290.3    8.3  13.7  18.3  22.3  62.7
II. Recurrent Couts
A. Civil Works                      0.9       2.7      4.9      6.9     15.4   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.4
B. Equipment                        5.7      11.6     17.4    22.3      57.0   0.2   0.3   0.5   0.6   1.6
C. Vehicles                        10.0    201..    28.6    37.8    96.7   0.3   0.6   0.8   1.0   2.6
Total Recurrent Costs                   16.5         34.6    50.9    67.0   169.0   0.5   1.0   1.4   1.8   4.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                     298.4   520.0   722.8   918.1 2,459.4   8.8  14.7  19.7  24.1  67.3
Fri Feb 17 13:27:18 1995
o 4>
CD C
X-



Annex 15
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Procurement
Civil Works - LCB
Arrangements for civil works to be procured using LCB procedures include:
Packages of Works. Works have been grouped into convenient packages for
bidding purposes, with all new construction at a particular location made into one
package, as far as possible. There are 13 packages, valued at US$1.165 million,
all for post review, and spread over the four-year project period;
Procurement Schedules. Detailed procurement schedules for the 13 packages are
presented in Attachment 1 to this Annex;
Design and Specifications. The design, specifications, bills of quantities and
estimates of costs for standard designs of the various types of buildings to be
constructed under the project have been prepared by MPFD and reviewed by
IDA;
Bidding Documents. Standard bidding documents acceptable to IDA and already
agreed with GOI, have been used and contracts would be concluded following
procedures acceptable to IDA;
Land. MPFD land is available for all new works;
Procurement Agent. The concerned officers of MPFD prepare the designs and
specifications, prepare the bid documents, invite and evaluate bids, and supervise
the works. No procurement agent would be needed.



Annex 15
Page 2 of 3
Goods, Equipment, Furniture, Supplies, Vehicles
2.    ICB/LCB. Arrangements for items to be procured using ICB and LCB procedures
include:
-     Procurement Packages. Convenient procurement packages have been defined for
each category of goods and agreed with IDA. There are six ICB Pre-review
packages and seven LCB Post-review packages;
-     Procurement Schedule. Detailed procurement schedules for all the packages
have been prepared and are presented in Attachment 2 to this Annex;
-     Design and Specifications.  The specifications for goods and vehicles for
ICB/LCB Pre-review packages to be procured during the first two years of the
project have been prepared by MPFD and agreed with IDA;
-     Bidding Documents. Standard bidding documents agreed with GOI would be
used and contracts concluded using procedures acceptable to IDA;
-     Procurement Agent. The concerned officers of MPFD prepare the designs and
specifications, prepare the bid documents, invite and evaluate bids, and administer
the contracts. No procurement agent would be needed;
Training
3.    Local and international training for the staff and officers of MPFD would be based on the
detailed training plans that have been prepared by MPFD. These plans, presented in Attachments
3A and 3B to this Annex have been reviewed by IDA and set out the number of personnel to be
trained, the areas of study, the training institutions, and the years in which the training would take
place. MPFD would contract placement and support services for international training to an
international organization, and appropriate terms of reference have been prepared. Local training
would be arranged by MPFD in the identified training institutions.



Annex 15
Page 3 of 3
Technical Assistance, Studies and Consultancies
4.    Project funds for internationally recruited consultants, that is for technical assistance and
for studies and consultancies undertaken by locally recruited consultants are to assist with
institutional development, or project implementation as shown below:
Activity         Institutional     Project
Development  Impletatio
............. .US$ million.
Technical Assistance
VRDP Evaluation                               0.9
Ecology                                       0.2
Seed Technology                               0.1
Studies and Consultancies
Sector Management             0.2
MIS/GIS                                       0.2
VRDP Evaluation                               0.1
Research                                      0.1
Ecology                                       0.5






PROCUREmENT SCHEDULE FOR CML WORKS
DESCRIPTIONOFlTw N      MET1HOD      EST.
AND                CF        OCOST  1 9 9 4            1 9 9 5                            1 9 9  6                               1 9  9  7                      1 9 9 
Package i                                                                                                                               I1j
COUAttio           o l          XiBisp  PCMAM4  JI |S  ID  CJrSO  N  D J IFIMIAI  .1 IJ {JIA    S   0N D J  IF MIAM| J~ A    S                                       1         N            0
ConswucIJon of BuildingsI 
alaspurC020n0       V LCB-Post-r__      3.75  ____ 1 4151  8   9   I 10                                                     1 i+                                                            -
Packa.ge 2:1                                                                                                                                                              III
Constucaon of BuildngsI 
at idore               LCB-Post-rov     2.56 I1                                                  8 I    91 Ij  1j                                    ___11 3  I F
PaCKage 3:                                                                   I
Cons utcon 01 Buildings  _______9 I                                                                I          I              [1                                                          I        I
at Khardwa             LCB-Post-rev     3.01               I        I                                                  1 I  I1   I11112i
Package 4:                                                        II    !lI                I                                                            I
atJagdapWueLCB-Po   35Ls j5L   8111SAFl-re  1.7    I1I _20 I                          -                   1iI{              K 7 7 Y
Cons           /t'uon of Buildings              I          I   I I1
atJadaipu       C       P           I~  41                                                                                          8    gi  10 I                E IIIIIIIE IIII I II   I   lls 19 19 1  .    1
Par-Kage 5:I 
Consuucflon of Bu g 
at Shahdol  LCB-Post-rev  3.461     I           III I                                                                      I-..-  fr-.---.--- ---- -       1 1
Package 6:                                                                                                                                                                          
Conskucfon of BuildingsI                                                                                                                                                        I   
atJSeani               LCB-Post-rev     2.62                                                                                   51   J      -9      - 1_ 12*il L11 
Package 8:                                                                                                                            I  ~i  1                 i 1! 
Contsb'ucon of Budldings                                                                                                                j 
at Jaepur              LCB-Post-rev     2.95       14,                  10 I  [1                             -           15w        8     91111212L....-L..-
Constucdon of Buildlings                                                                                                                 I       t
Consamucon of BuNdngs
at Shoped              LCB-POSH.V       4.17                                                                                                                  45      a     9111           2
'4 rt~
0  0  ,
I-



PFtREENT SCHEDULE FOR CMVL WORKS
DESCRtPTION OF iTiEM | METHO       EST. j               1                                                                 1                            9
AND         I    a:    i       COST__1_9 9 4     1 9 9 5         __1 9 9 __1_9_9 7                                                                   _1 9 9 9
oa kg1t1|         PFC C    RS     SIO NDJ FMAMJ IJ                       J F MIA:MIJJ  A SOINIDJ  'FIM  AiM JJ A!S0'NIJiF  MIA;J .J A S O  N ID
Package 11                                   .F1                                                                 Tij1 
Consarucflon olt Buildings                                II
at Sagari                           3 LCB-Post-rev    3.47:  I  |  I   I             _ _ _ _ _I                                            14151             1011t  121
Package 12:I 
Constructon of Buildings4                      t                                                                                    I         j -  I
at GwaIoor           LCB-Post-rev   I 3.07                                                                   d  ____ ir 1    5,   8'  9~  1011  1 2!   _____
Package 13:                                
ConstrLucton oc Iulig                      
at BeMco if * i5nsLCD-Post-rev    2.05                                    1 1 14     5  3i191 9 101  1I12  _ _                          _       _      _ 2_  __i ____________
PRECUtALFlCATiCN ACTIONS                                                   PR0QUREMENTXQQtaDN                                             9 - CONSTRUCTION 25 % COMPLETE
A - tNrTIATE PREPARAT)ON OF PREOUAUFCATION DOCUMa4TS AND EVALUATION CRITERLA  1 - INrITATE PREPARATICN OF SPECIFICATIONS AND EiD DOCLJMENTS  1 0 - CONSTRUCTION SO % COMPLETE
B - TRANSMIT DOCUMENTS AND CRiTERLA TO IDA                                 2 - TRANSMfT SPEC FICATIONS AND BID DOCUMENTS TO IDA           I I - CONSTRUCTION 75 % COMPLETE
C- IDACLEARANCE OF DOCMENTS AND CRfTERiA                                   3- IDA CLEARANCE OFSPECIFICATION AND BID DOCUMENTS              12 - CONSTRUCTION 1t00%  COMPLETE
D - SSUE PREOUALFlCATKN NOTICE                                             4 - ISSUE INVITATION TO BID
E - RECEIPT OF CONTRACTOR PREQUALIFICATICN' DATA                           5 - OPEN BIDS                                                  MltOD OF PRCURFNT
F- TRANSMIT EVALUATION REPORT AND RErOtMMENDATONS TO IDA                   6- TRANSMIT EVALUATKN REPORT AND AWARD RECOMMEiNDATIONS TO IDA CB - iTErfATECNAL COMIPE1TT7VE BiDDO
G - IDACLEARANCE OF RECOMMENDATIONS                                        7- IDA CLEARANCE OF PECOMMENATINS                              LCB- LOCAL COMPETiTlVE BIDDING
8 - AWARD CONTRACT                                             FA - Force Account
rt P
nq r ,t
rD lb M
o x
rt
gtn



PROCIRAENT SCHEDULE FOR VEHCLES, E IP.ENT AND MATERIALS
DEsCfvP,N OF  |8E    n=    EST.
AND            CF    COST  1 9 9 4           1 9 9 5                       1 9 9 6                            1 9 9 7 A                 1 9 9 N
OUANTITY         PX   FtS                                       XD N 0  IJ                         J F_MAM JiAlAO , iNIONJ F ,M AMMiJ           |J !A  |S N0 F M
.aCkaol7nr 40rr3       1 1 11ji t8r! :;1 1 I   i 11
Compu_                   _318P        03_   _ _..L.... _ rVH                                                                            H r   LJii! 4 S ]1/1 4-i L '  ti             -tAS2 
Commes-          49 ICB/P1r    12.75 1                     . 3          I 4   5    7  I               1_    1                                                     t _
PadirCa  2II |i                                                                                                   Ii      .I i      i           I|
Coau1ets    40 CBr/Por |e 2.1   2 3                                j 1                    1 41  5678   ill I  I      I I_
[sPu    6            ___ LS      2.1 8 C   105                                                         1 2/31 1       4 ;j.6.71              ' 1
Comp_A_rs      _3  mCBPr        7.85 *1  ,                                                                                            15 61718                 __
Jeep            LS I_B/Po   1.0 I          I 3           I I  I I    1 1i2IB/41   5P  61 7. 1 r1 1 _                i i K  5  I    I    I  _                    i
-4 W D _    _ _                                                                                       1 27.001_ 8 141 1            H               -
JCeepdr S                        3     -                 ICB/Pr o LIV Y                                                 61 SI 
Air Cord__o_S             2.361    1       141  51                                                                                                        ___1__
ir   CoNItfiot  ANDCRrlE0IC/Post    IDA                               2 - IT            COI    BID W             T IDA I  I    I    I                A
Package  10:_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _               
CIDelns         12 LOCS/Post   3.30                                        41 5 83 .11                   BDC
Ph*locppier      6 LO N/Post   1.25         1 41 1 5        il       i   I   I IREPORTI                A             I 
Package 12:_            _  _  _ _     _  _  _                               
Seivsu   EqujOtents LS iLOS/Post   2.40 _    1. 41 1 .1~ .11III             
C - ID aCEARACE OF DOCUTSNC          R                                3 - IA CLEARANCE OF SPECFICATION AND -ID DOCUMENTS
D - SnSWJPFAMMIFATION NOTICE                                          4 - ISSM INVATION TO BIDnJDFPOURAI
E - FAMOFCtNTRACTOA PRIBOLINICATION DATA                              5 - OPEN BIDS                                                  U-u 9419M4OOKCOM1f11W BKM    r
F -TRANSMITEVALUATION REPORT AND REOOMM4C MT1N  TO IDA                6 - TRANSdiFT EVALLIATIONI REPORT AND AWARD RECOM4MENDOATIONS TO NY108 CO- LOCAL CCAPETTITVE siooHG 
G - IDACLEAPANCE CF RECOMMEDATU6                                      7 -CIA CLEARANCE OF RECOMMENDTIONS                             PS -ppkccw4T  oppU
8 - AWARD CONTRACT                                            NEG - NEGOTIATION
Page 1



TRAI116, LOCAL
CWATION          195                1996               19971               199             TOTAL                     FREFERD
ITEMS                                              No. COST            NO. COST            NO. COST           NO. COST   No.           COST                INSTITUTION
_            _          _             _   __-- -- -- --   - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ------ - - - - - - - - - -- -  - - -  - -  - -  --- _   _ - -   -   ----------------------__
lIstitution building - CCF    I week              4       0. e       4      0.8          3     0.6           3     0.6          14     2. 8            In-house progran  using eoternal expertise
from TTTI, Bhopal
HfR- Xf    I week          33        6.6      33      6.6         33      6.6         33     6.6         132   26.4              liKs, HRD Acadety, ILRI, Consultants
Leaderstip/team biilding  -- DCF   I week             2          2        1       1           2       2          1        1          6       6             In-house progras with external enpertiu
frog IlMs, HRD Academy, ILRI, Conseltants
Projectformulation/planning-C  2 weeks                3          6        3       6           2       4          2        4         10      20             MIRD, Hfyderabad
615 Study tours                      1       1.5        1      1.5          1     1.5           1     1.5           4       6             Forest Department
615 Workshop    3 days           1        0.5        1     0.5           1    0.5           1    0.5            4        2            Forest Survey of India, NRSA, Private
institutes, State Remote Sensing Centers
615 Specialist   4 weeks            1      0.95        1   0.75            0        0          0       0          4        6            IIFM, Bhopal
MIS Data entry   6 weeks            4       0.2        4     3.2           0        0          0       Q          e     0.4             Acadeny of Adn., Phopal
115 Asst Prog  9 weeks            2        0.2        2     0.2           0       0          0        0          4    (.4 Afadesy of Adn., Bhopal
Data entry   6 weeks         72        3.6      104     5.2         116     5.8        II2    5.6          464    20. 2            Acadeoy of Adn., Bhopal
Asst. Programmer   9 weeks           le        1.6      26      2.6         2S      2.9         28     2. B       1       10.1             Acadesy of Aden., Bhopal
Computer literacy    ! weev          100        0.5     100      0.5        100      0.5        100     0.5         400        2            Academy of Adn., Bhopal
615    3 days         I        0.5        I     0.5           I    0.5           1    0.5            4        2            Forest Survey of India, NRSA, Private
institutes, State Remote Sensing Centers
Study tours                     I       0.3         I     0.3           I    0.3           I    0.3            4     1.2             Forest Department
615 specialist  6 weeks            2           3       3     4.5           0        0          5     7.5         10       IS            FSI, MRSA, State NIC, Private institutes,                                OQ  rt  :
Software Vendors                                                             n   X
Orientation  Ishop-Senivr staff203-day               12        4.8       12     4.8           0       0          0        0         24     9.6             TTTI, Academy of Administration,                                         O   to    n
IIFN, other                                                             sh
Spearhead teams  6 weeks             4       9.6        4      9.6          6    14.4           6   14.4          20       46             Modules by: N60s, WALMI, Academy of                                          >
Adoinistration, TTTI, IIFM, FD Staff



Circle  team-building  eshops    2 days               4        0.6         4     0.6           6      0.9           6      0.9          20        3             Facilitator
Divisionial team building wkshp   2 days               12         1.8       12      1.8          16     2.7          IB      2.7          60        9              Facilitator
SR[' princIples/ skIll   - RIOS          I week        bo         7.2       35      7.2          54   1. 0          54    1tO           189       26              VPOF Spearhead  Teas
Tralning - Oil)  cettees Variable             l b         6.3      198      9.9         3u6    15.3         414    20.7         1044    52.2               VRDP Spearhead  Team, H50s,
Other agencies
EUperience  sharing  wsrops           I day        C                    3      (.,           4     0 4            4     6 4          11      1 I              Forest Department
Annual moikshops 4or trainers              I day                             2      0.1                 0 l            2     o.1            5     '.               n/a
Study totirs  - RFC,DFO   10 days             3         1.         4        2           4        2           6        3         17        .5             nIa
Study tours - villagers/N60s             I week          9      2.25        12         3         12        2          I      4. 5        51   12. 75              n/a
Market analysis   2 weeks              2          3        3      4.5           4        6           4        6          !3    19.               11M  (Indian  Institite  of Manaqement)
FD Staff    2 days           2           2        5        5           0        9          13      13          29       29              SFRI, Task Force, Outside experts
Workshops - DFOs    I week              I          1         I    0.1           0        0           0        0           2     '2               Forest Department
Workshops - hFOs                        2        0.3         2     0.3           0        0           0        0           4     0 6              Forest Department
Course - RFO/FO                        I        0.3        1      0. 3          1     0.3            1     0. 3           4     1. 2             Forest Department
Course - T4V staff                         I      0.01         I    0.01            1    0.01            1    0.01            4    O,04              Forest Department
Seed  TechnologylFRAf                        4       0.28         4    0.28            4    0.28           4    0.28           16    1. 12             Forest Department
- DFO r 13    1 week            1       0.25                  0           1   0.25                     0           2     0.5              1.a. from industry/lCPRUICSIR8
at If/Jabalpur-SFRI                                                        >
- RFO  x 5  2 weeks            2        0 2        3      0. 3          4      0.4           4     0I    4      13      1.3              T.A. 4rom  industry/NOO at SFRI/RlE centers                              D0   P   (D
0   CD
-     FO/F6    on-job       I        0.1         1     0.1            1     0.1            1     0.1           4     0.4               DFO at RSE centers                                                       -e , 
'a.'



- Pvt nursery operators   I wek         2       0.2       &    0.6         0    0.0         5    0.         24    2.4           OFO I RF0 it ShE cnters
- Study tor OF0D/FO   I wek          1      0.15      2    0.3         2    0.3          2    0.3         7   1.05           industry
Workshos                 4         2       4      2        4       2         4      2        16      I           Forest DeWtuet
Eco - Dev_pmut Trainin
lm  uIkslop/PA Staff                  5         1      0       0        5       I         0      0        10      2           Fornt opWltnt
Sparhead Tese IO                   3         3      2       2        0       0         2      2         7      7           Forest hpartmt
IL cows. (4 mnthb)                   2       0.6       2    0.6         2    0.6         2    0.6         5    2.4           Fornt kpartmt
Study twr                 5       0.5       5    6.5         5    0.5         5    0.!        20       2          Forest kpwrtmt
IL rrai.iag
UI  iploea, 9 nith I mtho           3       1.0       3    1I.         3    1.0         3    1.1        12    7.2           III, hrado
I  Cestre, 4 mth 4 mths            3       0.9      3    0.9         3    0.9          3    0.9        12    3.6           iIl, Wad"
Specialized, 15I dy 1-2 mes         6       0.6      6    0.6         6    0.6          6    0.6        24    2.4           Nil and others
Orientatin for fSs   Iuk    200               3    200       3      200       3       200      3   1 00  I2                 F8 staff in eac   CF zoue
rhkshp/seoinars n -5 days          5      0.25      5   0.25         5   0.25          5   0.25        20      I           Various institutions (in country)
Study tows  2  ees         5       0.5       5    0.5         5    0.5         5    0.5        20       2          Various institetims (ir ceutry)
Traiminglperatises                  1         2      I       2        1       2         1      2         4      0           Fornt epartw    t
713    15.34    337  96.3          75 105.39      19"  124.24      3617 415.66
OQ  rr :
(lb
o nfi'
rt



TRAINING, INTERNATIONAL                                                                                                                                  PAGE I OF I
PARTI- DURATION  TOTAL              1995            1996              1997              1996              TOTAL        PREFERED
ITEMS                            CIPANT               0/         NO.   COST    NO.        COST    NO.       COST    NO.       COST    No.       COST   INSTITUTION
Policy analysis   CFs          3 n        9         1       3       1         3       1         3       (         Q       3         9   YALE UNIVERSITY,CONNECTICUT, U.S.A
DCFs        e 18    108          2      15       1      7.5        2        15       1       7.5       6        45   COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY, NEW YORK, U.S.A
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA,BERKELEf,U.S.A
Economics   CFs          3         6         1       3       0         0       1         3       0         0       2          t   YALE UNIVERSITY,CONNECTICUT, U.S.A
DCFs       12 N      24          0      0        1       7.5       0         0       1       7.5       2        15   UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA,BERKELEY,U.S.A
MANASEIIENT
Study tours   CCFs    2-4W                     4      12       4         12      3          9       3         9      14        42   U.S.A
615  DCFs         3 N      42         4      12       5         15      0          0       5        15      14        42   ASIAN INSTITUTE OF TECH.,BAN6KOk
IG5 Study Tours                I N        4         2       6       2         6       0         O       0         0       4         6   ICIMOD, KATHNANDU
ITC, NETHERLANDS
VILLAGE RESOURCE DEVELOFMENT        ACF        3 9       36         3       9       3         9       3         9       3         9      12        36   UNIV. OF READING, U.K
RO                                                                                                                   IDS, SUSSEX
Seed technologyImanage.ent   DFO            3 N      24         2      to       2         le      2         le       2        16       6        72   PETAWANA NATIONAL FORESTRY INST., CANADA
DANIDA TREE SEED CENTRE
FOREST SEED CENTRE UNIV. OF UME AO, SWEDEN
Fodder shrub/legume Froduction  DFO             3 N       6         1       5       0         0       I         5       0         u       2         10   UNIV. OF QUEEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA
Study tours on fodder dev.   DFO            I N       2          0      0        1      7.5        0         0       1       7.5       2        IS   THAILAND, SWEDEN, AUSTRALIA
ACF
RO
Nursery Manaqement   DFO           3 n      78         4      12       6        la       6        24       B         24     26         78   CSIRO, AUSTRALIA, BRAZIL, CHINA
Study tour -Nursery Manageeent  RO              I N       4         1       6       I         6       1         6       1         6       4        24   BRAZIL, CHINA, THAILAND
Tree improvement   DFO           3 9       6         1       3       0         0       1         3       0         0i      2          6   INSTITUTE OF FOREST GENETICS
SCHNACENBECK HEMBUR6, GERMANY
OHIO STATE UNIV. OHIO, U.S.A                             >
Researc. Management   CF            . 9       6          1      3        1         3       0         O         d               2         6   CSIRO, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA                                  D3)  D
ARBORETUM, HORSHOLAN HUMLAEECK, DENMARK               -
Conferrence                I N                 0       0        I         I                        I         1       2         2                                                         O  
NJ



PAGE 2 OF 2
PARTI- DLRATION  TOTAL             1995              1996             1991             1999             TOTAL      PREFERED
ITENS                            CIFANT              e/n        NO.   COST    NO.       COST    NO.       COST    NO.      COST    No.       COST   INSTITUTION
MARkET ANALYSIS                    CF         3 N       6         1       3       0        0       1         3       0         0      2         6   YALE UNIVERSITY,COMIECJICUT, U.S.A
DCF                                                                                                              UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA,BERkELEY,U.S.A
Protected area
Long-term   CF         12 1      24         0       0      1       7.5       0         0       1      7.5       2        15   EAST NEST CENTRE LUIV. OF HOUOLULU,HANAI,U.S.A
DCF                                                                                                              SHITHSONIMN INST.,NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL
PARI,MISHIN6OI,lU.S.IA
DUREL INST. OF CONS. I ECOLOBY,UNIV. OF KENT,U.K.
Short course  CF           3 N      24         2       6       2         6      2         6       2         6      8        24   -- do--
KF
ACF
Sniur/lmrkshs   CF             1-211                 2      3       2         3       2         3       2        3       1        12
ACF
Stedy tws   AF            IN      10         0       0      0         0      10        IS       0         0          1    I5   KW A, UW6, TA IIZANIA
U
32             34                38               31
DO  rt n
M 0rm
o 0 kn
rt



Annex 16
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Six-Monthly Project Report Format
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. INTRODUCTION
2. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Management Development
Project Steering and Coordination Committee Meetings
Schedule of Meetings
Decisions
Institutional Development
Institutional Changes
Project Implementation Unit
Policy Analysis Unit
Human Resource Development
Personnel Matters
Training Courses
Planning Monitoring and Evaluation
System Development
Data Collection and Processing
Evaluation Studies
Forest Development
Natural Forest Regeneration
Physical Progress
Village Resource Development
VRDP Planning
VRDP Implementation
VRDP Fund



Annex 16
Page 2 of 2
Extension, Technology and Research
E&R Service Centers
Extension Programs
Seed Improvement
Nursery Development
Research
Biodiversity Conservation
PA Management
Planning
Relocation
Ecodevelopment
ED Planning
ED Implementation
ED Support Fund
3. CONTRACTS AND PHYSICAL PROGRESS
Tender Document Preparation for Works and Goods
Tendering and Contract Awards
Physical Progress by Contract Compared to Contract Timetable
4. CONSULTANT RECRUITMENT AND WORK PROGRESS
Terms of Reference
Short Lists
Requests for Proposals
Contract Awards
Consultant Activity Progress
Consultant Reports
5. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
Accounting Systems and Procedures
Project Expenditures
Disbursement Claims
Documented
SOEs
Financial Statements and Audits



Annex 17
Page 1 of 1
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(US$ millions)
IDA FY        IDA Semester    Disbursement      Cumulative         Percent
Disbursement
96               1                   3.9              3.9             7
2                   3.9             7.8             13
97               1                   6.4             14.2            24
2                   6.4            20.6             35
98               1                   8.5             29.1            50
2                   8.5            37.6             65
99               1                  10.2             47.8            82
2                  10.2            58.0            100



Annex 18
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Committees
A. Project Coordination Committees
Project Steering Committee
Membership:        Chairman            Secretart-y of' Forests
Secretary          CCF (PILJ)
Members             PCCF
CCFs Development. Social Forestry,
Wildlife
Director, FDC
Joint Secretary, Financc
Joint Secretary, Planning
Secretary or Representative
- Tribal Dcvelopment Department
- Agriculture Departmiient
- llorticulturc Dcpartmllent
- Animllal HUsbandry Department
- Rural Developrmient Departmiient
- Rural Industries Department
Function           The Committee would meet bi-annually to review progress and
ensure:
-     Overall coordination of project activities;
-     That proposed changes in management approach and
institutional structures are introduced;
-     That project agreements and assurances are tultilled in a
timely manner;
-     That Government contributions to project expenditures
are made available.



Annex 18
Page 2 of 5
Regional Project Coordination Committee
Membership        Chairman           Commissioner
Secretary          Territorial CF (HQ)
Members           CF Territorial
CF Wildlife
CF Working Plans
Regional Manager, FDC
Representatives
- Rural Development Department
- Tribal Development Department
- Agriculture Department
- Horticulture Department
- Animal Husbandry Department
Function          The Committee would meet bi-annually to:
-     Review planned project activities within the region;
-     Identify activities planned by other agencies that would
complement or overlap with project activities;
-     Agree action to coordinate such complementary activities
or to avoid duplication.
District Project Coordination Committees
Membership        Chairman           Collector
Secretary         DFO Territorial (HQ)
Members           Other Territorial DFOs
DFO Wildlife
Working Plan Officer
Representatives
- District Rural Development
Agency
- Tribal Development Department
- Agriculture Department
- Horticulture Department
- Animal Husbandry Department
Function          The Committee would fulfil the same functions within the
District as the Regional Coordination Committee within the
region



Annex 18
Page 3 of 5
B. Departmental Technical Working Groups
Departmental Working Groups would be established to provide technical oversight and
coordination of project activities within MPFD. The functions of the various Working Groups
are presented below. Each group would be chaired by the PCCF or the appropriate CCF.
The core membership of each group would include the CCF (PIU) and the appropriate CFs or
DCFs from the PIU. Suggested membership of each group is presented below, but
membership would be finalized following completion of the management review.
Planning Monitoring and Evaluation
Membership         Chairman           CCF (PME)
Secretary          DD (PME)
Members            CCF (PIU)
CF PME (PIU)
Manager PME Unit
2 CFs Territorial
2 DFOs Territorial
Function           The Working Group would:
-     Approve TOR for the review of PME procedures;
-     Review the conclusions of the review and approve
recommended information systems;
-     Ensure the introduction and development of agreed PME
procedures and systems;
-     Oversee the development of zonal GIS Units;
-     Review the development of improved Working Plans;
-     Review the implementation of the procedures and the
application of conclusions to sectoral planning;
Village Resource Development Program
Membership         Chairman           PCCF
Secretary          CF VRDP (PIU)
Members            CCF (PIU)
CF Project Planning (PIU)
2 CFs Territorial
2 DFOs Territorial
Representative NGO



Annex 18
Page 4 of 5
Function           The Working Group would:
-     Review proposed orientation programs for MPFD staff
and training for VRDP Planning Teams;
-     Agree criteria for utilization of VRDP Fund;
-     Approve annual work plans for VRDP;
-     Review VRDP plans approved by DFOs;
-     Review implementation of VRDP and agree modifications
to procedures, if necessary;
-     Approve TOR for evaluation of VRDP in Project Year 3.
Forest Development Technology
Membership         Chairman           CCF (Working Plans)
Secretary          CF Project Planning (PIU)
Members            CCF (Development)
2 CFs Territorial
2 DFOs Territorial
Director SFRI
Function           The Working Group would:
-     Review silvicultural prescriptions of Working Plans and
VRDP microplans;
-     Ensure that silvicultural practices are environmentally
sound;
-     Oversee studies of silvicultural practices including the
preparation of terms of reference for such studies;
-     Supervise the preparation of manuals and other
publications on silvicultural practice, in particular for
degraded forests, for the guidance of MPFD staff at
various levels.
Human Resource Development
Membership         Chairman           PCCF
Secretary          DCF HRD (PIU)
Members            CCF (PIU)
CF Project Planning (PIU)
CCF (WL)
CCF (Social Forestry)
CCF (Development)
CCF (Admin)
Function           The Working Group would:
-     Agree priority training needs on an annual basis;
-     Approve proposed training institutions and courses;
-     Approve selection of trainees;
-     Endorse annual training plans.



Annex 18
Page 5 of 5
Conservation of Biodiversity
Membership         Chairman            CCF (WL)
Secretary          CF Project Planning (PIU)
Members            Project Director
DCF (WL)
2 Zonal CFs (WL)
2 CFs Territorial
Function           The Working Group would;
-     Review PA management plans;
-     If necessary, commission studies of the impact of resident
communities on PAs;
-     Agree procedures for the use of the VRSF;
-     Review ED plans approved by PA Managers;
-     Agree criteria for use of EDSF;
-     Review implementation of ED programs and agree
modifications to procedures, if necessary;
-     Review proposals for development of the PA network.
Research Advisory Committee
Membership         Chairman            PCCF
Secretary          Director SFRI
Members            CCF (Social For. K i
CCF (PIU)
Managing Director i-DC
Director TFRI
Representative
-     Forest Industries
-     Universities
-     NGO
Function           The Committee would:
-     Approve TOR for a study to cevelop a strategic research
plan;
-     Agree criteria for setting research priorities;
-     Review the conclusions of the study and endorse a
strategic research plan;
-     Review SFRI annual work programs;
-     Approve contract research proposals;
-     Review progress or researc.i contracts.



Annex 19
Madhya Pradesh Forestry Project                                    Page    I  of  3
_  1994    1      1995      1       1996      1       1997              1 i998            1999
ID Name                                              0203040102030401020                               10304010203 040l10Q20Q3Q04 01
I  IBRO PROJECT TASK MANAGEMENT
2        Negotiation
3        Board Presentation
4        Effectiveness
5        Completion Date
6        Closing Date
7   REVIEW REPORT AND AUDIT
a        Project Launch - Supervision Ill 
9        Supervision 112 S E
10       Superviseon 211         S
11       Supervision 3v11
12       Supervision 4/11
13         Project Review                e
14  ProJectCompleteon Report
15  PROCUREMENT DEELPMN
16       Procure EquT p    ment ICBILPSRve
'17      Procure Vehicles LPS 
9        Constructaon
19  SECTORAL STRATEGY           e
20       Pnepare Sectoeal Sategy Sbtement Md tn
21  PROJECT COORDINATION                                 
22       Establish Project steering Committee
23       Estabkish PIU     Sdi
24             Appoint Key Stufe                                      r_
25             Complete Sifo Appointments S
26       Establish Technical Working Groups=
27  MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT                                                   
28       Prepare TOR Sor Management ReSiewar
29       Fonalize Contrct for Managelent Review                         sm
30       Complete Management Revtew                                         cl                                                    p
31 f     Introduce Agreed Management Modmfcbations                                           _
32       Estblilsh Policy Analysis Unitt
33       Underae Polic Studies
34             Priority I Stu dies                                                       =
35             Priority 2 Stbidles                                                                           _
36  PLANNING MONITORING AND EVALUATION                                       
37       Design PME Procedures                                                          =
381      Design and Commission GISIMIS System=
39       Procure GISIMIS Hardware and Software
40       Preparation Annual ImplemenStaton Plan (AIP)                           
41             AIP PY I 
42             AIP PY2                                                         EC=
43             AIP PY3r
Al AP Py4
Project MP Forestry Project                     Critical                              Progress                              summnary  
Date 2/2195 ~~~~~~~~Noncntical                                            Milestone              *Rolled Up 



Annex 19
Page 2 of 3
Madhya Pradesh Forestry Project
1994              1995       1       1996        1      1997               1998               1999
ID  Name                                               Q2TQ3    Q4 I1Q2I       3 Q   ITQ1                     | Q2 3040102  Q3  04 1 Q    2   Q3 I Q4 I Q1  I Q2   Q3 | 04   Q1
45  HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
46        Appoint DCF HRD in PIU
47        Prepare HRO Plan
48        Finalize Placement Services Contract
49        Prepare Annual Training Plan (ATP) Year 1
50        Prepare ATP Year 2
51        Prepare ATP Year 3
52        Prepare ATP Year 4
53  NATURAL FOREST REGENERATION
54        Area Started Year I
55        Area Started Year 2
56        Area Started Year 3
57        Area Started Year 4
58  VILLAGE RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
59        Contract VRD Orientation Training
60        Train VRDP Planning Teams
61             Year I Teams
62             Year 2 Teams
63             Year 3 Teams                                                                              r
64              Year 4 Teams
65        VRDP implementation
66             VRD Started Year t
67              VRD Started Year 2
68             VRD Started Year 3
69             VRD Started Year 4
70        VRDP Evaluation
71  EXTENSION
72        Establish ILU
73        Construct 2 E&R Centers
74        Construct 3 E&R Centers
75        Construct 4 ESR Centers
76        Construct 4 E&R Centers
77  SEED IMPROVEMENT
78        Recruit Consultants
79        Program Development
80       Implement Program
81  NURSERY DEMONSTRATIONS
82        Recruit Consultants
83        Program Design
84        Develop nurseries at 2 EaR Centers                       ,_......____,_
85        Develop nurseries at 3 EaR Centers
86        Develop nurseries at4 E&R Centers
87        Develop nurseries at 4 E&R Centers                                                                                               ______....__
Project MP Forestry Project                       Cr tical                                Progress                               Summary   -
Date 2/2/95                                       Noncrit cal                             Mi estone  *                           Rolled Up



Annex 19
Madhya Pradesh Forestry Project                                           Page   3  of   3
-1994               1995              1996               1997               1 I998      1      1999
ID  Name                                               Q2  031 04  Ql 1 Q2 I Q3 0 04   1 Q1 I Q2 IQ31 0|4 1 01  Q2 I Q3  04 |Q1   Q2  Q3 | 04 | Q1 I Q2 I Q31 04 I E1
n   APPLIED RESEARCH
89        Research Statbgy
90             Recruit Consuhants                                                     *
91             Develop Strategy
92        Contract Research
93             Year I
94             Year 2
95             Year 3
96             Year 4
97  BIOOIVERSITY CONSERVATION
96        Identify PriorIty PAs
99        Prepare PA Management Plans
100       Design Interprta ton Center
101       Contract Research
102             Year I
103             Year 2
104             Year 3
105             Year 4
106       Implement PA Mgmt Plans and ED Programs
107             6 P PAs Started Year I
106             6Pi PAsStartedYear 2
109             6 P2 PAs Started Year I
110             6P2PAs StartedYear 2
111       Baseline MonntorIng and Evaluaton Studies
112             Basellne Study
113             M&E Year 3
Proect MP Forest Pnoje                             Cr,itcal                               Progress                               Summary V
Dafe 2=95                                          Noncntcal                              Mliestone  *                           Rolled Up   >






Annex 20
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Supervision
Supervision Plan
1.   IDA supervision of the project would be closely linked to the implementation schedule
presented in Annex 19. Supervision would be undertaken jointly with GOMP. The schedule
of supervision missions presented below includes two visits in each year of the project. In
the first year of the project, one supervision mission would coincide with the project
launching workshop to provide assistance during the critical start-up period. In this and
subsequent years, a supervision would coincide with the review of annual programs of project
activities, to be undertaken early in the fourth quarter. One additional supervision would be
undertaken in the second quarter of each year. In the second year of the project this would
coincide with a project review.
CY               1995      1996       1997      1998
Quarter          1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4    1 2 3 4    1 2 3 4
Supervision       *    *             *  *       *  *
Project Review
Expected Skill Requirements
2.   In addition to the Task Manager responsible for supervising compliance with IDA
procedures, supervision missions would include personnel with skills in:
-     Management
-     Monitoring and Evaluation
-     Forest Management and Silviculture
-     Farm Forestry, Agroforestry and Forest Extension
-     Planting Material Improvement
-     Forestry Research
-     PA Management
-     Participatory Development



Annex 20
Page 2 of 2
Key Indicators
3.      Supervision missions would focus on an assessment of success in implementing the
agreed strategy for the sector. This would involve consideration of development impact in
relation to the primary management objectives. These are summarized below together with
key indicators, summarized from the more comprehensive list of indicators for monitoring the
progress of each project sub-component, presented in Annex 9 .
,.~ e iPr  iI7<       imy   ;aaeiu                              Ke Iuiat:
Conservation        Conservation of biodiversity   - Completion of PA Management Plans
Areas                                           - Results of ecological monitoring studies
- Local community involvement in PA management
- No. of communities participating in
Ecodevelopment Programs
Closed Forests      Maintenance of forest cover   - Improved forest cover
Timber and NTFP             - Successful tree improvement program
production                  - No. of FPCs established
- Production of timber and NTFPs
- Successful VRDP
Open Forests        Increase in forest cover
Production of local
community requirements for
forest products
Private and         Private and community       - Area of private plantations established
Community Lands   forestry                      - Success of agroforestry programs
- No. of private nurseries established



Annex 21
Page 1 of 10
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic and Financial Issues
Introduction
1.    The Madhya Pradesh Forestry Project introduces policy changes, new institutional
arrangements and managerial systems for the protection and management of forest areas. The
benefits of these changes are wide-ranging and include benefits other than the economic
outputs quantified in this annex. The project consists of three planting programs: assisted
natural regeneration in close forest areas where canopy cover is greater than 40%,
regeneration of degraded forests in open forest areas where the canopy cover is less than 40%
and tree planting on private farm land. The different areas, objectives and institutional
arrangements for each of these programs are set out in Table 1. The biodiversity component
and policy reform issues have not been subject to detailed economic analysis. Further, the
environmental benefits of the project have not been quantified directly. Instead, a calculation
is made of the stream of environmental benefits necessary to increase the economic rate of
return on the project above the 12 percent opportunity cost of capital threshold. In other
words, an environmental premium is calculated. (See the discussion on overall returns (Paras.
23 to 25)).
2.    The forest development programs involve some 240,000 ha. of forest land,
representing only a small proportion (less than 2 percent) of the state's total forest area. The
forest production activities under these programs face a large and growing statewide and
national demand for forest products, as discussed in Chapter 1.
3.    Time Horizon. An unusual time horizon of 135 years was used in the analysis. This
is due to the long cycles involved in the forestry technologies applied in the project,
technologies that lead to sustainable yields in perpetuity. This time horizon allows for a start-
up period for establishment/planting activities plus almost two complete cycles of the VRDP.
In addition, the long time horizon is consistent with one of the environmental objectives of
the project; namely, to conserve and increase the stock of natural capital for future
generations to use for economic purposes. For comparative purposes, a 45 year horizon that
conforms with more traditional project analyses was also assumed and the results of the
analysis presented. Full details of the analyses are presented in Working Paper 6 (Annex 24).



Annex 21
Page 2 of 10
Project and Establishment costs
4.    Total Project Costs. The total project cost in April 1994 financial prices is Rs.2,459
million including physical contingencies of 5 percent for planting costs and 10% for other
costs. This is about US$67.3 million at projected exchange rates. Project costs are
summarized in Annex 14 and given in detail in Working Paper 8 (See Annex 24). Project
costs do not include "establishment" costs such as salaries and office operating expenses of
existing staff.
5.    Economic Project Costs. These have been derived from the financial costs by
excluding the costs of research and biodiversity conservation and adjusting for transfers and
distortions (Table 2). A shadow wage ratio of 0.60 has been used to convert the Official
Wage Rate paid by government to average market rates. This average market rate has been
confirmed by field surveys in the project zone, which consists of fringe forest areas where the
inhabitants face very limited employment opportunities. Inputs and outputs under this project
are not generally internationally traded, and an SCF of 0.9 has been applied to convert to
border equivalent prices '. Therefore, adjusted July 1994 financial prices have been used in
the economic analysis for both costs and benefits. These prices have been assumed to reflect
long-term equilibrium values.
6.    Establishment Costs. These have been estimated on the basis of the 'Non-Plan'
Budget Estimates for 1993/94 of expenditure at Circle, Working plan and Divisional level,
average over the 69 Divisions in the state (Demand No 10, Ministry of Finance, GOMP).
The project is assumed to take up an estimated 20% of Circle headquarters and 50% of
Working Plans resources as well as 33% of Divisional resources, assuming that two out six
ranges per division are included in the project. This gives a cost per division of Rs.3.575
million per division per year. The establishment cost for Farm Forestry and Extension
Program (FFEP) division was lower since no guards (or foresters) would be employed.
7.    Project Component Costs. These costs have been estimated by apportioning
overhead costs among the three planting programs - roughly on the basis of the total area
which would have been planted by year 12. As a result, 70% of the costs have been
apportioned to the Village Resource Development Program (VRDP), the most innovative of
the programs, 20% to the Assisted Natural Regeneration Program (ANRP) and 10% to the
Farm Forestry and Extension Program (FFEP).
8.    The overall returns to each of these three components are analyzed in the following
sections before overall project returns are estimated.
I  World Bank Guidelines for India as of May 9, 1994.



Annex 21
Page 3 of 10
Assisted Natural Regeneration Program (ANRP)
9.    Background. The benefits of this program were estimated using representative
models based on the treatment plans for the two different management regimes for closed
forest areas - selection with reserves and coppice management - together with a bamboo
replanting in flowered areas of the closed forest. (Details of these treatment plans are
discussed in Annex 2). The models should not be seen as prescriptive models but as an
analytical tool to estimate costs and to characterize benefit flows; in practice, actual costs, and
benefits, will depend on site-specific factors.
10.   Planting Costs. These have been derived from estimates of inputs as set out in each
treatment plan. These areas would come under the protection of the Forest Protection
Committees and therefore no provision is made for protection costs - in terms of either Cattle
Proof Trenches or Watch and Ward. This is based on the assumption that areas with a
canopy cover greater than 40% are subject to less biotic pressure than more open areas.
Planting costs average Rs.5015 per hectare at July 1994 prices.
11.   Area and Phasing. The major difference between activities under the project and
existing programs comes from the managerial and planning framework. Working plans would
have a more central role and staff would be trained in order to enable them to make site-
specific decisions. Quality control mechanisms would come into play to measure outputs and
feed this information into better technical specifications and better quality of field
implementation. However, the technical specifications are closely based on existing practice.
As a result, the program envisages an increase of 24,000 ha in the area treated, phased in over
two years. This is considered to be well within the capacity of MPFD as actual planting in
1991/92 was 36,000 ha, and the annual target for the Eighth Five-Year Plan beginning in
1993/94 is 50,000 ha.
12.   Economic Costs. Total costs of the component include project overhead costs as
apportioned above (Para. 5) and planting costs based on areas, phasing and planting costs.
The major element is labor; employment rises from 780,000 workdays in the first year of
planting, to 4.1 million in the fourth year, a cumulative total of 10.9 million workdays during
the project period of four years.
13.   Incremental Benefits. For all models, the final state of the forest as a result of
project interventions is that of natural forest with a sufficient range and mix of species and
age classes to ensure the sustainability of the forest. Yields depend on site quality. More
importantly, incremental yields depend on the without project situation for which social and
economic pressures are more important than site quality. However, although reasonable
estimates of project yields are available, the quality of data for existing yields in degraded
areas is less reliable. The assumption used is that land productivity under both the coppice
and selection systems would be roughly double land productivity without the project. In the
case of coppice management, the land is protected but the coppicing is delayed in order to



Annex 21
Page 4 of 10
establish superior quality growing stock, and this reduces the returns to the model. In the
case of bamboo rejuvenation in flowered areas, it is assumed that there would bc no bamboo
yield without the project.
14.   Overall Returns. On the basis of these assumptions, the overall return to the
component shows an ERR of II percent, that is, an NPV of Rs.- 237 million (12%, 135
years). Incremental benefits are summarized in Tables 3 and 4. The estimated ERR for this
component is less than the opportunity costs of capital (12%) but no allowance has been
made for unquantified environmental benefits, discussed further below. The rate of return is
also sensitive to the value of the estimated shadow wage rate. Over a 45 year time horizon,
the ERR is 10% with an NPV of Rs. -291 million (12%, 45 years).
Village Resource Development Program (VRDP)
15.   Background. The Village Resource Development Program in areas of degraded open
forest enables Joint Forest Management (JFM) procedures to be introduced on a wide scalle
throughout the state. Under the Government Order, the Village Forest Committee (VFC)
would jointly plan and manage the forest and, in retu;,-n, would receive all intermediate
outputs together with 30% of the final product. As a result of this order, the management of
these areas would come within a comprehensive framework, with the VFC taking into
consideration both forest and non-forest areas as well as existing stakeholders and their
requirements from the forest areas. The analysis is based on a model of a community
protecting and managing 300 ha of forest land. A variety of silivicultural treatments would
be used, depending on the existing situation. In areas with sufficient rootstock, the emphasis
would be on coppicing, while in the more highly degraded areas, replanting would be needed.
In practice, most areas would require a mix of coppice and replanting management. In
addition to the rehabilitation of degraded forest, bamboo areas would be replanted and silvi-
pastoral systems introduced.
16.   Planting Costs.  Planting costs are based on the treatment practices described in
Annex 2 and include site preparation, planting, establishment and the cost of plant material,
but not the costs of protection and watch and ward. Planting costs average Rs.9557 per
hectare.
17.   Funding of VRDP. The institutional arrangements for JFM enable local resources to
substitute for project costs of protection and watch and ward, releasing these forest protection
funds for use by the VPC. The VFC can use these funds for a range of prescribed investment
activities, which would create village assets and thereby generate income-earning
opportunities. The analysis of the benefits of these additional resources is assumed that 33%
is spent on wages for protection (that is, no incremental production) while the remainder is
spent on construction of a stop-dam providing irrigation to 20 ha of previously rainfed maize.
It is assumed that this irrigation would increase maize yields during Kharif but would not
permit a second crop.



Annex 21
Page 5 of 10
18.   Phasing. The introduction of JFM would inevitably be slower than for the ANRP
since procedures would need to be developed and staff and committees would take time to
become familiar with new roles. However, there has already been some experience in MP
and the training program which has already started would be accelerated with funding from
the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Further, the Government Order has already been
promulgated and experience from other states shows that demand from villages would be
high. The overall phasing is based around a gradual introduction of new villages per Range
Forest Officer (RFO) as well as the phasing of new ranges per division and new Divisions
and Circles. Village plans are also phased over a ten-year period in order to enable new
practices to develop and evolve.
19.   Economic Costs. These are based on the apportioned overhead costs together with
total planting costs. As with ANRP, the major cost element is labor; employment rises from
185,000 workdays in the first year of planting to 4.2 million workdays in the fourth year, a
cumulative total of 7.4 million workdays during the project period. This excludes labor
provided by the community for protection and management.
20.   Incremental Benefits. The estimates of yield as a result of project activities are
based on experience. However, there is less reliable data about the without-project
productivity, which has traditionally been regarded as zero on wasteland. The annual
productivity of heavily grazed or cut land may also be relatively high even though the capital
value of the biomass at any particular point in time would be much lower, and as a result
there is a tendency to undervalue existing productivity. Despite this, if the biotic pressure
builds up to the stage at which there is no regeneration, or only poor quality biomass can be
regenerated, there is then rapid degeneration leading to zero productivity. Incremental
benefits were calculated using estimates of the without-project productivity and assuming that
this would fall to zero in ten years.
21.   Overall Returns. The ERR to this program is just over the 12% opportunity cost of
capital. This return is sensitive to the shadow wage rate. A shadow wage rate of Rs.25.00
per day - which is typical of head-loading rather than agricultural labor reduces the ERR to
just over 11%. The analysis of individual models show the best returns per hectare to
bamboo replanting with an ERR of 16%. The RDF model, consists of a mixture of
coppicing, replanting and silvi-pastoral management shows low returns to the silvi-pastoral
element, where the opportunity costs of lost grazing land are greatest. This reinforces the
need for JFM planning to be phased and to rotate land management systems over a wider
area. Over a 45 year horizon, the ERR would be 12%.
Farm Forestry and Extension Program (FFEP)
22.   Background. Despite the limited overall success of social forestry programs, there
was some success in areas with access to markets for planting on private land. This demand
remains high and with the removal of felling and transit permits and the denationalization of



Annex 21
Page 6 of 10
more species is likely to grow, despite the fall in Eucalyptus prices. The objective of the
program is to provide private farmers with access to superior plant material and to technical
advice. Staff would be based in the Extension and Research Centers. Most of the planting is
expected to be on private irrigated, land by wealthier farmers faced with excess land or labor
management problems. Planting on community land would also be encouraged, but estimates
of the benefits or uptakes has not been made. The program is meant to be market-led and
therefore no targets have been set. The approach used has been to estimate the break-even
level of uptake required to obtain a ERR of 12% and then to determine if this is a feasible
level in terms of staff workloads and population demand.
23.   Incremental Benefits. Benefits have been estimated for two models based on block
planting of one ha by large and medium farmers and strip planting along bunds and paths by
small and marginal farmers. The block model assumes a mix of species: Eucalyptus (50%),
Supabol (20%), Bamboo (20%) and Teak/Sissoo (10%), although, in practice, individual
farmers are likely to plant a single species. Most of the land would be irrigated (75%) and
the opportunity cost of planting trees is valued by means of the loss in annual crop,
represented by maize. Strip plantations of 100 trees are assumed to have a mix of Eucalyptus
(50%) and Acacia Nilotica (50%) representing irrigated and rainfed situations, respectively.
The agricultural area/yield lost by planting trees is estimated to be 2% of one hectare of
maize. Fruit trees are also highly demanded especially for homestead gardens, and it is
assumed that each adopting farmer would plant three fruit trees per ha or per strip.
24.   Adoption and Phasing. The actual phasing of this component would be demand-
driven. However, for planning purposes it was conservatively estimated that 0.25% of the
population would participate in farm forestry programs, phased over the four-year project
period.
25.   Overall Analysis. Assuming adoption by 0.25% of the population the ERR for this
component is estimated at 14% and NPV of Rs. 25 million. The returns are sensitive to the
rate of adoption and changes in future product prices. Over a 45 year time horizon, the ERR
would be 13%, and an NPV of Rs. 23 million.
Overall Project Returns, Externalities and Sensitivity Analysis
26.   Overall Project Returns. The analysis of the whole project investment excluding the
bio-diversity and research components using the assumptions set out in this annex was
estimated to give an ERR of 11.5% and an NPV of Rs. - 194 million (12 percent, 135 years).
As mentioned previously, each component's rate of return is sensitive to the shadow wage
rate, with a switching value of Rs. 15 per day for the overall project. An ERR over a 45-year
time horizon was also calculated to be 11I% and an NPV of Rs. - 293 million (12 percent, 45
years). Despite an overall project ERR that is less than the OCC, investments in forestry tend
to have greater, unquantifiable, externalities compared to other types of investment. These
benefits are grouped into two categories: (a) environmental externalities and (b) equity



Annex 21
Page 7 of 10
considerations, which are discussed in turn below, before analyzing the sensitivity of the
overall results to changes in costs and benefit assumptions.
27.   Environmental Externalities. The environmental benefits derived from the
maintenance of forest lands are difficult to quantify in terms of level, direction and extent and
thereafter to attribute economic values. Nonetheless, the project is likely to have an impact
on:
CO2 absorption. This is greatest in young fast-growing trees. Ultimately, net
benefits depend on the use to which the harvested wood has been used -
fuelwood merely releasing the CO2 back into the atmosphere, while wood used
for house construction and furniture acts as a carbon sink.
Meso-climate. The existence of contiguous forest (10 km deep) is thought to
have an impact on the climate in the immediate area (perhaps up to 100 km
away) in terms of reducing maximum temperatures. This is beneficial to crop
growth where there is a danger of crop damage due to extreme temperatures.
Rainfall. Evapo-transpiration from trees provides increased rainfall in areas
affected by wind patterns; in practice the benefit from this is marginal on any
particular hectare and is only additional where there is sufficient groundwater.
Soil erosion. The direction of these 'benefits' are highly contestable; the
costs associated with de-silting have to be offset by the gains in production
from the annual replenishment of top soils.
Water harvesting. The presence of trees in the watershed may reduce the run
off into reservoirs and other storage devices.
River flow. Water flow into rivers, although perhaps reduced, is better
regulated by the presence of trees in the catchment since water absorbed by
trees is released more slowly into the flow. This reduces the risks of extreme
flooding and extends the flow season.
28.   Sensitivity Analysis: Break-even Level of Externalities. The break-even level of
benefits required to achieve a 12% ERR was estimated to compare with estimates of
externalities. This was approached by means of an environmental premium, associated with
each hectare included in the project, and reflecting the flow of external benefits. To
annualize this flow of benefits, it is assumed that the flow begins 5 years after planting and
lasts for 20 years, with a discount rate equal to the OCC of 12%. The annualized value is
very sensitive to the delay in the start of benefit flows. Nonetheless, under the assumptions
set out earlier, the annual flow of environmental benefits required to obtain an OCC of 12%
would need to be about Rs.368 per year per ha or US$ 12 per ha per annum. Various



Annex 21
Page 8 of 10
estimates in the literature of the value of carbon sequestration from forest conservation would
indicate that this environmental service alone could account for a US$ 12 per ha. per annum
environmental premium from this project.
Breakeven Annual Flow of Environmental Benefits
Present value of environmental benefits per ha  Rs.2750
Environmental discount rate                    12%
Delay in onset of environmental values         5 years
Duration of benefit flows                      20 years
Annualized equivalent (12%, 20 years)          Rs.368/hatyear
(US$12/ha
/year)
29.   Sensitivity Analysis. The overall returns to the project are quite insensitive to
increases in project costs (Table 5): a 25% increase in costs (overhead costs, excluding
planting) reduces the ERR to 11% and a 50% increase reduces the ERR to slightly less than
11% (10.7%). A reduction in the stream of incremental benefits (net of planting costs) by
25% reduces the ERR to 11% and a reduction of 50% to 10%. A 25% increase in costs and
a 25% reduction in benefits reduces the ERR to 10%. This would nearly double the annual
environmental premium required to obtain a 12% ERR from Rs. 376 to Rs. 703 per ha, which
would still maintain the enviornmental premium in a reasonable range. The reason why the
ERR is so relatively insensitive to these changes is due to the fact that the incremental
benefits (net of planting costs) are negative during the initial years of the analysis, followed
by a long time-span of growing incremental benefits. Switching values by project component
are presented in Table 6.
30.   Summary. Although the project ERR is only 11.5%, the benefits associated with
environmental externalities have not been included. These would raise the overall rate of
return and the analysis suggests that the level of environmental benefits required to obtain a
12% rate of return are modest. However, the analysis is sensitive to assumptions about
existing land use and productivity - for which there are only limited data at present. The
success of the project depends on the financial viability of the proposed investments, which is
discussed below.



Annex 21
Page 9 of 10
Financial Viability
31.   Background. Project implementation assumes that the relationship with project clients
would be based, in the case of the VRD program, on a partnership between the Forest
Department and VFCs and, in the case of the FFE program, would be driven entirely by
market conditions. In this section the financial viability to project clients of these programs is
reviewed, using the same models as were developed for the economic analysis.
32.   VRDP. The project operates within the framework of the Government Order on Joint
Forest Management, with sharing of responsibility for management of forest between the
Forest Department and forest users as represented by Village Forest Committee (VFC). The
incentive for individuals and communities to participate in such an arrangement need to be
carefully examined, particularly since the effect of this change would be to transfer
responsibility to a new body, the VFC. Under the project, the VFC would gain economic
benefits from their share of planting benefits as well as financial benefits which would be
accumulated from VRDP funds. However, for existing users there would be economic costs -
these would fall on two main groups of stakeholders: fuelwood head-loaders and grazers.
Before looking at the effect on each of these groups, the returns to the community, from the
VRDP funds, are discussed.
33.   Financial Returns to VRDP. Protection of forest areas initially would reduce the
economic offtake, or increase collection and grazing costs, although the VFC would
eventually gain from the share of produce as set out in the Government Order. The analysis
is based on a model village, managing 300 ha of forest with a mix of silvicultural practices,
and benefiting from the income derived from forest protection funds. The FRR on this
investment is 60% to a typical village under the assumptions set out above (Table 7). The
cashflow is negative for the first six years reflecting the opportunity cost of taking land out of
current production and the increased costs of collecting fue!wood further away or grazing
animals over wider areas. However, taken together with the income derived from the VRDP
funds, the cashflow is positive in all years. Further, additional employment income from the
Forest Department would be available to villagers as a result of planting activities.
34.   VRDP Funds. The benefits to each VFC consist of: (a) VRDP funds consisting of
cash for protection management of the forest area assigne(i to the village; and (b) their share
of intermediate (100%) and final (30%) outputs under JFNM. The actual amount flowing into
the VRDP funds depends on the area to be managed and planted as agreed in the JFM plan
and the cost of protection which would otherwise have been paid by the Forest Department.
Protection costs are based on the cost of Cattle-proof trenches (CPTs) and Watch and Ward
over a period of 7 years. This amounts to approximately Rs.2,100 per ha, that is, Rs.300 per
ha per year. On the basis of the assumptions used for budgeting (a protected area of 300 ha
per village, with protection payments over 7 years the VRDP would grow by Rs.90,000 per
year, reaching Rs.630,000 after seven years. Arrangements for disbursing and accounting for
this money are discussed in Annex 5.) The VFC can use part of this money to pay for watch



Annex 21
Page 10 of 10
and ward directly.
35.   Individual Gainers/Losers from VRD. In practice, this analysis depends on the
existing land-use productivity in any particular village. Further, it must be recognized that
many existing users do not have legitimate rights to the economic benefits they currently
derive the success of the project. Analysis of the incentives to sub-groups within the VFC
would need to be carried out village by village, since the suczess of the project depends on
specific economic losers (grazers, headloaders, etc) either b&nrg compensated for their loss or
being forced to forego their livelihood. Although transfer of ownership' and an explicit say
in forest management to the VFCs is expected to provide mnce itives for external pressure on
the forest to be resisted by the community, there would still be strong pressure by sub-groups
within the village especially given the individual incentivi s for headloading and grazing.
36.   FFEP. The FFEP program is market-oriented in tha' farmers would make their own
choices as to whether to participate in the program. Experience from the social forestry
program suggests that while most farmers, particularly marginal and small farmers, are not
interested in farm forestry, there are some farmers for whom private tree planting is
financially attractive. This mostly reflects the owners concern about managing labor,
especially where the owner is employed elsewhere. As a result, direct economic analysis of
the costs and benefits of typical planting models is unlikely to capture the decision-making
process for these farmers. Nonetheless, the models developed for the economic analysis and
based on poor quality land show relatively high financial returDs to the individual farmer.
The FRR falls to 12% if trees were planted on better quality land with expected maize yields
of 2,500 kg per ha, that is, 2.25 times the base case assumption.
37.   Equity Considerations. Most of the people living in the project area are tribal people
living in some of the most remote, fringe, areas of the state Investment in forest
development is therefore one of the few opportunities to inject resources into these areas.
The production technologies are based upon sustainable harvests of products showing positive
growth rates in national and international demand. As a result, the project would increase
sustainable economic opportunities for some of the lowest opportunity cost labor in the state.



Annex 21
Table 1
Planting Programs
Assisted       Regeneration of    Private
Natural         Degraded Forest   Forestry and
Regeneration                      Extension
Institutions               Forest          Village Forest    Private
Protection     Committee          Farmers
Committee
Planning process           Working plans   JFM               Market
Forest type                Closed          Open              Private land
>40%           <40%
Objectives    Forest Dept/  Production/    Conservation      Conservatio
Government  conservation                       n
Partners/    Protection      Production        Production
Clients
Outputs to    Nistar       yes             no
Community   Intermediate  no               yes               100%
Final        no              30%               100%
Outputs to    Final        100%            70%
Forest
Department
Incentives/                Watch and       Watch and ward    -
transfers                  ward            Fire  protection
Fire protection   labour
labour         Cattle-proof trench
(CPT)
Models/                    Selection       Coppice (100%)   Block
Activities                 Coppice         Coppice (50%)     Strip
Bamboo         Replanting (100%)  Fruit
Silvi-pastorial
Bamboo
Table ].    Project Planting Programs



Annex 21
Table 2
Unit       Financial    Economie
Price        Price
Labour
Government rate         Workday            33.39         18.00
Market rate             Workday            20.00         18.00
Plant material
Seeds                   kg.                20.00         18.00
Cuttings                kg.                 5.00          4.50
Stumps                  kg.                10.00          9.00
Legumes/grass           kg.                50.00         45.00
Seedlings-tree          No.                 2.10          1.89
Seedlings-bamboo        No.                 2.00          1.80
Fertilizer
DAP                     kg                  7.00          6.30
Conditioner             kg                  6.00          5.40
FYM                     kg                   .50           .45
Pesticide                       kg                  6.00          5.40
Wood products
Poles                   pole               15.00         13.50
Timber- teak            cmt             12,000.00    10,8000.00
Timber- misc            cmt              4,000.00      3,600.00
Timber- mixed           cmt              4,800.00     4,320.00
Fuelwood                cmt               250.00        225.00
Bamboo                  cmt               850.00         765.0
Contour products
GrassesAegumes          tonne             250.00        225.00
Fodder/topfeed          tonne             250.00        225.00
Twigs/branches          tonne             250.00        225.00
Fruit                   Rs
Leaves                  Rs
Other                   Rs
Grazing                        tonne              200.00        180.00
Table 2. Financial and economic prices (July 1994) SCF = 0.90



Project Year           1       2      3      4       5      6      7       8      9      10     11    12      13      14     15
Costs
(a) Project Costs          (85)   (80)   (93)   (95)      0       0      0      0      0
(non planting)
(b) Establishment Costs
VRDP                 (17)   (39)   (62)   (96)   (29)  (29)(  (29)   (29)   (29)
ANR                  (26)   (51)   (51)   (51)    (5)    (5)    (5)    (5)    (5)
Private              (5)   (13)   (24)   (34)       0      0       0      0      0
Total                     (133)  (184)  (230)  (276)   (34)   (34)   (34)   (34)   (34)
Incremental Benefits
(a) Planting benefits
VRDP                  (10 )   (40)   (98)  (176)  (207)  (221)  (225)  (217)  (193)  (163)  (122)  (28)   134    330    397
ANR                  (231)  (480)  (497)  (292)   375    420    437       35     47     53      71    71      72    120    202
Private              (1)    (3)    (7)   (13)    (7)    (5)        6      28     58     95    (0)      1       4      11     39
(b) Ecodevelopment           0      0      0       0      0       1      2       4      4      4      4      4       4      4       4
Total                     (242)  (522)  (603)  (481)   161    195    220   (151)   (84)   (I 1)  (48)    48    214    465    642
(c) Environmental benefits                                               0       0      0      0      0      0       0      0       0
TOTAL                     (375)  (706)  (832)  (758)   127    161    186   (185)  (118)   ( 11)   (48)    48    214    465    642
Table 3. Net Incremental Benefits (Rs. millions)
I-30
M X



Period (Years)    15-24   25-34   35-44  45-54   55-64   65-74  75-84   85-94   95-104   105-114   115-124   124-134    @ 135 1
Mean Annual Net   765    988    1,475   1,540   2,600   4,020   1.033   1,651    1,070     938        764      3,524     4,977
Incremental Benefit             .         _
Table 4. Mean annual net incremental economic benefits after year 15.
XD
(D X



Anne: 21
Table 5
ERR (135 years)                  Change in Benefits
Base         - 25 %       - 50 %
Base        11.5 %         10.9 %       9.9 %
Change In
costs             +25%         11.0 %         10.4 %       9.5 %
+50%         10.7 %         10.0 %       9.0 %
ERR (45 years)                  Change in Benefits
Base          - 25 %      - 50 %
Base        11.1 %         10.5 %       9.5 %
Change in
costs             +25%         10.6 %         9.9 %        8.8 %
+50%         10.2 %         9.5 %        8.3 %
Table 5. Sensitivity Analysis



Annex 21
Table 6
Component            Base Case       Switing Values2    Percentage
NPV at 12%       NPV at 12% ERR          Change
Discount Rate        for Project
Benefits
ANR                        10                 204               1,940
VRDP                      339                 533                57
EFEP                      127                 321                153
Ecodevelopment              16                 210               1,213
Total Beneflts            492                 686                39
Costs
ANR                       145                 -49                -89
VRDP                      219                 25                -134
FFEP                       55                -139               -353
Non-Planting 3            267                 73                 -73
Total Costs               686                 492                -28
Net Benefit                  -194
Table 6. Sensitivity Analysis - Switching Values
2  Switching value = NPV of benefits (costs) for that component which would provide 12% ERR for the entire
project.
3 Includes costs of ecodevelopment and institutional support



Project Year              1            2             3            4              5              6              7
Cash Fund from Protection
Gross receipts             90,000        90,000        90,000       90,000         90,000         90,000        90,000
Cumulative total           90,000       180,000       270,000       360,000       450,000        540,000        630,000
Incremental Benefits (share)
Total: Annual             (16,300)      (2,733)       (5,533)       (5,667)       (8,467)         16,267        74,959
Total: Cumulative         (16,300)      (19,033)      (24,567)      (30,233)      (38,700)       (22,433)       52,526
Employment Income
Total: Annual              69,117       133,226       140,438       141,240       141,240        144,846        146,849
Total: Cumulative          69,117       202,343       342,782       484,021       625,261        770,107        916,956
Total Benefits
Production (share)        (16,300)      (2,733)       (5,533)       (5,667)       (8,467)         16,267        74,959
Protection                 90,000        90,000        90,000       90,000         90,000         90,000        90,000
Production and Protection  73,700        87,267        84,467       84,333         81,533        106,267        164,959
Wage employment            69,117       133,226       140,438       141,240       141,240        144,846        146,849
TOTAL                      142,817      220,493       224,905       225,573       222,773        251,112        311,809
Table 7. Village Resource Development Program Cashflows (Rs.)
0
x D
I-.X






Annex 22
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Environmental Review
1.        The project was subject to an environmental review based on field inspections of
operations which would be undertaken under the project and review of relevant documents
including Forest Working Plans. The objective of the review was: (a) to evaluate the
environmental impact potentials of particular forest and protected area management
technologies which could be implemented under the project; and, (b) the degree to which the
project addresses environmental issues at the State and National levels.
Environmental Impact Potentials
2.        Activities having environmental impact potential include : (a) PA management
activities; (b) forest management activities; and, (c) VRDP/Ecodevelopment activities.
3.        PA Management Activities. Activities to be supported in the 12 priority PAs
include: survey and demarcation of boundaries; provision of equipment; construction of guard
posts and patrolling posts; rehabilitation of existing structures; restoration of degraded
habitats; improvement of water supplies; and road improvements. All are very low impact
activities involving limited land disturbance. Restoration of degraded habitats would mainly
consist of activities such as weed control and encouragement of regeneration of native
species. The main weed is lantana and the control method comprises uprooting with follow
up weeding in each of the subsequent two years. Where necessary, vegetative soil
conservation works are applied. The use of all herbicides and pesticides is banned in PAs.
Improvement of water supplies typically would involve de-silting of natural stream-bed
hollows and construction of small check dams. Check dams are built in accordance to a
standard design having quite massive foundations well keyed into the stream bank. All
construction is done by hand during the dry season so construction impacts are very limited.
All roads in PAs are constructed at grade and the design provides for table drains on both
sides and dry stone stream crossings. Again, adverse impact potential is very limited.
4.        Forest Management Activities. Two broad forest management strategies are
provided for:
(a)  Rehabilitation of Degraded Forests (RDF) to maximize biomass production in
degraded open forests (i.e. <40% cover). Silvicultural treatments will range from
100% coppice resuscitation to 100% planting (where coppiceable rootstock is not
available) with various combinations in between. Bamboo will be replanted and



Annex 22
Page 2 of 4
in barren areas with shallow soils, grasses, legumes and some fodder trees will be
planted;
(b)  Assisted Natural Regeneration (ANR) will apply in less degraded and generally
moister sal and teak closed forests (i.e. >40% cover) where there is both seed and
coppice regeneration potential. The main objective is to maximize wood and
MFP production. Natural regeneration from seed origin will be encouraged,
limited enrichment planting will be undertaken as required and flowered bamboo
areas will be regenerated.
5.         The adverse impact potentials are limited in scope and significance. Some tree
felling will be undertaken; on a selection basis to permit planting and facilitate regeneration
of natural vegetation to replace old and over-mature trees under the ANR model, and on a
small coupe basis as part of rotational forest management under RDF. The felling and log
removal operations are low-impact, using the cut and carry system. Utilization is very high
with "logs" as small as 20 cm girth being recovered and virtually all smaller wood being
recovered for firewood. The impact of these activities on habitat values is not likely to be
significant. The working plans make provision for maintenance of 10 tree hollows per
hectare, which will benefit avian fauna, and there are also provisions covering the retention of
forest fruit trees. However, in much of the degraded forest observed during the mission, there
were few trees of advanced age in evidence. The heavily over-grazed forest floor provides
limited protection for cryptic ground dwelling fauna and limited browse for native grazing
animals which presumably also restricts the carrying capacity for the predators.
6.         The management plans prescribe a wide range of soil/water conservation
safeguards including vegetative barriers and contour planting on all strips, structural
approaches such as staggered, discontinuous contour bunds and contour pits for bamboo
planting, contour trenching on slopes <150, prohibition of all forest management activities on
slopes >25 and 20 meter buffer strips on all permanent and ephemeral streams.
Planting procedures include a variety of safeguards designed to maximize biodiversity
conservation by not favoring a restricted number of commercial species. Fertilizer will be
applied to promote regeneration but the quantities applied (less than 10 kg/ha/yr) are of no
environmental significance. Seed will be treated with the pesticide Gammexane for termite
control. Gammexane is a low toxicity (FAO toxicity class 111II) the Bank's Pesticide
Advisory Panel has assessed as being acceptable for financing for soil treatment. However,
procurement of pesticides is not proposed under the project.
7.        Impacts of VRDP/Ecodevelopment Activities. The range of development
activities will be determined by VRD/Ecodevelopment committees but potential activities
could include establishment of fuelwood and fodder plantations, development of agricultural
infrastructure such as tube wells and stop dams, and small scale crop and other agricultural
development activities such as apiculture, sericulture and mushroom cultivation. Improved
water supply is likely to be one of, if not the highest priority.



Annex 22
Page 3 of 4
8.        The adverse environmental impact potentials are insignificant. Stop dams are
hand built and of small size. Most irrigable land is already developed and the effect of the
installation of micro-irrigation will generally be to permit production of a second crop rather
than cause new land to be opened up. The principal agricultural input will be cattle dung;
subsistence farmers are not presently able to finance acquisition of artificial fertilizers,
herbicides and pesticides and this situation is not likely to change under the project, at least in
the short term. The use of increased inputs would generally be desirable in the wider
environmental context since this would increase production and reduce development pressures
on the forests. The intensity of development would be so low that any residues flowing into
the environment would be small in relation to assimilative capacity and unlikely to register
adverse impacts, for example eutrophication.
Impacts on Forest Sector Environmental Issues
9.        State Level. MP is disproportionately important in terms of conservation of
forest-based resources in India since it accounts for only 13% of the country's land area but
contains approximately 20% of total forested area. The State's forest resources are subject to
a wide range of development pressures and about 19% of the total land area is seriously
degraded.
10.       The main agent of degradation is considered to be over-grazing with unauthorized
timber hacking and firewood collection also being important. The project provides a spread
of activities which address the key factors underlying these sources of degradation. The
single most important strategy under the project is the attempt to rationalize and improve
management of villagers' forest usage activities through the VRDP. This is to be achieved
not only through the encouragement of more sustainable forest management strategies but
also, by replacement of the MPFD's existing command and control style of management with
a more participatory approach.
11.       National Level. The project directly addresses the first two priorities identified
in the India Environmental Action Programme, 1993 namely: (a) Conservation of and
sustainable utilization of biodiversity in selected ecosystems including forests, mangroves,
wetlands, coral reefs, mountain ecosystems; and, (b) Afforestation, wasteland development,
soil and moisture conservation, and ensuring that water resources are not polluted.
12.       The project is consistent with the national strategy for forest management and
protection and biodiversity conservation, as the Action Plan for Priority (a) sets down 14
Priority Action Programs of relevance to the forest sector and terrestrial biodiversity
conservation of which the following eight are specifically addressed in the project.
(a)    afforestation and wasteland development;



Annex 22
Page 4 of 4
(b)    demand management development projects to improve protection of newly
afforested areas/areas undergoing natural regeneration;
(c)    development programs for pasture regeneration;
(d)    extension support services for agro-forestry;
(e)    develop a detailed listing of fauna of ecologically important locations including
protected areas (Such lists will be prepared as part of PA management
planning and implementation);
(f)    research on cultivation of commercially valuable wild plants;
(g)    establishment of farms for medicinal and other commercially valuable plants
(Natural regeneration of such species will be encouraged under the various
silvicultural practices applied);
(h)    support for ex situ conservation.



Annex 23
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Tribal Peoples Development Strategy
1.    Background. Madhya Pradesh has the largest tribal population in India, numbering
15.2 millions, and constituting 23 percent of the States's population. This population has been
classified into 46 tribal groups. Gonds and Bhils, with 45 percent and 20 percent respectively
of the population are the largest of these. Other tribal groups with significant numbers
include the Kawars, Orans, Sahariyas, Baigas, Halbas, Kols and Bharias. Tribal populations
are concentrated in the eastern, southeastern, and southwestern parts of the state, which are
the areas with extensive forest lands (about 35% of the state is under the management of the
Forest Department). In six of the State's forty-five districts, tribal groups form the majority
of the population.
2.    Tribal livelihood systems vary considerably between districts and ethnic groups,
depending on ecological, historical and cultural factors. In general, tribal groups are highly
dependant upon the forest for their livelihoods, deriving both subsistence values and cash
incomes from forest products. Forests provide food, fuel, construction material and medicinal
plants. One survey ' found that up to 67% of income came from the forest. However,
deforestation and degradation have reduced the availability of these products in many areas,
and people have to go considerably greater distances to gather forest produce than two
decades ago 2. Forests also have spiritual, religious and symbolic significance. Because of
their limited access to cultivable land, few tribal households grow enough food to last the
whole year, and many do not even grow sufficient for six months. Consequently, many
households are faced with shortages from about May. Shifting cultivation, which was once
widespread among tribal groups, now only persists in parts of Bastar District and a few other
pockets. Only a very small proportion of tribal households have access to irrigation facilities.
Cattle, which are kept for draft power and manure, and small stock depend mainly on grazing
in forest areas adjacent to the village, and on the limited crop residues available. Seasonal
migration for wage labor by both men and women has become a feature of the tribal
household economy. In spite of these sources of income, however, the level of indebtedness
of tribal households is typically high.
I Tribal Research Institute, Bhopal. 1975. Impact of Forestry Projects on the Tribal Economy.
2 Fernandes and Menon 1988



Annex 23
Page 2 of 6
3.    Institutions. The Forest Department probably has the most pervasive and active
presence in the tribal areas of any of the government institutions, especially the less
accessible forest areas. Forest Guards normally live in villages. As well as regulating use of
the forests, MPFD territorial staff are also involved in organizing the marketing of forest
products, such as tendu leaves and sal seeds. In addition, the Department provides wage
labor in tribal areas and builds roads and bridges. More recently, the Department has become
involved in other development activities, including the provision of irrigation facilities and
social infrastructure (See Annex 5). Relations between Forest Department staff and tribal
communities have at times been be characterized by tension. Nevertheless, some
communities, at least, regard the presence of a forest guard as a positive influence in
protecting forest resources from outside encroachment.
4.    The Tribal Development Department is the other major agency with an active presence
in tribal areas. However, since 1976, the implementation and extension roles formerly played
by the Department have been taken over by the concerned implementing departments, with
the exception of the education and construction wings. Other government departments, such
as Agriculture, Livestock, and Horticulture, have little presence in forest areas and hence less
impact on tribal peoples.
5.    Project Impact on Tribal Peoples. The population in and around the forests of
Madhya Pradesh consists largely of tribal communities. Tribal groups would, therefore, be
the main participants and beneficiaries in the Village Resource Development Program
(VRDP), which entails the devolution of responsibility for forest management from the Forest
Department to local communities according to agreements between the two parties (See
Annex 5). The introduction of more sustainable systems of exploitation and the reduction in
illicit felling and exploitation by outsiders would result in an increase in the availability of
forest produce to tribal groups. In addition, the VRD Program would make substantial
resources available to villagers for income and employment generating activities. Finally,
local populations would benefit from the availability of employment for both forest protection
and development works.
6.    Tribal development concerns are thus central to the project, and are addressed in an
integral fashion under the rubric of social impact, participation, and equity rather than through
a subsidiary tribal development plan or component. As the description of the institutional
presence in tribal areas above indicates, tribal populations have frequently in the past been
bypassed by development efforts. However, the experience with Joint Forest Management
has been quite encouraging. In Harda Division of Madhya Pradesh, where the process of
JFM is most advanced, the Forest Protection Committees functioning most effectively are
those inhabited by tribals (Annex 5). Similar experiences have been noted in other states.



Annex 23
Page 3 of 6
For example, an IBRAD study of JFM in West Bengal 3 found that communities with a
higher proportion of tribals tended to be have the most effective joint management
institutions. This effect is primarily due to the social and economic homogeneity of tribal
communities relative to non-tribal villages.
7.    The project incorporates a number of activities and institutional mechanisms intended
to ensure (i) the appropriateness of project activities for tribal communities, taking account of
their high level of dependence on the forest; and (ii) their effective participation. These
include:
-     The CF (VRDP) in the PIU would have overall responsibility for coordination
of the VRD program would be assigned special responsibility for tribal issues;
-     Special training will be provided to VRD teams and implementing staff at all
levels on tribal social structure and livelihood systems, and on participatory
methods for needs assessment and planning;
-     NGOs experienced in community development activities with tribal groups
would participate in VRD planning and implementation;
-     The Tribal Development Department will be represented on Project Steering
Committee; on Circle and District Committees;
-     Monitoring and evaluation systems will take particular account of the impact of
the project on tribal groups.
8.    Specific activities are listed in more detail in Table 1. Tables 2 and 3 outline
organization and management, and impact monitoring arrangements.
3  IBRAD. 1992. Quoted in Joint Forest Management: Concepts and Opportunities. Proceedings of National
Workshop at Srajkund, August 1992. SPWD, New Delhi.



Table 1. Planned Activities
ACTIVITY                                    DETAILS                                IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
Training                              MPFD Staff
Senior Staff                                  ITTI, Academy of Administration, IIFM
Circle ACF (VRDP Coordinators)                 NGOs, MPFD
Divisional Staff                               NGOs, MPFD
VRDP Spearhead Teams                           NGOs, WALMI. Academy of Administration,
Field Staff                                    TTTI, IIFM
Village Committee Members                        VRDP Spearhead Teams
VRDP Spearhead Teams
Microplanning                         Development of participatory planning methods for   MPFD
tribal areas                                     DFO
Selection of priority areas and villages        VRDP Spearhead Team
Village level planning for VRDP
VRDP                                  Finalize VRDP agreement                          Village Forest Committees, MPFD
Implement agreement -
Joint Forest Management
Develop alternative biomass resources
Promote income generation schemes
Develop agreed village infrastructure
Studies                               Evaluation of VRDP in Project Year 3             Consultants
NTFP processing and marketing
Feasibility of income generating activities      Policy Analysis Unit
Coordination                          Involvement of Tribal Development Department     DCF VRDP (PIU)
and other government agencies
Communication                         Public awareness campaign                        MPFD, NGOs
x
o w
ONt



Table 2. Organization and Management
AGENCY                                   MEMBERS                                       FUNCTIONS
MPFD Headquarters                      Senior Managers                               Policy formulation, VRDP coordination and
management, facilitation, supervision
MPFD Circle                           CF (Circle), ACF (VRDP Coordination)           Coordination, management, and monitoring of
Circle VRDP
MPFD Division                          DFO, VRDP Planning Team                       Planning and coordination of Divisional VRDP
VRDP Planning Team                     Ranger, Deputy Ranger, 2 Foresters, NGO       Microplanning, training of MPFD staff and
facilitator                                   villagers, initiation of VRDP implementation
MPFD Divisional Field Staff            DFO, ACF, Rangers, Foresters, Forest Guards   Implementation of VRDP
Village Committee                      Two members of each household, male and       Participation in the formulation of village
female                                        agreements and implementation of agreed VRDP
Village Executive Committee            Representatives of constituent interest groups in  Representation of village interests. Coordination
the village                                   of implementation of VRDP. Financial
management.
PDQb
(D 
Ln
o 0
I-t



Table 3. Impact Monitoring
AGENCY                                     FUNCTION                                        REMARKS
MPFD Circle PME Unit                    Collate M & E data collected at Divisional level    ACF (VRDP Coordination) to monitor and
evaluate data on a regular basis.
MPFD Division MPE Unit                  Collate M & E data collected by field staff      Consultant study to define indicators and data to
be collected.
Village Executive Committee             Monitor impact of VRDP on village development   Provides mechanism to identify imbalances in
benefit distribution to be rectified in consultation
with MPFD
NGOs                                    Monitor participatory process                    Ongoing
Consultants                             Evaluation of VRDP                               Study to be undertaken in Project Year 3.
x
o w
aCi



Annex 24
Page 1 of 1
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Documents in Project File
Project Preparation Papers
1.    Madhya Pradesh Integrated Forestry Sector Project Preparation. Main Report and
Working Papers.  Prepared by DHV Consultants BV, the Netherlands, in
association with HVA International, BV, The Netherlands, and the Society for
Promotion of Wasteland Development, India. October, 1993.
Appraisal and Pre-Appraisal Working Papers
1.    Technologies for Natural Forest Management
2.    Technology and Research
3.    Information Systems
4.    Conservation of Biodiversity
5.    The Village Resource Development Program
6.    Economic and Financial Aspects
7.    Environmental Review
8.    Extension and Private Forestry
9.    Project Costs






IBRD 26171
UTTAR  PR DESHNDA
RAJASTHAN                     ,              g      T                       1                                                                  XMADHYA  PRADESH  FORESTRY PROJECT
STATE CAPIrAL
0SELECTED TOWNS
MAiN ROADS
..,L,.                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE BOUNDARIES
~~  BIHAR                >.~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
BIHAR                   ~~~~~~~~~ELEVATKONS IN METERS
MA HARA SHTRA                                                *,    ^-,          . 
C~~~~ t.nm       J-x.                     ORISSA
0 '  '   ls5010
2 00
L~~
I~ -Ah-.6bdy v-  -.
t L w.   ANDHRA                             /       ' A                       1.',
MAHARASHTRAPRADESH                                    -
r ~~~~KA RNATrA KA 1.A\/ .- :=v~,<,,i, 
SELTTMBER 1994



