                                    Documentof
                                 The WorldBank




                                                     ReportNo.: 32246




              PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                                       INDIA

         MADHYA PRADESHFORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                (CREDIT NO. 2700)


                                   April 28, 2005




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit =Indian Rupees (Rs.)

1995                      US$l.oo                 Rs.32.4
1996                      US$l.OO                 Rs.35.4
1997                      U S $ l.oo              Rs.36.3
1998                                              Rs.41.3
                          U S $ l.oo
                          US$l.oo
1999                                              Rs.43.1
2000                      US$l.OO                 Rs.44.7
2001                      US$l.oo                 Rs.47.2
2002                                              Rs.48.9
                          US$1.oo
                          US$l.oo
2003                                              Rs.46.5
2004                      US$1.oo                 Rs.45.9


Abbreviations and Acronyms

EDC              Ecodevelopment Committee
FPC              Forest Protection Committee
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
JFM              Joint Forest Management
NGO              Non-Governmental Organization
OED              Operations EvaluationDepartment
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
VFC              Village Forest Committee


FiscalYear

Government:               April 1-March 31




Acting Director-General, Operations Evaluation          : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Acting Director, Operations Evaluation Department       : Mr.R.KylePeters
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Group   : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                            : Mr.JohnR.Heath

                                                               i

I    OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independence in evaluation.                     I
  About this Report
        The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassesses the programsand activities of the World Bankfor two
  purposes:first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank`s work is
  producingthe expected results,and second, to help develop improveddirections,policies,and proceduresthrough
  the disseminationof lessons drawnfrom experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percentof
  the Bank`s lending operations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to those that are
  innovative,large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcomingstudies or country evaluations; those for which
  ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank management have requestedassessments;and those that are likely to generate
  importantlessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselected for assessmentsupport larger evaluation
  studies.
       A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
  Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
  PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
  the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
  validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
  OED studies.
        Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
  PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
  sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank`s
  Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


  About the OED Rating System
       The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
  The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
  sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
  the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
  http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
       Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
 current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
 goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
 Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
 account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
 opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
 Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
       Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
 Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
       lnstitutional DevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
 to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
 better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
 better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
 institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
 project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
 achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
 Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
 supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
 for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
 Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
 Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                      ...
                                                                      111



 Contents

 Preface  ..............................................................................................................................    vii

 Summary     ...........................................................................................................................     ix

 1 Background
  .                      ..................................................................................................................   1

 2.  Evidence     ........................................................................................................................    3

        OEDFindings..........................................................................................................                 3
        OtherData Sources..................................................................................................                   9

 3.  Ratings    ........................................................................................................................     13

        Project Objectives and Components......................................................................                              13
        Outcome.,...............................................................................................................             14
        Institutional Development Impact.........................................................................                           -17
        Sustainability......................................................................................................... -19
        Bank and Borrower Performance ..........................................................................                             19

 4.  Lessons    ........................................................................................................................     20

 Annex A Tables
           .              ...............................................................................................................    23

 Annex B Basic Data Sheet
           .                               ..............................................................................................    29




IThis
Iedited
     reportwas preparedby John R. Heath. who assessedthe project inOctober 2003. The report was
       by William Hurlbut andRose Gachinaprovided administrativesupport.                                                                       1


                                                          V



PrincipalRatings
                                         ICR*                    ICR Review*                           PPAR
Outcome                             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory
Sustainability                          Likely                        Likely                          Unlikely
Institutional Development                High                     Substantial                         Modest
Impact
Bank Performance                    Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     Satisfactory

* The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank.
The ICR Review is an intermediate Operations Evaluation Department(OED) product that seeks to independently verify
the findings of the ICR.


Key StaffResponsible
Project                           Task Manager/Leader                 Division Chief/            Country Director
                                                                      Sector Director
 Appraisal                                  Ian Hill                 Shawki Barghouti               Heinz Vergin
 Completion                              lrshad Khan                     Ridwan Ali                   Edwin Lim


                                              vii


Preface

        This i s a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the IndiaMadhya
Pradesh Forestry Development Project, for which Credit No. 2700-IN inthe amount o f
US$58.5 million equivalent was approved on March 30, 1995. The loan closed on
December 31, 1999, as originally expected.

        The Operations Evaluation Department sent a mission to assess the project in
October 2003, conducted by Mr.John R.Heath. A checklist o f key performance
indicators was filled out for six randomly-selectedvillages covered by the project. In
January 2004 this was followed by a survey o f 30 communities inthe two districts o f
Betul and Bilaspur, entailing interviews with 1,147 repondents, focus group meetings and
interviews with key informants. The survey work was ledby Ms.Anju Gupta and Ms.
Nalini Kumar and formed part o f a broader OED evaluation o f community-driven
development invarious countries. The 18 month lag between the mission and the issue o f
this report was the result o f successive changes to the analysis o f the survey data to keep
the method usedinline with the evolving approach taken by the community-driven
development study to which this report was one input. The survey results were
complementedby findings from other studies on Joint Forest Management inMadhya
Pradesh, from satellite imaging, and from fiscal trends data.

       The report also draws on interviews with officials o f the Government o f India and
with the staff o fthe Madhya PradeshForestry Department. The collaboration o fthese
persons i s gratefully acknowledged.

       Following standard OED procedures, the draft PPAR was sent to the Borrower for
comments before it was finalized. The Borrower hadno comments on the report.


                                               ix


 Summary

          This i s a Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) on the MadhyaPradesh
 Forestry Development Project which was supported by a credit o f US$54.8 million
 equivalent. The loanwas approved inMarch 1995 and closed on schedule inDecember
  1999.

          The project sought to help the state government o f Madhya Pradesh implement its
 strategy for the development o f the forest sector (Joint Forest Management). Specific
 objectives were to strengthen the state's Forestry Department, to increase forest cover by
 improvedmanagement based on the participation o f local communities, to upgrade forest
 research and extension, and to conserve biodiversity.

         The findings o fthis assessment are based on an initial reconnaissance o f six
 randomly-selected villages, findings from which were usedto help design an in-depth
 survey of 30 communities in two districts o fMadhya Pradesh (Betuland Bilaspur),
 involving questionnaire interviews with 1,147 respondents, interviews with key
 informants and focus group meetings. The survey compared communities covered by the
Bank-supported project with those outside the project. The survey results are
 complemented by findings from other studies o f Joint Forest Management inMadhya
Pradesh, by satellite monitoring o f the change inthe forest cover, and by data on state and
federal government funding o f the strategy.

         The completion report stated that the project had helped introduce a participatory
management strategy for 221,000 ha o f dense forest and 419,300 ha o f degraded forest,
respectively 138 percent and 122 percent o f the appraisal target. A total o f
2,45 lcommittees were established under the project to help manage forestland intheir
vicinity, double the number expected. The conservation o f biodiversity was enhanced
over an area o f 826,000 o f forestland and protected areas, 160 percent o f the appraisal
target.

         The outcome o f the project i s rated moderately satisfactory. The project concept
remains substantially relevant to current concerns about forest degradation, and output
targets were much exceeded with project costs somewhat lower than expected; on the
other hand outcomes were mixed, with the best results for biodiversity conservation, the
weakest for research and extension, with strengthening o f the Forest Department and
promotion o f a participatory management strategy falling inbetween the two extremes.
Although the project didnot give a central place to reducing poverty, joint forest
management may have lessened the disparity between rich and poor because the latter
sell a larger quantity o fnon-timber forest products, a resource promoted by the strategy.

        The project's institutional development impact i s rated modest. On the one hand,
the Forest Department pushed to decentralize and won support at all levels for the
participatory model o f forest management, and the momentum to create village
committees has continued since the loan was closed. On the other hand, there are a
number o finconsistencies and lacunae inthe legal framework that underpinsjoint forest
management. It i s possible that the elected local authorities may overrule the (not

                                               n



 formally elected) village forest committees, challenging the distribution o f forest benefits
 decreed by the latter. (The evaluation, however, was not able to establish if this has
 actually happened).

         Based on the evidence o f insufficient legal underpinning, coupled with state fiscal
 constraints (aggravated by the Bank's decision not to fund a follow-up project),
 sustainability is rated unlikely.

         The performance o f both Bank and borrower i s rated satisfactory, based on the
 soundness o f the project concept and the implementation record.

 A project o fthis nature has a long gestationperiod andthis should be borne inmind
 when assessing the various survey resultsreported here, all o fwhich paint a fairly modest
 picture o fproject achievements. The OED survey found the following:
        Little evidence o f an increase inthe consumption o f non-timber forest products-
        but with the likelihoodo f an increase greater for the poorest.
        A negative trend inforest cover with 60 percent o f respondents indicating
        shrinkage since the start o f Joint Forest Management.
        Little impact from the small-scale village infrastructure projects that were
        adjuncts to the forest strategy.
        Mixed evidence on changes inwelfare impact since project startup.
        No significant increase invarious measures o fparticipation, awareness and
        trust-with particularly limitedimpact on women.

        This survey was limited to two districts (Betul and Bilaspur), which account for
        about 5 percent o f the area covered by the project. The survey results were
        compared to data from other data sources which covered Madhya Pradeshbut
        were not limited to Betul and Bilaspur. These sources include evidence from other
        surveys and from satellite pictures. Findings from these sources are broadly
        consistent with the BetuVBilaspur survey findings.

The following lessons may be derived. First, to mobilize villager supportfor resource
consewation a long term commitment is needed by the government and donor agencies.
The JFM strategy involves increasingthe stake o f communities (residing inthe
neighborhood o f forests) inthe management and protection o f those forests. However, the
regenerated forest area can be maintained only ifthe villagers get adequate returns from
the forest. This requires a longterm strategy o f forest protection and creating alternative
economic opportunities for villagers at least untilthe forest regenerates and communities
can depend on the forest for their livelihood. There are important implications here for
the Bank's strategic approach to forest management. The appraisal document envisaged
the needfor a ten-year program o f Bank support and the low impact found by this
evaluation suggests that such an extended commitment may be warranted.

Second,flaws in the legal and incentiveframework need to be addressed. An overarching
strategy o f forest protection through community participation also requires attention to
the legal and policy framework for forest management bearing on, among other things,

                                             xi


forest user rights, relations betweenprotection committees and village institutions, and
issues related to the marketing o f non-timber forest products.

Third, the Bank's involvement in theforest sector needs to be seen in the larger and
longer term context ofpoverty reduction and thepoverty impact of such involvement
should be monitored. A large percentage o f the poor inrural areas are found inand
around forests and the Bank can make a substantial contribution to poverty reduction in
Indiathrough a strategy that involves the poor inforest protection. However, this must be
done ina way that i s monitorable and should be backed up indesignby a systematic
monitoring and evaluation system capable o f measuring poverty impact.




                                                                           Ajay Chhibber
                                                                     Acting Director-General
                                                                       Operations Evaluation


                                                           1


  1. Background

  1.1     InJuly 2000, OED's review ofthe completionreport for the MadhyaPradesh
 Forestry Development Project recommended further evaluation o f the project "to provide
 lessons o fbroad applicability for programs based on community participation for the
 South Asia Region as a whole". It also pointed to the need to verify whether the
 community participation efforts sponsored by the project were likely to be sustained. This
 report addresses these issues, reviewing several data sources on the early results o f the
jointforest management strategy inMadhya Pradesh, which was a central part o f the
 project under review (see Section 3 for a detailed statement o f project objectives).

 1.2      Madhya Pradesh' i s a pivotal state for the Indian forestry sector, containing more
 forest than any other state inIndia. The state covers 13 percent o f the national territory
 but accounts for 21percent o fIndia's forest cover. Thirtypercent o fthe state area is
 classified as forestland, providing a livelihood for about 50 million people, over halfo f
 whom belong to tribes or scheduled castes.

 1.3      The rest o f this chapter gives a detailed description o f howjoint forest
 management (JFM) has been organized. This is followed by a presentation o f evidence on
 the results o fthe strategy inMadhyaPradesh, including findings from a OED survey o f
 over 1,000 households intwo districts o f that state.* Subsequently these findings are used
 to rate the Bank-supported project interms o f OED's evaluation criteria. A final section
 presents the lessons to be drawn from the assessment.

 1.4     InIndia, forestlandremains, defacto, the property ofthe state-90                        percent o f
India's 64 million ha o f forest is state-owned. The central government's current strategy
aims to involve village communities inthe management o f this resource, providing in
exchange use rights to a range o f non-timber forest products and a share o f the proceeds
from the sale o f mature trees3Since the early 1990s 22 o f the 26 Indian states have
issued enabling resolutions permitting partnerships with local people for the management
o f the forest; and 6 o f these have received support from World Bank project^.^

 1.5     According to the federal policy enunciated inJune 1990, all the tribal peoples and
other villagers livingin and around forests will have first claim to forest produce. The
management strategy rests on involving villages inmeasures to conserve biodiversity,
reduce the incidence o f forest fires and illicit felling, and promote the regeneration o f
degraded forest. Inexchange they are permitted to extract, ina sustainable manner, the

1. Includingthe state o f Chhattisgarh, which was carved out of Madhya Pradesh inNovember 2000. All
hrtherreferences to Madhya Pradeshinclude Chhattisgarh, unless otherwise stated.
2. The OED reconnaissance mission and survey together touched only 7 percent o f the forest area in
Madhya Pradesh: 6 villages inthe districts o f Indore, Dewas and Sehore and 30 villages inBetuland
Bilaspur districts. I t i s unclear how representative the findings are of the state as a whole (Annex A, Table
A3).
3. While the center and state governments share responsibility and control over forest matters, the
responsibility o f administering the forests lies primarily with state governments.
4. By order o f loan approval, Maharashtra (FY92), West Bengal (FY93), Andhra Pradesh (FY94), Madhya
Pradesh(FY95), Uttar Pradesh(FY98) and Kerala (FY98).

                                                     2


 timber andnon-timber products o fthe forest; and they also receive funding for village
 infrastructure. The process i s ledby the state forest departments who initially inform
 villagers about the purposes and implications o f JFM. A meetingo f the village governing
 council (Gram Sabha) i s convened and, ifthe villagers assent, the village becomes a
 partner inJFM. The implications o f this partnership vary according to the forest zone to
 which the village i s assigned (Table 1).

 Table 1. Key Featuresof Joint Forest Management

                          Zone I                        Zone I1                         Zone 111
 Forest characteristics   Protected Areas               Dense Forest                    Degraded Forest
                          (Parks 8, Sanctuaries)        (crown cover >40%)              (crown cover ~40%)
 Criteria for village     Villages inside Protected     Villages within 5 km of         Villages within 5 km of
 selection                Areas and demarcated          dense forests                   degraded forests
                          buffer areas; outer
                          villages within 5 km of
                          Protected Area
                          boundary
 Relevant village         Ecodevelopment                Forest Protection               Village Protection
 institution              Committee (EDC)               Committee (FPC)                 Committee (VFC)
 Management objective     Biodiversity conservation     Protection of closed            Protection and
                                                        forest; Assisted Natural        rehabilitation of
                                                        Regeneration                    degraded forest
 Planning process         Protected Area                Working Plans plus              Working Plans plus
                          Management Plan plus
                          Village Development           Village Development             Village Development
                          Microplan plus Annual         Microplan                       Microplan
                          Action Plan
Village has Nistar/l      Yes                           Yes                             Yes
 rights?
Share of profits from     In districts where a net profit is realized it is distributed among all Joint Forest
selling timber and        Management Committees as follows:
bamboo                   20% is given to Committees in whose areas most of the felling took place;
                          Of the remainder, one-fifth is used to fund training, awareness and extension
                          campaigns and four-fifths is shared out among all the Committees in the district.
Source: Joint Forest Management Resolution, Madhya Pradesh Forest Department, October 22, 2001.
/IRoyalty-freeusufruct,bearingonaccesstoawide-rangeof commonpropertyresources,notlimitedto
forest products.

1.6        Forest committees have a five-year (renewable) term. The general membership o f
the committee comprises everyone inthe village, usually allowing for one male and one
female representative from each household. There i s also an Executive Committee,
consisting o f 11to 21 members, including statutory representation o fwomen, tribes,
backward castes and the landless. This committee handles day-to-day administration and
mustmeet at least once every three months. It may organize villager patrols designed to
protect against fire, encroachment and illicit felling and grazing. The committee assists
the Forest Department inpreparing the Village Development Microplan, which includes
provisions both for forest management and for investment intraining, small-scale
infrastructure and other activities intendedto reduce dependence on incomes derived
from the forest ("village development"). The state government is a key financial

                                                3


 contributor for both the forestry and the village development components o f the
 Microplan.

 1.7      Ineachparticipating village a JFM fundis set up, the primaryinputcomingfrom
 the Forest Department, supplemented bymembership fees and voluntary contributions.
There are no strict rules governing contributions to, and use of, this fund and boththe size
 o f the fund and the conditions attached vary substantially between villages: some o f the
money is used for forest protection, some for village development. Village committees
typically levy fines on those caught inthe act o f illicit felling and revenue from fines may
be an important fund inflow; but the committees have no legal right to levy fines (the
IndiaForest Act does not recognize this committee function).


2.        Evidence

OEDFINDINGS

(a) ReconnaissanceMission

2.1       InOctober 2003 OEDvisited six villages inMadhyaPradeshpickedat random
from the list o f those covered by the Bank-supported project. The visits helped to identify
issues that couldbe examined more systematically inthe subsequent survey. The villages
were scattered over a broad swathe o fterritory between the towns o f Indore and Bhopal.
At each village an OED checklist was filled out bythe localForest Department officer, in
consultation with the forest committee.

2.2      The data collected (Annex A, Table Al) showed that, nominally at least, a large
number o f households were participating inJFM with good representation o f women and
"backward" groups. All o f the six villages had funds, these most commonly being fed
from government financing and fines collected from violators o f JFM rules. Most o f the
money from the fund was earmarked for community micro projects, rather than for
forestry. There i s a significant problem o f encroachment by outsiders and half of the
villages hadbeen involved indisputes with other villages over access to land. Revenues
from timber harvest were still limited but there was a significant income infour o f the six
villages from non-timber forest products. Giventhat local forestry staffwere present
when the data were collected it i s possible that the villagers' responses were not as candid
as they might have been had they been interviewed inprivate. A checklist o f this nature is
not an effective tool for probing the intensityo f participation by villagers. With respect to
women's participation, findings from more rigorous surveys (paragraphs 2.20 and 2.26
below) do not bear out the Annex A data, suggestingthat the extent o f female
empowerment is quite limited.

(b) The OED Survey

2.3      The January 2004 survey was undertaken inthirty villages intwo districts o f what
used to be the state o f Madhya Pradesh: Betul and Bilaspur. Bilaspur was selected
because there was forest management data on this district from a previous World Bank

                                                    4


 survey that could be used for comparison.' Betul was proposed by the Forest Department
 because it represented, intheir estimation, one o f the districts most likelyto show a
 positive result from the program. Inall there were 1,147 respondents, o fwhich 70 percent
 were incommunities covered by the Bank-supported JFMproject, 23 percent were in
 communities outside the project but still enrolled inthe state government's JFM program,
 and the remaining 7 percent incommunities without JFM (Table 2). Thus, there were two
 comparator groups which will be labeled "Non-Bank JFM" and "Non JFM". Comparing
 Bank JFM to Non-Bank JFM enables an assessment o f the difference the project made to
 the JFM program. Comparing JFM respondents to non-JFM respondents makes it
 possible to see what difference the JFMprogram made. Findings from the questionnaire
 survey are compared with reports from focus group meetings and interviews with key
 informants.

 Table 2. Sample Size and Composition

                         N                  Betul Bilaspur      Total
 Bank-supported JFM      Communities        11    10           21
                         Respondents        421   386          807
 Non-Bank JFM            Communities        4     3            7
                         Respondents        142   119          261
 Non JFM                 Communities        0     2            2
                         Respondents        0     79           79
 Total                   Communities        15    15           30
                         Respondents        563   584          1,147


 2.4      The survey data are analyzed from two angles. First, what evidence is there that
 JFMhas producedbenefits, includinggreater forest cover, increased collection o f forest
products and perceived improvement inwelfare? Second, has JFM ledto a more
participatory development process, one that increases the range o f people involved in
village planning-with         better representation, inparticular, o f the interests o f women,
tribal peoples and the landless? Given the length o f time needed for improved forestry
management to produce a payoff, it would perhaps be unfair to attribute too muchweight
to survey findings that show little improvement so far inperceived changes inwelfare.
But it is reasonable to expect some pick up inrevenues from increased collection o fnon-
timber forest products given that these, unliketrees, do not entail a longmaturation
period.

2.5      Onparticipatory process, it is important to have reasonable expectations. The
project didnot sell itself as a fully-fledged exercise incommunity-driven development.
This was not a demand-driven project: the menu o factions (largely forest-related) was
pre-determined, by the Forest Department and not by village communities. Nevertheless,
the project did seek to broaden participation inforest management. It could be argued

5. RuthAlsop et al., "Community Level User Groups inThree World Bank Aided Projects: Do They
Perform as Expected?" Social Development Paper (No. 40), Washington, D.C., World Bank, September
2002. (Madhya PradeshForestry Development i s one o f the projects covered: data are taken from a survey
o f 799 households inMadhya Pradesh, 400 inthe district o f Bilaspur). See paragraphs 2.24 to 2.26 below
for a presentation of some o f the findings.

                                                     5


 that it will take a long time to transform village institutions: once again, the survey took
 place too soon for its findings to be definitive. On the other hand, it should be possible to
 read whether the trend i s inthe right direction. For example, ifthe survey results show
 that villagers are poorly informed about JFM this would cast doubt on its powers to
 ultimately strengthen the participatory planning process.

 (4       Benefits

 2.6      The villages included inthe Bank-supported project were compared with (a) JFM
 villages outside the Bank-supported project and (b) non-JFM villages. The non-JFM
 respondents came from only 2 villages so the comparison JFMhon-JFM is weaker than
 the comparison Bank JFM/Non-Bank JFM (there were 7 Non-Bank JFM villages). The
 actual design o f the JFM program does not appear to have varied significantly between
 villages that received Bank funding and those that didnot.

 2.7      JFMcuts two ways. Onthe one hand, tighter forest protectionmay decrease
 villagers' access to forest products. But the same measures may also lead to increased
 supply-although       the time taken for the forest to respond may result ina lag. Onbalance,
 there may be a short-term reduction inthe benefits derived from the forest.

 Table 3. Forest-RelatedBenefits
   % reporting increased collection of...     Bank JFM      Non-Bank JFM      Non JFM      Total/l

   Fuel wood                                     9.9             9.2             7.1        9.5
                                                                                          (N=728)
   Fodder                                        11.6            7.7              --        10.1
                                                                                           (N=247
   Grass                                         9.2             5.8              _-        7.7
                                                                                          (N=156)
  Tendu                                          19.2           14.1             2.5        16.7
                                                                                          (N=552)
  Mahua                                          11.8            8.6              __        10.6
                                                                                          (N=416)
  Amla                                           6.6             8.1              __        6.9
                                                                                          (N=189)
Source: OED Survey, 2004
/ I N refers to the sum of persons responding "decrease", "same" or "increase" (not the number responding
that there was an increase) and those that had heard of JFM in Bank treatment group.


2.8      Indeed,with respect to collection o f a variety o f forest products, only a minority
o f respondents reported an increase (Table 3), although Bank JFM respondents were
more likely to report an increase than the two comparator groups. Multivariate analysis
indicates that the likelihood o f increase inthe consumption o f forest products is
negatively correlated to economic status, indicating an increase for the poorest compared
to others (see paragraphs 2.26 and 3.13).

2.9      What about the impact o f JFM on forest cover? The sample as a whole reports a
negative trend (60 percent say that cover has shrunk since the start o f JFM). But, o f those
reporting an increase, the Bank JFM respondentsrepresent the highest proportion (33
percent, compared to 17 percent for Non-Bank JFM and 1percent for N o n JFM). This

                                                 6


 evidence needs to be interpreted carefully: the time elapsed is too short for a final verdict
 to be passed. The focus group findings reveal major differences between the two districts
 covered by the survey. InBetul, five out o fnine male focus groups commenting on the
 state o f forest cover said that degradation hadbeenreversed, citing the positive work o f
 the Forest Committee. InBilaspur, all nine focus groups for menmade negative
 comments about the state o f forest protection, including allegations that forest guards as
 well as villagers were involved inillicit felling o ftrees. Inthis district, the Bank JFM
 villages were no better than the N o n JFM villages interms o f defending the forest. The
 contrasting observations for the two districts were echoed inthe comments o f the female
 focus groups. InChapora (Bilaspur) women said that they saw the importance o f
 protecting the forest but could not count on men's support. The evidence o f significant
 difference between the two districts i s reinforced by the satellite data (paragraph 2.23)
 which shows that while the forest cover has increased slightly inBetul it has shrunk in
 Bilaspur.

 2.10    Inaddition to the forest benefits, villagers also stoodto gain from the micro
 projects (e.g. irrigation, wells, access roads) that JFMhelpedto finance through the
 village development fund. The survey showed that these interventions corresponded more
 closely to villagers' perceived needs than forest interventions. Although all the villages
 surveyed had some degree o f dependence on forest resources, forest degradation was a
priority for only 3 o f the 1,147 respondents. The most commonly cited priorities ineach
 community were the lack o f drinkingwater or electricity, followed by the shortage o f
jobs. This evidence is strongly reinforced by the findings o f each o f the 38 focus groups.
Inmost cases, village development priorities hadnot changed over the past decade
 suggesting that any initiatives taken have not been very effective.

2.11     Interms o fthe number o fmicroprojects funded JFM does not appear to havehad
a big impact. N o n JFMrespondents were more likely to report a larger number o fmicro
projects financed than Non-Bank JFM respondents who, inturn, reported more o f these
investments than Bank JFM respondents. Only 1percent o f Bank JFM respondents said
that 3 or more micro projects had been financed since the start o f JFM. This compared to
7 percent for the Non-Bank JFM group and 11percent for the N o n JFM group. Inthe
Bank JFM group, 63 percent o frespondents reported that no micro project hadbeen
funded. Reviewing comments made inthe male focus groups about the micro projects,
seven out o f ten o f the groups passed a broadly negative verdict inBetul and eight out o f
ten were negative inBilaspur. There were some references to the misappropriation o f
funds by village leaders and Forest Department officials. Three groups complained that
the much-valued opportunities to work as paid laborers inimplementing the micro-
projects were not shared out fairly, village leaders and forest guards tending to favor their
friends, often bringinginpeople from outside. While Betul villagers are significantly
more upbeat than their counterparts inBilaspur with respect to forest protection
(paragraph 2.9), there i s no significant difference between the two districts concerning
village development initiatives. The negative evaluation o f micro projects was echoed in
the female focus groups inboth districts, women remarking that they were not involved
indecision-making andwere poorly informed about thework undertaken andhow itwas
funded.

                                               7


 2.12    Ontrends inwelfare impact, there is a marked difference inthe evidence from the
 questionnaire survey compared to the focus groups. According to the questionnaire
 survey, a majority o frespondents inall villages reported an improvement inwelfare,
 using the increase inconsumption and expenditure as a proxy. Over the past ten years
 there was an increase in consumption o f food grains, oilseeds and milk products, and a
rise inexpenditures on clothes, shoes, consumer durables, health, education and
 entertainment. Whether or not the village was enrolled inJFM, or whether JFM support
was Bank or non-Bank, there is no discernible difference of impact on consumption and
 expenditure. The multivariate analysis confirms the finding; but indicates that the
likelihood o f an increase inconsumption or expenditure was greater for respondents from
Betul, and respondents with stronger mobilization skills. The focus groups present a
much more negative picture. Ten out o f twelve male groups inBetul said that welfare
was either unchanged or had deteriorated over the past decade. InBilaspur eight out o f
eleven male groups said that welfare hadnot improved. Inboth districts a majority o f the
female focus groups delivered the same negative verdict.

(ig     Participation,Awareness, Trust

2.13    Even ifthe evidence o fbenefits from JFM i s still limited, it could be argued that
the program i s helping to give villagers a bigger voice inlocal planning, a process that, in
the long-term, may have several positive effects, not confined to the forest sector.

2.14    Almost three-quarters (72 percent) ofrespondents inthe Bank-supported
communities hadheard o f JFM, compared to 39 percent o f Non-Bank JFM respondents.
(This last figure i s surprisingly low because, o f the respondents invillages not enrolled in
JFM, 47 percent hadheard o fthe program). The focus group data show six out o fnine
male groups inBetul saying that information was not widely circulated and awareness
was low. InBilaspur, four out o f five male groups gave a negative evaluation o f
information availability and awareness. Women and the poorest members o f the
community tend to be less aware. Six female focus groups reported on this issue inBetul
and six inBilaspur. Ineach district, five o f the six delivered a broadly negative verdict,
with several references to ignorance o f fundingarrangements and a lack o f transparent
accounting.

2.15    Forest committees are the locus for all JFM activities. These are new
organizations formed at the instigation o f the Forest Department and do not build on
existing village institutions. InBank-supported areas, 92 percent o f respondentshad
heard o f the local forest committee, compared to 84 percent o fNon-Bank JFM. Five
percent o f N o n JFM respondents hadheard o f the forest committee-which       i s puzzling
given that there was no such committee intheir village. (Possibly they were thinkingo f
another committee).

2.16    Questions on committee membership were asked only o f those who said they
were aware o f its existence. Of the Bank JFM respondents, 56 percent said they were
members o f the committee, compared to 53 percent for Non-Bank JFM respondents. This
similarity inthe level o f membership suggests that the project didnot have much impact.
The focus group data suggest that many villagers are confused by the plethora o f village
committees-as     more and more committees are created, so doubts about the value o f

                                                        8


 participation tend to increase and enthusiasm for active membershiptends to wane.
 While, inprinciple, JFMallows for membership o fthe forest committee by two
 representatives from each household, in several focus groups it became apparent that only
 a minority o f villagers considered themselves members-active               or otherwise. There was
 a tendency to confuse membership o f the Executive Committee with the village-wide
 body. Also, there were several reports o f fudging meeting attendance records to give an
 artificially highimpression o f the level o f participation. InBetul, six out o f eight male
 focus groups gave an overall negative impression concerning committee membership,
 tending to say that the process was not inclusive and tended to be over controlled by
 forest department officials. Inall ten o f the male focus groups inBilaspur the assessment
 was negative. The female focus groups inboth districts reiterated this finding.

 2.17      Of those who are aware o f the committee, less than halfattend regularly. The
 proportion attending i s slightly higher for Non-Bank JFM compared to Bank JFM
 respondents. Lack o f time or information are the main reasons given for not attending
 meetings. On the other hand, Bank JFM respondents come out ahead on another measure
 o f participation: one-fifth o f them knew the cost o f the micro-project, compared to 7
 percent for Non-Bank JFM respondents and 12 percent for N o n JFM respondents.

 Table 4. Change in the Level of Trust

   % reporting increased trust      Bank       Non-Bank       Non           TotalA
   in...                            JFM        JFM            JFM


  Village members                   24.0       14.8           36.4         22.8
                                                                           (N=l ,I12)
   Local leaders                    18.7       16.3           21.I 18.3
                                                                           (N=l,IO3
  Village organizations             22.9       18.7           16.9         21.5
                                                                           (N=l,O46)
  Local government officials        18.0       12.6           14.5         16.5
                                                                           (N=886)
  Forest Department                 19.0       18.3           18.8         18.8
                                                                           (N=l,O35)
                                  ~~                   ~
/ I N refers to the sum of persons responding "decrease", "same" or "increase" (not the number responding
that there was an increase).



2.18      Table 4 shows the change inthe level o f trust over the period o f project
implementation, inrelation to five entities. Takingthe JFM respondents as a whole, for
none o f the five entities was the proportion reporting an increase larger than one-quarter.
For each o fthe five categories, Bank JFM respondents reported a somewhat larger
increase in trust than for the Non-Bank JFM respondents. On the other hand, for two
categories (village members and local leaders), there was a larger proportion o f the Non-
JFMrespondents reporting an increase intrust. Inany event, the impact on trust was
modest andthe difference made by JFM seems to have been limited.

                                                       9


 2.19    The multivariate analysis showed that respondents invillages less well served by
 infrastructure, males, the more highly educated, the members o f forest committee, and the
better off, were more likely to have said that their level o f trust increased duringthe
 course o f the project. The focus group data overwhelmingly indicate that trust has not
 increased. This was true for seven out o f eight male focus groups inBetul and four out o f
 four male focus groups inBilaspur commenting on this issue.

2.20     Effective participation o f women was considered critical to the success o f JFM,
particularly given that females play the key role incollecting non-timber forest products.
JFM rules were revised to allow two members per household (man and woman) to be
represented on the forest committee. But women inthe Bank-supported areas were still
much less likely than men to have heard about JFM. Also, compared to men, they were
less likely to have heard about it from Forestry Department staff, suggesting that staff
may focus their attention on men. Ofthose women aware o f the existence o f the forest
committee, only 48 percent were members, compared to 62 percent inthe case o f men
(Annex A, Figure Al). Of these, only a small proportion were active committee
members. The bivariate analysis confirms the result. Male bias i s also evident inthe
multivariate analysis. Both the male and the female focus groups in each o f the two
districts surveyed left no doubt that women tend to be underrepresentedand, where they
are represented, tend to have little say indecision-making. Many women commented that
not enough training i s made available to villagers, limitingthe opportunities for them to
improve their livelihoods.


OTHERDATASOURCES

(a) Satellite imaging

2.21     From the nationwide data there is some indication that joint forest management
has had a positive impact on forest cover. By the late 199Os, 14 o f India's 35 states-
henceforth, the "JFM states"-had          a substantial program o fjoint forest managementa6Of
these, three pioneer states (West Bengal, Haryana, and Orissa) had about two decades o f
experience with the program. Changes inforest cover between 1996 and 2000 based on
satellite images show that the JFM states experienced an 8.4 percent increase inforest
cover and the pioneer states an 8.7 percent increase; all the other states-those             without
significant JFM engagement-registered             an increase o f only 3.2 percent.




6. Based o n 1997-1999 data reported by the states to the IndianInstitute of Forest Management (Bhopal).

                                                             10


 Table 5. MadhyaPradesh: ForestCover Trends/a

                      OctlNov          OctlNov            OcVDec          OctlDec
                      1992             1994               1996            2000
 Forest               135,164          131,195            131,830         133,713
 --Dense              95,153           82,745             81,619          82,264
 --Open               40,011           48,450             50,211          51,449
 Scrub                4,822            3,320              3,853           3,652
 All other land       303,460          308,931            307,763         306,081
Total area            443,446          443,446            443,446         443,446


 Forestrrotal         30.5             29.6               29.7            30.2
 (%)


/a Includes Chhatisgarh.
Source: State of the Forest Report, 1997, 1999 and 2001, Forest Survey of India, Dehradun.



2.22      Table 5 shows the recent trend for Madhya Pradesh. These satellite data have not
been cross-checked through ground truthing. As technology i s upgraded, the satellite
images have become sharper over time. There i s no way to be sure h o w much the post-
 1994 increase inforest cover i s an artifact o f improved image resolution and
interpretation rather than actual change on the ground. Comparison of the 2000 with the
1996 data i s particularly problematic because between these years there was a switch
from visual (Le., human) to digital (computerized) interpretation and an increase inscale
(from 1:250,000 to 1:50,000).7 This bias applies equally to all parts o f India. Thus, it i s
impossible to tell how much o f the observed change inMadhya Pradesh is real; but it is
possible to claim that the relative underperformance o f this state-1.4                     percent increase in
forest cover against a nationwide increase o f 6 percent-reflects                    genuine slow progress
and i s not an artifact o f the measuring technology.

2.23      What o f trends inthe districts covered by the OED survey? Satellite imaging
shows that between 1996 and 2000 forest cover grew from 35.8 percent to 36.2 percent o f
Betulterritory. InBilaspur, over the same period, forest cover shrank from 32.2 percent
to 30.3 percent o f the district's area. This impression o f a significant difference between
the two districts i s strongly reinforced by remarks made by focus group participants
(paragraph 2.9).

(b) Another World Bank Survey of the MadhyaPradeshForestry Project

2.24     In2000, RuthAlsop and colleagues examined the performance o fIndian
communities inmanaging a natural resource, including communities involved inthe
Madhya PradeshForestry Project.* The two districts studied were Bilaspur (which was

7. "In the art o f interpretationo f digital data, it is well known that the use of coarser resolution
overestimates forest cover inthe large continuous forested areas and underestimates it inother areas",
Forest Survey o f India, State o fForest Report, 2001, p. 8.
8. RuthAlsop et al. 2002, op. cit.

                                                  11


 also included inthe subsequent OED survey) and Kanker. Ineach district 20 villages
 were randomly chosen and a questionnaire instrument was applied to 20 persons ineach
 village who were selected usingpoverty ranking. One-half o f the 799 respondents
 reported the overall value o f the forest development project as "good" or "very good".
 The factors contributing most to a favorable rating o fthe project were the provision o f
 material goods and inputs and temporaryjob creation (Table 6). The factor which would
 seem to bear most directly on the project's development objective-increased                  production
 from a common property resource-contributed             very little to the overall evaluation o f
 project benefits.

 Table 6. Weighting of Factors UnderlyingBeneficiariesPositiveAssessmentof the
 MadhyaPradeshForestDevelopmentProjectla

 %/b                                                 All Madhya              Bilaspur
                                                       Pradesh                 Only
                                                       (N=799)                (N=400)
 Benefit Categories
 Employment                                                34                    62
 Subsidy                                                   __                     1
 Loans                                                     17                    18
 Material goods and/or inputs                              50                    15
 Increased production from a common resource               4                     4
 Increased production from own land                        1                     2
Access to information                                      1                      1
 Increasedfuture opportunities                             2                     4
 Improved personal relationships                           1                     3
Source:Alsop et al.,2002.
/a In Madhya Pradesh as a whole, 49 percent of beneficiaries rated the project as "good" or "very good"; for
Bilaspur,the proportion was 46 percent.
/b Percentages do not sum to 100 because each respondent may select more than one benefit category.



2.25      A report onthe focus group discussions inBilaspur noted that

          "Forest Department staff have been given total responsibility for
         implementation.. .Theyrunthe village forest committees.. .hence, villagers have
          little idea about forest related benefit-sharing mechanisms., .[They] have no idea
         o f the rules and regulations o f the group or executive committee.. .Indiscussions
         on what the committee should do., .themajority o f groups said develop irrigation
         facilities inthe villages, providebetter credit facilities, and improve drinking
         water and electricity supplies. Villagers placed more emphasis on the role o f the
         village forest committee as an overall development organization and as an
         opportunity for wage employment rather than forest manage~llent".~

2.26     Generalizing from the three user group projects studied," Alsop and colleagues
found that members perceive user groups mainly as a means o f accessing short-term
benefits rather than as a mechanism o f cooperation for long-term collective action.
Attendance at meetings i s low, with the better o f f tending to participate more while

9. Alsop et al., 2002, ibid, p. 24.
10.This surveyalso examined the Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation Project and the Andrha Pradesh
Economic.Restructuring Program (Irrigation Component).

                                                12


women ingeneral have very limited participation. Awareness o f business and
accountability rules i s low, information about meetings circulates poorly and members
have little knowledge o f group finances. On the other hand, benefits were found to
relatively well distributed among members. These findings are consistent with the results
o f the 2004 OED survey.

(c) A Survey ofVillager Awareness of JFM in MadhyaPradesh

2.27     IfJFMisto beeffective, villagers needto understandtheprocess involved, what
their role is, and the potential positive impact o f the strategy. Using a purposive sampling
strategy, Rishi interviewed 110respondents from 14 local committees representing all 7
Forest Divisions inMadhya Pradesh." An open-ended questionnaire was usedto capture
data on the following dimensions o f awareness:

     0   Committee formation
     0   Committee functioning
     0   Financial matters
     0   Forest protectiodmanagement
     0   Species selection
     0   Village development activities.

The survey found that inthree-quarters o f the villages sampled aggregate awareness
ranged from "low" to "moderate", Awareness varied substantially between dimensions,
being highestwith respect to the process for committee formation and lowest for species
selection (Table 7).

Table 7. Awareness of JFM
                                             Level of Awareness (% of Respondents, N=110)
                                              High                 Moderate              Low
Committee Formation                             33                    48                  19
Committee Functioning                           12                    70                  18
Financial Awareness                             16                    27                 57
Forest ProtectiodManagement                     32                    48                 20
Species Selection                               5                     13                 82
Village Development Activities                  33                    25                 42
Totai                                           25                    58                 16
Source: Rishi, 2002.


(d) The Budgetfor JFM

2.28    Fundingfor the forestry sector inMadhyaPradeshis primarily derived from the
state government, supplemented by modest transfers from the federal government (Table
8). The proportion that JFM expenditures represent o f total spending on the sector i s not
clear; but it may be assumed to be the lion's share. When the project closed in 1999 there
was an immediate drop insector expenditures with only a partial recovery by 2002. An


11,Pam1Rishi, "Joint ForestManagementat Village Level: A Cognitive Analysis", TheIndian Forester,
Vol. 128,No. 5, May 2002, pp. 539-544.

                                                    13


 attempt was made to gather more recent budget data from various sources but these
provedto be internally inconsistent and, anyway, consisted only o f provisional estimates.
The prospects for maintaining the JFMprogram are therefore somewhat uncertain.

Table 8. Madhya Pradesh Forestry Sector Budget/l

                      FY97-98       FY98-99     FY99-00   FYOO-01    FYOI-02
State government         764           786        759       164        355
 Federal transfers       316           179        238       227        215
Total                   1,080          965        997       391        570
Source: Personal communication from Madhya Pradesh Forestry Department, May 2004.
 11Actual expenditures in millions of 1993 rupees.



2.29     A fiscal trend study preparedfor the project-not        available when the completion
report was written-casts        doubts on the ability o f the government to continue financing a
strategy which involves considerable short-term costs, even ifthe payoff over a period o f
40 plus years i s sufficient to justify the investment.I2

2.30     The short-term fiscal burdenwas aggravated bythe downturn, after 1997, inthe
physical output o f forest products, particularly timber (Annex A, Figure A2). This
translated into a significant real decline inthe revenues from the forest sector-and,
correspondingly, inthe revenues accruing to the Forest Department (Annex A, Figure
A3). For the three years 1998/99 to FYOO/Ol Forest Department expenditures exceeded
revenues implying, for the first time, a net transfer from other sectors o f the economy
(Annex A, Figure A4). A key reason for this is the salary billwhich, according to the
fiscal trend study, has been doubling every five years; by contrast, wages paid by the
Forest Department have remained inline with inflation. The report argues that some
reduction instaffing-which          has remained at around 38,000 persons over the last 20
years-will     be neededto ensure that joint forest management is fiscally sustainable. The
transfer o f forest protection responsibilities to village committees will permit some
reductions instaff; but additional cutbacks will be needed.

3.       Ratings

PROJECT OBJECTIVESAND COMPONENTS

3.1     The main aim o fthe project was to help implement the strategy o f the government
o f Madhya Pradesh for developing the forest sector. Specific objectives were:

 (a)    To develop the necessary humanresources for the planning, implementation and
        monitoring o f the strategy; to ensure that management procedures and the
        structure and resources o f the Madhya PradeshForestry Department are
        appropriate to its role as the nodal public sector agency inthe forestry sector; to
        assist with the prioritization o f various types o f land through improved planning at
        a macro-scale;


12. JPS Associates, Madhya Pradesh and ChhattisgarhForestry Fiscal Trend Analysis, New Delhi, M a y
2002.

                                                  14


 (b)      To increase both forest cover andproductivity through development o f
          participatory processes for management and use o f forest resources, taking special
          account o f the interests o f tribal peoples and other disadvantaged groups;

 (c)      To adapt and improve existing technologies and to provide technical and
          management advice; and

 (d)      To improve incentives for forestry management and the cultivation o f trees; and
          to promote the conservation o fbiodiversity.

 A detaileddescription o fproject features is given inAnnex A (Table A3). Table 9 shows
 the outcome rating for each o f the four project objectives outlined above.

 Table 9. How the Outcome Rating is Derived
 Objectives                         Relevance       Efficacy     Efficiency         Outcome
 (1) Strengthen the Forestry        Substantial     Modest       Substantial   Moderately Satisfactory
 Department
 (2) Increase forest cover by       Substantial     Modest       Substantial   Moderately Satisfactory
 promoting participation
(3) Strengthen research and         Substantial    Negligible      Modest          Unsatisfactory
extension
(4) Conserve biodiversity           Substantial   Substantial    Substantial        Satisfactory
Overall                             Substantial     Modest       Substantial   Moderately Satisfactory


OUTCOME

3.2       Relevance. The project's development objectives are rated substantially relevant
to both the Bank and the government's current strategy. Forest degradation remains a
serious concem inMadhya Pradesh-37             percent o f the state's forest area was classed as
degraded when the project was appraised in 1994, a circumstance that has changed very
little since. The project also remains relevant to the India-wide strategy o f forest
management. Experience here and inother countries suggests that government command
and control measures are necessary but by themselves insufficient to ensure adequate
management o f the forest resource; the people living inand around the resource have to
be involved.

3.3       On the other hand, the project's relevance mustbe qualified inone sense-
explaining why the relevance rating i s substantial, not high.By today's standards, as the
completion report acknowledges, the project gave little emphasis to reducing poverty. No
provision was made for establishing a monitoring and evaluation system to measure
project impact on poverty. An OED country case study hypothesized that the lack o f
emphasis on poverty alleviation inthe various JFMprojects reflected a tendency inthe
Bank's 1991 Forest Strategy to regardpoverty as one o f the causes o f resource
degradation, but without any corresponding emphasis on the extent to which sound forest
management could contribute to reducing poverty.13 The Bank's forest strategy has
subsequently beenrevised and now gives importance to the forest sector's role inpoverty
reduction.

13. OED, India: Alleviating PovertyThroughForest development, World Bank:Washington, DC, 2000.

                                                 15


 3.4     The Bank's freeze on lending for forestry inIndia-which              took place after this
 loan closed-might      seem to cast doubts on the project's relevance to the Bank's current
 strategy. But this decision had more to do with reducing the risk to the Bank's
 reputation-by     avoiding conflict with adversarial non-government organizations-rather
 than with the effectiveness ofjoint forest management. The objectives o f this project are
 substantially relevant (Table 9), not least because a large percentage o f the poorest in
 India depend on forests directly or indirectly for a living.

 3.5     EfJicacy. This criterion is ratedmodest because, although the targeted project
 outputs were greatly exceeded (Table lo), the outcome o f each o f the project's
 development objectives was more mixed.

 Table 10. Outputs by Component

 COMPONENTS                 COSTS (US$      0UTPUTS
                              million)
                       Appraisal     Actual
                       Estimate
 Sector Management         6.0         4.1  The planning, management and monitoring capacity of the
                                            Madhya Pradesh Forestry Department was strengthened.
 Forest development       39.9        43.2  221,000 ha of dense forest and 419,300 ha of degraded
                                            forest were served (cf targets of respectively 160,000 and
                                            342,900 ha).
                                            1, I64 Village Forest Committees were set up (cf target:
                                            1,140).
 Extension,               10.3         8.4  9 Research and Extension Centers were set up with a
technology and                              further 5 still under construction (cf target: 13).
research                                    The seed production area was 2,450 ha, compared to the
                                            target of 2,400 ha.
Biodiversity              11.1         8.1  Pressure reduced on biodiversity in 826,000 ha of
conservation                                forestland and protected areas (cf target: 517,400 ha).
                                            186,000 ha were brought underjurisdiction of
                                            Ecodevelopment Committeesla
TOTAL                     67.3        63.8
Source: Implementation Completion Report.
                                      '
la No appiaisal target was specified.



3.6      The objective o f strengthening the forest department was partly achieved. A
humanresource development planwas implemented, with appropriate staff training, and
there was significant progress inwinning support at all levels for the participatory model
o f forest management. A positive step was to decentralize decision-making to the
divisions, giving the District Forest Officers the authority to adjust work plans to local
needs (Table 1). On the other hand, the preparation process for the working plans-the
primary documents for forest management-was             not adequately reformed, failing to fully
incorporate the new principles o f community management and benefit sharing. Also, the
Policy Analysis Unitwas ineffective and, owing to procurement problems, was unable to
conduct any o f the proposed studies. The Forest Management Information System was
not completed. It was a mistake to try to develop this system from scratch without
reference to existing models.

3.7     The objective o f increasing forest cover through participatory management was
also partly achieved. The project substantially exceeded targets interms o f the area o f

                                                16


 degraded forest covered419,OOO ha compared to the 343,000 ha expected (Table 10).
 The completion report says that regeneration surveys show steady improvement intree
 seedling recruitment on most sites. The introduction o f rotational grazing and the stall-
 feeding o f livestock have apparently helped to reduce degradation. But neither the
 evidence from satellite imaging (paragraphs 2.21-2.23), nor the reports o f respondents in
 Betul and Bilaspur (paragraph 2.9) indicate a significant growth o f forest cover. Onthe
 other hand, significant forest regrowth takes time and it would be premature to reach a
 definitive conclusion based on the data examined.

 3.8     The objective o f strengthening research and extension was not achieved.
 Although a State Forestry ResearchInstitute was established and the infrastructure o f
 gene banks, nurseries and seed orchards was strengthened, researchis still less demand-
 driven than intended and there has been little progress inencouraging villagers (or private
 sector interests) to adopt new technologies. The OED survey found that although
 respondents inthe JFM communities received more extension assistance than those in
Non-JFM villages, the numbers involved were still very low: 6 percent had received
 inputs, 3 percent hadbeen given technical advice, and only 1percent hadmade visits to
training facilities and demonstration plots.

 3.9     Compared to these first three objectives, more progress was made toward
 achieving the objective o f conserving biodiversity. Although, at appraisal, it was intended
only to cover degraded forest, thejoint forest management model has been extended to
areas o f denser forest, where there i s a broader range o f species to conserve. The area
protected is 160percent o f the appraisal target (Table 10). Ecodevelopment committees
have been set up inbuffer zone villages and, according to the completion report, a
recently initiated monitoring system has indicated a slowing inthe loss o f biodiversity.
Key informants inall o f the six villages visited by OED in2003 said that wildlife
numbers had increasedsince the start o fjoint forest management (Annex A, Table Al).

3.10    Efficiency. This criterion is rated substantial. To beginwith, output targets were
much exceeded but actual project costs were only 95 percent o f what was expected at
appraisal. Implementation was timely-the       loan closing date didnot have to be extended.
The cost to the Bank o f administering the project was inline with the country and
regional average (Table 11below). Two other factors helped to raise the project's
efficiency. First, the area generating income benefits was larger than expected because,
contrary to what was thought possible when the project was designed, the joint forest
model was extended to include dense as well as degraded forest. Second, early
implementation experience supported an upwardrevision o f the benefits from coppicing
and bamboo decongestion.

3.11 What o f unintended outcomes? Although the project did not give a central place
to reducing poverty at least it does not appear to have increasedrelative poverty. The
benefits fromjoint forest management are not significantly greater for better-off
households. Also, there i s no significant difference between income groups inwage
earnings fromjoint forest management-mainly         from employment as a forest guard. In
the bottom income quartile, 25 percent o fhouseholds list wage earnings as a program
benefit compared to 30 percent o f households inthe top three quartiles. One striking
difference lies inthe voIume o fnon-timber forest products sold: for each product, poor

                                                  17


 households (those inthe bottom two quartiles) sell a larger quantity than richer
 households (paragraphs 2.8 and 2.26). This suggests that joint forest management i s not a
 significant driver o f income inequality; and may actually soften the disparity between
 rich and poor. However, the program's overall contribution to poverty reduction should
 not be exaggerated. The most frequently cited problem facing villages was the lack o f
jobs and income; this is as true today as it was before the launch o fjoint forest
 management.

 3.12    Based on the arguments presentedhere, and following the aggregation scheme in
 Table 9, OED rates project outcome as moderately satisfactory-rather            than satisfactory,
 the rating proposed by the completion report.

 INSTITUTIONAL      DEVELOPMENT        IMPACT

 3.13    There are two aspects to this: capacity building o f the Forest Department and
village organizations; and strengthening the framework o f laws, regulations and
incentives bearing on forest management.

3.14     The strengthening o f the Forest Department has already been dealt with
(paragraph 3.7). There are other signs o f momentum. The village committees set up as
partners injoint forest management have mushroomed inMadhya Pradesh. In 1993, there
were 350 committees, growing to about 12,000 by the end o f 1999 and to 20,760 by late
2OO2.I4 The Bank-supported project embraced 2,500 village committees, or about one-
fiftho fthe total number inexistence when theproject closed. Today, joint forest
management encompasses 63 percent o f the total forest area o f the (reduced) state o f
Madhya Pradesh, and 48 percent o f the forest area inthe (newly-created) state o f
Chhattisgarh.

3.15     Perhaps the most critical issue is the extent to which people living in and around
the forest have internalized the JFM credo. There is ample evidence from the OED
survey o f limited change inthis respect. First, most people do not perceive forest
protection as a development priority (paragraph 2.10). Second, although JFM has cast a
wide net the intensity o f participation remains limited, particularly among women
(paragraph 2.20). Third, the degree o f internalization seems to vary according to the
quality o f forestland. Respondent awareness o f the JFM program was higher indegraded
forest areas (79 percent) than indense forest areas (65 percent), possibly suggesting that
the assisted naturalregenerationinitiative (applied to dense forest areas) was less
effectively promoted than the village resource development program (degraded areas).
Also, people indegraded areas probably feel more urgency about the needto adopt better
protection measures.l5

3.16     OED couldnot find any evidence that the project has helped to stimulate private
sector investment inthe forest sector (this was a sub-component o f the fourth objective as


14. The 2002 figure comprises 14,073 inMadhya Pradesh and 6,687 inChhattisgarh.
15. InWest Bengal, there was much more support for the Bank-supported JFM project inthe degraded
south than inthe more densely-forested north.

                                                   18


 detailed inparagraph 3.1). There was some progress in liberalizing the trade inforest
 products: transit restrictions on mahua seeds, flowers and charota seeds were removed in
 1998; and there was a move to ease felling and transit restrictions for timber. Long-term
 supply contracts which provided forest products to industries at well below market prices
 were also terminated in 1998. But so far these reforms have not increasedprivate sector
 investment inthe forestry sector.

 3.17     A larger challenge concerns the legal status o fjoint forest management. Currently
 it i s the subject o f a government resolution not an act, so it could be challenged ina court
 o f law. InDecember 2002, the national government requested the state government o f
 Madhya Pradeshto pass the appropriate law insupport o f the forest strategy; but it has
 not yet responded. This makes it difficult to prosecute outsiders who encroach on the
 forest land assigned to joint forest management villages. The state government has been
 slow to clarify land tenure rules and does not share the central government's view that a
 firm line shouldbe taken with those who have encroached since 1980 (when a Forest
 Conservation Law was passed). There i s enormous scope for wrangling, irrespective o f
 whether the courts are involved. For example, ifthere are two villages within 5 k m s o f a
 forest tract and the resource is not large enough to support both villages' need for fuel
wood and other products, underjoint forest management, one o f the villages will be
 arbitrarily excluded even ifaccording to customary usufruct rules it has a legitimate
claim on the forest. InMadhya Pradeshthere i s no shortage o f advocacy groups waiting
to represent the interests o f groups (for example, tribal peoples) who claim their rights
have been infringed. This makes it hard to consolidate the joint forest management
strategy.

3.18      Another potential area o f concern i s the considerable leeway for interpreting
           customary use rights (Nistar).

           "Nistar refers to the necessities inthe carrying on o f the business o f living. Land
           set apart for exercise o f nistar rights may be timber or h e 1reserve; pasture,
           grass, bir or fodder reserve; burial ground and cremation ground; gaodhan or
           village site; encamping ground; threshing floor; bazaar; skinning ground; manure
           pit; public purposes such as schools, playgrounds, parks, lanes, drains; and any
           other purposes that may be

This suggests two areas o f uncertainty. Under JFM villagers are supposed to retain their
Nistar rights (Table 1) but, given the breadth o f these rights, it is not hardto imagine
circumstances inwhich pursuit o f those rights might come into conflict with management
o f the forest. When exactly does grazing, for example, become illicit? Second, according
to the Forest Department resolution o f October 2001, if committee members (Le., all
those living ina village that has signed up to JFM) do not cooperate with the JFM
committee (e.g. by carrying out illicit felling or grazing) they may be deprivedo f their
Nistar rights.But it is not clear ifthe resolution takes precedence over the 1959 law


16. Section 237 (l), Pradesh Land Revenue Code, 1959.
                    Madhya

                                                   19


which guarantees these rights inthe first place.

3.19     A further consideration is that the local authorities (panchayats)can override the
village forest committees, distributingforest benefits as they see fit. Some people
consider that since the village committees are not elected bodies they do not have the
legitimacy o f thepanchayats. They also question whether the Forest Department i s the
most appropriate agency for promoting village development. In many remote areas,
however, the forest officer is the only government agent on the spot and, by default, tends
to be given responsibility for a wide range o f development activities.

3.20     The overall weakness o f the legal, regulatory and incentive framework and the
limited endorsement o f the aims o f JFMby villagers suggests that institutional
development impact should be rated modest, not high, as the completion report states.


SUSTAIN ABILITY

3.21 The completion report rates sustainability as likely, which OED finds hardto
support. The institutional shortcomings alluded to inthe previous section are the main
reasonwhy a rating o f unlikely seems more appropriate. Also, extension needs to be
greatly strengthened if forest productivity i s to be boosted ina sustainable manner
(paragraph 3.9). Perhaps o f even greater importance inthe short-term is the fiscal strain
imposed by JFM (paragraphs 2.28-2.30), aggravated by the Bank's failure so far to fund a
follow-on project.


 BANKAND BORROWER         PERFORMANCE

3.22     Bank and Borrower Performance are rated satisfactory. The cost to the Bank o f
preparing the project was lower than the mean for the country and the Region; but
supervision costs were above average, probably reflecting the large number o fpersons
and specialties involved-for     example, 9 persons went on the mid-term review mission
(Table 11).

Table 11.BankAdministrativeCost

                         Preparation through Board approval                  Supervision
                                US$              Staff weeks        US$ per year   Staff weeks per
                                                                                         year
This Project                 325,500                126.7             55,000             17.7
Mean: India rural            531,630                 NIA              44,966              N/A
projects
Mean: S. Asia rural          486,420                 NIA              46,901              NIA
projects
Source: Implementation Completion Report, p. 28; Corporate Resource Management (Special Tabulation,
July 1999)
NIA Not available.

3.23    One factor tending to pushup supervision costs was the need to address claims by
advocacy NGOs that the rights o f tribal peoples were being infringed by the project. The
present assessment did not attempt to address this issue-not         because it is unimportant
butbecause it would have required a detailed inquiryinitself. Inan earlier study, OED

                                                20


 found that Bank projects hadnot paid enough attention to these conflicts. Projects have to
 anticipate the possibility o f conflict betweenthe tribal poor and the non-tribal poor who
 also live around the forests and may feel slighted byperceived preferential treatment o f
 the tribal population. But the same report also concluded that the Bank's critics had
 underestimated the difficulty o f addressing the issue." Also, the OED survey conducted
 for this assessment did not find that those inthe bottom two quartiles (many o f whom are
 tribal peoples) hadbeen made worse o f fby the project (paragraph 3.12).

 3.24    The appraisal report identified the need for the Bank to support the Madhya
 Pradesh forestry sector for a period o f about ten years, with investments that could total
 more than US$200 million. Actual support provided was about one-quarter o f this
 amount over four years. Furthermore, the reversal o fthe Bank's decision to fund a
 follow-on project aggravated the project's sustainability. However, the decision was
 taken after the loan closed and therefore does not reflect on the Bank Performance rating
 for this project. A broader evaluation o f the Bank's forest sector strategy would give
 more weight to the absence o f follow-up and the performance rating might be
 unsatisfactory-but      ajudgment o f this nature lies beyond the scope o f this assessment.


 4.      Lessons

 4.1     The following lessons may be derived. First, to mobilize villager supportfor
resource consewation a long term commitment is needed by the government and donor
agencies. The JFM strategy involves increasing the stake o f communities (residing inthe
neighborhood o f forests) inthe management and protection o f those forests. However, the
regenerated forest area can be maintained only ifthe villagers get adequate retums from
the forest. This requires a long term strategy o f forest protection and creating alternative
economic opportunities for villagers at least until the forest regenerates and communities
can depend on the forest for their livelihood. There are important implications here for
the Bank's strategic approach to forest management. The appraisal document envisaged
the need for a ten-year program o f Bank support and the low impact found bythis
evaluation suggests that such an extended commitment may be warranted.

Second,flaws in the legal and incentiveframework need to be addressed. An overarching
strategy o f forest protection through community participation also requires attention to
the legal andpolicy framework for forest management bearing on, among other things,
forest user rights, relations between protection committees and village institutions, and
issues related to the marketing o f non-timber forest products.

Third, the Bank's involvement in theforest sector needs to be seen in the larger and
longer term context ofpoverty reduction and thepoverty impact of such involvement
should be monitored. A large percentage o f the poor inrural areas are found inand
around forests and the Bank can make a substantial contribution to poverty reduction in


17. OED, 2000, op. cit., p. 46.

                                            21


India through a strategy that involves the poor inforest protection. However, this must be
done in a way that i s monitorable and should be backedup indesignby a systematic
monitoring and evaluation system capable o fmeasuringpoverty impact.


                                                           23                                               Annex A
 Annex A. Tables
 Table Al. MadhyaPradesh:Joint ForestManagementin Six Villages
 1. District                                               lndore     lndore    Dewas      Dewas      Sehore    Sehore
 2. Village                                                  Ash.      Kal.        Hat.      Jab.      Nad.      Yar.
 3. Participates in JFM now ? (Yes/No)                       Yes       Yes         Yes       Yes        Yes      Yes
 4. If yes, when was JFM Committee formed?                   1996      1994       1998       1995      1997     1997
 5. What type of committee? (VFCNRDP or FPC/ANR)             VFC       VFC        VFC        FPC        FPC      FPC
 6. Number of households in village                          95        110         92         57         85      30
 7. Percent of households that are tribal or backward       100%      100%        75%       100%       76%      100%
 8. Percent of households with migrants outside:
       (a) Now                                                                     50         60
       (b) Before JFM was introduced                          8                    80                    10      10
 9. Forest area managed by this JFM Committee
       (a) Closed (ha)                                                 120                  1,338       582     2,431
       (b) Open or degraded (ha)                             265       544         995
 10. Number of JFM Committee members                         95        110         184       114        85       30
 11, Number of backward members on JFM Exec                   7         2           19        12         8       13
 Comm
 12. Number of women on JFM Exec Comm                         4         5           3         3          4        2
 13. How much money is in the JFM fund? (Rupees)          181,705    217,261   299,716    194,245     45,938    83,856
 14. List sources of money in JFM fund                      a,b,c       C           d         d       a,c,d,e,f   C
 15.What proportion of the fund is earmarked for
       (a) Forestry (%)                                     35%        35%        40%        40%        10%      5%
       (b) Community development (YO)                       60%        60%        60%        60%       90%      95%
       (c) Other use? (%)                                    5yo       5%
 16. Dependence on forest for firewood (% of
 households)                                                 100                   30         57                 30
       (a) Number of improved chullahs installed?            35         3          20                    1        5
       (b) Number of gobar gaslbiogas plants                 10         1           4                   20
            installed?                                     Dung                  Dung                           Solar
       (c) Number of households using LPG?
       (d) Other source of energy (Name)
 17. Number of forest offences booked in last 12
 months:                                                      3        10          10         3          2        2
       (a) Illicit cutting (N)                                                      5
       (b) Grazing (N)                                                                                   1
       (c) Encroachment (N)
       (d) Fire (N)
 18. Area under encroachment
       (a) Forest (ha)                                                             20         5         40       80
       (b) Other government lands (ha)                                                                   4
19. How much timber harvested in the last 12 months                                55                            160
(cu m)?
20. NFTPs harvested in the last 12 months?                   No        No         Yes        Yes       Yes      Yes
21. How much tendu (kgs)?                                                       15,000     15,000     7,200      80
22. How much mahua (kgs)?                                                       10,000    25,000      20,000     100
23. How much amla (kgs)?                                                         2,500      5,000     1,500
24. How much grass collected in last 12 months (mt)?        250                    100       50         20       2
25. Water level of wells risen since JFM introduced?        Yes        Yes        Yes        Yes       Yes      Yes
26. Area under irrigation increasedsince JFM                Yes        Yes        Yes        No        Yes      Yes
introduced?
27. Area under horticulture increased since JFM             Yes        No          No        No         No       No
introduced?
28. Production of milk increased since JFM was              Yes        Yes        Yes        No        Yes      Yes
introduced?
29. Number of trees of more than 30 cm girth                Yes       Yes          NA       Yes        Yes      Yes
increased since JFM was introduced?
30. How much afforestation conducted since JFM
introduced                                                   90        120         60
      (a) On forest land (ha)
      (b) On other government land (ha)
      (c) On private land (ha)
31. Wildlife numbers increased since JFM introduced?       Yes        Yes         Yes       Yes        Yes      Yes
32. Conflicts over forest access in last 12 months?
(a)Within this village?                                      No        No          No        No         No       No
(b) Between this village and other villages?                 No       Yes          No        No        Yes      Yes
Source: OED field trip, October 2003 (Data supplied by local Forest Department officers).
Notes to Table A I

Villages: Ash=Ashapura; Kal=Kalikiray; Hat=Hathnori; Jab=Jabalpur; Nad=Nadan; Yar=Yarmagak.
Q14 a=grass; b= royalty from sale of timber; c= government funds; d= revenue from fines; e= revenue from sale of
NFTPs; f= small business revenue.

                                                           24                                              Annex A


Table A2. DetailedFeatures-Madhya PradeshForestry Project (C2700)
Specific             Intended actions                   Significant Inputs and Outputs   Initial Outcome
 Objectives          TargeV
 Components
Manaaement           Sector Manaaement-chanae           Expected cost, US$6.0 m.         Shift from a regulatory style
Development          the approackof MPFD,          -   Aciual cost, US$4.1 m.            of management to one
                     improve management system,        Target: 1,239VFCs, FPCs and       based on partnership with
                     increase policy analysis           EDCs. Actual: 2,451.             communities (for dense as
                     capabilities.                                                       well as degraded forest).
                     Planning, Monitoring and                                            Site specific joint planning in
                     Evaluation-develop MIS,                                             VFCs carried out.
                     develop GIs, improve forest                                          Effective M&E instruments
                     survey techniques.                                                  developed but MIS and GIS
                                                                                         not integrated, and poverty
                                                                                         impact not monitored.
Forest               Assisted Natural                  Expected cost, US$39.9 m.         Revenue sharing expanded
Development          Regeneration-regenerate           Actual cost, US$43.2 m.           to include FPCs; pricing
                     whole forest ecotype, notjust     Regeneration:221,000 ha of        policy strengthened; felling
                     individual species.               dense forest (cf 160,000 ha       and transit restrictions
                     Village Resource                  expected) and 419,300 ha of       eased; long-term industrial
                     Development-develop village       degraded forest (cf 342,900 ha)   supply contracts ended in
                     JFM plans using participatory     benefited.                         1998;state policy of leasing
                     process, guided by Planning       Value of usufruct about US$280    non-forest wasteland to
                     Teams                             per household/yr                  private companies declared
                                                       (inc. intermediate and non-timber in 1997, but not
                                                       forest products).                 implemented;
                                                                                         Growth of agricultural
                                                                                         production,cottage
                                                                                         industries,communal
                                                                                         infrastructure and wage
                                                                                         employment
Extension,           Research and Extension            Expected cost, US$10.3 m.         Demand-driven researchnot
Technology and       Service Centers-establish 12      Actual cost, US$8.4m.             yet functioning as intended.
Research             centers and 1 sub-center, one     Centers: 9 complete, 5 under      No widespread adoption of
                    for each ecological zone.          construction (cf 13).             improved technology by
                     Extension-support extension       Seed production areas: 2,450 ha   farmers.
                    in 40 priority Forest Divisions,   (cf 2,400 ha).                    Increasedextension efforts,
                    with training and equipment;       Modern nurseries: 14 (cf 13).     successful demonstration
                    establish Industrial Liaison                                         plots and further actions to
                    Unit.                                                                create a supportive policy
                    Seed Improvement-set up                                              environment and adequate
                    facilities for drying, processing                                    marketing are still needed.
                    and storing seed at each R&E
                    Center; support staff training.
                    Nursery Demonstration-Set
                    up nursery in each R&E
                    Center.
                    Research-Establish SFRl as
                    an autonomous agency,
                    upgrade laboratories, overhaul
                    program.
Biodiversity        Protected Area Management-         Expected cost, US$lI.lm.          Around buffer zone villages,
Conservation        support operation of 5 zonal       Actual cost, US$8.1 m.            forest floor vegetation is
                    teams; support 24 Protected        18 outline and 6 draft            returning, natural
                    Areas; study impact of             Management plans prepared for     regeneration is taking place,
                    communities on biodiversity.       Protected Areas (cf 24).          diversity of indigenous flora
                    Ecodevelopment Program-set         Habitat improved in 8,375 ha (cf  and fauna is increasing,
                    up a support fund to finance       2,100 ha).                        water retention is rising.
                    income-generating activities in    Area covered by EDCs: 186,000
                   villages peripheral to Protected    ha (cf No target)
                   Areas; support training and
                    operation of 5 Planning Teams.
Acronyms: EDC Ecodevelopment Committee; FPC Forest Protection Committee; GOMP Governmentof Madhya
Pradesh; JFM Joint Forest Management; MPFD Madhya Pradesh Forestry Department; MOU Memorandum of
Understanding; SFRl State Forestry Research Institute; VFC Village Forest Committee.

                                                           25                                  Annex A
Table A3. Forest Status, 2000: Districts Covered By OED Evaluation
                 TotalArea    Forest Cover       '                                Forest Area/ Dense
                 (Km2)        (Km2)                                               PW
                                                                                  TotalArea    Forest/
                                                                                               Forest Area
                                                                                               PA)
                              Dense Forest        Open Forest           Total
Betul            10,043       2,957               677                   3,634     36.2         81.4
Bilaspur        8,270         2,093               409                   2,502     30.3         83.7
Dewas           7,020         1,157               560                   1,717     24.5         67.4
lndore          3,898         253                 237                   490       12.6         51.6
Sehore          6,578         739                 698                   1,437     21.8         51.4
Sub-total       35,809        7,199               2,581                 9,780     27.3         73.6
M. Pradeshla    443,446       82,264              51,449                133,713   30.2         61.5

Sub-totall      8.1           8.8                 5.0                   7.3
M. Pradesh
(%)
/a Including Chhatisgarh
Source: State of the Forest Report, 2001, Forest Survey of India, Dehradun.


Table A4. MultivariateAnalysis




Dummyfor poor in treatment
Dummy for Betul district
Score for community
Economic Status
Household size
Number of children
Dummy for member of forest committee
Dummyfor male
Age of respondents
Age square
Schooling of the respondent
Number of leaders known

                                                      26                                                 Annex A




Figure Al. Males are more aware and participate more than females within Bank-
JFM communities..       ....




                   Heard ofJFM            Aware of project       Member of project        Attended meetings
                                           organizations            organizations               regularly



Source: Household Surveys



            FlGUREA2. Madhya Pradesh:Production of Forest Products, FY1990/91 to FY99/00
                                        (Index Numbers, 1990-91=100)
                             Source: Forestry Fiscal Trend Analysis, May 2002




                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                     +Fuelwood
                                                                                                      +Timber


                                                                                                             Bamboo
                                                                                                             Tendu




 ""._
       WO-91  FY'91-92  FY92-93  FY'93-94  FY'94-95  FY'95-96  FY96-97  FY'97-96  FY'96-99  FY'99-00

                                              27                                        Annex A




                   FIGUREA3. Madhya Pradesh ForestryRevenueTrends
                               (Constant 1993 Crore Rupees)
                       Source: Forestry Fiscal Trend Analysis, May 2002




                                                                                 --E.SectorRevenue
                                                                                     FD Revenue




FY90-91 FY91-92 FY92-93 FY93-94 FY94-95  FY95-96  FY96-97 FY97-98 FY98-99 FY99-00




          FlGUREA4. Madhya Pradesh: Forest Department Gross Revenues and
                                        Expenditures
                               (Constant 1993 Crore Rupees)
                      Source: Forestry Fiscal Trend Analysis, May 2002




                                                                                 +FORevenue
                                                                                 +FDExpenditures


                                          29                                    Annex B


Annex B. Basic Data Sheet

MADHYA PRADESHFORESTRYPROJECT(CREDIT 2700-IN)


                                      Appraisal         Actual or        Actual as % of
                                       estimate      current estimate appraisal estimate
IDA Credit                               54.80            53.40                97
Cofinancing                               0.0              0.0                 0.0
Government                               8.90             10.41               117.0
Total project costs                      63.70            63.81               100.0


CumulativeEstimatedandActual Disbursements(US$million)
                           FY96 FY97 FY98    FY99     FYOO   FYOI    FY02
Appraisal estimate          2.6  9.6  19.7    32.4    39.3    39.3   39.3
Actual                      3.1  8.1  16.5   27.6     38.8    38.8   38.8
Actual as % of estimate     119  84   83       85      99      99    99
Date of final disbursement:



                                             Actual
IdentificationlPreparation                April 3, 1992
AppraisaVNegotiation                     April 16, 1994
Approval                                 March 30, 1995
Effectiveness                         September 29, 1995
Mid-term review                          March 16, 1998
Credit closing                        December 31, 1999


StaffInputs (staffweeks)
                                      Actual Weeks                    Actual US$OOO
 ldentification/Preoaration               101.6                          252.4
 Appraisal/Negotiation                    25.1                            73.1
 Supervision                              87.3                           275.0

                                                       30                                           Annex B


 Mission Data
                                                     ~     ~       ~~~~




                             Date           No of                                                Performance rating
                         (month/year)     persons          Specia'zzations  represented   Implementation Development
                                                                                                status        objectives
  Identification1        March 1992            2
  Preparation          November 1993           9           A, F, EN, P&G, R, E, FN,I
  Appraisal/              April 1994          11       A (2), F, AF, EN, R, I,E, P&G, P
  Negotiation          November 1994           2
  Supervision 1           June 1995
  Supervision2         December 1995                               A, EN, IN
  Supervision 3           June 1996                                    A, EN, F
  Supervision4          January 1997                              A, F, EN, S
  Supervision 5           June 1997                                     A, s
  Supervision 6          April 1998                        A, F, SF, EN, E, P, IN,FN
  Supervision 7           July 1998                                       A
  Supervision8           March 1999                           A, F, EN, P, FN, IN
  Supervision9            June 1999                                     A, F
  Supervision 10       December 1999


Specializationsrepresented: A: Agriculturalist; F: ForestrySpecialist; P: ProcurementSpecialist;AF: Agroforestry
Specialist; FN:FinancialAnalyst; P&G: Planning& GIS Specialist; E: Economist; I:InstitutionalSpecialist; R:
RuralSociologist; EN: Environmental Specialist; IN: InformationSpecialist; S: Social Science; SF: Social
Forester.
Performanceratings: S: Satisfactory.

Other ProjectData
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ON   OPERATIONS
                                                                                                         I"111
Operation                                                 Credit no.           Amount           Board date
                                                                            (US$ million)
India-Andhra Pradesh Community Forest                     3692-IN              108.0          July 16, 2002
Management Project
India - Integrated Watershed Development (Hills           3243-IN               85.0          June 15,1999
II) Project
India - Kerala Forestry Project                           3053-IN               39.0         March 24, 1998
India - Uttar Pradesh Forestry Project                    3018-IN              52.94       December 9, 1997
India- Ecodevelopment Project                             2916-IN              28.0       September 5, 1996

