Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:      20648
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(27000; P8620)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 39.4 MILLION
TO
INDIA
FOR
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
June 26, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs.)
Rs. 1 = US$ 0.03 (1995)
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 32.4 (1995)
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 35.4 (1996)
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 36.3 (1997)
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 41.3 (1998)
US$ 1.00 =Rs. 43.1 (1999)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EDC                  Ecodevelopment Committee
ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
FMIS                 Forestry Management Information System
FPC                  Forest Protection Committee
GOI                  Government of India
GOMP                 Government of Madhya Pradesh
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
IDA                  International Development Association
JFM                  Joint Forest Management
MPFD                 Madhya Pradesh Forest Department
MOEF                 Ministry of Environment and Forestry
MTR                  Mid term Review
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding
NPV                  Net Present Value
NTFP                 Non-timber Forest Product
OED                  Operations Evaluation Department
PA                   Protected Area
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
SFRI                 State Forestry Research Institute
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
VFC                  Village Forest Committee
Vice President:   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager/Director:    Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Jessica Mott



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 9
6. Sustainability                                                                    10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      11
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                    12
9. Partner Comments                                                                  15
10. Additional Information                                                           15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                31
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                  33
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                35
Annex 10. Final Evaluation Report of the Govermnent                                  37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: PO 10506                                       Project Name: MP FORESTRY
Team ILeader: Irshad A. Khan                               TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Tyvpe: Intensive Learning Model flLM) of ICR           Report Date: March 16, 2000
1. Project Data
hame: MP FORESTRY                                     L/C/TF Number: 27000; P8620
CountryIDepartnent: INDIA                                                 Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector. AP - Perennial Crops; AT - Forestry; VM - Natural
Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/03/92                                 Effective: 09/29/95
Appraisal:  04/16/94                                   MTR: 03/16/98
Approval:  03/30/95                                 Closing: 12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOI/FOREST DEPT GOMP
Other Partners: Local People
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:       Mieko Nishimizu                            Joseph Wood
Country Manager:      Edwin Lim                                  Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:       Ridwan Ali                                 Shawki Barghouti
Team Leader at ICR:   Irshad A. Khan                             Ian Hill
ICR Primary Author:   Jessica Mott
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS= Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Perfornmance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the project was to assist with the implementation of the state government strategy for reform
of the forestry sector. This involved substantial change in the management of the sector and the introduction of
innovative programs for participatory management of forests. The staff appraisal report (SAR) envisaged World
Bank support to the sector for a period of about ten years. The first stage was to have been a project of four years



duration to allow the Madhya Pradesh Forestry Department (MPFD) to develop the new processes, systems and
skills required for the implementation of the National Forest Policy, and to modify these in the light of experience.
The second phase would then use this as the basis for larger-scale investments. More specifically the objectives
were to:
(a) develop the necessary human resources for the planning, implementation and monitoring of the strategy;
to ensure appropriate management procedures, structure and resources of MPFD; to improve planning at the
macro scale; and to improve incentives for forest management and the cultivation of trees,
(b) increase both forest cover and productivity through development of participatory processes for
management and use of forest resources, taking special account of the interests of tribal peoples and other
disadvantaged groups
(c) adapt and improve existing technologies and to provide technical and management advice
(d) promote the conservation of biodiversity
The project objective was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and government
priorities. The phasing of Bank support took into account lessons from prior forestry projects in India, which
showed that the initial reforms take time. In retrospect, the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) assessment
of achievements would have been higher if the four-year objective had not been so comprehensive in scope.
However, the objective was realistic except for the expectation of continued Bank support (with no break in
continuity) after the first project if Bank supervision found performance satisfactory, an expectation which was
articulated in the minutes of negotiation. 1/ The objective was basically clear, although the Bank decision to
provide initial support for only four years instead of nine years was taken late in project appraisal, and some of the
project documentation is framed in terms of the long-terrn program instead of the four-year project.2/ Defining the
objective in a well-articulated logframe for both the first phase project and long-term program would have also
improved clarity.
1/ Bank management has stated that in the future it would consider the Government's request for further Bank
support, and the state government is now planning a comprehensive consultation process with various stakeholder
representatives, including activist NGO critics.
2/ This ICR uses the four-year objective of developing the new processes, systems, and skills as the basis of
evaluation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had four main components as follows:
(a) Sector management. To reform sector management changing the approach from a predominately
regulatory role to one in which communities are treated as partners in management of forest resources through
(i) policy analysis and reform; (ii) human resources development for the planning, implementation and
monitoring of the strategy; (iii) management procedures and organization improvement; (iv) improved
planning, monitoring and evaluation supported by an improved management information system; and (v)
support for project coordination.
(b) Forest Development. To increase forest cover and productivity, and to rehabilitate degraded forests as a
source of products and income for local communities through (i) promotion of natural forest regeneration
through enrichment planting, improved silvicultural practice, and forest floor management in dense forest
areas (>40% forest crown cover density); and (ii) introduction of participatory processes in village forest
committees (VFCs) with a focus on tribal peoples and other disadvantaged groups to plan, manage, and protect
forest resources, integrated with activities to generate alternative incomes or resources to reduce pressure on
- 2 -



the forests in degraded forest areas (<40% forest crown cover density).
(c) Extension, technology and research. To improve existing technologies and provide advice through the
establishment of extension and research centers, provision of extension advice, creation of an industrial liaison
unit, seed improvement, nursery demonstration, and research.
(d) Biodiversity conservation. To conserve biodiversity through improved protected area management and
the introduction of village-level ecodevelopment with ecodovelopment committees (EDCs).
3.4 Revised Components:
After the first year of implementation, the joint forest management (JFM) approach was expanded to cover dense
forest areas. The original design for these areas was based solely on working plans and it was modified to
incorporate benefit sharing and participation of local people working in forest protection committees (FPCs). This
ground-breaking innovation was the only change to the design of components during implementation.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The emphasis on institutional development, process-oriented design, and participatory processes was
bold, innovative and ahead of its time. The ownership by the borrower was remarkable from the outset. The
project design targeted poor tribal people and other forest fringe villagers who belonged to the poorest sections of
society and gave special attention to social impact, participation, and equity. These positive features of entry set
the foundation for the highly satisfactory project achievements in institutional development. However, several
shortcomings at appraisal preclude a quality of entry rating of highly satisfactory, although they were not serious
enough for the entry rating to be considered unsatisfactory. While the project was aimed at supporting a forest
policy which, inter alia, treated forests as a source of goods for poor local forest fringe dwellers and did result in
significant poverty reduction (see Section 4 below), it did not directly frame the development objectives in terms of
poverty alleviation and therefore did not establish a monitoring and evaluation system that rigorously measured
incremental impact on poverty at regular intervals throughout implementation, as would be desired by today's
standards. The appraisal did not adequately review the borrower's capability for procurement of goods and
consultants/NGO services under Bank guidelines, nor reach agreements on capacity building, streamlining of
procedures, delegation of authority, and specific commitments to time-bound contracting. The negative impact of
this was limited due to the large and effective role of community procurement methods compared with items
procured through the more problematic centralized International Competitive Bidding (ICB), National Competitive
Bidding (NCB), and consultant contracting. The project did not adequately specify the roles and arrangements for
NGO partnerships nor elaborate communications strategy with civil society and other government agencies, but
this was somewhat understandable since at that time no NGOs in the state had successfully demonstrated value
added to joint forest management. There were problems involving two relatively small subcomponents as well.
The approach to developing a Forest Management Information System (FMIS) was unrealistically ambitious for
the four-year project period, with insufficient opportunities for experiential learning and mid-course corrections.
The expectation that within four years there would be both the development of new forest technologies and
significant extension of these technologies to the private sector was also unrealistic.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The project has had significant institutional, economic, social, and environmental impacts, as
documented by the key performance indicators in Annex 1.
Poverty Alleviation and Other Social Impacts. Substantial achievement. The project significantly improved the
lives and livelihoods of people, and especially tribals, through a program of forest and village resource
development, in spite of the fact that it was not designed with an explicit focus on poverty reduction.
- 3 -



*   Scale. The program has expanded far beyond the bounds of the Bank financed project (which financed
activities in 2,500 communities with a population of over 1 million), with a total of more than 12,000
communities (6 million people) participating, compared with 350 communities in 1993. Part way through the
project JFM was expanded from its focus on restoration of degraded forests to include people in the protection
of dense forests as well. This is clear testament to the fundamental re-orientation of the MPFD and to the
improved relationship with local forest users.
*   Asset Transfer. JFM constitutes a major asset transfer (usufruct of final timber harvest) from the state
monopoly to joint management, with a total net present value of $19 billion, of which the community share is
worth more than $2 billion. This estimate does not even include the value of the intermediate products and
non-timber forest product (NTFP) asset transfer (under JFM, local committee members now have a 100%
benefit share of intermediate products and many NTFP, while prior to JFM, had rights only to subsistence
requirements). The total value of the transfer of usufruct right is approximately $280 per household per year.
*   Livelihood benefits. The project introduced a number of processes, particularly participatory rural appraisal
(PRA)-based microplanning, and community funds which have resulted in new livelihood opportunities
benefitting the poor. In many areas increases in NTFP production coupled with collective marketing efforts
have resulted in improved income. Production increases are linked primarily to less destructive methods of
collection while new marketing arrangements ensure that a larger portion of profits remain with NTFP
collectors. In addition to the funds generated from forest protection and increased returns from the trade of
NTFPs, local MPFD staff acting as nodal agents have successfully attracted an array of rural development
investments, amounting to more than $30 million. Community funds have been capitalized by payments for
forest protection by community members and other development investments. Investments of these funds are
starting to show significant impacts on poverty. Broadly, these have resulted in increases in agriculture
productivity and have opened up new income earning opportunities. This has resulted in a reduction in
migration, which was the norm in many forest fringe tribal communities, which in turn led to better quality of
life and improvements in children's education. All of this is in remote areas where access to other government
programs is severely restricted.
*   Empowerment. The project has created conditions for empowering communities of poor forest fringe
dwellers. The community protection funds have increased public choice, helped to reduce debt and reliance on
money lenders, and have contributed to a sense of empowerment and social cohesion which has come from the
collective decision making required in the committee account management, which in many cases operates as
micro credit system. Furthermore, the shift in power relationship from total dominance of MPFD staff to a
more supportive role is a contribution to this empowerment.
*   Benefits to Tribals and Landless. At the macro-level, the project has targeted tribals and landless through its
focus on forest fringe villagers. Tribals represent a majority of the project participants and the project has
benefited tribals, particularly in homogeneous communities, which predominate. For this reason the
achievement for tribals is rated "substantial". The landless. are also disproportionately represented among
participants and are the main beneficiaries of the wage employment in forestry operations (about 42 million
person days over the project's duration).
*   Challenges. Overall the social impacts of the program are commendable and should continue to grow from
this nascent stage, particularly as the forest resource base under this management improves. However, the
process of JFM planning, and particularly the identification of forest users has experienced problems and has
resulted in some places in conflicts between villages over forest access. The participation in decision making
of women in general is limited and gender achievement is therefore rated as "modest". The participation of
tribals and scheduled castes in heterogeneous communities is also limited. A more proactive approach to
identifying and where appropriate applying indigenous knowledge and existing community management
practices would also be desirable. Thus while the gains are very positive it is clear that more training and
support is required to build from the training programs initiated in the first phase, particularly in conflict
resolution, financial management (especially in the transparency of decision making on investments), equity,
- 4 -



gender, and cultural sensitization to sustain this joint management in the long-term.
Environmental Impact. High achievement. The overall environmental impact of the project has been very
positive. More than 5.5 million ha of production, protection, and degraded forests are being protected from
unsustainable grazing by livestock and uncontrolled use of forest products. As a consequence, forest floor
vegetation is returning, natural regeneration is taking place, and there is a significant and positive impact on the
diversity and abundance of indigenous flora and fauna, including wild herbivores and the species that prey on
them. Severely degraded forest lands have been rehabilitated with indigenous forest vegetation and this, probably
more than the specific erosion control and water conservation intervention that are also funded under the project,
has halted soil erosion and is enhancing water retention. In some areas villagers are already reporting an increase
in the water table, wildlife populations, and biodiversity.
Specific Objectives The project has successfully achieved the project objectives by developing many of the new
processes, systems and skills required for the implementation of the forestry reform program, and modifying them
in the light of experience.
*   Sector Management. A well-structured program of workshops and interactions changed the attitudes and
behavior, creating new styles of working at all levels. Human resource development (HRD) at all levels
developed the skills to support new systems of forest management. New processes of monitoring and HRD
transformed a hierarchical organization into a dynamic learning organization, as demonstrated in the
de-concentration of decision-making, adaptation, and responsiveness to site specific and client-specific
situations, and feedback of experience to policy change (e.g., changes in the Govemment Resolution on JFM).
The policy framework supported changes in external relationships. Much of the sector management efforts
were focused on JFM and had significant impact. The project included policy changes to promote an enabling
environment for the private sector, including an easing of transit and felling restrictions to private land
owners. Overall the achievement in sector policies and public sector management were "substantial". There
were shortcomings, but they were small relative to the importance of achievements described above. To date
the impact of the efforts on private sector investment and marketing is limited (and the achievement for
private sector development is therefore rated "negligible"), Another shortcoming in sector management was
the failure to deliver an improved macro-level planning process supported by a FMIS and associated capacity
building.
*   Forest and Village Resource Development. The project developed a system of JFM which has improved
forest condition demonstrably in both dense and degraded forest areas. By project closing the total area
brought under JFM in Madhya Pradesh had reached over 5.3 million hectares representing 38% of the state's
total production forest land. Regeneration surveys show steady improvement in tree seedling recruitment on
most sites and improved forage is linked to significant increases in faunal abundance. The project has
produced a responsive bottom-up management style    which actively involve forest fringe villages. Direct
transfer of funds for protection to local accounts jointly managed by  community members and forest
guards, and the establishment of a policy to share forest revenues strongly reinforced  community
participation. Effective reorientation of forest staff and training in participatory planning methods coupled
with extensive training and exposure visits for VFC/FPC members have fostered the rapid expansion of the
program well beyond the bounds of the design. Adoption of a responsive management style within MPFD has
led to modifications in silvicultural methods with increased emphasis on social fencing/rotational grazing,
uneven-age stand management, more rational soil conservation investments, and managing a wide range of
species (moving away from exclusive timber focus). The introduction of rotational grazing and "cut and
cary" fodder for stall feeding livestock has been particularly successful. Through the Village Resource
Development Program, the MPFD has developed a leadership role in rural development in the forest fringe
areas. The creation of village assets under this program has developed strong links between forest
development and village development, both in perceptions and operations. The use of participatory rural
appraisal methods in VFCs has raised awareness of the need to target investments to help the most
forest-dependent members in committees to mitigate the adverse impact of stricter forest protection. Overall,
the achievement in community forestry management was 'substantial". However, further improvements in all
- 5 -



forms of JFM are needed to address issues of social inclusion (especially of women), equity (poor and
landless), and conflict resolution (particularly intervillage conflicts over forest area or forest products).
*   Extension, Technology, and Research. Among MPFD staff, project support for new technology has led to
widespread awareness and acceptance, as well as relatively extensive adoption of genetically improved seed
and clonal planting stock, and has established a foundation for further expansion. This improved planting
material will significantly improve productivity of plantations and quality of forest produce. MPFD has also
initiated Lok Vaniki, a pilot program in seven districts to establish federations of private forest and plantation
owners, and to improve scientific management and marketing. There has not been widespread adoption of
improved technology by farmers. Increased extension efforts, successful demonstration plots, and further
actions to create a supportive policy environment and adequate marketing are still needed. Training programs
have enhanced research and development capabilities, and client-oriented research prioritization (including an
increased focus on non-timber forest products) has established a basis for planning future research. The State
Forestry Research Institute (SFRI) was established as an autonomous institution, but the system of
demand-driven research is not yet functioning as intended. Proper monitoring, evaluation, and staff
recruitment procedures would enhance the cost-effectiveness and quality of the research program.
*   Biodiversity Conservation. The human impact on biodiversity in protected areas and their buffer zones is
being reduced through initiation of ecodevelopment activities in buffer zone villages. A recently initiated
monitoring system has already indicated a measurable decrease in impacts on the biodiversity of buffer zone
ecosystems.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The project has also performed satisfactorily at the activity level, producing the expected outputs.
* Sector Management. New relationships between staff, forest users, and government organizations have been
developed within a facilitatory and supportive learning environment, leading to new partnerships for forest
management. The proposed changes in vision and structures laid out in a department-wide consultative study
have not yet been fully implemented as they now form part of wider government discussion on overall public
sector reform. However, important elements of the study are now in place. This was achieved through
implementation of a HRD plan which set out a staffing policy linked to changes in the vision, structure, and
functioning of the department. A new HRD wing was established to support implementation of the plan.
Curricula for training of forest guards and foresters were revised and implemented together with improvement
of infrastructure. One hundred sixteen staff received overseas training and 140,000 villagers and staff have
received local training. The first generation of training has led to considerable readjustment of skills at all
levels. The project developed effective and innovative monitoring instruments (e.g., perfomance audits,
regeneration surveys, process documentation, and computerized project accounts and other databases in the
Project Unit). However the FMIS was not fully implemented due to contracting problems with both the
consultancy and the equipment, and in any case its design did not provide links with the new community based
planning systems. Overall the experiential leaming approach fostered by the project has helped to widen and
deepen understanding. Essential policy reforms were made as a condition of project negotiations. A Policy
Analysis Unit conducted a series of studies and proposals leading to changes to the MP Land Revenue Code to
encourage private tree planting. Use of structured experience-sharing workshops at different staff levels
provided feedback to field-level operations to policy dialogue and revision of the Govemment Resolution on
JFM.
*   Forest and Village Resource Development. The project has financed 2,269 forest fringe villages (1 ,105 FPCs
and 1,164 VFCs) and served as a catalyst for an additional 9,603 villages funded by other sources. By project
closing the project directly financed protection in some 221,000 ha of dense forests (compared with 161,000 ha
anticipated at appraisal) and 419,300 ha of degraded forests (compared with 342,900 ha anticipated at
appraisal), and provided the policy environment and model for initiating protection of an additional 2,906,541
ha of dense forests and 2,437,629 ha of degraded forests. Under the Village Resources Development Program,
a process of joint planning with VFCs has  resulted in a wide array of village resource development
- 6 -



investments including improvements to agricultural production, cottage industries, community infrastructure,
and wage employment. MPFD has leveraged additional funds well beyond those originally available through
the project by tapping a number of other sources of domestic and international aid. In total these funds have
enabled extensive replication of project activities.
*   Extension, Technology and Research. The project has set up extension and research centres at 14 locations
(strategically selected on the basis of agro-climatic zones), along with modern root trainer nurseries, gene
banks and clonal mulitplication of eucalyptus. The project fully achieved SAR targets for forest stock
improvement, with 2,450 ha of seed production areas and 1,104 ha seedling/clonal seed orchards. The project
has also provided support for research laboratories and infrastructure facilities, and promoted the 1995
strengthening of SFRI to an autonomous body. The industrial liaison unit is ineffective and virtually
nonfunctional, due to consultant contracting problems, and more recently, harvesting restrictions imposed by
the Supreme Court. Staff in two districts, however, have taken significant initiatives to strengthen private
sector investment and marketing. In accordance with the project design, the MPFD terminated long-term
contractual supplies to wood-based industries effective December 1998, but the anticipated increase in farrn
forestry has not resulted from this policy change, and many of the wood-based industries have closed.
*   Biodiversity Conservation. The project has developed 18 outline and 6 draft protected area management
plans, and has identified 18 and surveyed 9 areas requiring conservation management in order to maintain
ecological linkages between the state's protected areas. The project has developed guidelines and procedures
for establishing, funding, and monitoring Ecodevelopment Committees (EDCs), has already formed 231 EDCs
in buffer zone villages, and has financed ecodevelopment investments in 182 of these committees. In addition,
the project is developing the skills for expansion of the ecodevelopment program through training programs
for participatory microplanning for ecodevelopment, and extension services provided through ecodevelopment
centers. Innovative adaptations have been made in microplanning methods to ensure better definition of roles
and needs, and to increase the level of participation in planning. MPFD has also developed an innovative
approach to ecodevelopment, linking this program to JFM in buffer zones of protected areas. In this way
MPFD expects that the majority of EDCs will be able to use and manage some forests to meet their daily
needs. The project has established facilities, curricula and a vocational biodiversity conservation training
program that is tailored to the needs of Territorial and Wildlife Wing Forest Department staff. With regards
to forests outside of the protected area network, MPFD staff have been trained to incorporate biodiversity
concerns in the forest management planning system and new plans that include biodiversity prescriptions have
been prepared for 2 million ha of forest.
*   Physical and Financial Results. Substantial achievement. The project has resulted in near total achievement
of phsical and financial targets in most key areas. MPFD has met 101% of the phased expenditure in Rs.
value as estimated in the SAR. This result demonstrates that the arrangement of distributing the
responsibilities of implementing agencies to the concerned wings, rather than concentrating all the
decision-making in the Project Unit, functioned well. Financial management has been sound and effective
with computerized project accounts at the Project Unit. However, divisional accounts continue to be
maintained manually involving considerable duplication and efforts to reconcile figures. As of May, 2000,
$53.4 million (SDR 38.9 million) had been disbursed. A balance of about $0.68 million (SDR 0.5 million) has
been cancelled. There was considerable expenditure under Category 3 (Forest Protection), and the original
reimbursement claims were wrongly made under Category 2 (Forest Operations), but this error has been
corrected. The annual audit reports were generally received after a delay of few weeks. For FY 1997-98 the
auditor had disallowed an amount of Rs. 16.709 million in his audit report. The Bank had adjusted this
amount from MPFD withdrawal application.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR estimated an economic rate of return (ERR) of 10% and an net present value (NPV) of Rs. 293 million
(in 1994 Rs.), based on 75% of the costs. The re-estimated ERR is 19% and the re-estimated NPV is Rs + 1,838
million (in 1994 Rs), based on 78% of the costs. Re-estimated ERRs range from 15% for forest development in
- 7 -



dense forests to 34% for forest development in degraded areas. No ERR was re-estimated for extension and
research, as virtually no extension work had taken place. Major reasons behind the change in the ERR include (a)
reduced unit costs per ha allowing wider coverage, and (b) community share in intermediate products resulting in
reduced dependency on govemment funds and therefore earlier and more timely operation. Furthermore, the SAR
assumptions were extremely conservative about (a) the increase in NTFPs as a result of effective protection and (b)
about the immediate benefits from decongestion of bamboo which results in both an immediate return as well as
increased productivity within three years. The assumptions used for the re-estimation remain conservative. The
new institutional arrangements provide a downward (i.e., community) incentive for timely operation within an
enabling environment and the community accounts bypass the dependency on annual fund allocation. Provided the
ultimate stake created in forest conservation and management is sustained, in the gap between project closure and
first final product flows, actual retums are likely to be extremely high. The SAR identified the environmental
importance of the MP forests, especially as a source for many important river systems and the economic analysis
estimated a breakeven level of Rs 368 per ha for the additional environmental benefits required to achieve a 12%
ERR. If the same level of additional environmental benefits per ha is assumed, but now applied to 35% greater
area, the ERR would rise from 19% to 21%. The economic analysis ignores the expected retums to improved
genetic material since the extension program has not resulted in widespread private sector uptake and, therefore,
benefits have not been realized during the project period as planned. However, there is evidence that other
programs and pilot schemes of the MPFD and certain districts will result in new public-private sector
developments with better marketing arrangements and where the investments in genetic improvement may
ultimately prove to be very significant.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
•   Financial Analysis. The focus of the financial analysis in the SAR was the forestry subcomponent for
degraded forest areas. The SAR estimated the financial return to a typical community, including the value of
foregone access to degraded land due to effective protection, to be in excess of 60% and to involve negative
cashflows for an initial period of six years. With the provision of protection money from the project, a
positive cashflow in all years was expected. The ICR extends the SAR model to reflect the increased diversity
of both funding sources and the fund utilization and confirms the positive cashflow in all years. Further, the
model suggests that in many cases, where the existing forest was sufficient to provide some product flow,
cashflows are immediately positive, without the additional inflow from protection money. This is the result of
the JFM policy that provides for 100% of intermediate products to be assigned to the community. The same
result holds for areas where there was over-congested bamboo, which provided immediate net revenue to both
community and MPFD. The ten-year phasing cycle for the management program will eventually result in a
smooth annual flow into the community fund from final products. The SAR expressed concem about
individual gainers and losers, and during the ICR it was clear that effective protection had resulted in some
individuals facing short-term loses. However, on average, the ICR model expects individual households to gain
Rs 700 per year rising to Rs 2,500 per year after 4 years, and eventually to just less than Rs 4,000 per year (in
1994 prices). This excludes the benefit from any additional employment generated.
*   Asset Transfer. The govemment has replicated the same approach on a much wider scale but with much more
limited financial support. The overall effect has been to transfer about 30% (or $23 billion) of the estimated
$80 billion value (2000 prices) of standing stock of forest assets out of the sole control of the state forest
department into joint management with communities. Under the present benefit-sharing arrangements, this
creates a beneficial interest for the community of roughly $2.3 billion. This is equivalent to a net annual flow
of about $225 million to the community (at 12%, into perpetuity). Taken together with the estimated annual
flow of NTFPs of $125 million, the value of products to which the community has clear rights totals $350
million. This is equivalent to about $280 (or Rs 6,500) per household per year. (This higher figure, compared
to the Rs 4,000 per household per year from the financial model, reflects the overall predominance of FPCs
and nondegraded areas compared to VFCs and degraded areas in the project.) Although not all of these flows
represent incremental gains to the community, they do reflect new (as well as enhanced clarity over) rights and
entitlements for about 1.2 million households, most of whom live in or near forest areas and consequently are
more likely to be poor, socially excluded, and generally less involved in other govermment programs.
- 8 -



*   Fiscal Impact. The SAR anticipated a nine-year project to ensure that the flow of benefits from the improved
rights and effective management would result in a self-sustaining and self-financing system. The committee
accounts effectively establish trust funds for future maintenance and management. Although the potential for
substantial fiscal savings remains, these depend heavily on the maintenance of the new arrangements, during
the period prior to realization of a share of final benefits. Over the long-term, the incremental fiscal impact of
project investments is likely to be quite positive. The state government receives a substantial portion of the
final harvest revenue. The project also enables effective restoration and protection of forest assets which
would otherwise be degraded, offering little or no return to the state. Further analysis is required to (a) project
the extent and timing of the positive long-term fiscal benefits of incremental investments in forestry, and (b)
analyze the scope for increased efficiency of public investments by reducing the interim fiscal burden on the
government, especially once there are increases in direct flows from the forests into the community accounts.
ICR Supporting Document 10, Financial and Economic Analysis, describes the basis of the above estimates and
provicles further analysis.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
High achievement. The project supported significant change within the implementing organization (internal
relationships) and in its external relationships with forest fringe villagers. The project has also contributed to
improved coordination between the MPFD and other government line departments at the field level. While the
project established good collaboration with community-based development nongovernmental organizations (NGOs)
in some locations, and made efforts to strengthen linkages, these efforts did not result in a systematic and strong
relaticinship with NGOs and other elements of civil society throughout the state. There was a similar pattern with
efforts to work with the private sector. However, this shortcoming in external relationships is overshadowed by the
magnitude and importance of the institutional transformation both intemally and in the external relationships with
forest fringe villages. As the text on sector management explains above, the MPFD has become a learning
organization. This in turn has allowed development and support to 2,500 new community based natural resource
management institutions. New financial mechanisms in the form of committee accounts served as channels for
some 30% of the total project expenditures. These institutional mechanisms enabled community organizations to
protect forests and make choices about investment in both village and individually owned assets. In addition, these
committees have been able to access other government department funding sources with the help of MPFD staff.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The influence of outside factors has been mixed. Bank performance affected project achievement both positively
and negatively (see section G below). Greater judicial scrutiny and involement is strengthening enforcement of
the regulatory framework. On the other hand, further regulatory reforms would help to foster sustainable
incenetives for the private sector and JFM, and trust-building between local people and protected area managers.
Adverse publicity from activist NGOs (who are opposed to World Bank lending to India, to MPFD efforts in tribal
areas, and to national government policy on encroached forest land) and local marketing agents (who now face
competition from JFM committees) have tarnished the public perception of the project, especially of those not
directly participating, and have demoralized participating villagers and local staff. The provision of financial
support from programs such as the World Food Program ($15 million) and the Tenth Finance Commission ($15
million) enabled MPFD to replicate practices beyond the scope envisaged in the World Bank-financed project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Clearance delays and lack of delegated authority to the implementing agency for approval of all consultancies
delayed or prevented implementation of several planned consultancy contracts. These problems resulted in the
failure to comple three dated covenants. Discontinuity of staffing in key positions curtailed achievements in forest
technology and FMIS. Delays in the issuance of government orders/resolutions adversely affected some of the
-9-



policy reforms. Broad administrative reforms beyond the scope of the project delayed the organizational proposals
(and in one case the associated project covenant), but also created an atmosphere which facilitated the project's
innovative decentralized initiatives including establishment of local village-level committee funds. Timely
provision of counterpart funds made the physical and financial achievements possible.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Strong commitment and action within the implementing agency enabled the project to exceed SAR expectations in
human resource development, performance monitoring, project coordination, and joint forest management.
Partnership with development NGOs was not fully institutionalized and the potential to contribute was therefore
not fully realized. In the context of adverse publicity from activist NGOs, there was inadequate communication
with civil society (including the NGOs and press), state government officials, and the general public. ICR
Supporting Document 6, Issues Related to NGO Involvement provides further analysis.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
*   Costs. Overall costs approximate original estimates in rupee terms. The training, forest operations, village
resource development program, ecodevelopment, and civil works exceed or correspond to original projections
in rupee terms. Equipment, consultancy, technical assistance, and vehicles are under-spent, due to various
problems including procurement and consultant contracting.
*   Schedule Changes. Apart from start-up dunng the first year, the project was implemented on schedule.
MPFD receives funds from the state government through the annual budget, approved in February or March of
each year. The department required no further sanction to release funds to circles or divisions, though large
contracts for goods and works, and all contracts for consultants required the sanction of the Empowered
Committee which often delayed purchase of equipment, vehicles, and the appointment of consultants. Because
the procurement was largely for small and scattered works, the overall impact of contracting difficulties was
limited, with delays affecting mainly the technology/extension components. Difficulties in consultant
contracting curtailed achievements in policy and marketing analysis, and the provision of NGO services.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabilitv rating.
Likely. The extent of institutional transformation, with resulting changes in implementing agency attitude,
behavior, and management capacity strengthens prospects of a continuation of the learning organization and the
JFM approach. Commitment and understanding at top political levels of the state govemment and within the
implementing agency underpinned by the supportive policy environment providing effective incentives for
community forestry also make continued support of the JFM approach likely. A clearer understanding and
accountability for the poverty alleviation impacts and the long-term fiscal impacts would further strengthen
political support. Sustainability of the project achievements overall will assure environmental sustainability. Some
of the improvements to NTFP processing will directly improve the environmental sustainability of the affected
plants. The benefit sharing arrangements and establishment and funding of VFC, FPC, and EDC accounts have
created a mechanism for self-financing at the community level which will continue to function. Local choice
within a budget constraint increases the financial and technical viability of site specific investment decisions, and
increases the likelihood of reliable maintenance. However, issues related to fairness and social inclusion both
within and among local communities, especially in the planning processes could threaten the sustainability of JFM
efforts in some locations if they are not addressed. The relatively newer and weaker VFCs and FPCs will require
additional support to become sustainable institutions. The sustainability of the incentive framework for
ecodevelopment is still uncertain, and controversy over public policy for protected areas also increases risks for the
biodiversity conservation component. Another threat is the possibility that Supreme Court decisions on forest
management and trade could curtail forest produce harvesting over the long-term and thus undermine the JFM
incentive framework, but this situation is considered unlikely.
- 10 -



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most of the project activities were already integrated into the regular operation of the department, which has
minimized the need for special transition arrangements. However, the project was envisaged as the first phase of a
longer-term investment program, and the relatively abrupt and unanticipated reduction in financing has affected
momentum. Additional financing would be required to realize the full potential of the processes, systems and
skills which the project has created. In the short-term even in the absence of a commitment of additional extemal
financing, the project's achievements and sustainability will be strengthened when the MPFD now devotes
additional action and attention on issues related to (a) aggregate monitoring and analytical work on program
impacts, (b) further addressing issues related to conflict management, (c) increasing communication capacity and
effectiveness, and (d) ensuring appropriate administrative and budget support to sustain the existing program. ICR
Supporting Document 1, the ICR Aide Memoire provides further details on these plans.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
* Bank Identification and Preparation. Satisfactory. The Bank responded to the government's request and
facilitated arrangements for technical assistance. In retrospect, the Bank should have strengthened the terms
of reference for the preparation consultants to emphasize the need for close teamwork with and ownership of
the Borrower task team. The final preparation report of the consultants provided valuation background
analysis, but even after extensive revision, it did not address the vision of the Borrower's preparation task
force. Bank staff responded by facilitating the formulation of a project concept that did address the Borrower's
goals and had their full ownership and commitment. The resulting design was ahead of its time with its
emphasis on institutional and social development, and addressed all major relevant aspects with the exception
of procurement. Preparation work included the design of a Tribal Development Plan, but this report was never
updated to reflect the subsequent decision to treat tribal development concerns in an integral fashion under the
rubric of social impact, participation, and equity, nor distributed to the Borrower (in order to avoid confusion).
*   Bank AppraisaL Satisfactory. The appraisal appropriately assessed commitment, capability, phasing,
incentives, and complexity of all major relevant aspects of the project design with the exception of
procurement (especially NCB/ICB, consultant contracting, and NGO services). The conditioning of project
negotiations on policy and institutional reforms that were essential to project success built on lessons learned
from past forestry projects in India and could be considered best practice.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The Bank provided good quality advice with appropriate agreed actions which focussed on the
development impact. The Bank teams showed flexibility in approving the modifications that were inherent in the
experiential leaming design. The missions showed relatively good skill mix, staff continuity, and regularity (8
missions over the 4 years two months project implementation period). However, involvement of a procurement
specialist prior to the midterm review would have been desirable. The tripartite review mission involving activist
NGOs, the MPFD, and Bank staff, which was arranged by the Bank, did not succeed in articulating project-specific
concerns nor in facilitating constructive dialogue. The Bank's failure to commit its support to continue with the
reform process as planned at negotiations has sent a negative and demoralizing signal to those responsible for
program implementation.
Compliance with Bank policies and procedures. The appraisal included extensive consideration of whether to
address tribal development concerns in a separate tribal development plan or whether to do this in a strategy which
integrated tribal concerns under the rubric of social impact, participation and equity. The decision was taken to
adopt an integrated approach. By both the standards prevailing at the time of loan approval (which focussed on the
spirit of safeguard policies), and those at the time of the ICR (which takes a more literal interpretation), this
- 11 -



integrated approach is consistent with OD 4.20 on indigenous people, and is an appropriate strategy. However,
although a tribal development plan was prepared, it was never revised and finalized into a detailed Tribal
Development Strategy to reflect this integrated approach and guide subsequent implementation. (Such action
would have been desirable although OD 4.20 does not requrie a tribal development strategy in lieu of a tribal
development plan if tribals are beneficiaries of the project.) Furthermore, the project covenants did not specify the
need to recognize customary rights of tribals. Nevertheless, project implementation resulted in significant usufruct
tenure and economic benefits to tribals, including a design change that expanded the application of JFM to dense
forest areas. There was compliance with all covenants related to other safeguard policies, including OD 4.30 on
involuntary resettlement. No people have been resettled from any of the parks and sanctuaries financed under the
project. ICR Supporting Document 5, Issues Pertaining to Social Safeguards, provides more detailed analysis.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory, consistent with the ratings described above.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower formed a task team who championed an innovative vision which provided the basis of
the project design. The project preparation consultants did not produce a project plan consistent with this
development vision, but in spite of this failure, close collaboration between the Bank and the Borrower ensured a
sound, client-driven final design. The Borrower also demonstrated its commitment to the project by undertaking
the required institutional and policy reforms prior to implementation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The state govemment undertook the essential policy and institutional reforms prior to project
start-up, appointed effective managers, provided adequate counterpart funds, and remained committed to the
project objectives. While there were shortcomings as described in paragraph 14, the overall performance was
satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The implementing agency demonstrated effective management, with particular strengths on human
resource development, monitoring and evaluation (including progress reports), and beneficiary participation.
However communication and relationships with NGOs, the press, the private sector and general public have not
developed fast enough in a context of wider public and stakeholder interest.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory, consistent with the ratings described above.
8. Lessons Learned
Reorientation of a government institution. A focus on strategic and structured human resource development,
backed with management commitment and budget, was central to success.
*   Vertical and horizontal training, study tours, and leaming forum enabled a shift from a command and control
structure to relationships based on support, leaming, and analysis.
*   Experiential-leaming created the attitudes, competence and confidence needed for site and user specific
adaptation, while deconcentration of decision-making to middle management and the front-line created
opportunities to use these new capabilities.
- 12 -



*   Joint training of iorest committees and front-line staff built better relationships and trust.
*   Communication processes which allowed staff space to voice their concems about new processes and systems
helped to develop broad-based acceptance of the new vision and role.
*   The scale of JFM implementation fueled a momentum for change and created a critical mass of understanding
and capacity within MPFD.
*   To the extent operations such as research and wildlife were kept in separate wings rather than being integrated
into the overall departmental transfonnation process, the change was less dramatic and there were also staffing
problems associated with the lack of a critical mass.
Community accounts for forest protection and village resource development. The creation of community
accounts linked forest management with livelihood opportunities and most importantly, gave people choice about
livelihood options.
*   The accounts created the opportunity for people to exercise choice, which in tum led to efficient, locally
appropriate and site-specific investments which would not have been possible through a top-down planning
process.
*   The joint processes established to run the accounts increased the transparency of public expenditure.
*   The combination of "untied" community funds for forest protection services and increased retums from the
forest through JFM benefit sharing arrangements, have strengthened the convergence between the protection
of the forests and community welfare.
*   The accounts also have served as an effective mechanism for accessing other rural development funds.
*   The use of community accounts for a large portion of project expenditures contributed to the shift in power
relations between MPFD and local communities.
Conflict management and fairness. The sustainability of JFM depends upon the capabilities of local institutions
to be fair and to manage conflict as it arises since a disenchanted minority can easily sabotage forest management
efforts.
o   Conflict management is a critical aspect of community based forest management and efforts to strengthen the
skills of village leaders and local staff in coping with conflict and mediation should be planned from the
outset. Conflict can be anticipated within the group, between groups and between the MPFD and group.
*   Conflict between groups can be reduced through careful identification and negotiation at the outset of users of
particular areas of forest.
*   Assessment of conflicts should form part of PRA-based planning and monitoring. Within communities,
inclusive planning processes linked to a greater understanding of forest-livelihood dependence would
encourage communities to implement mitigation measures to compensate those who are immediately affected
by tighter community control over access to forest resources. Where present, a clear understanding of the
objectives of social equity and good mediation skills of MPFD staff helped to ensure social inclusion in
hierarchical and heterogeneous communities.
*   Conflict resolution between communities sometimes needs extemal facilitation by MPFD staff or other
arbitrators.
- 13-



Modifications to standard silvicultural practice. The practice of subdividing the degraded forests of VFCs into
multiage blocks proved to be an effective mechanism for meeting the multiple interests of the community by
providing a diverse resource, a more continuous stream of benefits and a basis for rotational grazing.
* For JFM in dense forest areas, it still may be necessary to adjust from managing single age timber stands to a
management system that produces a more regular flow of benefits and puts greater emphasis on NTFPs. Such
adjustments could help address the multiple objectives outlined in the National Forest Policy and the JFM
Government Resolution by providing a more regular supply of products and income.
Forest restoration requires active participation. People's participation has proved essential and effective in
achieving forest restoration.
*   Establishing the linkage between forest users' rights and responsibilities has been critical.
*   Treated natural regeneration successfully restores degraded sites in the majority of cases, and is much more
cost-effective than plantations. Where areas cannot be be restored through natural regeneration, technology
based plantations should be encouraged.
*   Protection of a site prior to treatment has reduced the costs substantially due to the high regenerative capacity
of most sites and the more judicious treatment of areas where natural regeneration is not adequate.
JFM benefit share and poverty alleviation. The poverty alleviation impact of the project is considerable, forest
benefit streams provide strong incentives to forest users, and benefit sharing policy provides an effective
self-funding mechanism for regular forest maintenance.
-   Bamboo thinning, NTFP collection and marketing, and cut and carry fodder have made an important
contribution to incomes, and their significance is far greater than anticipated since the Appraisal highlighted
returns from timber harvest.
* The significant financial and environmental returns appear to increase the prospects for mixed use forestry
withstanding the pressure for land use conversion, particularly as this establishes a productive community asset
which can benefit the poorest.
*   Increasing forest productivity and value (through improved marketing and processing) are effective
mechanisms to reach some of the poorest, but continued support and mediation by the MPFD (or other
government agents) is required to ensure that benefits are shared fairly in the future.
Communications and Impact Analysis. Communicating the aims and outcome of the forest sector reform
program to a broader constituency could provide greater support for the program.
*   The MPFD has gone through a tremendous transformation and has concentrated on improving its dialogue
with people living at the forest fringe, but too few people outside this ambit know about it. This has limited
the capacity of the MPFD staff at the field level to gamer support from colleagues in other branches of
government and in the NGO sector.
*   Effective engagement with a broad range of stakeholders including development NGOs, activist NGOs,
academics, private sector entities, politicians, and the press would increase awareness and understanding of
the transformation, policy positions, development programs, and ensuing benefits.
*   Better aggregation and state-wide analysis of locally available data on poverty alleviation, fiscal impacts,
social factors, and environmental dynamics could strengthen the evolving policy framework, program and
proposals for future support.
- 14 -



Commitment to a reform program. Reform of a public forest institution and the establishment of collaborative
forest management require long term commitment to become sustainable and institutionalized.
*   The phased approach set forth in the SAR has proved essential as it provided opportunity to develop and
implement critical policy up front and to modify these based on field experience and it provided the
opportunity to reorient thinking and behavior as well as to develop new skills.
*   However, commitment to the reform process should be sustained until the processes are well established at the
field-level and locally based institutions are sustainable. Withdmwal of financial support to community
institutions should be planned and phased based on their institutional capacity and on the establishment of
sufficient returns from forest and other assets to sustain the system.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments of Sudeep Banerjee, Principal Secretary, Forest Department, Madhya Pradesh
"We have gone through the contents of the ICR report and fully concur with the conclusions drawn by the members
of the review team. We appreciate your kind comments regarding the institutional changes that have taken place
within and around the forest department and the other achievements of the project, particularly those in the social
sector. I would like to assure you, once again, that the changes that have taken place in the departmental approach
to its relationship with tribals are totally irreversible and are in line with the general approach of our government
to empower the underprivileged. We now look forward to your approval of the follow-up project to consolidate the
gains of the first phase as well as to spread the programs to the rest of the state forests and tribal people.
As far as our follow-up plans are concerned, we have already initiated action on some of the items and are
examining the scope of the studies for which financial support from the World Bank will be required. These areas
are:
*   Analysis of Poverty Alleviation Impacts
*   Analysis of long-term fiscal impacts and self-financing mechanisms
*   Development of a Communication Strategy, and
*   Development of Performance Indicators for Protected Areas."
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
See Summaries of Beneficiary Assessment and Stakeholder Workshop.
10. Additional Information
- 15 -






Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators
Indicator                                Pre-project                      Projected in SAR            Actual/Latest Estimate'
Institutional impact
Joint community funds providing livelihood    No mechanisms in place      630 mln Rs (US$16.9 mln)    826 min Rs (US$21 mln) from
opportunities and increased choice for users                                                          project and 1470 mln Rs. (US$37
min) from other sources
New extemal linkages with other          No mechanisms in place           Coordination committees     Diverse arrangements in place
government organizations and NGOs                                         with other govemment        varying from division to division.
organisations              Committees did not function after
I st year.
Responsive-adaptive approach             No innovation,                                               Innovation in approaches, new
Standard processes                                           processes for fund management
Support rather than command structure    Top-down control                                             DFO playing supportive role,
place                                    One-way relationship between                                 coaching and conflict resolution
DFO and field staff                                          Two-way relationship between
DFO and field staff
Poverty Alleviation and Other Social
Impact
Value of timber and NTFP usufrunct asset    0                                                         US $2.3 billion from timber and
transferred to community under JFM policy                                                             US$ 1.0 billion from NTFP
(based on 11872 JFM committees formed                                                                 (US$280 per household per year)
to date since usufruct transfer is not
realized until committees are formed)
Incremental increase in income flows from                                                             2500 Rs. /household/ year,
2269 project-financed JFM committees                                                                  estimated to go to minimum 4000
Rs/ household in future
Committees formed under project          212                              1239                        2451
(VFC/FPC/EDC)
Total project beneficiaries of investments  -                                                         Over I million
No. of committees formed beyond project                                   _                           9657
Total committees (VFC/FPC/EDC)           352                              Not specified               12103
VFC                                      136                                                          6556
FPC                                      216                                                          5316
EDC'                                     0                                                            231
Total beneficiaries of policy and                                                                     6 million
institutional reform
Local expenditure on JFM, including local                                 57 crore Rs                 141 crore Rs
training, community protection, forest                                    US$15 mln.                  US$ 35 mln
operations
Funds to community accounts for          0                                Anticipated for VFC &       69 crore Rs.
protection by VFCs, FPCs, and EDCs                                        EDC, not FPC                US $17 mln
Funds channeled through community        0                                Not anticipated             About 5-7 crore Rs (US$1.5 mln)
accounts for forest operations
- 17-



Catalyst effect: rural development       MPFD not investing in rural      Not anticipated             147 crore Rs
investments accessed by committees -     development                                                  US$37 mln
beyond project
No. of women self help savings groups    None                             Not planned                 Estimated 1000
formed
Customary rights of tribals recognized in  Non specific                   Rights & responsibilities for   Exercise of rights &
planning and implementation                                               participating VFCs          responsibilities for VFC & FPC;
but rights remain non specific for
those not yet included in JFM
program
Minority groups (Schedule Castes, women,                                  Anticipated for VFCs        Over 90% for VFCs, 79% overall
Schedule tribes in non tribal villages)                                                               (based on Process Doc sample)
targeted in microplarming
Quantum of work in forest development in  N/A                             18.3 million person days    42.3 million person days
FPCNFC*
Landless given preference in forest wage  Little local wage employment,   Anticipated                 Opportunities for work generated;
employment of VFC/FPC                    mainly reliant on NTFP gathering                             VFC/FPC committees do target
and seasonal migration                                      landless;
Transparency in wage payments
Migration of poorest for seasonal work   Seasonal out-mnigration the norm  Not anticipated            Major reduction in migration due
in many forest fringe communities                           to improved farming, forest
employment,
Revolving fund loan interest payments    No borrowing facilities in many                              Interest rates set by committees
agreed by VFC/FPC/EDC                    areas, or exorbitant rates through                           range from 1 0-240/o/yr - much
(NTFP) traders                                               below local money lending rates
Beneficiaries of income generation                                                                    7674 (5175 men, 2178 women)
investments in EDCs (Aggregated data not
available for JFM)
Environmental Impact
Total area protected by local communities                                                             5.54 mln ha
(project and non-project) and new policy
VFCs                                                                                                  2.91 mln ha
FPCs                                                                                                  2.44 mln ha
EDCs                                                                                                  0.19 mln ha
Area of forest land with effective protection    Soil erosion, poor moisture  Improvement on 517,400  Pressure reduced on biodiversity in
system in place, reducing social erosion,  retention, and high pressure on  ha                        826,000 ha of forest lands and PAs
improving moisture control and reducing  biodiversity
high pressure on biodiversity
Area of degraded forest lands protected and    Degraded forest lands      Rehabilitation of 356,400   Rehabilitation of 419,000 ha
treated                                                                   ha                          degraded forest lands, 86% success
in 1998 audit and success rate
improving
Area of forest lands treated to improve  Poor regeneration in dense forest  Improved regeneration in  Improved regeneration in 221,000
regeneration                                                               161,000 ha.                ha, 68% success in 1998 audit
sample and success rate inproving
Protected Areas assisted by project      0                                Not specified                186,000 ha
supported EDCs
Area of Protected Areas improved through                                  Not specified               1,300,000 ha
planning and facilities support and habitat
improvement
- 18 -



Economic and Financial Impact
Economic IRR                                                              11%                         19%
Economic NPV                                                              -19.5 crore Rs              169.7 crore Rs
Incremental household income                                                                          2500 Rs/yr after 4 years &.
4000/yr after 10 years (1994
prices)
Specific Project Objective: to develop the
new processes, systems and skills required
for the implementation of the National
Forest Policy in:
Sector Management
To put in place enabling policy
framework and legislation
Impediments to community participation   Significant impediments          All impediments removed     Impediments to community
and private investment removed                                                                        participation removed, private
forestry still restricted
Capacity created for policy and strategic  Weak                           Capacity created            Capacity developed in Project Unit
thinking in the Department                                                                            - not yet in Department
To develop management systems,
structures and resources appropriate to
new role
Downward accountability to clients and   Weak                             Increased                   Client orientation evidenced
users within a facilitatory, supportive
leaming environment developed
Integrated planning and monitoring systems    Weak                        Established at micro and    Integrated microplanning. Linnited
in place                                                                  macro levels                success on integration of planning
and monitoring systems at macro
level
To dlevelop enhanced HRD capacity                                         Increased and widespread    Highly successful wide
understanding of approach  appreciation and understanding
and concept                down to forest guards
Considerable readjustment of skills
Second generation of competence
areas to be addressed
Increaseforest cover and productivity
through development of participatory
processesfor management and use of
forest resources, taking special account
of the interests of tribals and other
disadvantaged groups
Joint forest management approach         Pilot                            Adopted on degraded         Adopted also on denser forest areas
established                                                               forests only only
PRA based microplamnning methods         Microplanning pilot              Expected in VFCs            All VFCs and EDCs; Use of PRA
established                                                                                           in FPCs is limited.
Silvicultural practices adapted to multiple  Pilot?                       Expected in degraded        Excellent in mini-block treatment
objectives of JFM                                                         forests                     system for degraded forests but not
dense forests
-19-



Restoration techniques for degraded areas  Restoration through plantations  Range of treatments         Innovative site specific treatments
based on natural regeneration tested      only                                                          with positive results
Measure tribal interests in planning     Non specific                       Anticipated as integral part    Integrated in VFC microplanning;
of VFC micro-planning; but    only sporadic in the expansion to
not for FPC                 FPC program; Data not aggregated
state-wide
Measure interest of other disadvantaged  Non specific                       Anticipated as integral part    Concems of women and SCs
groups, scheduled castes & women,                                           of VRDP micro-planning;     identified during initial PRA but
landless                                                                    but not for FPC             often failed to translate into action;
concerns of landless addressed
through employment and small
loans
Adapt and improve technologies and
provide technical advice
MPFD staff acceptance of improved         Minimal                           Not specified               Widespread
planting stock and nursery technologies
No. of improved seedlings to private      0                                 Not specified               Nominal
farmers
Functioning of Industrial Liaison Unit   Non-existent                       Effective                   Not effective but local initiatives in
2 districts
Non-existent                      Not anticipated             Piloting in 7 districts
Federations of private forest plantation
owners for management and marketing
Demand driven research system             Non-existent                      Fully operational           Not yet fully operational
Promote conservation of biodiversity
Improved protected area management        Threatened Biodiversity in PAs    Improved management in      Improved management planning
24 PAs                      developed for 18 PAs
Policy framework for ecodevetopment      No policy framework for                                        Policy framework for
eco-development                                               eco-development in place
1/ Physical quantities, expenditures, and fund flow figures are based on aggregate monitoring data compiled by the
Project Unit. Estimates of asset transfer, incremental impact on household income, economic rate of return and net
present value are based on Detailed Economic and Financial Analysis (ICR Supporting Document 10). Qualitative
assessments are based on the judgements of the ICR task team, which visited a variety of field situations, held
discussions with a variety of stakeholders, and reviewed case studies, performance audits, regeneration surveys,
process documentation and other monitoring. ICR Supporting Documents 2 (Poverty and Other Social Impacts), 3
(Institutional Impact) and 4 (Environmental Impact) provide further analysis.
Output Indicators
Indicator                              Pre-project                       Projected in SAR            Actual/Latest Estimate
Improve Sector Management
Policy
Policies for revenue sharing established  Policy in place only for degraded  Policy in place only for  Revised to include FPCs
areas                             degraded areas
- 20 -



Shift from a purely rights-based system  Purely rights-based system    Developed                   Implemented
to a system of secured rights,
responsibilities and incentives developed
Transfer of usufiun
Pricing of forest products            Nistar subsidy for areas distant  Nistar subsidy for areas   Sustainability of reform likely.
from forests was disincentive to  beyond 5 km from forests
forest protection by local       eliminated as pre-condition
communities                      to negotiations
Monopoly collection of some NTFP      Monopoly in place                Altemative mechanism        No studies on alternative
studied                    mechanism. Transit restrictions on
mahua seeds, flowers and charota
seeds removed in 1998.
Felling and transit restrictions      Posed major disincentive         Gradual easing of           Gradual easing of restrictions
restrictions, beginning with    implemented but political
a pre-condition of         consensus not yet in place
negotiations
Long-term industrial supply contracts  Distorted market prices         Will cease in 1997          Ceased in 1998
Regulations eased on land ceiling for  Posed major disincentive        Discussions on Indian       State policy of leasing non-fbrest
commercial tree growing                                                Forest Act                  wasteland to private companies
declared in 1997, but not
implemented
Legislation                           JFM Government Resolution and     Revised JFM Government     Exceeded expectations: revised
Order but there were shortcomings    Order issued as condition of   GR incorporated learning and
negotiations               approved in 2000, corresponding
Government Order expected soon.
Policy analysis capacity                                                Policy studies conducted   Difficulties with letting contracts;
Strategic capacity created  Policy revised using internal
feedback mechanisms
Tip ensure management systems,
structures and resources appropriate
to new role
Increased accountability to clients/users    All funds centrally allocated and  1239 VFCs and EDCs with    Villages managing community
held within MPFD                 signed MOUs                 funds. 12,103
No MOUs                                                      MOUs signed
Ernpowered staff                      Standard schemes                  Joint site-specific plans,  Achieved but need for more
Traditional assumptions          showing variety.            variety in outcomes
unchallenged by staff            Under-standing of concepts
and approach by Guards
and Rangers
External linkages                     MPFD self-sufficient and inward   Create linkages            New relationships between
looking                          coordination                government agencies
Role for NGOs but limited  New relationships with NGOs
funds provided
Learning environmenlt                 Not relevant, assumptions         Promotion of leaming       Space for leaming created
unchallenged                     organization                Transfer of principles between
divisions
New systems                           Top-down decision-making                                     Decentralised decision-making
- 21 -



Planning, monitonng and evaluation   Traditional working plan systems  Multiple-objective       Site-specificjoint planning in
based on single objective       site-specific plans with   VFCs.
management                      client involvement         Consultation in FPCs.
Macro-level planning based    Few private sector links.
on GIS and MIS            FMIS uncompleted and unlinked
Few specifics in SAR on   to planning systems
role of planning
Traditional monitoring systems  Downward accountability    Effective & innovative instruments
to clients                -- perfommance audit and
Upward systems allowing   regeneration surveys in place.
flexibility                Field level measurement some
jointly with communities.
Baselines in microplans.
Traditional manual reporting                               Computerized databases
systems                                                    maintained in Project Unit and
field - high quality reports
produced but locally available data
on social factors often not
aggregated state-wide.
Organizational vision and structure                                  Consultant study and       Vision set out
implementation of findings    Proposed structure but not
implemented and now caught up in
wider govemment changes
Development of HRD capacity
HRD plan prepared                                                    HRD plan and               Plan prepared and implemented
implementation            HRD wing in PCCF's office
Primary vehicle for change
Staff re-orientated                                                  Increased awareness,       Variety oftraining and learning
understanding skills      events using horizontal and
vertical mixes of staff
Field support provided               Instructions rather than support  Spear-head teams as main  Spear-head teams provided initial
vehicle for field support,  impetus, limited by frequent staff
training and leaming      changes.
on-the-job                Now provide dispersed resource
back-stopping additional to DFO
coaching
Increase closed forest cover and
productivity and rehabilitate
degraded forests as a source of
livilihood and income for local
communities
Assisted Natural Regeneration in
Dense ForestAreas
Area protected through ANR treatment    Pilot                        161,000 ha                 221,000 ha
Regeneration status                  Vulnerable to degradation                                  Measurable improvement (86%
performing well)
No. of FPCs                          216 in 1993                     Not specified              1105
Protection funds to FPC accounts     0                               0                          32.4 crore Rs.
Village Resource Development
Program in Degraded Forest Areas
- 22 -



Area protected by VFCs                Negligible                       343,000 ha                 419,000 ha
Regeneration status                   Highly degraded                                             Measurable improvement (89%/6
performing well)
No. VFCs                              261 in 1993                      1143                       1164
Training for spear-head teams         0                                51 divisions               81 divisions
Eco centres established               0                                51                         51
Protection funds to VFC accounts                                                                  30.7 crore Rs.
Improve existing technologies and
provide advice
No. of research and extension centers  0                               13                         9 complete, and 5 almost complete
No. of private nurseries                                               510                        220
Seed production areas                 0                                2400 ha                    2450 ha
Clonal seed orchards                  0                                560 ha                     537 ha
Modem nurseries                       0                                14                         14
No. of seedlings/year                 0                                1.4 mln.                   0.95 min
No. of clonal seedlings/year          0                                0                          0.5 mln
Technical assistance                                                   6 months                   0
No. of persons trained in forest                                       10                         1 1
technology
Adaptive research trials                                               14                         0
Conserve biodiversity
Completion of protected area          Lack of operational plans for PAs    24 PA management plans  18 outline and 6 draft management
management plans                                                                                  plans prepared
Habitat Improvement in protected areas                                 Habitat improvement in     Habitat improvement in 8,375 ha
2,100 ha in ornear PAs     in ornearPAs
Eco-development established in villages    Villagers dependent on PA   Eco-development in 96      231 EDCs formed and 182
resources                        villages                   financed by project
Area covered by EDCs                  0                                Not specified              186,000 ha
Protection finds to EDC accounts      0                                Not specified              6.3 crore Rs.
Conseration training for forestry and  No facilities or program for    Establishment of facilities  Training facilities established,
wildlife staff established            biodiversity conservation training  for conservation training  cumcula developed and program
being implemented. 170 staff
trained.
Identification of ecological linkages for    No conservation plans for  Strategy to be developed  18 key ecological corridor areas
the protected area network            ecological corridors between PAs                            identified and nine surveyed
Incorporation of biodiversity         Forest management plans do not   No targets set in SAR      Six forest working plans, covering
conservation issues in forest         address biodiversity conservation                           20,000 square kilometers of forest,
management plans                                                                                  prepared with the inclusion of
biodiversity prescriptions
- 23 -



1/ Physical quantities, expenditures, and fund flow figures are based on aggregate monitoring data compiled by the
Projcct Unit. Qualitative assessments are based on the judgements of the ICR task team, which visited a variety of
field situations, held discussions with a variety of stakeholders, and reviewed case studies, performance audits,
regeneration surveys, process documentation and other monitoring.
- 24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Management Development                                  6.00            4.14           0.65
Forest Development                                     39.90           43.20           1.06
Extension, Technology, and Research                    10.30            8.41           0.79
Biodiversity Conservation                              11.10            8.06           0.71
Total Baseline Cost                                    67.30           63.81
Total Project Costs               67.30            63.81
Total Financing Required                67.30           63.81
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (A praisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     0.00          1.60        28.80         0.00         30.40
(0.00)       (1.40)       (25.60)      (0.00)       (27.00)
2. Goods                     3.50          0.80         5.10         0.00          9.40
(3.30)        0.70)       (4.50)       (0.00         (8.50)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         5.70         0.00          5.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (5.70)       (0.00)        (5.70)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00        21.80         0.00         21.80
forest protection,           (0.00)       (0.00)       (16.80)      (0.00)       (16.80)
ecodevelopment support,
operating costs, PPF
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      3.50         2.40         61.40         0.00         67.30
(3.30)       (2.10)       (52.60)      (0.00)       (58.00)
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
PoetCosts by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Ex.s , i. . ate, ..ry 
1. Works                     0.00          1.79        31.62         0.00         33.41
(0.00)       (1.41)       (25.88)      (0.00)       (27.29)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.57         7.65         0.00          8.22
(0.00)       (0.42)       (5.66)       (000)         (6.08)
-25 -



3. Services                       0.00            0.00           3.77            0.00            3.77
(0.00)         f0.00)          (3.48)         (0.00)          (3.48
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           18.41           0.00           18.41
forest protection,               (0.00)          (0.00)         (16.55)         (0.00)         (16.55)
ecodevelopment support,
operating costs, PPF
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                          0.00            2.36           61.45           0.00           63.81
(0.00)         (1.83)         (51.57)         (0.00)          (53.40)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Proect Financin  by Cor  onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Management Develop.        2.30       0.20                 2.95      l1.19               128.3  595.0   0.0
Forest Development        34.10       5.70                 37.90      5.30               111. I   93.0    0.0
Extension, Technology &    9.00       1.30                 6.41       2.00                71.2   153.8   0.0
Research
Biodiveristy Conservation  9.40       1.70                 6.14       1.92                65.3   112.9   0.0
Total                     54.80       8.90                 53.40      10.41               97.4   117.0   0.0
- 26 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Constant 1994 values                 SAR               SAR               ICR               SAR
NPV               ERR               NPV               ERR
(12%, 45 yrs)      (45 years)       (12%, 45 yrs)      (45 years)
Rs million                          Rs million
Project                                    - 293           10%              + 1,838             19%
Project + environmental
premium                                                                     + 2,643             21%
Livelihood in degraded forests            + 312                             + 1,321                -
Forest operations in degraded              -314                                + 85             13 %
forests
Degraded Forests Total                2                    11 %             + 1,405             34 %
Dense forests Total                        - 291           10%                + 535             15 %
Farm forestry and extension                   0            12 %                - 104
= Breakeven
-27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
!Stage of Projec Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty              Performnance Rating
5 0   ¢ (e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc4)  Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
03/92                         2
11/23                         9   A,F,EN,P&G,R,E,FN,I
Appraisal/Negotiation
04/94                        II   A,F,AF,EN,R,I,E,P&G,P
11/94                         2   A
Supervision
06/95
12/95                          3  A,EN,IN                               S                  S
06/96                          5  A,EN,F                                S                  S
01/97                          5  A,F,EN,S                              S                  S
06/97                          3  A,S                                   S                  S
04/98                          9  A,F,SF,EN,E,P,IN,FN                   S                  S
07/98                          1  A                                     S                  S
03/99                          9  A,F,EN,P,FN,IN                        S                  S
06/99                          2  A,F                                   S                  S
12/99
ICR
02/00
A - Agriculturist                     F - Forestry Specialist               P - Procurement
Specialist
AF - Agroforestry Specialist          FN - Financial Analyst                P&G - Planning a& GIS
Specialist
E - Economist                         I - Institutional Specialist          R - Rural Sociologist
EN - Environmental Specialist         IN - Information Specialist           S - Social Science
SF - Social Forester
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation               101.6                       252.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                     25.1                        73.1
Supervision                               87.3                       275.0
ICR
Total
Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants.
- 28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(F-l=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                          O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
N1 Physical                               O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
N1 Financial                              O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
F Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
IEnvironmental                            * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poierty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Gender                           O H O SU *M O N O NA
Z Other (Please specify)           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Tribal
3 Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
53 Public sector management               0 H  0 SU 0 M4 0 N  0 NA
F Other (Please specify)                  0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Community Forestry
- 29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
0 Lending                                             OHS*S OU OHU
FZ Supervision                                        OHS OS   OU  OHU
X Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
2 Preparation                                        OHS OS  O u  O HU
I Government implementation performance              O HS OS  0  U  0 HU
I Implementation agency performance                   O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS 0 U  0 HU
- 30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide Memoire
2. Poverty and Other Social Impacts
:3. Institutional Impact
4. Environmental Impact
5. Issues Pertaining to Social Safeguards
6. Issues Related to NGO Involvement
7. Sector Management Component Assessment
8. Extension, Technology, and Research Component Assessment
9. Bank Comments on Procurement Issues Outlined in the Borrower's Project Completion Report
10. Detailed Economic and Financial Analysis
11. Beneficiary Survey
12. Stakeholder Workshop Proceedings
13. Borrower's Project Completion Report (3 volumes)
14. Process Documentation of Joint Forest management and Ecodevelopment (2 volumes)
Note: ICR Supporting Documents 1-12 are compiled in a supplemental volume to the ICR
- 31 -



- 32 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
SUMMARY OF THE BENEFICIARY ASSESSMENT STUDY
Background
The World Bank as part of an Intensive Leaming Implementation exercise commissioned a Beneficiary
Assessment (BA) exercise in the Madhya Pradesh Integrated Forestry Project(MPFP), to assess the perceptions of
the beneficiaries, on the impact that the project has had on them.
The BA exercise was conducted in a short period of time (4 weeks) and sought to gather the perceptions of
different beneficiaries and stakeholders in the Madhya Pradesh Forestry Project. Apart from discussions and data
collection with the VFC members and other beneficiaries at the village level, NGOs(advocacy & field based), forest
department field staff and elected officials were interviewed for their perceptions & views.
The methodology adopted was a qualitative, social assessment method of investigation using secondary and
prirnary data collection techniques . A multi stage stratified random sampling procedure was adopted to select 17
sample committees for the study, based on criteria such as geographical zones, committee formation based on
different time periods, location & accessibility and NGO supported ones. The assignment also included a
Stakeholder Workshop in which a wider range of stakeholders participated (e.g., private sector, officials from other
golvemment agencies), and which is summarized separately.
Perceptions of Committee Members from FPCs, VFCs & EDCs , regarding the impact of the project. The
members in the course of group discussions expressed that there had been positive and negative impacts of the
project.
Strengths. A very strong positive aspect that almost all villagers felt was that they had begun to realise the value
of the forests. Some of the villagers said, quote" We feel that the forests now are ours and have realised its value.
Earlier we thought it to be only something to exploif'. The villagers felt that the as a result of restricted access
there was an increase in availability of certain types of NTFPs. Over the recent years and thanks to JFPM
programme, the villagers felt that they had been able to build a good relationship with the grassroots level Forest
Department staff' They felt interaction was easier and the staff were now approachable and helpful.
Some of the marginal farmers who had little land under cultivation before the project, said they had benefited as a
result of the Forest Department staff helping them to set up lift irrigation facilities in the village. As a direct
outcome, they were able to grow crops on a rotational basis twice as a year as against the earlier practice of only
once a year and hence did not have to migrate for employment.
Weaknesses. In almost all the villages visited, a common concem expressed by the management committee
members was that they were not fully aware of their roles & responsibilities . Quote " Especially when it comes to
keeping records and accounts, we have not been guided properly and hence we have difficulty in maintaining
records and accounts."
Perceptions of Women. The views of the women folk in the village was also elicited in separate group
discussions. All the women who were interviewed said that they felt close to the forests and wished to protect it.
However they also felt that decisions regarding the forests, which affected their livelihoods were taken in the
committee meetings, and only during implementation did they learn the content of these decisions. For example
nobody had consulted them on the usage of the Unnat chullah and they felt that the Unnat chullabs supplied to
them were not suited to their family size.
Perceptions of Activist NGOs. The activist NGOs , expressed quite strongly their concems on the impact of the
project. Some of the major concerns are presented below.
Weaknesses. The Activist NGOs felt that the Deputy Ranger as member secretary is a hurdle to The committees'
self-sustainability because it led to a dependence of the committee on the Forest Department staff. The NGOs felt
that there was also a lack of transparency of funds received and spent by the management committee. The activist
- 33 -



NGOs also felt that they had been involved in project formulation & implementation. They felft project did not
help to build a better relationship between tribals and forests. They felt the basic premise of the project was "to
reduce dependence on forest", which they felt was inherently wrong. Several NGOs expressed concem that the
benefit distribution policy was not openly stated and known to all villagers. Finally the NGOs said, quote "the
Department has yet to digest the concept of JFM and working with NGOs."
Perceptions of Development NGOs. The field based NGOs were also met and their opinions and views were
elicited in the interviews, which is presented in the following points.
Strengths. The Development NGOs felt that in most areas, the VFCs, FPCs and the EDCs, have been actively
functioning, under the guidance of effective leaders. They believe that the success in VFC formation by the Forest
Department has been largely due to the presence of NGOs in the area. One of the positive impacts of the concept
of the the committee voluntarily contributing labour "Shramdan" , is that it has created a sense of unity in the
community and ownership towards the project.
Weaknesses. One the strongly concems expressed by the development NGOs was that the committees are too
dependant on the funds flow from the department. In some cases, it was stated, the committees though formed
much earlier, became active only when there was an inflow of funds (earmarked for protection). Another concern
was that only the more powerful people were part of the Management Committee, leaving little representation to
the landless and other deprived sections of the village. They felt that both the Committee members and the
members of the SHGs need guidance and support in managing their activities.
Perceptions of Forest Department Staff. A cross section of staff ranging from the Forester at the grassroots to
the senior level staff were interviewed and their perceptions are presented below.
Strengths. The staff at the grassroots felt that there was a positive attitudinal change of the villagers, towards
them and that a healthy relationship based on trust was being built up. The social standing of the staff, in society,
had changed for the better, and the pressure from politicians has also reduced. At all levels, the staff expressed
that they were experiencing better cooperation from the Committees in joint patrolling. An observation made by
some of the staff was that since project implementation commenced, there was a marked change in their
interactions with their senior officers. They could now easily approach the senior officers for support . Exposure
& Training were listed as one of the contributing factors which had helped them become fully aware of JFM
Weaknesses. At all levels the staff felt that that the Committees were young and needed support and guidance.
Perceptions of Elected Representatives. A cross section of elected representatives from the taluks, district and
state level were interviewed .
Strengths. A cross section of elected representatives from the taluks, district and state level were interviewed.
Almost all those met felt strongly about the positive impact of the project. The general awareness among the
villagers has increased and there is now a greater sense of involvement in the activities of protecting the
forests, it was felt . The information about encroachments and even the timber mafia, in many villages is being
communicated to the locally elected representatives and this reflects a substantial positive change in the
attitude of the villagers towards the forests it was felt.
- 34 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
HELD ON 16TH FEBRUARY 2000
AT THE ACADEMY OF AMINISTRATION, BHOPAL
(MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT)
The one day workshop drew various stakeholders who were connected and impacted by the forestry project in
Madhya Pradesh. There were committee members (from VFCs, FPCs and EDCs), committee Leaders,
Development NGOs, Elected Representatives, Representatives from other departments, from Industry & Trade and
Field staff & Headquarters staff from the Forest Department (FD) . The objective of the workshop was to provide
an opportunity for the participants to draw lessons from the Madhya Pradesh Forestry Project, as part of an
Intensive Learning Exercise, since the World Bank financed project had come to an end. The key objective of the
workshop was to gain insights into the experiences of the project, from the perspective of different stakeholders. To
start with there were presentations from the Forest Department senior officials on the achievements of the project.
It was stressed that the achievements were possible only because of the support of the local people who had shown
the way with several success stories. A brief presentation was given on the findings of the Beneficiary assessment
Study followed by discussions in smaller groups. The workshop had been structured to facilitate discussions in
smaller groups, on the impact of the project and the key lessons to be drawn from the project. Each stakeholder
group was given space to discuss and express their perceptions . The groups formed were, committee members
group, Development NGOs group, Field staff of the Forest Department Elected Representatives group, Other
Departments' group, Industry & Trade group, Headquarters staff of Forest Department. The Activist NGO group,
though invited to the workshop, declined the invitation. The broad perceptions emerging from each of these
groups is given below.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS GROUP
The group unanimously felt that there was an increased belongingness towards the forests and that a cordial
relationship had been built up with the forest department staff. It was expressed that the committees felt
empowered and the people had benefitted through Economic Development which had come about through
Irrigation Facilities, NTFP sale, Saving and Income Generating Activities. The main leamings from the project
expressed were, that the committees should be strengthened in their managerial capacities through training and
other support activities . Another interesting point raised was that separate operating groups should be made for
men and women.
DEVELOPMENT NGOs GROUP
The group strongly emphasised that knowledge exists indigenously and that this should be utilised. There is a
need to have a change in the basic relationship between the FD, People and the NGOs, which is at present of an
unequal nature. One of key methods it was acknowledged was, information sharing at all all levels and with all
stakeholders. For sustainability it was felt that more focus needs to be given to capacity building of the
communities and the front line forest officials.
FOREST DEPARTMENT STAFF (Field & Headquarters) GROUP
The field staff who participated in the discussions, represented different levels, from the Forest Ranger to the
Conservator. One of the key learnings from the project , it was expressed was the need for transparency in
operations. A participatory process of evolving solutions to village problems is a must, it was said. What was also
essential was the participation of all levels of staff in decision making. A good outcome of the project, it was felt,
was the channels of communication opening up between the frontline staff and the decision makers and a definite
attitudinal change amongst all levels of staff. A suggestion that was made quite strongly was that there should be
provision made for completion of activities already started, in the exit phase of the project .It was also strongly
stressed that flexibility was to be allowed in seeking the support and involvement of NGOs in project activities.
ELECTED REPRESENTATIVES GROUP
There was a strong sense of participation & involvement from this group, in the workshop discussions. The key
leamings from the project were thoroughly debated and the group members strongly expressed that the project had
- 35 -



indeed achieved a lot. However they expressed that more focus should be given to NTFPs and its importance,
value addition and marketing. The progress on committee formation & support was commended. But it was also
felt that the committees need to be supported by financial institutions. They also strongly expressed that the pace of
good work done so far should be kept up.
OTHER DEPARTMENTS GROUP ( MP Urja Vikas Nigam, KVIC, Handicrafts, IIFM)
It is interesting to note that the impact of committee formation was felt quite strongly by the other departments. It
was expressed that as a result of committee formation, there has been an improvement in the service levels. The
committees have helped in implementing the programmes of the department and they have also been concerned
about the quality of inputs provided.
INDUSTRY AND TRADE GROUP
This group expressed quite strongly the negative impact of the project as they felt that the Industry Liasoning Unit,
which was supposed to actively promote the cause of industries, was inactive and hence no progress was achieved
during the project. It was however felt that there is scope for strengthening liason between industries and farmers.
CONCLUSION
The workshop concluded with all the groups having expressed their views and having listened to each others'
perceptions. Key lessons were drawn attention to, by the Chairman of the plenary session. It was strongly stressed
that, as the project had achieved substantial progress, it was important to capitalise on the learnings and draw
lessons from experiences. Though the first phase had come to an end, the workshop provided an opportunity to
crystalise plans for a new project which would be a "people's project".
- 36 -



Annex 10. Final Evaluation Report of the Government
Madhya Pradesh Forestry Project: Final Evaluation Report
Forest Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh
Madhya Pradesh comprises only 13.49% of the geographical area of the republic of India, yet it possesses nearly
21% of its total forest cover (Survey of India, 1997). The forests cover 29.6% of the geographical area of the State,
much higher than the national coverage of 19.27% (Survey of India, 1997). Whereas this disproportionately high
forest cover bestows the state with certain advantages, it also encumbers the government with the responsibility of
preserving and developing this resource. These forests, in addition to meeting the needs of the urban and industrial
establishment, are the life and livelihood of a huge rural population of over 50 million people, over 25 million of
which are tribals and scheduled castes. The same forests also feed most of the over 45 million heads of livestock.
Conserving these resources in the face of the huge biotic pressures from these communities and their equally large
I ivestock population, is an extremely difficult task. Any attempt for the conservation of these resources has to take
care of the needs of the people living in and around the forests, rather than investing in purely technical solutions
cinly. As the threats to the forests primarily come from the dependencies of the rural communities, these threats can
be managed only with the participation of these communities in management of these forests. The implementation
of such a programme needs not only huge financial investments, but also a drastic change in the attitudes of the
govemment machinery towards the forest dwelling people.
The Project
The Madhya Pradesh Forestry Project was born to meet this felt need for investment in the forestry sector. The
current project, worth USD 67.3 million, was conceived as a part of the 10-year strategic investment plan of the
World Bank and Govemment of India, in the forestry sector in Madhya Pradesh. The overall investment over the
entire project proposed is estimated to be over USD 200 million. The current 4-year phase (called Phase I) was
launched on 29 September, 1995 and closed on 31 December, 1999. The principal objective of the project was to
help with the implementation of the Government of Madhya Pradesh's strategy for the development of the forestry
sector, as directed by the National Forest Policy 1988, in Madhya Pradesh (MP). The project was designed to
promote forest and biodiversity conservation through people's participation, village resource development, human
resource development and technology upgradation and by catalysing policy and systemic changes in the forestry
sector. The project has made some remarkable achievements in its short span of four years.
Achievements
The MP Forestry Project has turned out to be, not only, a path-breaking initiative but also far ahead of its time, in
more senses than one. It was the first project conceived as a two-stage strategic investment plan: the first shorter,
pilot phase focusing on systemic and policy changes while the second phase is to be a larger and longer project to
implement the real investment ideas. The current thinking in the World Bank, on Adjustable Program Loans,
conformns to the design of this project. Similarly, the proposed Bank policy for future investments in forestry aims
to focus on rural poverty alleviation, while this Project has already demonstrated the link between the
socio-economic development of the tribals and forest conservation. The salient achievements of the project are
summarised below:
*      The project has catalysed new policy changes aimed at liberalisation of the felling and transport of forest
products to encourage private interest in tree planting.
*      The government has guaranteed usufruct sharing with communities in recognition of their participation in
protection and management.
*      The project has achieved or overshot physical targets in almost all fields while remaining within the given
allocations, as shown below:
- 37 -



Assisted Natural         Target       Achievements       %age
Regeneration                                          Achieved
Area Covered                   161000          221000          137.27
Forest Protection Comniittees.                  1100
Village Resource         Target       Achievements       %age
Development Pro2ramme  ___                                 Achieved
Area Under Protection      342900          419300          117.65
Degraded Area Treated for     66150          65250           98.60
Rehabilitation
No. of VFC involved         1143           1164           101.84
Research & Extension        Target      Achievements       %age
____________ _    Achieved
Seed Production Area (SPA)      2400            2450           102.08
Seedling Seed Orchard            480            615            128.13
Clonal Seed Orchad               500            489            97.80
DemoPlot                         100             115           115.00
Demo Nursery                     13              14            107.69
Biodiversity Conservation     Target      Achievements      %age
Achieved
Habitat Improvement (Ha.)         2100           8375          398.81
Ecodevelopment in villages (No.?   100            182          182.00
Water Regime Development       No specific   2000 ha. area treated, 475 water
targets    holes, pond deepening 83, stop
dams 70, 4 Causeways, 9
handpumps
Civil Works             Target      Achievements      %age
Achieved
FG Quarters/Patrol camp            628            715          113.85
Forester Quarters                  120            214          178.33
RO Quarters                        65             90           138.46
ACF Ouarters                       30             40           133.33
DCF Quarters                        13            28           215.38
Computer Room                      79             187          236.71
Rehab. of Schools                  13             13           100.00
Rehab. HosteL SFRI                  1              1           100.00
E&R Centres                         14
- 38 -



Year                Overall           Claims Sent to       Amount Entitled
Expenditure            CAA, GOI                 for
reimbursement
1994-95                       31.42                   0.00                 0.00
1995-96                     1307.28               1135.76               986.96
1996-97                     3399.10               2136.03              1878.08
1997-98*                    4763.91                4083.28              3577.68
1998-99                     7645.73               7527.86              6526.37
1999-2000                    7731.891               9317.09             8238.05
Total                     24879.33              24200.02             21207.14
%age                                                99.38               87.63
*  More than 1,40,000 persons, including forest staff and members of village committees, put through over 40
different types of training programmes, such as, customised and general courses at training institutes, study
tours and workshops. Forester-community and intra-department communication and confidence vastly
improved. The modemisation of the curricula of the staff training schools, and improvements in training
facilities in these schools shall ensure the supply of high quality staff in future.
*   Financial resources to the extent of approximately Rs. 600 million (approx. US$ 15 million) have been placed
at the disposal of nearly 2446 village level committees, with full freedom of choices regarding its use, to
mobilise the communities for forest protection. As a result of the provision sharing of usufructs from the
forests protected by the communities, they are zealously protecting the forests as well as are undertaking
entrepreneurial initiatives for their own economic upliftment. As a result, the supply of fodder, fuelwood and
numerous other forest products has gone up and the communities are already feeling free from the clutches of
money-lenders.
*  The tremendous attitudinal change witnessed across all tiers of the hierarchy, from the 'fences and fines'
approach to the participatory approach is a unique achievement which will ensure more lasting forest
conservation. As on today there are over 12,000 committees (both VFCs & FPCs) as against approximately
350 in 1993. Another interesting aspect of these committees is that only 2269 committees received project
support while others were support out of other sources (Fig. 1). This is by far a remarkable achievement
specially when one considers that these committees are involved in protection of around 38% of the total forest
area of Madhya Pradesh. The effective participation of the communities in forest protection and village
resource development has laid the foundations of a sustainable relationship between the forest department and
the people.
Fig. 1: Comparison of Formation of JFM Committees
(Project Funded as well as Overall)
- 39 -



U Overall
* ProjectFunded
14000
12000
10000
8000
6000
4000
2000
0
a With a view to monitor and evaluate the work done both qualitatively and quantitatively and also to bring
transparency in ANR and VRDP works, Performance Audit of these sites have been conducted by both intemnal
as well extemnal evaluators and the results processed into a database. The Performance Audit has been termed
by the various World Bank missions an innovative and exemplary method of monitoring and evaluation.
Despite the highly satisfactory performnance of the project, there have been certain issues which need to be
discussed and highlighted so as to improve the performance of future initiatives. These are briefly discussed below:
A.      Project Planning Phase
Certain important features of the project planning stage, which were a cause for some worry at that stage, are
briefly discussed below:
*   This phase lasted nearly 5 years (I1991-1995) and covered project identification and formulation activities.
Apart from the Bank staff and the staff of the GOMP, project identification and formulation consultants,
namnely DHV Consultants from the Netherlands and Society For Promotion of Wasteland Development
(SPWD) from India, were also involved. While both these groups were competent in their right the Dutch staff
was seriously handicapped by their English language limitations and also had some differences with their
counterparts (SPWD). This delayed the project formulation to some extent and the project staff (GOMP) had to
put in a lot of extra effort to make the inputs from the consultants worthwhile. The GOI and GOMP had no
role in the selection of the consultants or in deciding the TORs. If the borrower had been consulted, while
identifying the consultants or at least in finalising their TOR, we feel, the teething troubles of this nature could
have been avoided. However, the final output that is the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was fully in consonance
with the departmnental vision and was fully owned by the department.
*   Although the project unit was established, in the form of a task force, well in advance of the project launch,
the task force was seriously handicapped for want of resources until the PPF was released. The PPF came a bit
too late. The state government, because of its inherent constraints, was unable to equip the project formulation
unit adequately. It is felt that somne of the concepts, which became the core of the project later on, should have
been tested to some extent during the project formulation phase itself, by releasing the PPF earlier. This could
have saved us some of the groping around which we had to do during initial stages of the project
implementation.
B.      Project Objectives and Design
The principal objective of the Project, was to assist with the implementation of the Government of Madhya Pradesh
- 40 -



(GOMP) strategy f:)r the development of the forestry sector in the state, in accordance with the National Forest
Policy of 1988. The project design was emineritly suitable for the achievement of this broad objective. The various
project components, namely, Management Development, Forest Development, Extension & Research, and
Biodiversity Conservation, together covered the entire forest management spectrum and there were no perceivable
gaps in project design. The physical and financial targets of the project have been more or less achieved (>95%/O) in
most areas, although there may be scope for improvement in areas related to the establishment of systems and
processes. The area treated under the key activities, assisted natural regeneration (ANR) and village resource
development programme (VRDP), is more than the targets, while the number of villages covered under the VRDP
is also above the targeted number. The department has made a clear shift from its traditional command and control
style to a more democratic and people-friendly management style. Thousands of staff members and villagers have
been put through training courses to implement the new principles. The main objective of the first phase was to
provide tested technical and policy inputs into the design of the larger second phase and to prepare the
department for the take-off.
The structure of the SAR, which embodies the final project details, was simple and lucid. However, following
design problems, which hampered progress in relevant areas, were detected during implementation:
* No financial provision was made for preparing management plans of protected areas, while plan preparation
was a prerequisite for undertaking any development in these areas.
* Similarly there was no financial provision for involving NGOs in project implementation while there was a
strong emphasis on their involvement.
* All the funds available for publicity and extension were either for consultancies or for purchasing publicity
materials. There was not much scope for innovations to reach specific targets.
C.     Implementation
The implementation of the project has been smooth, process-oriented and systematic. The government showed a
remarkable commitment to the projective objectives. All the policy decisions, agreed as conditions of project
effectiveness, were taken well in time. The project distributed the responsibilities of implementing various
corrmponents to the concerned wings, rather than concentrating all the decision-making in the hands of the PU. This
policy has been thoroughly vindicated and has resulted in near total achievement of physical and financial targets
in most key areas. The successive World Bank Supervision and Review Missions have commended the
performance of the project. The recent evaluation of all the forestry projects in India, by the OED of the Bank, has
also given the highest ratings to the project (Annex C to the OED report). Our internal performance audit, and an
extemal evaluation by PRIA, has also demonstrated the success and quality of the key activities of the project.
However, the project has faced problems in the following areas, mostly due to reasons beyond the control of the
prolect authorities:
1.     Consultancies and Technical Assistance: The project could not utilise the financial support available
under the project for studies and consultancies satisfactorily. Whereas we found a general paucity of good
consultants in the country, even the department has been found wanting in creating systems which can get
maximum output from the consultants. The most significant victim of our failure in this field has been the Policy
Analysis Unit (PAU) which could not launch even one of the studies planned. Same is true of the Industrial Liaison
Unit (ILU).
2.     Procurement of Goods and Equipment: Although the physical targets as mentioned in the agreed
procurement plan have been, more or less, achieved, the utilisation of the financial resources has not been
commensurate. There were significant savings as a result of the drop in prices of computer related goods but we
were unable to utilise these savings properly. The International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures were just
not suitable for the small size of our procurement plan while most of the NCB bids had to be repeatedly rejected
because of the failure of the bidders to provide satisfactory documents required by the bidding conditions.
3.     VRDP Spearhead Teams. Initially, the teams could not become effective, to our satisfaction, because of
- 41 -



various reasons such as repeated transfers and workload of their normal functions. The membership of the team
was not a full time position. Although coverage and the motivation levels in VRDP areas is high, it could have
been much better if the concept of the spearhead team had worked as it was conceived. However, the HRD inputs
that have gone into the training of these teams has served the department well as the concerned personnel have
used their knowledge and skills quite satisfactorily even after transfers. As there are a large number of trained
persons interchanging their positions, and they are taking their experiences and learnings with them, which has
resulted in new initiatives. Thus although the dispersal of the spearhead teams was initially seen as a constraint, we
found it to be an advantage later on.
4.     Biodiversity Conservation: The project could not operationalise any new management plans. It was
planned that the plans will be prepared before the utilisation of funds in protected areas starts. However, due to the
shortage of planning personnel, the park managers themselves were asked to prepare plans, with the help of some
additional staff. Even this strategy did not give satisfactory results. As the traditional PA management plans are
rather large documents, which are time consuming to prepare, we should have tried alternative and simpler plan
formats. It would, perhaps, have also been better had the plans been prepared in the pre-project stages. The delay
in sanctioning the PPF becomes relevant here. However, the department went beyond the SAR stipulations by
trying to mainstream biodiversity conservation in the territorial divisions through staff orientation programs as
well as by issuing appropriate guidelines to the working plan officers.
5.     Policy Analysis and Industrial Liaison Units (PAU and ILU): These two units which were created to
provide critical inputs into policy planning at the headquarters level, could not provide the support expected from
them because of the frequent changes in the personnel heading these units. As per the project provision, the
persons had to be sent for long training abroad which broke the continuity. Had the training of the selected people
been completed during the pre-project phase, the functioning of these units could have been more satisfactory.
6.     Forest Management Information System (FMIS): The inordinate delay in operationalising FMIS is one
of the few major underachievements of the project. The reason for this delay is that the exercise turned out to be
more complex than we, and the consultants, thought. Although the consultancy was sanctioned in 1996, the
consultants took longer than anticipated in completing it. Although the consultants have provided the deliverables
(system design documents and DSS software) but these are yet to be tested. It now appears that the FMIS idea in its
current form was rather too ambitious in view of the short duration of the project. However, the work on the project
will continue so that an enterprise-wide FMIS may be installed during the next phase of the project.
7.     Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs): Although the project SAR had envisaged extensive
involvement of NGOs in project implementation, no funds were earmarked for this purpose. Although the project
authorities tried to hire NGOs as consultants, using the money available for consultancies, that also did not work
due to the usual problems associated with the contracting procedures. Due to this, and also due to the general
paucity of development NGOs in the state, the project could not benefit from their support. Certain organisations,
who call themselves as 'mass tribal organisations (MTOs)' which are, somehow, opposed to the World Bank, tried
to use the project to get at the bank. As the issues raised by them were much wider than the project, and mainly
related to the law and policy issues at the national level, the project authorities could not do anything to address
them.
D.     Extension:
For the last one-year or so, we had been informally encouraged by the Bank staff to seek a short extension to the
project. Accordingly, we had planned our last year of project with this extension in mind. The sudden decision of
the Bank to close the first phase as per schedule has resulted in a tremendous loss to the project, especially in
respect of procurement of goods and consultancies, besides ignoring the biological needs of the forestry operations.
It has directly influenced our performance. The loss in terms of uncompleted consultancies is even more difficult to
handle as it may also result in the loss of the payments already made to the consultants. Due to the current resource
crunch, the state government may find it rather difficult to complete these ongoing but incomplete tasks. It would
have been better if the credit-closing procedures of the Bank could take care of such exigencies and left an agreed
- 42 -



provision for the completion of incomplete projects. This would have saved the expenditures already incurred and
objectives of these activities would also have been achieved. The extension would also have enabled us to dovetail
the two phases of the project seamlessly.
E.     Uncertainty about Phase II:
The SAR reflects the unequivocal commitment of the Bank for a long-term investment plan in MP Forestry
Project, in two phases. In fact, the decision to break the project into two phases was a tactical one to introduce
flexibility into the project design. The key components of the phase one (ANR, VRDP) were designed for 7-year
and I 0-year inputs, with the continuity between the two phases in mind. As these two components are the ones,
which will have a bearing on the loan repayment capacity of the country, discontinuity of support to these
programmes at this stage will directly influence the repayment of the loan. The state government and the
department have all along kept this in mind in planning the future programmes. The proposal for the second phase
has been pending with the Bank for over a year now. The absence of a response from the ban so far indicates a
weakening of the stated commitment on the part of the Bank. Denial or dilution of phase II, and denial of
extension meant to provide continuity between the two phases, despite the fact that the first phase has been an
acclaimed success, will be seen as a major setback to the forestry sector. We feel that there could not have been any
criteria, for granting the second phase, other than the success of phase I. Although the key components of the
project are part of the larger agenda of the government and will continue to be part of the future programmes of the
department within the limited resources of the govemment, we will be able to scale up the programmes
significantly if World Bank support is available. Whereas this will enhance the ability of the department to protect
and develop larger areas of forests, it will have tremendous impact on the poverty alleviation in the state, as has
been clearly demonstrated in the first phase.
-43 -



F.      Lessons Learnt
The major lessons learnt from the various aspects of this project, that can be useful for future projects can be
summarised as below:
* The period involving PPF should be sufficient to enable more effective take off of the project.
* Continuity of Project Director absolutely critical for the success of the Project. In addition officers posted in the
Protect Unit should also not be replaced during the project tenure.
* HRD must be initiated a year ahead of launching the Project. A separate HRD cell must be established before
launching the Project and should be manned by people trained in HRD.
* Training plan for a project with participatory initiatives in the management of natural resources should focus
on both, the frontline staff as well as the communities.
* The study tours are the most effective tools for preparing people for change.
* Change in organisation requires frequent and open communication among various layers. Workshops were
found to be very useful for this purpose.
* Adoption of new technology is slow and gradual. Therefore, the projects should try not to be too ambitious in
these areas.
* Progress in relation to consultancy and technical assistance has been slow due to the cumbersome procedures
prescribed both by the Bank as well as the state government. Unless contracting procedures are simplified and
the project authorities are allowed more flexibility, it will always be difficult to hire consultants.
a Institutionalisation of forest protection at grass-roots level has thrown new challenges in the form of inter
village, intra-village conflicts, enhanced expectations of the people and the department has to gear up to meet
this dynamic situation through a pro-active approach.
i All large civil works should be taken up preferably in the first half of the project period to allow their timely
completion by the time project comes to an end.
e In every project there will be incomplete activities at the time of project closure for various reasons. The
borrower may find it difficult to complete these incomplete tasks because of financial constraints. Therefore, it
is important to build a provision for completing various activities that could not be completed within the
project period.
* A specific provision to meet expenses of a contingent nature should be made as it is impossible to classify all
expenses into standard budget categories.
- 44 -



