Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE OJ LY
Repor No. 7832
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1717-MA)
JUNE 23, 1989
This document has a reticted dls_lbdom and may be used by  t o    I db pen          of
their ouchd duies. Its contents may not otews be dlosed       WoM Bak



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
AC       -     Asbestos Cement
AO       -    Agriculture Officer
MAO      -    Assistant Agriculture Officer
AT       -     Agricultural Technician
BPM      -     Bank Pertanian Malaysia
CCS      -     Crop Cutting Survey
CHO      -     Constant Head Office
DAO      -     District Agricultural Officer
DID      -     Drainage and Irrigation Department
DOA      -     Department of Agriculture
ERR      -     Economic Rate of Return
FDC      -     Farmer Development Centre
FIT      -     Farm Irrigation Turnout
FOA      -     Farmers' Organization Authority
FSL      -     Full Supply Level
0GM      -     Government of Malaysia
GP       -     Glass Reinforced Polyester
IBRD     -     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IPM      -     Integrated Pest Management
ISA      -     Irrigation Service Area
ISU      -     Irrigation Service Unit
iWN      -     Integrated Weed Management
LPN      -     Lembaga Padi Dan Beras Negara (National Padi & Rice Board)
LYT      -     Local Verification Trials
MADA     -    Muda Agricultural Development Authority
MARDI    -     Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute
MOA      -    Ministry of Agriculture
NPV      -     Net Present Value
OED      -     Operations Evaluation Department (World Bank)
PCR      -     Project Completion Report
RETDC    -     Regional Extension and Training Development Centre
SAP      -     Structural Adjustment Program
SAR      -     Staff Appraisal Report
SMS      -     Subject Matter Specialist
SRR      -     Social Rate of Return
T&V      -     Training and Visit



YOR omcuL use ssY
TlE WORLD BANK
Washungton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
(i o ctw4-mns
June 23, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Malaysia MUDA II Irrigation Project
(Loan 1717-MA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Malaysia MUDA II Irrigation Project (Loan
1717-MA)" prepared by Government with an overview by the Asia Regional
Office. Further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation
Department has not been made.
Attachment
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank auomUo. 



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1717-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pagce No.
PREFACE.* ..........*...............*.*.....i
BASIC DATA SHEET ........... ...............*..**... ...**.**..*                ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................. *................ **...        iv
OAVERVILeW ... ................           .................................      1
A.  Project Background *  ........            ......   ...... ... .         1
B.  Project Implementation and Impact            ........................   5
C.  Implementation Issues and Lessons Learned   ................           13
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT ...... .............................                  17
I.    INTRODUCTION                         .....              ....          19
II.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION ... ...............                               19
III.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............................ . ..... .         21
IV.    PROJECT EVALUATION ... ......                         * .........    32
V.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION .                                                 49
VI.    PERFORMANCE OF THE AID AGENCY           ............       ......    56
ANNEXES
ATTACHMENT: Borrower Comments
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authotization.



MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1717-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the M%da 1I
Irrigation Project in Malaysia, for which Loan 1717-MA in the amount of
US$31.0 million was approved on June 5, 1979. The original Loan Closing
Date of December 31, 1984 was extended three times to December 31, 1987.
US$1.4 million of the loan amount was cancelled on June 16, 1986, and a
final US$90,000 was cancelled at the time of the last disbursement on
August 4, 1988.
The PCR was preparp.d by Government with an overview by the Asia
Regional Office. It is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report;
the Loan and Project Agreements; supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda.
The PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments and they are attached
to the Report (Attachment I).



- ii -
PROACT COw15to  mi
MAYSIA: HUD  tt t RSZAtO  MOJICT (Loa  1117f1tA)
8482 OATA SISXT
1Y PROJEC? DATA
Appre"al          Actul r octual an S ot
e*etatton      curret *ett_t   auraial eatimagg
Project concs (US$ mllion)                               69.0            94.61                137.0
LCO/Crodit amunt (US$  llion)                            31.0            29.31                 95.2
Dato  ard aproval                                                       06-05-79 r
Date atfacttivees                                                       094749
Date phylcal copoeata completed                       Dec. 83           Dec. 90         -        -
Clontin  date                                         Dce. 84           DeC. 87 
£cemmc rato of return (2)                                 18.0             5.0                   27.7
Yteniatl rate of return (2)                                -                -
Agroneie pctorfenco                                                     mediocre
Number of diret beaficiariea  (fa&  fta_u g) 16 000 ia tertieries        13,100                   82.0
60,000  ra1 M.d"      50.300                    84.0
CUTIVW DISSURSES
--0so    ysi    m2        nT83    FY84    PYOS        M       FY87    FM8
Appraisal eatinsto (US$ tiliton)  1.5     6.0    13.2    21.8    29.8    31.0           -        -
Actual (US$ alion)             1.57     2.97     7.49    12.29    15.27    19.87   2:.40    27.62    29.51
Actual  s Z of estiate           105       50       57       56       51      64       82       93       95
Dsto of finl dieburmenet            August 4. 1988
Principal repaid
-MIOM DATA
Deto   No. of   Men-daY*   SpeCiaUatiou    Pertfor _Rc                  Type of
Miaon            (po/ur)  persons  tn field    rnr ejaeto4 /b      ratins /c   tra. /d  probl_e /h
tdontltication/       04/77      2         10           Se, I
Preaation             11/77      3         12         Ee, Aar. I
preppurical           03/78      3         15         ge. 4gr, I
(Agric. aesects)    0/7S        1          7            Ag
Apraiaal
(Other aapecto)       11/78      4         28        2Ee. It Agr
Subtotal                               72
Supervision  1        09/79      5         10       21, t, Ze. Aar        I            -           -
Supervisioa  2        11/80      4         20        21, Agr, gc          2            2          0
SOrvion  3           03/82      2         10            F, I             I            I 
Seprielon   4         10/82      3         26         1. get 4Al          1            I          r
Superviaion  5        11/83      3         26          t. 2Agr            1            I          p
superviaon  6         02/85      1          7            Ar               2            1
Superviion  7         02186      1          7            Agr              2            2
Suparviuon a          11/86      1          6            Agr              2            3
Supervinon  9         07/87      1          4            Agw              2            3
Suparvtiion 10
Subtotal                              114
Total                                 16
0i   CRJZT  a
torronr                         Govrnt of w         In n ia"S    I)
EKut2'~Si"' -amend ULU
vise  Yr  at bomwr               Cz1tn"  I"
1N   of currenc  I abbreviation)   loara, 4ellaro (El2
, PPraieaer eraan 0Ts".0  -  $.21
Ott"a yearn avara&n                        U81.00 w U.5
I "ii   ear average                         1.00 *_____
FO11ev-u projects
Nam                        ud" til prouned. but band on Inade te MS aet             d  ith.
Loan/credit numbet                          -!g.;    -=   rotvrcode wth
6/,erItn _nmn  (US$ mion)               -
Utta Br4 Approval
DelaYed natlY du to GOt budget contrinta atd bigh cil vorkacoate it ealy proct yeans.
r - agriculturist; E - rural enginer; gc - econmicet; 1   ittrration enginer; IF  fianial analyst.
1 * probl-free or mnor problem; 2 * modera  proo,em; me 3 -  ejor Problem.
I  improving; 2 * *tatiury; 3 - detrirating.
F - financial; IH * _egeratl; T * tehnic:L  P * polItical; a  0 a other (land acquisition).



-iii 
Dri  ATA Smin  fcma'n
Em                          Er an          Ef                              ES     En    E&
Prea,rel         .4     lu.6       4.1        _        _         _        _         _        _                  _         _.
n"fle             -        -      X8.8        -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -       812.2
N.gs*Ie*iao       -        -      11.         -         -        -        _         _        -         -.       -         -      1.7
su-wvi4.I         -        -        .4     11.0       I.?      8.4      10.4     10.4      4.6       6.1      4.6       8.1      64.4
Cl               -         -        .9        -        .2        -        -         -        -         -        -         -       1.0
Total            .4     16.6      80.2     11.0       *.9      6.6      10.4      0.4      4.        6.1      4.0       8.1      u3.4



- iv -
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 1717-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.       %iis project was a follow-up to the Muda Irrigation Project (Loan
434-MA), for whilch a loan of US$45.0 million was made in Nosember 1965, and
which successfully developed two storage dams and the main and secondary
canal system for 97,000 ha of irrigated padi land, at a cost of US$840/ha.
Following completion of the first project in December 1973, the cropping
intensity at Muda had increased from 1002 to a high 197S, although
production constraints remained important (timing of cultural operations,
harvest and transport difficulties due to inadequate drainage, and
insufficient water at critical times), due to inadequate on-farm
development with field-to-field flooding.
Obiectives
2.       After a lengthy period of pilot studies, the Muda II project was
appraised in late 1978. It aimed to increase padi production in support of
the Malaysian Government's objectives of raisivo farm incomes and lowering
rice Import requirements. The project was to r  7ide tertiary canals,
drains and access roads to serve about 252 of the Muds uommand area,
selected on the basis of need for additional and timely water supplies and
manageme.t improvements. Some system improvements to the remainder of the
Muda area were included; the executing agency was to be provided with
facilities, equipment and staff training, and agricultural services were to
be strengthened.
Implementation Experience
3.       Substantial changes in Malaysia's economic situation in the years
after project appraisal led to the Government taking corrective measures
which resulted in substantial implementation delays and redu.ced benefits.
In the prosperous early project years, there were excessive construction
cost increases which necessitated rebidding for many contracts. Budget
shortfalL in the following austerity years 1982-84 halted the award of new
contracts and in later years implementation was slow because relatively
inexperienced and financially weak contractors were able to obtain
contracts in an extremely competitive environment which had attracted many



new contractors to the sector. Serious delays in land acquisitions
resulted from unrealistic assumptions concerning complex and time-consuming
procedures. Finally, there was not always full farmer cooperation because
of the changing socio-political situation In the area. Tertiary
development costs alone averaged US$2,930/ha, almost double the appraisal
estimate.
Results
4.       Padi production fluctuated with the availability of water supplies
and climatic conditious, but received its biggest boost beginning in 1979
from the Government policy to make free fertilizer available. In early
years padi yields suffered from pests and diseases, and in later years from
weed competition due mostly to a change from transplanting to direct
seeding, which was adopted almoat universally for the off-season crop.
Cultural practices changed in response to labor shortages, which spurred a
complete mechanization of all land preparation and harvest operations.
Farmers maximized incomes rather than padi yields, since official subsidies
(free fertilizers and a padi delivery bonus), intended as income
improvement incentives, did not lead to increased productivity.
Incremental cropping intensity (starting from an already high base) was not
adequately accompanied by yield Increases, with t!4 result that production
stagnated. Modest project benefits are tbus attributable mainly to
substantial production increases on the previously non-irrigated land only.
Tertiary development did not-lead to water savings. The ERR, based on
slightly optimistic, although possible, future yield assumptions is now re-
estimated at 52. The failure to organize active water management
associations (with some exceptions) is primarily due to the individualistic
nature of the Muda farmers, with differing political views and socio-
economic aspirations. Low labor availability and high cost during crop
establishment, and fertilizer applications usually limited to the amount
provided under the subsidy scheme, have contributed to achieving yields
lower than possible under the satisfactory water management conditions
achieved. Pest management is exemplary and a much reeded weed
management/eontrol program Is being developed.
Sustainabilitv
5.       Prospects for sustainability will depend on the overall rate of
growth in the economv and opportunities for outside employment. Meanwhile
the project autbority has an excellent record of operation and maintenance,
cost recovery at project completion was about 2.5 times current O&M costs.
Findings
6.       The main lessons emerging from Implementing this project are that:



- vi -
(C)   adequate time must be allowed to acquire land in an area where a
large number of small plots, often with multiple ownership, need
to be obtained. Land acquisition should be well advanced before
such a loan becomes effective;
(it)   it is essential that in a non-homogeneous farming community the
sociological and political characteristics and aspirations of
beneficiaries be carefully assessed for their impact on project
interventions.  Farmers through their coumanity leade.s must make
inputs to final designs if scheme improvements are to be well
acceptedg
(Uii)   irrigation designs based on aetial photography must be
supplemented by detailed ground surveys for accuracy La an area
with fairly flat plain soils;
(iv) when direct seeding of padi is introduced, different water
managemeut, land preparation and cultural practices (in particular
weed controllprevention) must be adapted quickly to avoid a
production decline; and
(v) cost1y Government subsidies do not necessarily result in higher
yie4 ..-t the Impact of subsidy interventions must therefore be
thoru:j,ly assessed.



MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 1717-HA)
Project Completion Retort
I. OVERVIEW
1.       This Overview is based on the PCR for the Muda II Irrigation Project
(Loan 1717-MA), prepared by the Muda Agricultural Development Authority (MADA)
in the Government of Malaysia's (GOM) Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The PCR
provides a well prepared and detailed review of project implementation,
achievements, challenges and problems experienced during project execution.
The Overview agrees with the major findings of the PCR, taking particular
account of the changing socio-economic climate in Malaysia in the late 1970s
to mid-1980s, which had a profound effect on project costs, construction time,
crop production methodology, crop yields and economic viability. These rapid
changes in the overall socio-economic situation in the Muda area could not
have been foreseen at appraisal.
2.       The Overview is organized in three sections.  bection A on project
background covers project identification, preparation and appraisal, and is
based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and information in Bank files.
Section B on project implementation and impact is based on the SAR and PCR and
summarizes the execution and achievements of the major project components.
Section C covers implementation issues and lessons learned, and is based on
documents and information available from the Bank's project files. The Over-
view complements and, in some areas, elaborates on parts of the PCR.
A. Project Background
3.       At the time of appraisal, it was the official policy of Malaysia to
raise farm income and lower rice imports at minimum cost to the Government, by
increasing yields per unit area. Since proper water management is it
prerequisite to high yields, emphasis was given to improving existang
irrigation and drainage facilities in single and double-cropped areas. The
98,000 ha Muda irrigation scheme, Malaysia's main rice region, at that time
already contributed 54Z of national output and further investment allowing
increased production per unit area was therefore seen as an attractive propo-
sition.
4.       Muda I Proiect.  A previous Bank-financed project (Loan 434-MA) had
made double-cropping of padi possible in the Muda area through the
construction of two storage dams with a connecting tunnel and headworks
diverting water into a north and south canal. Water is distributed from these
main canals to padi fields by a system of downslope laterals and cross-slope
distributors, which allow a ditch-to-drain distance of about 2 km. Major
works were completed in 1970, and by 1974 double-cropping of padi was



practiced in about 972 of the 98,000 ha Muda area in most seasons. Pad!
yields increased from 2.4 tlha to about 3.8 t/ha. per crop. In the 1966-74
period, padi production increased from 283,000 to 679,000 tons. Loan 434-MA
thus transformed the poor, backward, traditional Muda Dadi area into one of
the more prosperous and efficient rice areas in the developing world.
Developments and achievements are outlined in Project Completion Report (PCR;
No. 795MA, and indirect benefits are analyzed in a 1979 Word Bank mimeo,
*Measuring the Indirect Effects of an Agricultural Investment Project on its
Surrounding Region' by C. Bell and P. Hazell. Overall project investments
were 'JS$98.0 million or about US$1,000Jha. The economic rate of return (ERR)
was calculated at 182. Although the relative distribution of income within
the region had not improved, farm incomes approximately doubled (in real
tetms) between 1965-74 and property values increased substantially.
5.       Identification and Preparation of Muda II.  In the interim betwe-en
the completion of the first Muda project and 1977, MADA developed some 14
pilot double-cropping demonstration areas, including a number of field
tertiary development scheues which clearly showe the benefits of providing
farmlots with direct access to irrigation and drainage facilities and roads.
The most significant issue for Bank financing of a second phise project for
tertiary development was cost recovery. Actual O&M costs in 1974 were
M$ 24/acre, while the water charge was only M$ 8.40/acre and the quit rent for
Class I padi land was M$ 3/acre. Under the Loan Agreement for the first Muda
project in 1975, the government had begun to implement a schedule that would
Increase water charges to M$ l5lscre by 1979 in all Muda districts (still only
622 of estimated O&M costs). However, when the Bank agreed to consider the
religious tithe (the Zakat, equal to 82 of gross padi income and levied on the
vast majority of Muslim farmers) as a tax, the main obstacle to Bank support
for a Muda I1 project was removed.
6.       In February 1977 the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) submitted to the
Bank the Muda II Feasibility Report on Tertiary Irrigation Facilities,
prepared by MADA and MOA's Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID). A
March/April 1977 Bank mission reviewed proposals with relevant Malaysian
authorities. The mission visited the Muda area during the longest drought
period on record (48 years), which clearly underscored the inadequacy of
irrigation water supplies. Since it was clear that there was not enough
storage to supply the whole Muda area with adequate water for double cropping
of padi in all seasons, the mission recommended that MADA then prepare an
additional report that:
(a) re-estimated water supply and demand for the proposed project;
(b) related agricultural production and economic analysis to water
availability;
(c) identified a first phase component that concentrated on those areas
which had most serious water constrairts and control problems,
including some 23,000 ha that did not receive an assured supply and
some 1,000 ha which never had received dry season irrigation; and
(d) reviewed the necessity and feasibility of additional storage
reservoirs and other alternatives.



7.       A pre-appraisal mission which visited Malaysia in March 1978 paid
particular attention to issues of water adequacy. A detailed analysis was
made of the situation that would prevail if the tertiary facilities proposed
under the second phase project, on about one-quarter of the area, were
extended to the entire Muda area. The study concluded that the proposed
tertiary development program, with some re-circulation of drainage water by
pumping, would result in substantial water savings which could be used to
incresse the overall long-run cropping intensity from about 1752 to about
1852.
8.       Appraisal and Negotiations of MUDA II.  Agricultural aspects of the
project were appraised in August 1978, followed by a full appraisal mission in
OctoberlNovember 1978. There were extensive discussions on the use of appro-
priate early maturing HYV varieties to achieve double cropping comfortably
within the available irrigation seasons, the availability of adequate exten-
sion workers, the need for substantial soil surveys, the effect of drought
periods on acid-sulphate soils, the need for a large program of fertilizer
experiments, and farmer participation in credit programs. Civil Works aspects
specifically reviewed were: type of conveyance, land acquisition scheduling,
contracting methods, etc.
9.       The main objective of the project was to raise the productivity and
incomes of about 16,000 smallholder padi-farming families on some 25,00'. ha of
land in those parts of the Muda irrigation area which were least adequately
served by existing irrigation, drainage and road facilities. Canal densities
would be increased from 10 mlha to 20-35 mlha, ditch-drain distance would be
reduced from 2,000 m to 250 m, and 802 of all farmlots would have direct
access to ditches, drains and roads. These tertiary development works were to
be carried out on 37 blocks, selected on merit from the 110 Huda irrigation
blocks. Each of these 700-900 ha irrigation blocks was to be divided into
four to six Irrigation Service Areas (ISA). to be served by one tertiary
canal. Each ISA was to be further split up into Irrigation Service Units
(ISU) of 15-25 ha, whereby each would follow a uniform cropping schedule
allowing staggered cropping schedules over a two month period. In addition to
the tertiary development areas, another 60,000 farming families would benefit
from the general improvement of facilities and from improved agricultural
support services throughout the Muda area. Several major outfall drains and
natural channels, serving the entire Muda area, would be improved, and three
new tidal gates, two water control structures, and one escape structure would
be provided. Some 6 km of eroded coastal bund would be rehabilitated and
faced with rock to prevent erosion and salt water inundation.
10.      Under the first project, in 1970 MADA had been given the
r-sponsibility for general management, engineering operation and maintenance,
agricultural extension, agribusiness, monitoring and evaluation, and agro-
economic studies and projects within the Muda area. This effective
arrangement was to continue. However, the design, tendering and construction
supervision for irrigation, drainage, roads and coastal protection works would
be the responsibility of DID. A DID Project Director would be responsible for
a project office in Alor Setar and four branch offices, one in each of the
MADA districts. MADA would handle the design, contracting and construction of
offices, workshops, seedstores, staff quarters and pilot projects. MADA would



- 4 -
further uparade the existing water control system and be responsible for
operating and maintaining the completed systems.
11.      MADA's Agricultural Division was to be responsible for strengthening
agricultural support services throughout the Muda command area (i.e., not only
the project's tertiary development area). The four district Agricultural
Officers (DAO) were to coordinate all services (extension, credit, input
supplies and marketing) provided through 6-8 Farmer Development Centers (FDC)
in each district. The DAOs would be responsible to the head of MADA's
Agricultural Division and would be assisted by Deputies for Extension,
Training and Development, and Agribusiness and Cooperatives. Each FDC was to
be managed by an Agricultural Assistant, who would supervise two Agricultural
Technicians (AT) for exter '-n, two ATs for credit, and one AT each for
organization and cooperat. a, agribasiness, and accovnting. Each extenion
AT was to cover about 800 farm families through a T&V system of extension,
adapted to local conditions. At district level there were to be Subject
Matter Specialists (SMS) for rice agronomy, crop production, extension
methodology and home economics (farm family development) to train and support
extension ATs. Additional technical support was to be provided by the State
Department of Agriculture's Soil and Analytical, Crop Protection and Crop
Production units, while Malaysia's Agricultural Research and Devei.opment
Institute (MARDI) was to provide research backing and the Bank Pertanian
Malaysia (BPM) was to provide institutional credit through the FDC's, which
served as local credit centers.
12.      Some 702 of project costs would be for tertiary development, to
increase cropping intensity, yields and thus production on some 24,100 ha net
farmed by some 16,000 families. The remaining 22? of investments would
benefit all other Muda farmers on some 72,000 ha of land through general
Improvements to irrigation, drainage, coastal land protection, and improved
agricultural support services. Project costs, including studies, training and
consultancies totaled M$152.4 million or US$69.0 million equivalent.
Inclusive of contingencies, tertiary development costs were expected to cost
US$1,531/ha.
13.      Appraisal issues were resolved as follows:
(a) retroactive financing was agreed to cover costs associated with the
construction of sample areas, for which detailed designs had been
completed during feasibility and executed from April 1978 to project
effectiveness, and amounting to US$2.8 m;
(b) LCB procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, were agreed to for
construction of 37 irrigation blocks to be tendered individually to
allow construction during one season; and
(c) water charges would be levied as agreed for previous Bank-financed
irrigation schemes in Malaysia, taking into account the incentives to
farmers, the capacity of farmers to pay, and the other charges and
taxes paid by farmers (inclusive of Zakat).
14.      Coments on the SAR and President's Report were mostly related to
inclusion of the proposed sections on Social Rate of Return (SRR) and Regional



- 5 -
Impact Analysis. It was finally ruled that the SRR section would stand, but
that the Regional Impact Analysis would be deleted. In view of the threat
posed to the project by a possible disease and pest attack, there would also
be a clause in the Loan Agreement requiring the Government to submit a
proposal for crop protection by December 31, 1979, and implementation of the
agreed action program was to start by June 30, 1980.
15.      Negotiations started April 5, 1979.  The Malaysian delegation
requested, and the Bank agreed, to additional Bank financing for a comprehen-
sive groundwater study and for an integrated rural development feasibility
study for Pergau-Galas river areas in the state of Kelantan. These studies
increased the Loan amount to US$29 million, equivalent to the project's
foreign exchange component, or 452 of total project costs. It was further
agreed that Bank prior review of civil works would be limited to contracts
costing US$1.5 million or more, and that the maximum value for the equipment
and vehicles to be procured under local procedures be raised from US$20,000 to
US$35,000 for individual items and from US$500,000 to US$1.2 million in the
aggregate.
B. Proiect Implementation and Impact
16.      Proiect Duration.  It was envisaged that project works would be
completed by December 31, 1983, but this schedule proved overly optimistic.
To begin with, there were significant delays in land acquisition: some 13,633
individual lots, often with multiple ownership, were needed, and the acquisi-
tion process required 13 distinctly separate processes with frequent delaying
court actions. To its credit MADA managed to obtain substantial increases in
Land Office staff and established an imprest account of M$ 250,000 for immed-
iate settlement with landowners. Ultimately, it took more than two years to
acquire 80? of the lots, necessary for contractors to start working. The
consultative process with farmers in order to agree on alignments, and the
time frame of tertiary unit construction, also took longer than expected.
This in turn delayed the start of construction, in particular in early years
when designs based on maps from aerial photographs were not sufficiently
accurate. In the early-1980s, there were few bidders for contracts above
M$ 2.0 million due to a boom in the construction industry. Costs escalated
above those provided in the budget and therefore many contracts had to be re-
bid. In 1983, because of fiscal problems MADA was instructed to withhold
tendering for 19 blocks. This alone caused at least a two-year delay in
construction. In later years, many contracts, although awarded following open
competitive bidding procedures, were awarded to firms with insufficient
financial and technical capability, which resulted in further delays. At the
end of 1987, construction had been completed on 30 of the 38 tertiary blocks;
all remaining work is expected to be completed in 1990, some seven years later
than the appraisal forecast. It was originally envisaged that actual
construction of each tertiary block could be done in the range of one to 2-1/2
years. Many blocks took, 3-4 years to complete, although the average time was
about 2.2 years. There were three extensions of Project Closing Date, until
December 31, 1987.
17.      Project Cost and Financing.  The project was estimated to cost
M$ 152.4 million, or US$69.0 million equivalent, with a 452 foreign exchange
component. The Bank loan of US$31.0 million was to finance the foreign



- 6 -
exchange component. All local costs were to be provided by GOM through annual
budget allocations, with MADA receiving grant funds by GOX for carrying out
its part of the project.
18.      Estimated cost at completion (based on already approved 5th Plan
budget allocations for 1989 and 1990) is M$ 225.93 million or US$94.61 million
equivalent. Cost overruns are 48.22 in M$ terms and 37.12 in USS terms. This
reflects the deterioration in the exchange rate. Actual disbursements were
US$29.51 million or 31.22 of total project costs in USS terms. The Bank's
share in project financing was thus significantly below original intentions.
Under the Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) for Malaysia the disbursement
rate for civil works was increased from 5OS to 60 in May 1984 and this rate
was maintained to the end of the project. Nonetheless, GOM could not utilize
the full loan amount and requested cancellation of US$1.4 million in June
1986, to which the Bank agreed. Another small cancellation was made on expir-
ation of the extended Closing Date. After the 1981-84 austerity years, budget
allocatiocs were adequate for the annual work programs and sufficient alloca-
tions have been made to complete remaining works for the tertiary systems and
roads. Costs for tertiary civil works, engineering supervision and planning,
and land acquisition costs averaged M$ 7,230/ha or about US$2,930 equiva-
lentlha (almost double that originally envisaged).
Proiect Implementation
19.      Tertiary Works.  During the first few years the designs for tertiary
development were based on maps prepared from aerial photographs. These were
found to be not sufficiently accurate and farmers demanded corrections on
completion of some lines. MADA then instituted an excellent sensitization
program, whereby farmers were extensively consulted on alignments, land acqui-
sition and construction timing. These consultations took from three to six
months. Once designs were prepared based on grid surveys, most alignments
followed lot boundaries (not straight lines as first proposed), and farmers
were consulted, progress improved and owners cooperated, with some exceptions.
20.      For ease of water management, each irrigation block is subdivided
into 4-6 Irrigation Service Areas (ISA). The original plan then allowed for
further subdivision into eight Irrigation Service Units (ISU), but due to
objections from farmers the number of ISU's was reduced to six for each ISA
(farmers would have preferred four ISU's per ISA so that there would be only
four water supply schedules with seven days for each ISU during pre-satura-
tion). In many cases the ISU's were provided with a 1.2 m high perimeter
bund. As planned, about 80 of farm lots will have direct access to a ter-
tiary canal, drain and farm road and, where topography requires it, permanent
pumping stations have been installed. In view of frequent water shortages in
the Muda scheme, drain water is recycled through pumping stations. Tertiary
canal embankments carried originally either a 2 m laterite path or a 3 m wide
farm road. However, due to the introduction of large combine harvesters, and
constant farmer requests, all roads constructed after 1983 were 12 ft (3.66 m)
wide.
21.      Tertiary canals consist of 5 cm pre-cast concrete panels which are
joined by cement mortar and are constructed into introduced earth fill. After
some settling time, laterite roads are constructed alongside the tertiary



canals, which have locally designed farm turnouts (asbestos cement pipes with
a flap gate which incorporate a small swivel gate for periods of low water
demand). Each turnout serves two adjacent farm lots. The installed system
has been found satisfactory by both farmers and system operators.
22.      Minor Works, Drains and Coastal Protection.  Apart from 30 tertiary
irrigation blocks, the project also provided for remedial works on some 2,500
ha of land outside these blocks. This was more than double that originally
envisaged. Some major outfall drains and natural channels were improved where
necessary, while some improvements to the south Muda drainage were deleted
pending further studies. Coastal protection rock bunds increased from the
original 5 km to 8.46 km due to additional erosion.
23.      Buildings.  A new, rather palatial MADA Headquarters building was
completed in early 1986 after a three year delay and at high cost (M$ 9.1
million). This well-located and constructed building replaces an old MADA
complex which was taken over by the Kedah Department of Agriculture. Other
buildings constructed were a DID project office, 155 staff quarters, 27 seed
stores, (one at each FDC), while the central workshop was enlarged.
24.      A New Water Management and Control Center allows automatic recording
of rainfall in telemetry rainfall stations, and water levels from automatic
recorders in the dams, rivers and main canals. A main-frame computer was
installed to assist in analyzing water supply data and for use with
engineering, agricultural, administration and planning aspects.
25.      Equipment.  Procurement of heavy hydraulic equipment for system
maintenance, of vehicles for operational staff and agricultural, extension and
workshop equipment was successfully completed mostly in early project years.
26.      Pilot Proiect Studies.  Some 11 separate studies were conducted, many
on three sites to evaluate water scheduling, water use efficiency, water
management, and to develop appropriate strategies for tertiary unit operation
and maintenance, to develop agricultural, and farm management practices,
appropriate for tertiary systems. The effectiveness of formation and manage-
ment of water user organizations was studied, as well as the effectiveness of
the infrastructure intensification. In particular, the organization of water
user groups has proved difficult and agronomic practices are changing with the
introduction of different methods of crop establishment which also affect
water use. Many of the studies are therefore not conclusive under conditions
of constant change.
Agricultural Support Services
27.      MADA's Agricultural Division is responsible for extension services
erd for planning and supervising training programs for farmers and agricul-
tural field staff. Four district offices supervise a total of 27 FDCs.
There is specialization at all levels (division, district and FDC). Each FDC
covers 2,000 to 3,000 farm families, and is base for a Farmer Association.
Under the Project the number of extension staff doubled to an extension ratio
of one Agricultural Technician (AT) to about 1,000 farm families, and an
attempt was made to adopt the TV system of extension with a fortnightly
schedule of visits to farmer groups was attempted. However, because of the AT



- 8 -
attachment to FDC's, which have also commercial functions, farmers having
different political affiliations, and a linear settlement pattern with many
farmers not living near their fields (non-resident), it proved impossible to
adhere to regularly scheduled visits to farmer groups.    Also, MADA consid-
ered that a campaign style of extension for a monocrop area was more effec-
tive. Although staff, and in particular senior extension and training staff
are extremely knowledgeable about padi growing, it has not been possible to
transmit many of the available worthwhile extension messages to the farming
community. The main reasons include frequent water shortages, uneven cropping
patterns and methods of crop establishment, labor shortages, not always timely
availability of tractors and harvesters, non-residency of farmers, and often
the unavailability of experienced AT's due to a high turnover.
28.      MADA, DOA and MARDI carried out a large number of demonstration plots
and trials each season, mainly on farmer fields. Despite an extensive rice
breeding program, there is not yet a 110-120 day variety available, which
would allow farmers more time between crops for sanitation and land
preparation purposes. Yield constraining fac.Lors are: a wide-distance
transplanting resulting in insufficient panicles per unit area, uneven crop
stands and often a very high incidence of weed (mostly grass) competition.
Labor shortages cause the wide distances between plants in transplanted rice.
Weed competition can be dealt with by means of cultural practices and
herbicide application, but unfortunately this is not always done, mainly
because of insufficient farmer knowledge, combined with the high cost of
chemicals.
29.      Under the project an excellent integrated pest management (IPM)
program has been established by MADA jointly with DOA and MARDI. Severe yield
losses due to pest attacks in 1979 and 1981-83 have not occurred since that
time, mostly due to the success of the IPM program. Also, MADA has already
field tested and is presently establishing an integrated weed management (IWM)
program.
30.      The seed production program through DOA produces about 500 tons of
certified seed each season, which is adequate given the volume of supplies
from private growers. Over 702 of the Muda area is planted with high yielding
MARDI varieties.
31.      Since 1979 free fertilizers have been made available by GOM, and
distributed to farmers by FDC's. With this subsidy the need for credit
decreased dramatically. Credit for land preparation, harvesting and other
inputs (herbicides, pesticides) is available from BPM and the FDC's, but only
302 of farmers avail themselves of instliutional credit. Repayments are
satisfactory at about 90X.
Operation and Maintenance
32.      Overall system maintenance has been highly satisfactory through a
mixture of machine and hand clearing operations, with the latter mostly done
on contract by groups of poor farmers and tenants. Original plans called for
MADA to operate and maintain the main secondary irrigation and drainage
system, inclusive of structures, pump houses, etc., while farmer groups would
operate field inlets and outlets and clear channels and drains in tertiary



systems. However, due to the noncohesiveness, (political, social) of many
farmers participating in ISU's, together with poor leadership, multiple
ownership of lots and uneven pa'terns of crop establishment, the latter
strategy met with limited success. In early 1988 some 76 ISA groups were
functioning (less than half in the 30 completed blocks). MADA hopes that its
group-farming schemes, which do operate successfully in some ISU's, will
spread in the future.
Project Benefits
33.      Water-use Efficiency.  Although the irrigation canal density
increased from 11 m/ha to 34 m/ha, and almost all land areas can now be
effectively pre-saturated within the expected seven days, there is presently
little evidence of improved water use efficiency. In 1985 it was reported
from observations in a few blocks that before tertiary development an
efficiency of 44-50 was obtained, while with tertiary development this was in
the range of 43-502, (see also: "Water Balance in Tertiary Development Area
with Low and Flat Paddy Land' by Kitamura in Irrigation Engineering and Rural
Planning, No. 13, 1988).   Low efficiencies are considered to be mostly due to
poor farmer discipline (leaving gates open and non-attendance to bund
breakages) and uneven cropping patterns (not all farmers plant or sow crops on
the same schedule or using the same method). With an increase in dry land
preparation, it is likely that efficiencies will improve (Annex 3, Table 3).
However, on-mud seeding with pregerminated seed will require at least one
extra drainage of all surface water, requiring more water and substantially
greatfr drainage efficiencies (no evidence presented).
34.      Crop Production.  At appraisal it was assumed that the whole tertiary
area of some 24,200 ha would be completed and in production by 1985, which
implied achievements of about 3,500 halyear. In the event, actual
achievements average only about 2,100 ha/year (Annex 2, Table 3), although the
area covered with tertiary development will have increased to about 25,000 ha
due to the inclusion of one additional block.
35.      Cropping Intensity (c.i.).  In the proposed tertiary development
areas the average c.i. was 176? through 1983 (this is less than that achieved
under the first project due to drought years), when little of the newly
developed area had been taken in use. With tertiary development the c.i. has
averaged about 1992 during 1985-87, with an average of some 10,000 ha not yet
benefitting from improved (tertiary) facilities. It is expected that the c.i.
will be about 2002 when all works are completed by end-1990. The c.i.
achieved and projected is thus higher than the appraisal projection of 1932.
It is significant that in recent drought years farmers have been able to
produce crops by switching to dry land preparation and direct seeding while
relying on rainfall to establish the crop. An area of about 3,500 ha was
provided with new irrigation facilities (high fringe areas), which is 3.5
times as much as expected at appraisal.
36.      Crop Yields.  At appraisal pre-project yields were estimated for
nonacid antd acid sulphate soils, with the latter occurring on about 27? of the
Muda area and yielding some 202 less. Padi yields were expected to increase
from 3.5 to 4.2 t/ha on non-acid sulphate soils in the wet season, while the
higher dry season yields were to increase from 3.8 to 4.6 t/ha. The acid



- 10 -
sulphate soils were expected to increase similarly, but from a lower base of
2.9 tlha to 3.5 and 3.6 t/ha for the wet and dry season respectively. Due to
prudent water management combined with lime applications these soils have
improved substantially over the years and MADA has now discontinued recording
separate statistics for the two soil types.
37.      Padi yields increased immediately following introduction of the
fertilizer subsidy in 1979, since almost all farmers were eligible, and most
already used high N- responsive varieties. Thus, yields throughout Muda
exceeded 4.0 t/ha in 1980, when none of the tertiary blocks had been
completed. Although these early yield increases were not initially sustained
due to pests and virus diseases carried by insects, from 1984 onwards they
again exceeded 4.0 t/ha (except for the drought season in the first half of
1987).
38.      That overall Muda scheme yields are still not up to their full
potential is due to a number of factors. There has been a major switch to
direct seeding due to acute labor shortages. Farmers have become very
conscious of production costs and found quickly that direct seeding could
provide a reasonable plantstand at very low cost, often by only rotavating and
fertilizing (with only application costs) the volunteer seeds from the
previous crop. However, this often resulted in very weedy crops because
farmers were either insufficiently knowledgeable In dealing with weeds or were
not willing to purchase herbicides. Due to labor shortages and high costs,
transplanted padi is spaced too widely to produce high yields even when
adequate fertilizer is applied. Overall padi yields fluctuate seasonably but
are now lower in the dry season than in the wet season, which is contrary to
their potential and earlier experiences. Traditionally, dry season yields are
highest due to higher radiation levels during the growing season and somewhat
lower night temperatures. Present lower dry season yields are due to poor
plantstands for both transplanted and direct seeding padi and large areas with
grass weeds which compete for nutrients and space.
39.      Special surveys conducted in non-tertiary and tertiary blocks
initially indicated that there was no yield advantage from tertiary develop-
ment. However, in more recent years there are indications that tertiary
development has provided a slight yield advantage, although average yields of
3.6 to 3.8 tlha remain well below the potential witnessed in 1985-87 (P. 32 of
PCR). Despite disappointing yields in recent years, direct seeding with full
mechanization has reduced crop production costs substantially, and therefore
farmers are achieving reasonable incomes at lower production levels. Unless
there are substantial incentives for maximizing production, farmers will
continue to focus on income maximization in a situation in which substantial
subsidies are available and they can dispose o5 any quality of produce without
excessive penalties.
Farm Size, Land Tenure and Labor Utilization
40.      A distinct change in farm management arrangements is now occurring in
the Muda area. The average size of operating units has increased from 1.38 ha
in 1981 to 1.91 ha in 1986. Farms smaller than 3 relongs (0.86 ha) have
declined from 33.6Z in 1981 to 14.5Z in 1986, while farms over 6 relongs (1.72
ha) increased from 26Z to 48.4Z with half of the latter now in excess of 2.5



- 11 -
ha. Availability of off-farm work and an almost complete mechanization of
both land preparation and harvest operations are the causes of these changes,
which are expected to continue. Although machinery owners are leasing
increasing amounts of land from small farmers, ownership per se is changing
very little: most owners continue to hold on to their holdings and there are
few sales.
41.      Due to the decline in    isplanted area, labor requirements decreased
from 253 to 215 hours/ha betweeis .."81 and 1986. In 1986 blocks with tertiary
development realized a labor saving of 28 hours/ha, compared with non-improved
blocks, due mostly to improved access. However, direct seeding had the
greatest impact on labor use. On average, transplanted rice required twice as
much labor as direct seeded padi '273 hrs/ha against 136.4 hrs/ha), which is a
highly significant labor saving in an area with acute shortages, in particular
at times of crop establishment and harvest. Due to fully mechanized land
preparation and harvest operations, labor requirements are now less than half
that assumed at appraisal. In particular harvest and transport labor needs
have substantially diminished due to tertiary development (7.4 hrs/ha with and
19.8 hrs/ha without) mostly due to farm road construction.
Crop and Farm Budgets
42.      Muda evaluation surveys (Annex 5, tables 1 to 4) indicate that
production costs of direct seeded padi averaged M$l,2241ha, for all farm sizes
which compares with M$1,564/ha for transplanted padi. Tertiary development
reduced production costs by about M$100/ha when averaged over both methods of
establishment. The greatest cost savings were for the combination direct
seeding and tertiary development, at M1l,218/ha, while transplanted padi in
non-tertiary development areas cost MS1,658/ha. Differences in production
costs per ha due to farm size tended to be lower for the larger farms, not
varying more than M8130/ha.
43.      Farm incomes (before taxes) from padi alone were not substantially
different between blocks with and without tertiary development. Direct
seeding increased incomes by M$490/ha, and the largest farms had considerably
greater padi incomes perlha than did smaller farms. The net benefits from
padi alone averaged M$2,904; 3,543; 3,744; and 3,828 for farms of 0.6, 1.3,
2.2 and 3.5 ha in size respectively, indicating economics of scale are
available. Gradually increasing farm sizes also indicate that farmers are
aware of this situation.
Economic Rate of Return
44.      At appratsal the ERR was calculated at 182.  In preparing the PCR,
project management re-calculated the ERR at 62. In this Overview the Bank has
further revised the ERR to 52, by assuming a more realistic yield of 4.3
tons/ha at full development and taking into account a recent revision in long-
term forecast price for rice.1 The dramatic reduction in the ERR is due partly
to construction and supervision cost increases, delayed scheme implementation
(thus delayed benefits), lower than expected yields because of changed socio-
1! IBRD, *Price Prospects for Major Primary Commodities Report No. 814/88,
November 1988.



- 12 -
economic conditions in the Muda area, and lower rice prices. However, the
major contributing factor to lower ERR was the provision by Government of free
fertilizers to farmers beginning in 1979, which resulted in significantly
higher paddy yields in the without project' situation. The appraisal
estimate was based on constant but lower yields in the "without project' situ-
ation, because the fertilizer subsidy was not foreseen. Indeed, if a
fertilizer subsidy had not been introduced, the ERR on this project would be
about 11-122. Although the farming community appreciated the new roads which
have improved access to farms and significantly reduced transportation costs,
they experienced few incremental benefits from tertiary development. In the
circumstances, GOYM decided not to proceed immediately with tertiary
development in the remaining 75Z of the Muda area, as was originally intended,
and a proposed water supply augmentatWon program was temporary dropped.
O&M and Cost Recovery
45.      MADA has an excellent record of operation and maintenance of systems
and it is not expected that GOM allocations will be reduced in the near future
for the country's main granary area. O&M costs are presently M$107/ha;
farmers pay irrigation charges of M$37.O5Iha annually, with shortfalls being
made up by the State and Federal governments. However, all Muslim farmers
(the vast ma4ority of MADA farmers), do pay a religious tax (zakat) in
addition to the water charge and the land tax. Based on actual farm budgets,
overall taxes average M$265.42 ha, which is about 2.5 times present O&M costs.
The tax ranges from M$204/ha for a 0.6 ha farm to more than M$280/ha for farms
larger than 2.2 ha.
Management Performance
46.      Overall project management was excellent throughout the project
implementafion period, under extremely difficult conditions. One of the
greatest achievements was the introduction of a well organized and accepted
farmer sensitization program which prevented many corrective actions in system
lay-out. Accounts were prepared in a timely manner, but audits were usually
submitted 6-12 months late mostly due to questions on accounting details by
the Audit Department. Government budget allocations were insufficient in the
early 1980s due to a boom in the construction industry, which led to
excessively high costs, and to GOM's reduction of development expenditures in
austerity years. Also, incremental engineering and support staff were
generally appointed late and the required staff numbers were never obtained.
Finally, the turnover rate for both engineering and extension personnel was
high due to favorable outside employment opportunities.
Bank Performance
47.      Project preparation and appraisal were generally thorough and
addressed all the necessary important issues, bearing in mind that this was a
follow-up project. There was an exhaustive review of water availability and
organizational aspects, and management of agricultural support services
received adequate attention. The time required for land acquisition and
construction of tertiary works was, however, severely under-estimated and
experience with other irrigation projects in Malaysia should have been a
guide. It was not possible to foresee the substantial cost escalations and



- 13 -
the high degree of competitiveness for civil works. Nor could the provision
of free fertilizers and the padi bonus (which led to padi yield increases to
almost post-project appraisal levels before any tertiary blocks had been
completed) or the rapid switch to direct seeding technologies have been
foreseen.
48.      Bank supervision during early years was infrequent, probably because
MADA was considered an experienced and well-managed implementing agency.
These early missions were multidisciplinary, in contrast to one-man missions
by an agronomist since 1984, by which time most engineering design work had
been completed.
C. Implementation Issues and Lessons Learned
49.      The impact of this project must be evaluated against a background of
rapidly changing socio-economic conditions in general and the Government's
rice subsidy policies in particular.
So.      Economic Setting.  When the project was appraised in 1979, GOM placed
high priorit-y on retaining and settling farmers on padi land, and industrial-
ization was still quite limited. Farm labor wages averaged M$7.0 day and it
was GOM's policy to achieve 702 self-sufficiency in rice, mainly through
investments in rehabilitation, tertiary development of existing schemeq
(Krian-Sungei Manik, North Kelantan, NW Selangor and Small Scale Schemes), and
the development of new schemes (Trans Perak, Rompin Endau). Following the
1979-80 oil price rise, GOI embarked on an ambitious industrialization
program, which resulted in a real construction boom that almost doubled civil
works contract prices. Rural labor was attracted by the higher wages and
often improved living conditions in the larger population centers. The immed-
iate results were high bids for civil works in the Muda area, which often had
to be rejected in 1981-82 due to insuffic4ent budget llocations. By 1982
Malaysia was faced with a public sector deficit of 192 of GNP and a deficit on
the current account of the balance of payments of 14X. With increased
external borrowing and debt, and due to depressed commodity prices, slow trade
growth and high interest rates, GOM initiated austerity measures that included
severe cuts in MADA's development budget and postponement of contract awards
that could not be made in 1982 and 1983. By 1984 additional contracting was
allowed and many new contractors had established themselves, encouraged by
incentives under the New Eco-amic Policy. Contract prices came dowu despite
rural wages having risen to M$15.Olday. However, many contractors proved not
to be tecnnically and financially capable of executing tertiary development
contracts (which have an inherent risk element due to delays in land acquisi-
tion).
51.      Rice Production Policies.  In 1979, in response to farmer demands for
improved incomes from padi growing (rural poverty alleviation), GOM introduced
a fertilizer subsidy scheme which provided 300 kglha of free fertilizers to
almost every padi grower.2 Additionally, GOM introduced in 1980 a bonus
payment of M$165/ton for clean, dry padi over the set base procurement price
of M1463/ton. These prices are still valid today. Given these incentives,
2/ For a fuller discussion of grain sector policies, sees IBRD, ' Review
of the Rice Industry", Report No. 7395-MA, December 1988.



- 14 -
Muds padi farmers were willing to grow the crop and there has never been idle
padi land, as has so frequently occurred in other areas of the country.
However, due to the pull of labor away from the farm, real labor shortages
occurred. Wages more than doubled to about M$15 per day in 1985 and farmers
tried to compensate for this by mechanizing operations, attracting cheaper
Thai labor, and changing to less labor-intensive cultural practices. This
resulted in almost 100? mechanized land preparation and harvest operations,
not by small 2 wheel tractors and small harvesters, but by using contract
operations with 4 wheel tractors with rotavators and combine harvesters with
12-14 ft. cutting width. Transplanted rice yields have declined because high
labor costs resulted in excessively wide plant spacings. In an effort to
eliminate most labor, direct seeding practices on-mud and preferably into dry
soil (when weather conditions allowed this) were quickly adopted. In 1987,
some 87? of all padi grown was direct sown when averaged for both seasons over
the whole Muda area. However, yields were often depressed due to the poor and
patchy plantstands achieved (mainly because of inadequate land leveling and
drainage) and heavy grass weed infestations. Farmers were more interested in
maximizing profits than in maximizing yields and therefore padi yields hovered
in the last few seasons around the yields which were already achieved because
of the availability of free fertilizers in 1979 and early 1980's.
Lessons Learned
52.      Tertiary irrigation development in smallholder areas require:
(a) excellent farmer/landowner cooperation in planning developments.
This takes time to cultivate (in Muda from 3-6 months to organize
farmers), and requires a special group of staff with sensitivity to
the varying socio-economic, political and religious attitudes within
the commiuity (there are st'll some areas at Muda for which farmers
have not agreed to cooperate);
(b) the existence of accurate ground profile maps, since it was found
that aerial survey maps were inaccurate and additional grid surveys
at 100 feet intervals were required, which caused delays in preparing
lay-out designs;
(c) early land acquisition. In this case the acquisition of about 1,300
ha in 13,633 lots, in an area with values rising from M$3,000Iacre in
1978 to M$10,000acre in 1987 and mostly with multiple ownership,
required a decade. It was learned that it takes two years to acquire
80S of lots in an average tertiary block; after nine years only 87S
of all needed lots have been acquired; and
(d) experienced and financially strong contractors. who are able to deal
with setbacks due to inclement weather, poor farmer cooperation
(sometimes farmers have to be paid to allow early access to the land)
and rising costs (many contracts took more than two years - 4 crop
seasons - for areas of 300 to 900 ha).
The above requirements were seriously underestimated at appraisal by both GOK
and the Bank appraisal team, and therefore only 30 of the 38 tertiary
irrigation blocks were completed by the Loan closing in late-1987 after 8
years of project implementation.



- 15 -
53.      Farmers in Muda were mostly interested in new, wide farm roads to
allow easy access to farmlots by tractors and equipment (particularly combine
harvesters and trucks for rapid transport of harvested wet padi). To allow
for a high degree of mechanization, road designs therefore must be adapted to
the equipment used. In this case, roads were widened to 12 feet (3.66 m), and
there are many requests for further upgrading to 14 feet (4.3 m). This
upgrading exercise required additional time and funds (also for more land
acquisition).
54.      Muda is not a homogenous community and it has proven very difficult
to organize farmers into group farming units and to get them to adhere to
water scheduling. Hence, the Irrigation Service Area and Irrigation Service
Unit concepts were singularly unsuccessful. Irrigation scheduling became
further difficult to implement when three methods of crop establishment were
introduced (transplanting, direct seeding pre-germinated seeds on mud, and
seeding into dry soil), each with varying water requirements and timing of
deliveries. This has apparently resulted in low water use efficiencies (needs
further verification). Thus far, tertiary irrigation development has led to
neither substantial irrigation water savings nor higher padi yields. HADA's
Group Farming efforts appear most successfull in achieving uniform crop
schedules and improved water use efficiency.
55.      When alternative and attractive employment opportunities became
available a shortage of farm labor developed, which led to direct seeding of
padi and lower plant densities in transplanted padi. Farmers, all with access
to free fertilizer and a padi bcaus on delivery, opted for income maximization
rather than high padi yields. In the extreme this led to establishment of
weedy crops in the dry season from volunteer (from the previous crop) seed,
with uneven plant stands that were well fertilized and which cost the farmer
nothing but one rotavation, a little water management, fertilizer application
time, and harvest/transport costs. Yields were low but incomes per unit area
and effort were reasonable, mostly because of the available government
subsidies.
56.      Increased disbursements for civil works (from 401 to 502 of costs)
under SAP only partly assistqd GOM at the time of the budget crisis, because
GOM had halted new contracts sad therefore little disbursement was taking
place in the crisis years. Fortunately, the increased disbursement percentage
remained valid to the extended project completion date; otherwise additional
loan fund cancellation would have been necessary.
57.      The T&V extension methodology, although well suited to the mono-
culture of padi, was greatly modified. One of the main reasons was that FDC's
also eugage in trading and other semi-commercial activities, for which
extension workers were required in busy times of the year.
Extension/demonstration activities should be completely divorced from
commercial activities if a systematic regular time and location bound
extension service is to function properly. Additionally, there was high
turnover of staff due to attractive employment opportunities for agricultural
staff, mainly on private tree crop estates. Staff training was of a high
standard, but there were too few well managed demonstration plots, in
particular for methods of crop establishment, weed control, plant density and



- 16 -
nutrient requirements. A very commendable research effort was mounted by MADA
agricultural staff to fill gaps in MAP.IDs research program.
58.      A well functioning Integrated Pest Management program was introduced,
due to the excellent cooperation between MADA and other MOA cgencies. This
has greatly reduced pest damage, which was prevalent in early project years.
Buoyed by this success an Integrated Weeds Management program is presently
intrcduced with the assistance of multi-media strategic extension campaigns.



- 1? -
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTUE
MUDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
(MADA)
MUDA I IRGATION PROJECT
(Worid Bank Loan No. 1717-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
0ECEMBER 188



- 19 -
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN NO. 1717-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1L1       In  1966, the Muda Irrigation Scheme was implemented in the
96,000 hectare Muda area, a coastal plain which straddle the 2 states
of Kedah  and Perlis  in ht north-west  part of  Peninsular Malaysia.
This project received IBRD financing  totalling US$45 million and was
successful in introducing a second crop  of rice in the project area.
As a result, cropping intensity increased sharply to 176Z. Within a
few years of project implementation however, the project staff was
able  to  identify  the  shortcomings   of  the  project.   The  main
realization was that  the infrastructure was inadequate  to bring out
the full production potential in t.he area.  Subsequent to this, a new
project, called the Muda II project,  was formulated and an IBRD loan
of US$31 million was secured to finance the foreign exchange
component of the project. The objectives of this project are to
overcome the  supply and  drainage problems of  high and  low grounds
within t'ie  pr(ject area as well  as to bring about  productivity and
Production inc reases through better water management.
II. PR03ECT DESCRIPTION
2.1       The  project is envisaged to be the first phase of tertiary
development in the Muda ptoject area and it covers 38 irrigation
blocks distributed over the entire Muda area or an equivalent 25Z of
total area. It is aimed at intensifying the level of infrastructure
by  the construction  of tertiary  canals, drains  and farm  roads to
serve the 26,300 hectares covered by the project. A total of 16,000
farmers operated  padi farms  within the  project area.   The project
include the following:
a. Construction   of  tertiary   irrigation   and  drainage
channels, and associated structures.
b. Construction of farm roads along tertiary canals and



- 20 -
*ra inai e c-h:annels, with associated  bridges and culverts
where requ ireid.
c  Construction and improvement to maior drains and coastal
bunds.
d. CGons5t- uctijonr  of  miscellaneous  structures  on  ptrinmary
canal s  anrd major  drains, including  escape struc-:tltures,
water  level coritrol s:ttuctures and  t.idal gate  c-ontrol
structures.
e. Upgrading of .ihe water control communif-.ations: system.
f. Construction of a project headquartetrs office.
g. Construction  of district agricultural and operation and
maintenance offic-es, and quarters for staff.
h  Expansion   of   existing   workshop   facilities    anri
procurement of workshop equipmerit.
i.. Construction  of  a seed  store  for each of the 27 Farm
Development Centre-s (FDCs) in the Muda area.
j. Establishment  of  a  system    of   staggered   c:ropping
scheduAles within blocks and  sub-blocks for agricultural
and water conrser vat ion purposes.
k. Introduction  of  a  sound   extension  methodology,  an
inctrease in  extension staff,  and the use of continuous
staff training and regular farm visits.
1. Extensiorn of farm credit. and improvement of input supply
and marketing facilities.
m. A training programme.
n- A monitor-ing anri evaluation, system.
o. Pilot project studies.
p. Procurement  of vehicles and equipment for construction,
supervision,  operation  andi  maintenance  of irrigatior
works, agricultural support services, and studies.
q. Groundwater  studies and  Pergau-Galas  Integrated Rutral
Development Study.  This  component was  included in the
Staff  Appraisal  Report  (SAR)  but was for the purpose
of studies in Kelaantan and do not  form part of the Mud,=.a
II Project.  Henc-e this Project Completion Report  (PCR)
dues not cover this component.



- 21 -
IIPOJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1.       Project  preparation  for the  Muda  II  development  works
started as early as in 1977 with funds from the Federal Government of
Malaysia, and when the final loan documents for IBRD financing was
signed  in  1979,  retroactive  financing  from  April  1,  1978  was
allowed.
3.2.      To  facilitate  smooth  implementation,  the  planning  arnd
design,  survey,  and construction  of  the  tertiary irrigation  and
drainage systems, the coastal pr-otection works, the major drainage
improvement works,  and the construction of  miscellaneous structures
on  primary canals  and  major drains,  including escape  structures,
water  level control  structures and  tidal control  gate structures,
which formed the bulk of the infrastructure development works, were
delegated to the Federal Drainage and Irrigation Department (D.I.D.)
which set  up a  separate project  office in  Alor Setar.   The other
development works,  namely the  agricultural extension  services, the
pilot project studies, improvement to the water control system,
construction of  the Muda  Agricultural Development  Authority (MADA)
headquarters, the district offices and  the seed stores, expansion to
the  MADA  workshop, establishment  of  staggered  schedules and  the
monitoring and evaluation of the prcoject, were carried out by MADA.
All aspects of the project, including initial identification of the
project, preparation of the Feasibility Report, the detailed planning
and design of the project and project implementation, were undertaken
by local staff. No foreign consultants were involved in any manner.
The General Manager of MADA was appointed the overall Project
Coordinator, and a special Steering Committee set up at ministrial
level,  chaired   by  the   Secretary-General  of  the   Ministry  of
Agriculture.
TERTIARY DEYELOPMENT
3.3       The  development of  tertiary development facilities in the
Muda II project was undertaken on an irrigation block basis, i-e.
each irrigation block, averaging 700 hectares in size, is taken as a
single unit for design and planning purposes. Originally totalling
37 in number, the irrigation blocks was increased to 38 with the
inclusion of irrigation block SCLBD 3 and the expansion of another
block (SCRBD  Sb) in 1983.  It  was possible to include  these areas,
which had urgent problems, because of a saving in project costs due
to low tender prices at that time.
3.4       These  irrigation  blocks  were   selected  based  on   the
intensity of irrigation and drainage problems experienced, and as a
consequence, the project area was scattered throughout the Muda area.
3.5       Construction   of   the  tertiary   facilities   meant   an



- 22 -
intensification of  the canal/drain/farm  road density  from 10  - 11
metres per  hectare before development  to a new  density of 30    35
metres per hectare after development.
3.6       Each  of the  irrigation  blocks were  subdivided into four
to six Irrigation Service Areas (ISAs) for ease of water management.
Each of these ISAs have an independent water sourc:e through a
tertiary canal  and access to  independent tertiary drains.  In turn,
each of the ISAs is subdivided into Irrigation Service Units (ISUs),
each unit  averaging 25 hectares.  Each  ISU within each ISA  will be
irrigated in turn and a maximum of 7 days is allowed for each ISU to
be irrigated  before the next  ISU receives presaturation  water.  In
this manner,  it was planned that  labour and machine usage  could be
maximised in  each ISA.  Originally, the  number of ISUs in  each ISA
was set at 8, but this was subsequently reduced to 6 upon receipt of
numerous objections and appeals from the farmers. Each ISU is
separated by  physical boundaries,  and where necessary,  a perimeter
bund of 1.2 metre top width is constructed.
3.7       Tertiary  line alignments  follow lot bounderies as much as
possible, to enable equitable distribution of land acquired from
farmers  and  to prevent  gross  disfiguration  of farm  lots.   This
practice may compromise the best alignments, but it helped to ensure
farmer acceptance of the project.
3.8        With  this intensity  of infrastructure, about  80% of farm
lots will  have direct  access to  a tertiary  canal, drain  and farm
road.  The irrigation  run from a tertiary canal to  a tertiary drain
is from 300 to 500 mietres. Most of the land is served by gravity
irrigation,  but  areas   of  high  topography  are   served  by  the
installation of permanent pump stations. Where possible, a policy of
recycling of water from drainage points is adopted, to increase water
utilisation in view of the water shortages often fac.ed by the region.
3.9       Turnouts from the existing secondary canals to the tertiary
canals, as  well as all  offtakes from  tertiary canals in  excess of
0.85  cubic metres  per  second,  are of  the  Constant Head  Orifice
(C.H.O.) type. Ancilliary structures such as drops and checks with
crossings,  end control  structures  and bridges  are provided..   All
tertiary canal embankments would carry either a 2 metre wide laterite
path or a 3 metre wide farm road.
3.10      Where  conditions  permit, and  in a few cases, part of the
secondary canal  is converted to  function as a tertiary  canal where
farm irrigation turnouts are constructed to allow direct tapping to
serve the  service unit.  This  has the desired effect  of minimising
land  acquisition,  but  this  practice   is  only  allowed  for  the
downstream stretch of the secondery canal so as not to jeapordize the
attainment of  a stable Full  Supply Level (FSL) in  the distributive
-    s



- 23 -
3.11      The  tertiary drainage  system is  designed on the basis of
evacuating  0.35 cubic  metres per  square kilometre.   Farm drainage
outlet  pipes and  control  structures are  provided  to control  anid
restrict flow, as needed, for agricultural purposes and to prevent
flooding in the lower reaches of the Muda area. All tertiary drains
will eventually have a 3 metre farm road along one bank.
3.12      As  on the end of 1987, construction of 30 of the 38 blocks
have  been  completed.   Most  of   the  remaining  works  are  under
construction and all tenders for the remaining works are expected to
be awarded by mid 1989. Construction would require a further one and
a half years to complete.
3.13      As  on  31st  December  1987, 472  kilometres  of  tertiary
canals, 20 kilometres of structural canalets, 430 CHO offtakes, 827
check crossings, 8 irrigation end controls, 5,141 farm irrigation
turnouts, 2 pump houses and 37 secondary canal crossings have been
completed. Also completed were 381 kilometres of tertiary drains,
707 intermediate drainage controls, 268 drainage end controls and
4,310 farm drainage outlets. 510 kilometres of farm roads and 155
kilometres of ISU perimeter bunds have also been completed.
3.14      Originally, all  the  planning  was based  on aerial survey
maps  at  122  metres  (400  feet)  intervals.   However  during  the
implementation stage of the first 17 blocks, it was observed that
there were discrepancies between the aerial survey and the actual
ground profile.   It was found  that the  aerial survey was  not very
accurate and also could not pick up variations in ground levels that
occured between survey points. As a result of this, detailed grid
surveys had to be carried out for these blocks and on-course
modifications  were made.   For all  subsequent blocks,  planning was
based on grid surveys carried out on the blocks at 30.5 metres (100)
feet intervals.
3.15      The  tertiary  canals  are  mainly  concrete  lined  with 5
centimetre thick pre-cast panels. This was decided upon after a
comparative  study  was  conducted   together  with  earthern,  Glass
Reinforced Polyester (GRP) and other types of canal alternatives,
taking into consideration the costs of land acquisition, construction
and subsequent maintenance. A typical tertiary canal has a 0.9 metre
(3 feet) bund on one side and a 3.7 metre (12 feet) farm road on the
other side. The conc:rete slabs are joined by cement mortar with an
inside slope of 1:1 and outside slope of 1.5:1.
3.16      All the tertiary  drains are excavated earth sections where
the excavated spoil is placed on either side of the drain. The bund
thenr formed will be a minimum of 0.9 metre (3 feet) top width and 0.6
metre (2 feet) high above ground level and the remaining spoil will
be spread out on one of the sides which will form the base for a 3.7
metre (12 feet) laterite farm road to be constructed later after
consolidation occurs. To date some of these laterite farm roads have
been constructed along the drains.
3.17      The  farm  roads  as originally  envisaged  during  project



2 24 -
formulat.ion was only 3.05 metres (10 feet.) in widt.h. This was
tecause  it  was anticipated  that  small  farm machinery,  including
harvesters  was  to  be  predominant  in  the  area.   However,  this
assumptionr was found to be wrong, and large conventional combine
harvesters with 3.35 metres (11 feet) axle width began to be the
main type of harvesters working in the area.  As a consequence, there
were constant  requests front the farmers  to widen the farm  roads to
accomodate these machines. A decision was then made to widen all
subsequent farm roads to 3.66 metres (12 feet) width.
3.18       The farm  irrigation turnouts (FITs) adopted in the project
was specially developed by engineers in MADA and the Muda II Project
Office. It is of the flap-valve type (see Figure 3). Basically the
general layout consists  of a flap gate at the  entrance of the pipes
and a box incorporating a broad crested weir at the outlet. The pipe
used is Asbestos Cement (AC) type  and buried under the bund and thus
the pipe length varies with the width of the bund. The invert level
of the pipe is set at 7.6  centimetres (3 inches) above the canal bed
and laid at a gentle slope of 1:500 minimum. The entrance of the
pipe is cut flush with the side slab  recess at a slope of 1:1 and is
laid perpendicular to the flow direction of the distribution channel.
The arrangement as such is designed for free full-pipe flow and for
this to occur, the upstream water level must always be well above the
top of the opening.  The setting as such can concurrently draw a fair
share of silt carried by the distribution channel.  The AC pipes have
a minimum cover over top of pipe between 450 millimetres to 750
millimetres depending  on the  traffic loading and  bedding material.
The AC pipes, depencing on the design discharge and the available
operational  head,  is being  installed  with  two sizes  i.e.   20.3
centimetres (8 inches) diameter and 15.2 centimetres (6 inches)
diameter .
3.19      The flap  valve assembly  consists  of two flap gates, i.e.
the main one of dimension 215 millimetres x 290 millimetres and
overlaid by a smaller gate of size 100 millimetres x 100 millimetres.
These flaps are fabrigated with 6 millimetres thick mild steel plate
and to  ensure water-tightness  in rnon-discharging period,  the g.tes
are fitted with 12 millimetres thick rubber seals on the underside.
The main flap gate is opened making use of the full diameter of the
pipe  during the  presaturation supply  and during  the supplementary
supply when a smaller discharge is required, the main flap gate is
then closed while the smaller flap is swivelled back in the direction
of the flow.   The assembly is connected to the  mild steel collar of
the pipe  by a mild steel  connecting piece thus the  movement of the
main flap is restricted only upwards towards the side slab.
3.20      As  the FIT is located between two adjacent cadastral lots,
the outlet acts as a bifurcation by providing two weirs at the side.
This weir can be categorised as a broad-crested weir of length 0.3
metre (1 foot) and the crest is constructed flush with the adjacent
field level. In operation the crest level however can be increased
by slotting dropboards, thus enabling the irrigator to regulate the
required discharge. The two flap gates are designed for a step-down
in discharge from the presaturation module of 208.5 hectares per



-25 -
cubic metre  per  second per hectare (14.58 acres per  cubic foot per
second) and throttled  to 1,144 hectares per cubic  metre  per second
(0o acres per cubic foot per second) during supplementary period.
3.21      In  summary,  work  on  tertiary  development  in  the   32
irrigation  blocks  would  consist  of the  following  components  on
project completion:
Tertiary canals                      599 kilometres
Tertiary drains                      518 kilometres
Farm roads                           1,013 kilometres
ISUJ Physical Boundaries             170 kilometres
C.H.0- Offtakes                      4513 numbers
Irrigation Checks/Crossings          947 numbers
Farm Irrigation Turnouts (FITs)    6,254 numbers
Drainage End Control/Crossings       1,104 numbers
Drainage Outlets (DOs)               5,172 numbers
INTEGRATED PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION MODEL
3.22      This  model  (see  Figure  2)  was  developed  as  a master
framework for coordinating the efforts of various parties involved in
the project, i.e. MADA, DID Muda II Project Office, Land Office and
the farmers. The salient features of this model is the consultations
with farmers and the irrigation field staff, whose intimate knowledge
of the actual field conditions can be harnessed. It is hoped that by
involving the farmers at the onset of project planning, it would
foster also a sense of belonging and responsibility towards the
project and enhance project acceptance.
3.23      This model  starts with the  preparation of the preliminary
layout plan by the Project Office.   Copies of these layout plans are
then sent to MADA where the following take place:
1. Comments are elicted from the MADA District Offices and
the field staff on the suitability of the layout
plans and to any constraints they may feel could occur
during  the operation and  maintenance of the irrigation
block.
2. MADA  organises a  series of  meetings  with the farmers
concerned where these layout plans are presented and
discussed. These meetings are led by the extension
staff,  and the  design engineers and the operation  and
maintenance staff are present to clarify the project
further.   These  farmers'  comments and suggestions are
noted and further investigated by the Project Office
for possible incorporation into the plans.
3.24      With  the feedback from  these two sources, adjustments, if
possible,  are made  on the  layout  and then  detailed design  would
proceed. The process of land acquisition is then activated. It is



- 26 -
notedi here that  the land acquisition process  is greatly facilitated
by this and  objections or challenges to land  acquisition; by farmers
have 3greatly been reduced.
3.25      Although  this  process  of  consultation  arnd  interaction
take anything  from 3 to 6  months and the final  plannirng and design
has to be put on hold while awaiting the comments, it is generally
felt that the process is useful. On many occassions when farmers
have objected to the alignments of the canals or drains on the basis
of ground  topography, detailed grid surveys  undertaken to ascertain
their validity  have indicated  that their  claims are  justified and
thus helped to improve the alignments. This is especially seen in
the earlier blocks where aerial survey maps were used as the basis
for planning.
MINOR WORKS
3.26      A series of small, scattered canal and drainage systems and
farm road improvements were provided to solve small localised
problems.  These minor works are located at high priority areas which
necessitated immediate remedial  action but which do  not fall within
any  of the  38  irrigation blocks.   Originally  estimated at  1,200
hectares at project appraisal time, this was Lncreased, through the
course of  project implementation,  to 2,523  hectares as  more areas
were identified.
MAJOR DRAINS
3.27      In addition to the  tertiary  drain construction, the major
outfall drains and natural channels were improved where they were
found to  be inadequate.   Construction included  widening, deepening
and occasional bund strengthening along rivers and drains to increase
their  capacity.   Under  this  component, the  Sungei  Kubang  Rotan
drainage improvement, which was originally planned, was deleted
because of the presence of many squatter houses along the entire
stretch.   Instead,  regular  maintenance  would be  carried  out  to
improve  the  drainage  flow.   Another  deletion  was  the  drainage
improvements to the Southern Canal Escape. This was because the
entire drainage  system of  South Muda  had to  bp considered  and it
warranted a separate study.
BUILDINGS
3.28      Prominent  among the  buildings  component was the new MADA
headquarters. Built to integrate MADA's administrative headquarters
with the Divisions of Agriculture and Engineering which have been
housed separately in the past in temporary office buildings, the new
headquarters is a 3-storey building covering a total floor space of



- 27 -
8,400 square  metres and  is located  near the  Tidal Barrage  on the
outskirts of Alor Setar- Delayed for several years, it was completed
in January l986..
3-29      A new  tnemporary  office building  was  also constructed to
house the DID staff implementing the project. This project office
was located  about 8  kilometres Grom the  MADA headquarters  and was
completed at the  start of the project in 1980.   In addition, two of
the four MADA District Offices wer-e provided with new buildings to
house the operation  anid maintenance staff in  permanent and enlarged
offices, each totalling 893 square met.res in office space.  They were
completed in 1982.   Quarters for staff totalling 155  (duwn from the
original 160) for field staff were also built.
3.30      To  cater  for  the  expansion  in  the  seed  distribution
programme, each  FDC was also  provided with  new seed stores  of 156
square metres each, which will be  used for short-term storage of the
certified seeds used in the expanded Seed Exchange Programme. All
these seed stores have been completed by 1981.
3.31      The  existing  workshop at. Jitra was enlarged and improved.
This involved the construction of a new work bay and the purchase of
new equipment to enhance the role  of the workshop in the maintenance
of all MADA machinery, in particular the water pumps (both mobile and
permanent)  and  the  departmental  vehicles.  All  works  have  been
completed in 1983 with the exception of the Pump Test Bay which has
been deleted.
COASTAL PROTECTION WORKS
3.32      This involved  the  construction of stretches  of rock bund
along the coast between Kuala Perlis and Kuala Sanglang which have
been experiencing serious wave erosion and as a consequence, the
coastal bunds  have been repeatedly  breached resulting in  damage to
the padi  fields by sea water.   The stretch to be  rehabilitated,was
estimated  to be  5 kilometres  at project  appraisal time.   However
further erosion to new stretches caused this figure to be revised to
6.3  kilometres  in  1980  and  to 8.46  kilometres  in  1985.   This
component was  completed in 1986.   The rock bund as  constructed has
been successful in maintaining a stable coastline and protecting the
padi land from being affected by sea water.
WATER MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL SYSTEM
3.33      A new water management and control communication system was
established to replace the old land-based system which has proven to
be difficult, unreliable  and expensive to maintain.   The new system
is based on a VHF system and allows automatic recording of rainfall
plus radio and microprocessor for storage and transmission. Under
the Muda II project, 20 of the 56 rainfall stations were replaced



- 28 -
with  this new  system.  In  addition, 5  of the  12 stations  in the
river/dam system were replaced with telemetry rainfall stations plus
an automatic water  level recorder.  Out of these 5,  1 is located in
the Pedu Dam and the other 4 in the river system below the dam.  With
a master   controller-  installed   in   the   base  station    (MADA
Headquarters),  all  these  remote  stationis could  be  activated  to
rYetrieve data, thus helping to enhance the watert management system in
the project area.
3-34      A  new mainrframe  %c.omputer  system was installed in the new
MADA Headquarters to  improve the water mcanagement system  as well as
to  assist   other  engineering,  agricultural,   administration  and
planning r equirements.
LAND ACQUISITION
3.35      The  acquisition  of land  for the  project falls under the
responsibility of the Kedah and  Perlis state Departments of Land and
Mines, and  is outsic- the  executive control of the  Project Office.
However, at  the beginning of  the project, assurances  were received
that the staff of these departments  would be increased and set aside
to handle land acquisition for the project.  It is estimated that for
the tertiary system, acquisition papers had to be prepared for 13,633
cadestral lots in  the 12 states.  As on August  1988, 11,902 lots or
87X of the lots have been acquired. The total area acquired for the
construction of the system is 1,300 hectares-
MISCELLANEOUS WORKS
3.36      This  category  includes the  construction  of 2 new  tidal
gates, and 1 new water control structure with crossings on the
primary canal system.  All works have beern completed.
EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES
3.37      The  purchase  of equipment and vehicles formed part of the
Muda II project to improve the capability of the Project Office to
supervise construction and MADA to operate and maintain the project.
These items include heavy hydraulic equipment for desilting and other
maintenance  works, workshop  equipment, transport  vehicles, office,
agricultural,  and   extension  equipment.    All  these   have  been
purchased.
PILOT PROJECT STUDIES
3.39      A  programme  for pilot  project studies forms an important



- 29 -
tcomponent of t.he project anid separate  fund4s as well as staffing were
provided  for.  These  studies were  conduuted  on Muda  II sites  to
evaluate  the  new  systems  with   a  view  to  develop  appropriate
approaches for development-   They wer-e to provide the  basis for any
on-course corrections and also to enable appropriat.e strategies to be
adopted for future projects.
,.359 The objectives of the pilot project studies are as follows:
i. To evaluate the Muda II system with a view to make
recommendations   on   water   scheduling,   water   use
efficiency and water management.
ii. To  dievelop appropriate strategies for the tertiary unit
operation   and  maintenance  with  a  view  to farmers'
participation.
iii. To develop appropriate agricultural, cultural and farm
management  practices  in  conformity  with the physical
system.
iv.  To  study the problems associated with the effectiveness
of  the  formation  and  management  of  the  water-user
organisation in the system.
v. To study the costs and impact of further inten-ification
of  the physical system.
vi. To provide demonstration models on the effectiveness and
benefits of infrastructure intensification and organised
field participation.
3.40      To  fulfil these  objectives, studies were conducted by the
team over 3 sites, though not concurrently, that is, at ARBD 2, ACLBD
Ob, and CCRBD 3el.  In all, 11 separate studies were conducted and is
still being pursued in these sites.
3.41      So  far  the pilot  project studies  have provided valuable
feedback on the scheduling and acceptability of the proposed 6 week
schedule. It has thrown some light on the water use efficiency of
the system, and it has  provided some indication of the acceptability
of farmer operation and maintenance of the facilities. On the water
management and agronomic level, however, studies are still on-going
to come up with recommendations in line with new agronomic practices.
Attempts to organise workable water-user groups within the pilot
project areas has met with difficulties.
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES
3.42      A  reorganisation  of  the  MADA  agricultttral services was
carried out  in conjunction  and in preparation  of the  project.  Of
clear relevance  was the  establishment of  a separate  Extension and



- 30 -
Training section  under the Division  of Agriculture in MADA.   It is
headed  by  a  Senior  Agriculture Officer  who  is  responsible  for
coordinating the  extension activities  as well  as the  planning and
.supervision of the training programme of both farmers and agriculture
field staff. He is supported by Subject Matter Specialists for rice
agronomy, crop  protection, extension,  farm famiiy  development, and
tr-aining.
3.43      At  the  District  level, the  extension  framework is also
strengthened  by a  team  of extension  staff  responsible for  field
demonstration, agric-ultural development,  farm family development and
crop protectiorn.  Irn the FDCs,  the local extension staff was doubled
with the  staff-farmer ratio  being increased  to 1:1000.   With this
increased staff, a modified Training and Visit (T & V) system was
i.ntroduced to enhance the extension services.
TRAINING
3.44      A training component was incorporated into the project both
for staff  as well as farmers.   The overseas staff training  was not
fully utilised though a few officers were sent for specialised
training. This is partly because the Authority could avail itself to
training opportunities offered by the Federal Governmunt.
3.45      Local training on project orientation for all the key staff
and at all levels were conducted to familiarise them with the Muda II
concepts and  operational procedure.   Emphasis is on  tertiary water
management and maintenance, crop establishment, scheduling, pest and
disease control, and extension principles and approaches. Resource
personnel from the Department of Agriculture (DOA), the Malaysian
Agriculture Research And Development Institute (MARDI) and Universiti
Pertanian Malaysia (UPM), were invited to collaborate in the training
programme.   Training  facilities  from the  Regional  Extension  And
Training  Development   Centre  (RETDC),  DOA,  and   the  DID  Water
Management Training Centre at Kota Bharu, Kelantan are also utilised
in the training programme. A training programme was also instituted
to train farmers. Under this programme, potential farm leaders
within  the Muda  II  blocks  were brought  to  training centres  and
trained in the Muda II concepts and the roles expected to be played
by the farmers.
DISBURSEMENTS
3.46      The rate of disbursements are as shown in Annex 2, Table 5.
The disbursement period was extended to financial year 1988 from the
original dateline of 1985 due to project delays and the extension of
the project to 1990. Of the original loan amount of US$31 million, a
sum of US$1.4 million was cancelled in May 1986 and the loan sum
reduced to US$29.6 million. This was because, even with the extended
loan period, it would not have been possible to draw upon the full



- 31 -
original loan amount.   As a further measure at that  time to  ensure
t.he maximum disbursements could be made, the Bank also agreed to
.incr ease the di.sbursement percentages of each category.
3.47      The  slow  rate  of  disbursements  could be  traced to the
following main reasons:
i.  Budget shortfalls, especially in the earlier years-
ii.  Slow progress of contract works.
iii. Delays in awarding contracts due to excessively high
tender bids.
As at mid-1988, total disbursements is completed and total percentage
of disbursements is 99-6Z.
ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
3.48      A  requirement  spelt out in  the SAR  is that all  audited
accounts, together with the Auditors'  comments, would be sent to the
Bank  within 9  months  of the  close of  each  financial year.   The
project   management  has   difficulties  in   complying  with   this
requirement.   As at  the  PCR, the  accounts up  to  1986 have  been
submitted to the Bank, while those for 1987 are presently with the
Audit Department of the Government  of Malaysia.  The problem of late
submission was particularly severe during the early years of the
Project.
3.49      Several reasons are cited for these delays:
i. Three payment centres, viz. Federal Accountant Gilneral's
Office  in  Kuala Lumpur,  State  Accountant   General's
Office in Alor Setar, and MADA were involved.  Delays in
collation  of  documents  and insufficiency of some were
experienced.
ii  No  special  staff  could  be  assigned  by  the   Audit
Department for Project accounts, and neither could
priority   for  Project  accounts  be  expected  in  the
workload of the Department.
iii. The workload of the Audit Department was also greatly
increased by Government's requirement for all Statutory
Bodies to submit audited accounts by June 30 of each
year for the previous year's accounts.
3.50      Faster  preparation  of  audits and  submission to the Bank
could perhaps have been achieved if private auditors were appointed,
subject to the  approval of the Auditor General.   This would however
involve considerable budgetary provisions, not easily forthcoming
since 1982.



- 32 -
IV. PROJECT EVALUATION
COST OVERRUNS
4-1       The project faced  substantial cost overruns.  At appraisal
time in 1979, the project bore a cost estimate of M$152_4 million and
physical implementation was targetted for- a 5 year period 1979 -
1983. By the end of 1980, the cost overruns were apparent. These
were due essentially to price escalations over appraisal estimates
for civil works, buildings, land and equipment, changes in design of
the MADA headquarters, a salary revision for government staff, and an
omission  at appraisal  time  of the  administrative and  agriculture
staff costs. This had the effect of pushing the total project cost
estimate up to M$229.98 million. In 1983 however, the prices
reversed and it was possible to show some savings in the .:ivil works
programme. At this time also, it was agreed that this savings could
be utilised to expand the scope of works to include three urgent
items, i.e.
a. the expansion of the coastal protection works by an
additional 3.46 kilometres which was undergoing serious
coastal erosion,
b. the addition of another block (SCLBD 3) which was facing
serious water supply problems, and
c. the addition of 587 hectares as an extension of block
SCRBD 5b.
4.2       The  latest  estimate show  that the  total project cost at
completion time will be M$225_93 million, an overall increase of 48%
over the original cost (refer to Annex 1, Table 3).
a. Civil Works
4.3       This  component showed the largest absolute price increase.
It was noted that price estimates at the start of the project were
realistic but they were overtaken by developments in the construction
industry of which inflation was a contributing factor. Major price
increases were experienced in early 1980 as the prices of cement,
mild steel bars, diesel, laterite, aggregates, sand, and labour
increased. These increases were however slightly reversed later in
1983 which brought some savings.
4.4       Other  factors were  also important  in causing these price
escalations. One major factor was the lack of competition in the
local construction industry, in particular in relation to tertiary
system development, evidenced by the very few tender bids received
(averaging 3) for contracts above M$2 million in the early 80's.



- 33 -
This was compounded by arn excess demand situation in the construction
industry then, which was facing a construction boom.  Tertiary system
development, with its  dispersed nature of works  and the involvement
of so  many farmers,  was relatively  unattr.¢tive, compared  to less
scattered constructiorn jobs elsewhere. This trend was however only
temporary  as in  the mid  1980's  the economy  took a  dive and  the
recession caused the government to cut tback drastically on public
expenditure.
4.5       Secortdly, uncertainty  over the complete possession of site
at the time of tendering, especially for lines involving large number
of farmers, have led many contractors to bid higher in an attempt to
hedge against delays.
4.6       Thirdly,  in  the  early  1980's  there  was  an element of
uncertainty over material prices and their availability which led
contractors to raise prices.
b. Buildings
4.7       The  increased  costs  apply  to  all  buildings except the
temporary Project  Office which  was completed early.   The increased
cost in  the MADA headquarters  represent the largest  increase, from
the original M$2.91 million to M$10.7 million. The revised cost is
due to the following:
a. increase in floor area from 4,900 square metres to 8,400
square metres to accomodate additional staff and to
provide for additional functions.
b. increase in cost of civil works (from M$430.00 per
square metre to M$807.00 per square metre), building
services and furniture.
For the MADA district offices, prices increased from M$0.799 million
to M$1.5 million due to the following:
a. price escalation for all civil works.
b. increase in floor area of 14% to cater for additional
staff.
c. provision  of  additional  facilities  to  comply   with
regulations, e.g. fire fighting facilities, electrical
sub-stations, and security lighting.
The cost  of the workshop  was revised  from M$2.02 million  to M$4.3
million due to:
a. increase in cost of construction.
b. increase in workshop area by approximately 12x.



- 34 -
c. increase in cost of supplying workshop equipment by 60%.
d. necessity to comply with existing Electrical and Fire
Department regulations.
Similarly, the quarters for staff also showed an increase in prices,
due to the price escalations in the building industry at that time.
c. Land Acquisition
4.8       Land acquisition costs rose substantially trom the original
estimate of M$6.9 million to M$31.0 million. Although the area to be
acquired rose slightly by 13% due to the decision to extend the width
of the farm roads, the major factor was the increased acquisition
compensation rate from about $3,000 to $10,000 per acre, due to
rising land costs.
d. Engineering and Supervision
4.9       This  item  showed a big  increase from  M$5.8m. to a final
figure of M$35.76 million at project completion. This is due to the
following reasons:
a. inclusion  of   administrative  and  agricultural  staff
salaries which was approved at appraisal time but were
omitted from the original project cost.
b. extension of salary payments for an additional 7 years
owing to project delays.
c. adjustment of salaries and all related allowances in
accordance witr  the Government saiary revisions in  1980
which was not envisaged at project appraisal time.
e. Summary
4.10      In retrospect, much of the price increases were unavoidable
and  clearly  beyond the  control  of  the project  management.   For
contract works, care was exercised in awarding tenders and in many
cases during the early 1980's, tenders were rejected because the bids
received  were  too high.   This  had  the disadvantage  however,  of
contributing to project delays as the entire tendering process need
to be repeated.
4.11      It  is also  recorded  here  that  even  though the project
experienced cost overruns, the loan amount from IBRD remained
unchanged, i.e. at US$31 million or 45% (revised later to M$29_6
million or 43%) of the original project cost. The difference was
borne by the Federal Government of Malaysia.



- 35 -
PROJECT DELAYS
4.12      The  planned  implementation  period  as  outlined  in  the
Appraisal Report was 5 years, from 1979 to 1983. However, due to
various factors, this was extended twice, once to 1987 and finally to
1990. This represented a total delay of 7 years, in spite that
planning and design and also physical works actually started in 1977
with in-house staff from both DID and MADA.
4.13      An  examination of the physical progress show that the main
delays are in the construction of the tertiary system which form the
core of the project. It is due to be completed only in 1990. Figure
I shows the progress of each tertiary irrigation block construction
compared  to SAR  estimates.   The buildings  component was  slightly
delayed, in particular the MADA headquarters, which experienced
delays in the planning stage (the tender could only be called in
1982), and later in the construction stage (the contract had to be
determined and recalled in 1985).   It was completed in January 1986,
a delay  of  3 years.   Even  up  to  today, outstanding  claims  and
payments are still pending. For the quarters component, most of them
were completed on time with the exception of about 25% of the
quarters which involved 2 contracts which was completed in 1984-1985.
They could not be awarded earlier due to land acquisition delays.
Six more units of quarters in the Muda Dam were only completed in
1987 due to contractual problems.
4.14      The minor  works and the  coastal protection works faced no
delays but were extended due to increased scope of works, decided
upon in late 1983.
a. Planning Stage Of The Tertiary System
4.15      For  the  proper  design  of  an  irrigation  system,  past
operational data of the existing infrastructure is very important.
In the past it was found that a lot of time was required to collect
and collate data on FSL discharges and water levels in drains and to
obtain plans showing problem areas, water patterr, and details of
existing structures. Due to the fluctuations in the water levels in
the major irrigation and drainage systems, a lot of care had to be
exercised in deciding the levels to be established in the individual
irrigation  blocks.   The  Project  Office had  to  supplement  these
records with their own field investigations and all these take some
time before the actual design can start.
4.16      After  the  preliminary  plan  for  a particular irrigation
block is completed, it is distributed to the field staff for their
comments.  At  the same  time local  meetings (kursus  teempatan), are
arranged with the farmers to obtain their reactions. This process of
obtaining comments take 3 to 6 months.
4.17      Bated  on the  feedback from these sources, it is necessary
to carry  out field verifications  for every  area where a  change in



- 36 -
alignment has  been proposed  to assess  its validity.   This process
requires additional time which was not envisaged during project
appraisal-
4.18      In three areas, the farmers initially rejected the project,
(that  is,  the  Kedah  sides  of   ALBD  4,  ALBD  6  and  ALBD  7).
Consequently, MADA decided to withdraw the project from these areas.
However, a few years later, these farmers, upon seeing the advantages
of the facilities in neighbouring blocks, appealed for the project to
be reinstated. Hence, project implementation for these 3 areas were
delayed for- 6 years.
b. Staff
4.19      The Muda II Project Office experienced a very high turnover
of engineering staff (see Figures 4 and 5). As an example, from the
initial planning to the final tendering  of an irrigation block, 3 to
6 different engineers were involved due to this high turnover. For
an engineer to take over the design from another engineer, a few
months is required to familiarise himself with the block. This has
upset the planning and design programme many times. This is also
true for the supporting staff levels.
c. Surveys
4;20      Another  cause  of  delay is  the  inadequacy  of using the
aerial survey plans of about 122 metres (400 feet) grid intervals.
This resulted in a need to  carry out detailed ground grid surveys at
30.5 metres (100 feet) intervals to provide more accurate survey data
for the planning and diesign of the project. These detailed ground
grid surveys were not envisaged in the original schedule.
d. Land Acquisition
4.21      The  process of  land  acquisition  is long and tedious.  A
total  of 13  separate and  distinct processes  had to  be undertaken
before a  land lot  is available  for use  by the  government agency.
However  as often  happens, many  of the  steps have  to be  repeated
because fartmers  dJo not  turn up  at meetings  and on  many occasions
disputes occur  which led to court  action.  As 13,633 land  lots ar-e
involved in the Muda II project, strengthening of the staff at the
Land Offices was vital, and they would exclusively be delegated to
the Muda II project land acquisition-
4.22      To  facilitate  the  land  acquisition  process, an imprest
*    au-count of M$250,000 was created in  the Land Office whereby the Land
Officer can make on-the-spot payments to settle land acquisition.
The normal procedure would be to prepare vouchers after negotiations
and to forward them to the State Accountant General's office for
preparation of cheques. Another step taken to help speed up this
land acquisition process was to have regular meetings with the land



- 37 -
office staff to coordinate the land acquisition activities.
4.23      In  spite of these, delays in land acquisition remained the
major factor for project delays. Annex 2, Table 2 gives the progress
of the  land acquisition  by tertiary  irrigation block.   During the
initial stages of construction in 1977 and 1978, most of the contract
works were delayed for periods ranging from 3 to 15 months. The land
lots could not be acquired in time and stoppage of work resulted.
The experience is that it takes more than 2 years to achieve a
position of 80% of lots acquired in an irrigation block.
4.24      In an attempt to speed up the implementation process, it is
the usual practice  that tenders for physical works  would be awarded
when a substantial proportion of the land has been acquired, in this
case 80%, with the hope that the rest would be settled within the
construction period. In all cases, this did not happen, and it took
long periods of negotiations with the farmers whose land have not yet
been  acquired before  they could  allOw the  work to  continue while
awaiting the finalisation of the land acquisition process.
4.25      Incomplete  records at the Land Office sometimes contribute
to this situation as many of the owners are deceased and it takes
time and effort  to trace their- beneficiaries.   Sometimes, the owner
is only identified when he physically obstructs the contractor from
entering his lot. It only requires one unacquired land lot to stall
the work on an entire tertiary line. In block ALBD 7 (Kedah), about
70% of the works were suspended after a delay of 3 years. Of late,
work on a line in CCRBD 1 had to be stopped for more than a year
because  of  land acquisition  problems.   In  most cases,  a  single
cadestral lot is owned by several owners and this further complicates
the acquisition process.
4.26      Besides  causing  delays  to  the  project, this  also  has
contributed to  cost overruns  as contractors  have to  hedge against
such problems and also allocate certain sums of money to compensate
farmers for early intrusions in;.o their land.
e. Construction
4.27      In  spite of the farmer involvement in the planning process
through the ktArsus tempatan, problems crop up during the construction
stage.   These take  the  form of  objections to  the  layout of  the
alignment of the channels, requests for additional facilities, as
well  as   complaints  about  the  alterations   to  the  traditional
irrigation flows during construction time. All these had to be
attended to and the construction engineer has to spend time and
effort to verify these complaints. Sometimes it is even necessary to
stop work on the line concerned  until the problem has been resolved.
It is imperative to note that most of these complainants are farmers
who had not attended nor participated in the sensitisation programme
of the kursus tempatan.
4.28      Objections  to the  alignments  were most common during the



- 38 -
construction of the earlier blocks when the aerial survey plans were
used for planning. In SCRBD 5b1, this caused a 6 month delay as an
overall review of the design of the entire tertiary system was
necessary.
4.29      The  delays  were  often compounded  if the problems caused
the contractor to miss the period of December to February which is
the fallow period as well as the dry period and is therefore the
ideal time for construction. At other times when the ground is wet
and when the land is already planted with padi, progress would be
slower.
f. Financial Allocation.
4.30      Although the project is partly IBRD - financed, all initial
expenditure had to be allocated through the normal government
financing process, and disbursements from IBRD follow after the
expenditure is completed. In addition, IBRD financed only 45% of the
original cost or only 33Z of the final project cost. The Malaysian
Government has a  good record of financial  allocations for projects,
but was however forced to cut back on earlier agreed aliocations in
the period 1983-1987 due to the recession. It has also issued
instructions at times to withhold tendering for similar reasons.
This caused much uncertainty in the Project Office and upset many of
the planned schedules.
g. Summary.
4.31      In  summary, it  is  seen that many of the causes of delays
were beyond the control of the project management. These delays
occur even in spite of the many measures taken by project management
to overcome them. Some of these measures were even unique to the
project,  in  particular,  the  kurssus tempatan  teams  used  in  the
sensitisation  process.   The  imprest  account has  also  helped  to
facilitate the land acquisition process. Delays would have been
worse if project management has not been sensitive to project delays
and not taken these measures.
WATER DELIVERY AND SCHEDULING
4.32      One  primary  objective  of  the  Muda  II  project  was to
provide  irrigation  water  to  the   high  ground  areas  which  has
experienced  problems in  obtaining irrigation  water before.   Other-
areas which are low lying could also be effectively drained and thus
allow  better  water management  to  be  practiced.   This is  to  be
achieved by a system of tertiary canals and drains branching out from
the existing secondary systems and which will greatly intensity the
level  of infrastructure  in  the irrigation  block.   To supply  the
irrigation water to the plots., the concept of scheduled water supply
was adopted.   Under this concept,  each irrigation block  is divided



- 39 -
into 4 to 6 Irrigation Service Areas (ISAs) served by an independent:
tertiary  system.  Each  ISA will  again be  divided into  Irrigation
Service Units (ISUs).  In the early irrigation blocks, 8 ISUs per ISA
were planned, repre,enting 8 schedules per ISA, each schedult
corresponding  to a  week.   This  was further  reduced  to 6  weekl-
schedules tjr 6 ISUs after the first few ISAs constructed drew too
many objections from the farmers because of the long waiting time for
the farmers at the tail end of the schedule.
4.33      This  objective  of distribution  has  been  achieved  to a
l.arge extent by the project through the provision of a more intensive
network of irrigation facilities from 11 metres per hectare to 34
metres per hectare.
4.34      There  are   cases  of   small  pockets   of  land   having
difficulties despite the project. These were identified during
commissioning of the blocks and are to be solved by land levelling,
construction of quarternary canals or local pumping.
4.35      The  pre-project cropping  intensity of  the Muda  area was
176% (1977-1983), as seen in Annex 2, Table 1. Since the start of
the  project this  cropping intensity  has increased.   In the  years
1984-1987, the 'without project'  areas reported a cropping intensity
of 191%, while the 'with project' areas showed a marked rise of
cropping  intensit/ to  199%.  This  is indicative  that most  of the
problem areas  wi hin the Muda II  blocks have been solved.   For the
'without  projec-' areas, the  rise  in  cropping intensity  can  be
accounted for I ' the adoption of direct seeding practices which
enabled the farmers to double crop even in times of severe water
shortages.
4.36      During  commissioning  and  subsequent  monitoring,  it  is
noted that the delivery of irrigation water has.been satisfactory and
very  little  complaints on  this  subject  was received.   On  field
distribution, it was observed that generally, the tertiary system is
able to supply presaturation water to the tertiary areas as designed
for.   However, the  actual  period  may vary  due  to the  following
factors:
a. antecedent conditions,
b. practice of mixed planting i.e. direct seeding and
transplanting, and
c. late harvesting of the preceding crop.
For example, in 1985, observations of 3 completed irrigation blocks
show that on the average, an ISU was presaturated in 3 days and an
ISA in 17 days, with the help of wet antecedent conditions.
4.37      Many of the localised  topographical problems arose because
planning of  the earlier blocks  were based on aerial  survey levels.
Detailed  grid level  surveys reveal  that the  actual ground  levels
within an ISA could vary so much that the existing Full Supply Level



- 40 -
(FSL) in the  secondary canals may not be able  to command the entire
area.  Sensitivity analysis of  non-irrigatable areas against the FSL
was carried out. If it is small, they were left alone for the time
being for later action. Otherwise, the possibility of raising the
FSL was considered.
4.38      The  geographical  dispersal  of  the  Mtuda  II blocks have
complicated the management  of water delivery.  Many of  them have to
shar-e the  service of a  secondary canal  and invariably all  have to
depend on the  primary conveyance system.  As the  non-Muda II blocks
have to  follow a difforent cropping  schedule which is planned  on a
2-week staggering of 4 schedules using the entire irrigation block as
the smallest  unit, in  contr-ast with  the Muda  II blocks  of 1-week
scheduling of 6 schedules within an irrigation block, this poses many
difficult problems for water management, especially that of building
up FSL in the secondary system.
4.39      The  most  serious  problem  facing   the  introduction  of
scheduling of planting through the  ISUs is the limited acceptability
of  this concept  by the  farmers.  Objections  are mainly  raised by
farmers at the  tail end of the schedules.  As  stated earlier, these
objections forced  the implementors to revise  the original schedules
and reduce its number of schedules to 6 schedules totalling 6 weeks.
Even this concession has not been totally acceptable, and farmers are
asking for a further reduction to 4 schedules. Although the tertiary
system  was  designed for  certain  flexibility  in operation,  there
exists a  technical constraint  to the  time period  an ISA  could be
presaturated.   This  constraint  is  the carrving  capacity  of  the
existing primary and secondary canal systems.
4.40      The  practice  of dJirect  seeding  further  complicates the
schedules.   By  this practice,  especially  the  practice of  direct
seeding in conjunction with dry ploughing, farmers refuse to allow
irrigation water into  their fields before sowing and  then, water is
let in slowly corresponding to the crop height. Putting in water too
much or too early would drown the seedlings. In wet bed direct
seeding, water is let in to  facilitate wet rotovation after which it
is drained off completely to enable pregerminated seeds to be sown.
Water is brought in later in accordance with the plant height. These
practices  clearly  contradict  the   traditional  water  demands  of
transplanting where water is let in  well in advance up to a standing
layer of 10 to 15 centimetres, and transplanting of seedlings being
carried out later. As such, in ISUs of mixed planting, it is very
difficult to agree on a schedule of water delivery.
4.41       Farmers  generally  have indicated  their  desire to  plant
simultaneously rather than stagger their planting according to the
schedules.  They have often adopted an attitude of twait and see' and
do not want to take the initiative to be the first to plant.  They do
this partly out of the fear of pest attacks on their crop, especially
rodent attacks, which is an endemic problem. This attitude still
prevailed in the Muda II areas.   In ISUs where the water-user groups
are  well organised,  consensus  on scheduling  is  easier to  reach,
resulting in  a better  adherance to schedules.   On the  other hand,



- 41 -
ISUs with higher percentages of non-resident farmers, weak leadership
and socio-politic:al problems, find difficulty in schedule adherance-
Therefore, it will  take time to inculcate in farmers  arn attitude of
rigid scheduled planting.
FARM ROADS
4.42      Farm  roatis is the most appreciated feature of the project,
and the  one which brings  immediate bernefit  to the fatrmer.   It has
helped to facilitate access to the farms and also provided a social
function of  connectiing many  of the  settlements with  the secondary
farm roads. It has enabled farm inputs to be transported quickly and
efficiently, and at the same time  enabled farm produce to be brought
out quickly. This is especially useful in the wet harvest where
timeliness of transportation of output is important. On the other
hand, farm machinery has also benefitted by making farms more
accessible. Requests have also been received to upgrade the standard
of these farm roads and to further widen it to 4.3 metres (14 feet).
WATER-USER GROUPS
4.43      Closely  related  to  the  difficulty  to  adhere  to   the
6-weekly schedules is the problem of establishing strong water-user
groups. The objective is to organise all farmers within each ISU
into an ISU Work Group while each leader of the ISUs within an ISA
would group together to form an ISA Committee, which will function to
regulate the schedules and coordinate machinery and labour usage
within the ISA. They will also operate and maintain all the minor
field structures and therefore regulate water supply. The process of
organising these groups  take from 9 to 18 months.   They include the
listing of the farmers, identification of the farmer leaders,
briefing and sensitising on the role of these groups, and calling for
meetings to elect their leaders. By the end of 1987, 76 ISA groups
in 17 irrigation blocks have been established. Due to the efforts
and support of the extension staff, the water-user groups have met
with some success. However, those that are less successful have the
following problems:
i. lack  of  congruence between  field   neighbourhood  and
village neighbourhood.
ii. lack of strong leaders.
iii. a large percentage of farmers (30%) reside outside the
irrigation block.
iv. political and social conflicts among the farmers.
v. multi-ownership of land lots in different ISUs and ISAs.



- 42 -.
4.44      To  help   instill  in   farmers  the   concept  of   group
cooperation  in  field  activities,   including  water  delivery  and
scheduling,  group farming  or  projek berk&lompok  are organised  in
blocks without tertiary facilities to serve as fore-runners to the
organisation of the ISAs. These projects are fairly successful but
then  they have  so far  been organised  only in  areas where  strong
leadership have been identified and where farmers have given prior
consent. to the project.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
4.45      It  was originally  planned  that the operation and regular
clearing of the channels in the tertiary system be carried out by the
farmers. Each ISA/ISU leader would initiate and supervise all its
activities and to operate all  tertiary irrigation and drainage gates
according to  instructions from MADA.   It was felt that  such simple
structures could be passed over to them to operate, which would
inculcate a sense of belonging and responsibility to the project as
well as help reduce the operating expenditure of the project. It was
proposed that the operation of  CHOs and check structures will remain
the duty of MADA staff, while the farmers take over the operation of
FTTs and DOs. This has met with only limited success.
4.46      To  encourage   farmer  involvement  of  future   projects,
operation and maintenance of tertiary facilities could be made a
pre-condition of project implementation. Alternatively, some form of
monetary incentives could be considered.
WATER MANAGEMENT AND EFFICIENCY
4.47      The tertiary system  as provided has enabled better on-farm
management  practices to  be adopted.   It has  made possible  direct
access to  FITs and DOs  for 80Z of  the cadestral lots.   With these
facilities, it is easier to obtain irrigation water and to drain away
excess water.   With proper  use, it would  therefore be  possible to
increase  water use  efficiency.   But  at present  this  is not  yet
forthccming and in general, the objective of water savings are not
yet r-ealized.
4.48      On the other  hand, there are farmers taking the initiative
to level their land or construct their own dual purpose channels
within  their  plots to  aid  in-field  distribution of  water.   The
construction of the physical boundary (ISU perimeter bunds) have also
been  found   to  be  effective   in  helping  control   field  water
distribution.
4.49      Evaluation  of water  use efficiency need a longer duration
to carry  out.  Efforts are  being taken to cortinuously  monitor the
efficiency of the system. Preliminary results of studies undertake



-43 -
in the pilot project are however show that with good water control,
it is -possible to obtain savings in water utilisation, especially in
cases of dry ploughing in  coniunction with direct seeding (see Annex
3, Table 3).
CHANGES IN AGRONOMIC PRACTICES
4.50      Since  the time  of planning  of the Muda II project, there
have been several major changes in the farm cultural and agronomic
practices, namely dry ploughing, direct seeding and mechanized
harvesting, that have a significant impact on the project.
4.51      The  increasing popularity  of  dry ploughing is one of the
major changes.   This is chiefly due  to the shift from  wet seed bed
direct seeding method to dry seed bed and volunteer seedling methods.
MADA's  recommendation   to  the  farmers  tn   rotovate  the  fields
immediately  after   harvesting  for  the  i*. rpose   of  viral-source
eradication  also con iibuted  to  the increasing  percentage of  dry
ploughing. Dry ploughing is mainly carried out by tractors of 60 to
70  horse   power  capacity.   By  practicing   dry  ploughing,  land
preparation within the same ISU can be completed faster. Also, since
the fields  being ploughed are  dry, there  is no problem  of bogging
down of machinery in the field and it does not aggravate the
deterioration of soil bearing capacity as in wet rotovation.
4.52      The  rapid adoption  of dry  ploughing together with direc,:
seeding and volunteer seedling was prompted by the experience of an
acute shortage of farm labour (cooperative exchange of labour or
derau has also almost disappeared in practice) in the early 1980s
which caused many to seek labour saving methods of planting. In
doing so, they found also substantial savings in production costs
could be realized. Its rapid adoption was also aided by the water
shortage situation in the reservoirs. In the off season 1987, when
no irrigation water was released until June, a de±ay of 3 months, the
entire crop was established through direct sowing with the help of
rainfall.   This crop  would not  have been  possible without  direct
seedling.
4.53      Despite the  problems of  weeds  in  direct seeding fields,
the unstable nature of its yields, and the need for good water
control, direct seeding has evolved into a popular technique of
production of padi. In the off season of 1987, 91Z of the total
planted  area was  established by  direct sowing.   It is  attractive
because of its convenience, its saving of labour and its savings in
costs. Its work cycle and water demands are however different from
the traditional transplanting and thus poses serious problems on
water supply.   This is especially so  for an ISU with  a mixed crop,
meaning conflicting demands for water especially in the early stages
of padi growth, where a transplanting crop demands a standing layer
well in advance whereas direct sowing requires water to be let into
the plot progressively in accordance with the plant height.



- 44 -
4.54      Another  major change  is the introduction of large combine
harvesters  in  the area.   When  the  projeut  was planned,  it  was
envisaged that  small Japanese-type  combine harvesters would  be the
main type of harvesters. This was proved wrong by the entry of large
western--type combines  with up to  3.65 metres (12 feet)  axle width.
They  now  harvest   more  than  9S5   of  the  crop   and  the  small
Japanese-type is not  used at all in the area.   The early irrigation
blocks only allowed a farm road width of 3.05 metres (10 feet) which
is  not  sufficiently  wide  for  the  movement  of  these  combines.
Naturally a  review of the farm  roads was conducted with  the result
that the width was subsequertly increased to 3.66 metres (12 feet).
EXTENSION AND TRAINING
4.55      With  increased extension staff, br-inging the  s.taff-farmer
ratio to  1:1000, a modified  Training and Visit  (T &  V) System was
adopted to  enhance the extension  services.  This  T & V  system was
adapted to the agro-ecological and socio-economic conditions in Muda.
Nevertheless, the  basic tenets of the  T & V system  are retained in
the implementation of agricultural extension, i.e. single line of
command,  concentration  of   efforts,  time-bound  work,  continuous
training, field  oriented activities and close  linkage with research
were used as guidelines.
4.56      At  the   locality   level,   an   additional   Agriculture
Technician (A.T.) has been assigned to take charge of the extensiotn
work. The extension service is under a single line of technical and
administrative command.   All extension A.T.s are  responsible to the
.locality  Assistant  Agriculture Officer  (A.A-0.),  who  in turn  is
answerable to the District Agriculture Officer (A.0.). The District
A.0. is responsible for the  operation of the extension activities in
the respective districts.
4.57      As  far as  possible, regular  time-bound work is conducted
by the A.T. extension to meet and educate the farmers, helping them
to make the best use of their resources within their command.
However,  farm visits  are not  carried  out rigidly  on a  fortnight
basis. Generally speaking, the A-T. extension on the average is able
to meet the farmers 6 to 0 times in a season.
4.58      Regular and  continuous training  of the extension staff is
carried out every month at the district level to enhance their
technical  and  operational  capacity.   On  top  of  that,  frequent
technical seminars  and workshops are  organised for them.   They are
equipped with an extension manual on tertiary development, with
complete recommendations on agronomy, crop protection and irrigation
management.  These  manuals are updated  from time to  time.  Monthly
extension  bulletins  are  issued.    Demonstration  plots  are  also
organised and have been established in 50% of the commissioned ISAs
in full cooperation with progressive farmers.
4.59      In the  implementation  of the  T & V system in the Muda II



- 4S
blocks, several problems have surfaced and posed as hinderances to
the extension workers:
a. In many of the Muda II blocks, settlement pattern is in
the form of scattered or linear settlement pattern.
Marny farmers are operating on several parcels of land
in   different  blocks.   Formation  of  functional work
groups is hence faced with marny difficulties.
bt Organisation of work groups for the maintenance of the
tertiary system has not met with much success due to the
individualistic attitude  of farmers.  However, in areas
where  group  spirit is  strong, maintenance  works  are
carried out by farmers satisfactorily, e.g. in ALBD 4.
c. Strong local leadership in some of the Muda II blocks
is lacking- Farmers are overdependent on the extension
staff in organising activities for them.
d. Differences in political affiliation tend to segregate
the farmers within the same block.
e. Fortnightly visits to the ISA cannot be strictly adhered
to because not all the extension staff can be freed from
other urgent jobs. For example, the extension staff has
to take care of crop pr-otection in the locality,
organise supply of farm inputs, and assist in the
implementation  of  the   fertiliser   subsidy   scheme.
Moreover, rice is being planted as a monocrop in the
Muda area, and thus visits based on farm activities is
found to be more appropriate than visits based on
rigid time schedules.
f. Many of the extension staff are new, and as such, do not
feel confident enough to execute their duties.
CROP PROTECTION
4.60      As  expected, the  implementation  of  rice double cropping
has resulted in an increase of the cropping intensity, modifications
in the field microclimate, and change; in the species dominance of
rice pests. Since the late 1970s, several epidemics have occurred in
the Muda area, for instance, the infestations of white-backed plant
hoppers (Sogatella furcifera) in 1979, the Tungro virus disease
(vectored by the  green leaf hopper Nephotettix virescens)  in 1981 -
1983, the brown plant hopper 'Ni1aparvata lIugeris) in 1983 and rodent
attacks (Rattus argentiventer) in 1984.
4.61      However, these  pest occurrences have decreased thereafter
due to the implementation of an integrated pest management (IPM)
programme  in  the  Muda  area.   The 3  agencies  involved  in  crop
protection activities, namely, MARDI, DOA and MADA are constantly in



- 46 -
close coordination.   Monthly crop protection committee  meetings are
held in Alor Setar to assess the pest situation. These meetings also
serve as  a  forum   where   researchers  from  MARDI  present  their
research findings on the screening of new agrochemicals and results
of  resistent  rice variety  development.   The  DOA Crop  Protection
Branch informs the committee members on their pest forecasting and
field surveillance results
4.62      Upon  receiving  the  warning  from the  field surveillance
staff  that  pest  populations   have  escalated  beyong  the  action
thresholds, MADA is responsible for the organisation of farmers to
carry out ti'mely application of pesticides on a group basis. In
order to strengthen the crop protection services at the farms, MADA
has taken positive steps in the formation of crop protection brigades
among farmers at the locality level to ensure pr,per handling of
pesticide application equipment.
4.63      From 1980  onwards, the practice of direct seeding has been
gaining momentum as a result of which the spectrum of weed species
have also  changed remarkably.   Broad leaves  and sedges  which were
dominant under transplanted conditions have given way to the grassy
weeds such as Echinochloa crusgalli and Leptochloa chinensis.  In the
off season of 1987, when most of the Muda farmers practiced dry
seeding and volunteer seedling culture, 77% and 46% of the farmers
interviewed during field investigations reported the incidence of
barnyard  grass   (Echinochloa  species)  and   Leptochloa  chinensis
infestation  respectively.    Presently,  MADA  has   formulated  the
guidelines for an integrated weed management (IWM) programme under
direct seeding culture. This has been successfully tested in the
field. Multi-media strategic extension campaigns on IWM have been
planned for its large-scale launching in the Muda area.
SEED PRODUCTION
4.64      The  DOA  Crop  Production  Branch  in  Telok  Chengai  is
currently producing 500 metric tons of certified seeds per season.
Resides the Government Seed Farm which it manages, several selected
seed   grower   schemes   are   also   established   under   DOA/MADA
collaboration. Presently, the quantity of seeds produced is adequate
to meet the requirements in MADA because at the locality level, many
enterprisin.0 farmers are also selling seeds to their neighbours. The
Regional Seed  Assessment Committee with representatives  from MARDI,
DOA, LPN, FOA, and MADA meet regularly to discuss the varieties that
should be  recommended and multiplied.   Currently, more than  70% of
the Muda area is planted with high yielding MARDI varieties.
4.65      The seed distribution process is smoothly carried out. This
is facilitated by the establishment of 27 seed stores which served as
temporary storage and distribution centres at the FDCs.



- 47 *-
RESEARCH
4.66      For  the  continuous  refinement of  the  location-specific
extension recommendations, close liaison is established between MADA
and the Rice Research Division of MARDI through regular meetings,
conducted  quarterly.   Major  topics  discussed  in  these  meetings
include the progress of research activities on varietal development,
fertiliser studies, crop establishment methods, water management,
farm   mechanization   and   crop   protection   approaches.    Local
verification trials (LVTs) conducted jointly by MARDI and MADA on new
varieties were carried out seasonally in the Muda area. It is
noteworthy that the LVTs have facilitated the large scale adoption of
MARDI varieties over the entire Muda area.
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
4.67      One of  the services  provided by the Farmers' Organisation
is credit facilities for padi production. This is to ensure that
besides timely and  adequate water supply, farmers  should have other
essential  inputs  such  as   fertilisers,  agrochemicals,  and  cash
advances for land preparation and transplanting expenses.
4.68      The  credit  scheme  is financed  by the  Agricultural Bank
of  Malaysia since  its inception.   Most of  the farmers  (80x) were
using these facilities through the FDCs. However, when the Government
of Malaysia started  the fertiliser subsidy scheme in  the off season
of 1979, the percentage of farmers depending on production credit has
dropped tremendously to  30%Z  This is because the  credit scheme now
only covers land preparation, transplanting expenses and pesticides.
Fertilisers are obtained through the fertiliser subsidy scheme or
through their own efforts or also through the Farmers' Organisation's
own credit programme.
4.69      Since the off  season 1980,  the credit  scheme is  handled
directly  by  the Agricultural  Bank  itself.   As  a result  of  the
tertiary system development, most of the Muda farmers involved are
more stabilised in their production and are able to meet the
repayment schedules of the credit institution. The recovery rate is
very promising, at 90%.
COST RECOVERY
/ 7r      As  spelt out  in the  SAR, no  special taxation of project
ficieries to recover project costs was envisaged, in view of the
low level of incomes  of padi farmers in the project  area as well as
the fact that farmers already pay zakat, a religious obligation,
payment of which is proportional to incomes. The project management
notes that regular zakat payments continue to be made by farmers, who
are  almost   all  Muislims,  and   they  would  make   a  substantial
contribution to cost recovery.



- 48 -
4.71      Irrigation  rates have  remained constant and also continue
to be collected by the State Governments of Kedah and Perlis. These
collections are passed on to MADA as contributions to the operation
and maintenance of the project. Considerations on increasing these
rates have been discussed from time to time and also exchange of
views with the state governments taken place. No decisions have been
made to date.  It is noted however that the operation and maintenance
of the project is not constrained by both the level of zakat payments
or collection of irrigation rates. All the operation and maintenance
expenditure requirements are provided through Federal and State
grants to MADA.



- 49 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
CROP YIELDS
5.1       At   project   appraisal   time,  it   was   assumed   that
pre-project yields are at a stable level and would remain at 2.9 -
3.5 tons per hectare for the main season and 2.9 - 3.8 tons per
hectare for the dry or off season, depending on the soil types; the
lower extreme of the range representing the acid sulphate soils and
the upper extreme the first class soils. Post-project yields were
assumed to increase to 3.5 - 4.2 tons per hectare for the main season
and 3.6 - 4.6 tons per hectare for the off season.
Yield Assumptions At Appraisal
Pre & Future                 Future with
Without Project                  Project
Main Season        2.9 - 3.5 t/ha               3.5 - 4.2 t/ha
Off Season         2.9 - 3.8 t/ha               3.6 - 4.6 t/ha
5.2       In 1979, the Government of Malaysia introduced a fertiliser
subsidy programme in which all farmers are eligible for free
fertilisers  to a  maximum farm  holding of  2.4 hectares  (6 acres).
This measure has effectively increased yields as the level of
fertiliser utilisation rose up. The average yields in Muda in 1980
was already 4.0 tons per hectare which is higher than the pre-project
estimates made at appraisal time. In addition, yield analysis also
showed that the yield differentials between soil types and between
seasons are no longer significant as assumed in the SAR.
5.3       By the off season 1982, yields  began dropping, due  mainly
to pest and diseases like the brown and white-back hoppers and
tungro. Water stress was also serious during the last few years and
has effectively reduced yields further. A summary of the yields in
Muda II and non-Muda II irrigation blocks are presented below, and a
full table given in Annex 3, Table 1.



- 50 -
Padi Yields In Project Area
___________________________
(Tons per hectare)
Period                 Non-Muda II                Muda II
Irrigation Blocks      Irrigation Blocks
1980 - 1984               3.27                     3.22
1985 - 1987               3.55                     3.76
Source: Muda II Evaluation Survey
5.4       In the early years of  project implementation  there was no
differentiation in yields between the Muda II irrigation blocks and
non-Muda II irrigation blocks obtained from a special evaluation
survey.   This   is  dut? to   the  slow  progress  of   the  project
implementation and only a small number of blocks were completed then
(see Annex 3, Table 1). Since 1985 however, slight differentials
began to appear, although they are marginal and not significant.
This was supported by a further analysis of a different survey data,
the Crop Cutting Survey, where the yields from completed Muda II
areas were separated out. The results are seen below.
Comparison Of Yields From C.C.S. Survey
--------------..------------------------
(Tons per hectare)
Non-Muda II          Muda II
Off Season 1985                 3.56               3.75
Main Season 1985                3.94               4.19
Off Season 1986                 3.41               3.30
Main Season 1986                4.29               4.59
Off Season 1987                 2.53               2.87
5.5       It is reasoned that farmers in  Muda take a longer  time to
adapt  to   the  facilities   and  potential   offered  by   the  new
infrastructure  and have  generally  considered it  as a  convenience
project. It is not unreasonable to assume that yields in the Muda II
areas will rise further in the long run as more and more farmers
avail  themselves  to  the  facilities   and  the  potential  of  the
facilities is realized. This may take much longer- than the Appraisal
Report envisaged.



- 51 -
FARM MANAGEMENT
5.6       Average farm  sizes in  the  sample blocks  have  increased
over the past 5 years and in 1986 average farm size was 1.91
hectares, an increase over the average of 1.38 hectares in 1981.
This reflects the consolidation of farms into larger holdings to take
advantage of the increased viability of padi farming (with fertiliser
and price subsidies and cost-saving techniques of production). This
is shown in the farm size distribution of farms as seen below:
Farm Size Distribution
______________________
(X)
1981       1986
< 3 relongs (<0-86 hectares)               33.6        14.5
3 - 5.9 relongs (0.86 - 1.71 ha.)           40.5       37.0
6 - 8.9 relongs (1.72 - 2.57 ha-)           14.8       24.4
9 relongs & above (2.58 ha. & above)        11.2       24.0
Source: Muda II Evaluation Survey
5.7       The  land  tenure  status  in  1986  obtained from the same
survey is reflected below. Pure owner operators make up 41% of the
total farmers while  pure tenants make up an  almost equal proportion
(392). The rest are mixed tenancy.
Land Tenure In 1986
Owner Operators               41X
Tenant Operators              39%
Owner-Tenant Operat.ors       19%
Othters                        1%
Source: Muda II Evaluation Survey
5.8       The pattern  of  labour  utilisation  have  undergone  some
changes, as shown below. it reveals a reduction of labour usage from
a pre-project average of 253 man-hours per hectare to 215 man-hours
per hectare in 1986. This reduction is attributed to the upsurge of
practice of direct seeding which brings with it the advantage of
labour savings.



- 52 -
Total Labour Utilisation Per Hectare
------------------------------------
(man-hours)
Muda II Blocks    Non-Muda II Blocks  Overall
1/81 - 2/82             254                 252             253
2/06                    203                 231             215
Source: Muda II Evaluation Survey
Secondly, it shows a difference in labour utilisation between the 2
areas. The following table gives the breakdown of labour utilisation
into its activities. It shows generally a reduction of labour usage
in all activities except for land preparation and sowing for direct
seeding in Muda II areas.   This indicates that some  labour savings
can be attributed to the project through the improved access brought
about by the provision of the increased network of farm roads.
Comparison of Labour Utilisation 1986
-------------------------------------
(man-hours per hectare)
Muda II         Non-Muda II
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~  ~   _ ___._   , _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
5  Direct l Transp- X Direct l Transp- t
1 Sowing X lanting X Sowing 1 lanting 5
1                                          _  I_____,___  II______l
5Seed Preparation
& Nursery                   4.9  ;  14.3       5.3  I  18.5
lLand Preparation            24.4  '  1800   , 23.6        19.2  1
5Transplanting/sowing     I  51.9  5 156.5   5 35.3    181.4
IPadi Management          5  48.7  5  49.9      58.4      54.5
,Harvesting               I   4.3  :   4.8       10.7      17.9
5Post Harvest Works       I   2.6       4.0       2.9      0.0
Total              1 136.7  5 247.5   1 136.2  1 299.6  1
Source: Muda II Evaluation Survey
5.9      There has been  no significant  differences  in cost  of
production  between the Muda II and non-Muda  II areas.  The table
below which shows total cash cost of production per hectare from 1981



- 53 -
to 19886 only indicate an increase in costs from an average of $730
per hec:tare in Mujda II areas and $776 in non--Muda II areas (for years
1981 to 1982) to $853 and $839 per hectare respectively irn 1986.
Cash Cost Of Production Per Hectare
Muda II Areas    Non-Muda II Areas       Average
J./81         $713 )                $741 )             $727 )
2/81           $706 )               $867 )             $825 )
1/82          $731 ) $738           $731. ) $776       $731 ) $755
2/82          $720 )                $759 )             $738 )
2/816          $853                 $839               $846f
Source:  Muda II Evaluation Survey
Detailed  comparisons  of  the  cost  components  in  1986  also  are
non-conclusive although there is reason  to support that some savings
in in-field  transport is forthc:omirng  with the increased  network of
roads-
Comparison Of Expenditure 1986
($/Hectare)
Muda IT Areas           Non-Muda II Areas  I
a       I                         I                        a~~~~~~~~~~- -- - - -- - - - -- - -I
Direct iTransp-lAveragelDirect ITransp-IAveragel
ISowing Ilantingl        ISowing llantingl         1
------------------ t        -------l-- --- --   --l--        ----x
a~~                       ~   ~~~                 ~ a  *  .  ..   . 
a Fertiliser        I 2.30 t 1.53 1  1,84 1 2.23 1 5.15 1 3.93 1
I Insecticide          4.90 1 4.11 t 4.45    5.19    748    6 .54 1
, Weedicides          15.03 1 4.91 1 q.40   15.l0        5.080   9.60 I
I Other Inputs      0 25.33 0 24.0  o 24.60 1 29.37 1 19.38 1 23.59 1
land Preparation ,132.59  SI5'-:O 10147.66 :163.f18 1145.95 1153.26 1
I Transpl-/Sowing  I 38,25 0202.70  135.34 1 17.26 1197.20 1121-49 1
I Har-vesting    I 245.06 2S4.8P 1    2sl . .22 1255.05 1257.59 1256.96. 1
a Other Labour      , 14.20 2     11.69 1 12.70 1 17.75 t 11.17   13.95 I
I Transport    ,     111.36 .103.E1 :106.66 :11e.95 1 123.09 1.21.38 1
a Taxes             1163.87 0153.94 :157.64 1132.48 1121.00 1126.36 1
.....           .                                     a ._  __ .  
I     Total         1754.57 :919.03 in5Sl.51 1758.06 1893.97 1837.06 1
Source: Muda IT Evaluation Sur vey



- 54 -
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
5.10      At  the time  of  project appraisal  in  1979, calculatio.is
showed that the Muda II project will yield an economic rate of return
of 18%.  A  recalculation of the viability of the  project.  nowi using
actual expenditure and actual yield performances to dat.e, arnd revised
estimates  of  future expenditure  and  crop  yields, show  that  the
economic rate  of return  is now  6%.  The  Net Present  Value (NPV),
discounted  at  the  accounting  rate of  8%,  is  negative,  M$-24-2
million.  The  reasons for such  a low  economic rate of  return, was
discussed  earlier, the  maiti  reasons being  cost. overruns,  project.
extension, and low yields. Another major reason for this is 'he low
world  prices of  rice which  is  contrary to  SAR predictions.   The
assumptions used  in the calculation  of the economic rate  of return
are discussed below:
a) Costs
5.11      The  total  financial  costs were  taken into account until
1987, after which estimates were made of the amount needed to
complete the project in 1990. This is arn extension over 7 years
beyond  the   appraisal  estimate  for  project:t   completion.   Total
financial  costs show  a cost  overrun of  M$73.5 million,   However,
following  the  appraisal report  procedure,  not  all the  financial
expenditure were included in the calculation of the economic rate of
return.  These costs were also conver-ted to economic costs.
5.12      In summary, the t-conomic cost  of the  project comprise the
entire  expenditure on  tertiary  facilities, 25%  of expernditure  on
buildings,  equipment, coastal  protectior,  works, and  miscellaneous
works, and 63% of expenditure on majior drainage improve.ments. The
entire cost of engineering and supervision wer-e also allocated to the
project  cost.   The  entire  cost of  pilot  projec-ts  arnd  studies,
technical  services, trainingo  and  monitoring  and evaluation,  were
excluded from the calculations.  The financial land acquisitior cost.s
were also  excluded, sirice the project  area was also reduced  by t.he
corresporndin,g  area used  up for  infrastruture.  The  tot.al economiu
costs  so derived  amount  to  M$131.47 million  at  1987 prices.   A
nominal salvage  value of 25%  of project  cost was assumed  after 30
years.
5.13      Operation   and   maintenance  cost   of  the  project  was
calculated  at  M$107 per  hectare,  a  two-fold  increase  over  the
appraisal estimate of M$54 per  hectare.  This figure  includes total
operation cost of the tertiary facilities, including operation of the
Farm Irrigation Turnouts (FITs) and  1yrainage Outlets (DOs).  It also
includes the cost of regular clearing of the tertiary canals, drains,
ISU boundaries, maintaining  ring bunds around the DOs,  and the cost
of maintenance of all the tertiary structures and farm roads.
5.14      The incremental cost of producing  padi. was also calculated
using the basis in Annex 4,  Table 7.  Compared to appraisal time, it



- 55 -
shows a drop in production costs, due mainly to the savings
attributed to  direct seedirng.   Comparisons of  costs in  the 'with'
situation and the 'without' situation show further savings in labour
usage.  This is due to the improved access to the farms brought about
by the farm road network. With other inputs being the same, this has
resulted in  a savings in cost  of production when comparinrg  the two
situotions.   These costs  are  also r-educed  to  economic costs  for
calculating the viability of the project.
b. Benefits.
5.15      The  benefits  were  calculated  based  on  the   increased
production  of  padi  with  the   project  compared  to  a  'without'
situation. As stated earlier, yield targets have not been achieved
yet and yield differentials between the two situations have not been
substantial. Yield expectations in the Muda II areas are however
assumed to rise gradually from 1988 to stabilise in the main season
at 4.6 tons per hectare in year 13 (1991), while non-Muda II areas is
expected to register a yield of 4.1 tons per hectare in the same
year.   The  increased  output  also  came  from  increased  cropping
intensity,  with  an  increase  from   176%  to  199%  after  project
completion.
5-16      Rice prices which were used to value this output were based
on World Bank  projections and converted to 1987  prices.  Prices had
shown a declining trend in the last few years and is projected to
remain low in both the short and long run. As such, the value of the
benefits show a much lower figure than expected at appraisal time.
c. Prices.
5.17      The conver-sion of financial prices to economic prices  have
mainly followed the faetors used during appraisal- In all cases, the
conversion factor have been less than unity. The prices used in the
calculations have been adjusted to 1987 prices, the guiding factor
used being the Consumer Price Index for the country.



- 56 -
VI, PERFORMANCE OF THE AID AGENCY
6.1        Throughout its cornstruc tion  period the  project benefitted.
from the  Bank's supervi.sion missions.   During the earlier  years of
the  projec:t., parti.cularly  prior  t.o 19k?.14,  missiorns were  typically
multi-dj.scipli.rnary in  t.ompositior, and  t.hese were indeed  useful t.o
project  implementtors   owing  to   the  wider  variety   of  issues,
engineering agronomy  and economics  that needed  attention.  Project
staff benefitted from the fruitful discussions wit.h Bank officials on
these topics
6-.2       Particularly from 1985 onwards, virtually all mission-s were
undertaken  alone by  Mr. E.   Boerema, a  capable and  knowledgeable
agronomist,  with  a  sound  work;ing  knowledge  of  the  engineering
elements of the project.
..i.3      It  is  not  c:onsidered  that a lhigher  and closer level of
supervision would have helped in  resolving the major problems of the
project,  viz. implementation  delays owing  to budgetary  stiortages,
land acquisi.tion  delays and slow  contractor performance, or  to the
i.ssue of c:ost overruns.
6..4       Overall   however,  the   supervision  agronomist's   close
association with the project, and his deep knowledge of it, helped to
underscore and add emphasi.s to  the impot-tance of the non-engineering
elements  of the  project for  the successful  attainment of  project
goals.



- 57 -
VII. LESSONS l EARNT
" _         t ri{ t o''l i5 X;pe-rz t  i t 'J--  'iit Ii d  itvrt-it that al   Appt htiL.CI I i-ee  wa':
* ~\I't  ir  t  - \   ifm  i  Emtf   l i.'TI   i h    t - a .Ji l -  vl t,n t s.lt y  f, tt mim  t    p, it I i. a i t p i  rin  i:n ' -t
'iria j('1  t.).'- ri :   in  h-   vot . i iri  Arlo nd   ni irlttenilrai c i '    t fjp if  t0lompl ot c-
eA t i at y  .'i*stv em. .    TI ii -. ht.^. b'ri  pat I Iy duje   I 1. o tho high   degroe  of
ind ilvi dtiat 1 i-m  amu-n.r,j M_cI;ci ra,iiit- -'. in  m;itt tir. - perita i ri ing  to pt oduc: t ion
* i4; w 1{ 1  .ti;. i o-',t-' r,,; I I ha tl:  I ityp.:a ll 'y ov(et hi-t if  the  Fatt mcr-:r  ai,t fr riol
i eSi doit i  it Ihi    V-h  t i <tt y     l) Ioc-- 1 m  i i rto --irt-it io)n   wi t-h  thiI
f-I1t i ndet-  di. F f i i, ti_ I. - rI( FI hit- o de,i qri -:11, i    ;d1  temrpt it  takfe'. t.his  i.nri 
fonrs.id: drat.i on  u-v  fat av  tleebhiic alI.1y ftc.i..: i*.   Arn addi .i oniia. approac-h
t.toul  d be  to.i pir a ydevi-lopment oLnry  in  thotsste blot-k-s wherte
tI pr i.cOt ct)omm ittm   nt  n tiL-, i)bt,a mined  ft om   Faymort,-;,' tm   thel r rnle  i;n
1otp'at .ion   nd iri    nt minh-rianro.
.% 2         The     T'-. TmpaI.fi   ( t:.-i:l course!S0)    f or"    f ar- me t 's  have
r,roved   to be   valuablte   both   in, gcinin'3   c-Ic-eptarnce   of farmers   t)
It e ti att y   deve i1. o'pmerin   *t   we I I 1.'-  pt ovi (ding   val iuab] e   inputs   tof
engineers5 in  detailetd(  detsigii   ThieS3e i-our-ses nti-ed t.o be emphasisoed in
1 he ft.t llure-
7 ,3         Aetr ia I    h t.SUYVPYphi.c  xuvy    tin;  whicrh much of the  reliance
for   design, was    ni tiitlly  plat-ed,   proved  to   be inadequate   for the
pt.trpc-!.se.   It is   no-w  I-lear  that detailed  grid  Surveys   at closer-  (100
Feet)  intervalls   ned?(:i to ke t    carried  ou-t   in  the  futur e          This would
-nta.i I ars extended  implementat.iorn p-r iod-
-.,.4         To   the.  extent that.  land ac:quisition  has been  a fac:tor in
implemenritation, delay, the following maiy b.:e c:onsidiered  in  the  fiAtutre:
;..  Explore    the,r       t.. fea sibility    of    t.-stabl i shinig   a    t l.an
Ac:quisition  Urnit wi th  more dAirect conttrol of the  Project.
OFfice.
ii. Updating   of l and   OfficetJ rt ec r ds   on a tcontinuous baEsis
would overc:oine muc::h of the delays,
i.ii.. Int-rease   in   the  amoilnt  of   Tmprotst  Accotiunt   for land
acquisition  would also  be valuable.
7.5          The   i mpo rtan:ce   of adequate support servic:es, particularly
s. rop   Protectiorn  as   a n   integral  part  of   the   Protjec:t  has   been
tjndersscored   by  the   incidencne   of pes7t  arnd   disease prooblems   whichl
aiffected  yield   performanc7e.   Particsular attention  needsl;  t.o be given
1.o thes;e stuppor-t services, in  'utur'. priJects.
At   project   formulation,   two   alternatives   for   tertiary
t:onstruction  were- considered  namely:



- 58 -
i   *m.oi  11  te-nlt-ts   eqs Ai VP i.vlnt?  It) <ibou J  i    i trr  i                bloct.k t 11 cIl    tf
c'r-li.3    I;m.1i. .l  - :'t ( -  I oi::a I   Co ri tIon t    t- toi'    to   pr t. i ( .it  At.e -
i    P. .         r-¶ ij 1f    I: ons t.r SAC t. i Ao:n I         sn tsv.    i lr  o    oInti  ts    lartgo
Ot gi.n  h    Vol  i ntoe nr   I i onal  c   npmit it  i   WV     .cldj iqng.
'ThiA-  fk-.)t met?r          LI It:    '.Ictyt  ' t  ph  f.I'o-1hod -    Tn   'val'<-u;iti.ric     thicih   (if  t[-be   two
whUiA  i, Vn   t A,&t s          r I  I,vn  beort  pt ofeirr tabove  s?pt     i nlp-fly  .i ri  ttli   ight  o1f
I ho  fav i  !1 1,tl  ani^rly   tint 11.         Ot ,t    i:te :r'-   ftc.cod  cliil;iy:. ow  ing   to)  finarnial
it  is    htivowvrkvt   l he  (vpiniti-i iof  t1ith    Pt                       i t    rffice  t.ihat  largu&'
WrI I  at l  F:tt li. 'it,.    utrirlt ta!<i-n  by   in t-trniat ionia 1 ont -rt.rat:t    -.   would  not:
It-tve  -'-    t> i V d sC thi   uIiA, IE tt or O          tt I OYI Ftt;t1A  tAI el iy'.-I   -    Fxperienc-e   elsewhR e -tr-
ri  Mai:. l  y' i a    ha,v;  sh-own      hi-it    wherevet   ' ;- l I              u i-i t iot)n    problems  have
J mpl:9d    i:nfit-st*r,tR: .itw,  i nit   ri              o i oruai  corrtlractot ot         rinv.rit<  ably     terndi  to
Itw,-i l: L.U G,overrnii   t I. o  .solve*I     I  nrid    a'cqu  i';iJtimti ptLtbl:'o-  ..nd  sbm.i. t  large
C(Mrt.tr ii  IC IttA v lsi 1w; F.ut d1t.¢Y* -



- I~~~~ ~ ~
0~~~
4~~~~~~~~~~~ 0
x -41~~~~~~4
U) : 



- 60 -
Annex I
Table I
MALAYSIA
LOAN Nil. 1717-MA: HUDA TT IRRIGATIOIN PROJECT
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
PHYSICAL TARGETe AND ACTUAL PROGRESS
PHYSICAl TARGET             i         ACTUAI.
r t ~~~~~~~~-                     - -- - - - -- -  - - ----------- -- -    ----- - - - - -- - - - -
t            ITfY                  UNIT   I APPRAT-    iVFYISED        REVISFD        198?         1990*
SAL          19800        1985        AT PCR
tt----------t------.   ------,t------------  I------------- ------------~~~~~~~
'LAND ACOUISITION               r    a.   !    34          1054          1292 ?       1057    ,   1300
!TERTIARY IRRIGATION:                                               t
-oncrete lined canals              Ks.   ,   390      1   390      ,   608      ,   458            565
1 -earthe!n canals              I  Ks.          45           45           12            10           10     0
1 -pipelines                    I  K2.          23     ,    23             6            4      a      4 
, -structurdl canalets          ,  Km.          45           45           27           20            20
, -CHO offtake                  I  No.   1   384    ,'  384    ,'  549           1   430            458
, -check crossing                   No.        528          528          973          827           947
I -irrigation end controls        INo.         42           423           14            8            8
I -farm turnouts                    No.       4704     1  4704      I  6836          5141      1  6354      a
1 -pulp houses                  .No.   I    54         '    54            28            2            20     a
I -medium traffic bridges           No.   1    36            3 ;6   0      4                          I-   1  a
1 -secondary canal crossing     I  No.   1   144       ' 144 I            74      1    37      '    39      a
I -primary and secondary        I         ,            a            I            1             a            a
1 canal isprovenent             I  L.S.  1 41.003    1 4.0021    $9.07m            $3.2'm     I 45.711    0
'TERTIARY DRAINAGE              I         a            I            a             a
1 -drains                       1 Kr.   1   490        1 490        1 562         1 38         1   518      a
I -intermediate controls        0  No.   1   635       1   635      1   822       1   707      1   800      a
I -drainage end controls        0  No.   1   234       '   234      1   322       1   268      1   304      1
1 -fars drainage outlets        I  No.   ,  4100       1  4100      1  5582      1  4310       1  5172      1
!FARN ROADS                         Km.   1   985      1   985      1   985       1   510      1  1013      a
lasu PERI,HETER PUNDS           I  VK.   1   196       '   198      1   180           155           170     1
'DRAINAGE IMPROVENENTS          '  L.S.  1 t4.00r    ' S5.70m    ' $1.81m           $0.59m    ' $0.65m
!NINOR DISPERSED VORKS          I  L.S.  I $3.20m    I $3.20m    , 55.35m    ,5.05a    1 $6.00m  a
,COASTAL PROTECTION VORKS       ,  Km.   1   6.0       1   6.3      I   8.3       1  8.46      1  8.46      a
IISCELLANEOUS WORKS            ,  L.S.  1 51.30r    1 '1.30.    , 40.60m         I S0.60m    I0.609    1
,O & N AND CONSTRUCTION                  Ia                         a             a ,                       Ia
IEQUIP,ENT                          L.S.     $6.70r    , S5.72m    , $8.05m         4 t8.24m   1 S8.24i    a
'BUILDINGS                      I  L.S.  , $10.90m    I S24.48m    1 S24.22m    1 424.623    1 $25.02m    1
J 19fO figures are anticipated figures



MALAYSIA
LOAN I717-MA: JOD   IIRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PYSCAL. IMPLERENTATI&I PROGRESS
1                ~~~~~~ACTUAL CUMULATIVE PROGRESS                        ANTICIPATED
ITEM             UNIT:   -------------- --- --------- - -   - --- ----- -----------
1                        1~~~~~~~~~1979  1s1980  1t1981  H 982  1 1983 11984is195le1986:ol1987   1988  1198911998?
-  a  ---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- -----
LANDW ACQUISITION           MIa.    174  1315 .1 584        765  1840  1949  11000  11018  11057    1120  11200  11300 
:TERTIARY IRRIGATION:a                                            I       a        a       a       a       a       a        a       a
1-concrete lineA canals    13. 1   20  1  34  1  70  1135  1 206  1258  1348  1 403  1 458  1 510  1 537  1565 s
-earthern canals          lEa.                       3      3  1 3:          31 lo011l01 to0110i10   i1o1
1-pipelines                IK.                                   a    1    31  41      41    4 1    41    41    41    41
1-structural cantalets   its..l   - 1- 14. 5 5 161161 19 1219                                         20 12012  20 1
1-CHOOfftake               'No. 1   35 1   51 1   99 175 12391312 1  365  1 409 1430 1440 14581!458 1
l-checkctrossing           N1o. 1   40 1   55 11101208 13031453 1590 1606 1827 1905  1 944 1947 1
1irrigation end controls  NO.i   81i   81            81      81i 81 81i   8 1i 81i8!                           A     8    8      1a
I-farm turnouts            INo.      60  1  75  1 45   11249  1 2138  12706  1 4032  1 4541  :5141  15818  1 5980  16254  1
1-puaphouses         lII~:o. 1    - 1    -  a   -1      -  a       a 
-pulp houses                                                     i ~ a    - 21i21i21I    ~112               20 1
l-udius traffic bridgeslMo.1  -               -      -       -      -       -1         1        l  11   11   11
l-secondary canal crossings No. 1    1  1   4  1   4  1 12  1   12  1 13  1  26  1  33  1  37  139  1  39  1  39  1
a-primary and secondary    1                                                       i                                        
Icanal isprovemen          ILS.180.22. 18S0.35s   S 8.6e 181.34. 181.60s 181.86m 182.27m 182.33s 183.25# 184.61. 185.391 1$5.71. 1
ITERTIARY DRAINAGE:         a    a       a       a        a       a       a       a       a       a        a       a       a 
1-drains                    le..  241  321  7511601  212 12681332135613811441147315181
isnterIediate drainage                                  I        I       I       I       a       a        a       a       a       a
Icontrols                   NO.1  441  5211101225130114081  525 163517071758178018001
1-drainage end centrols    :o.1   181    401    541    88    127    159   196               234    268    279   298 3o4:
I-fare drainage outlets    :No. 1 70  1100  1576  11264  11884  12699  13430  13960  14310  14756  15033  151721
IFARN ROAD                  lEa.133  47  79  165 221  282  372  439  510 565 e30 10131
IISU PERIMETER BUNDS        Ire. It   -  13.85  1  24  1  58  1  81  1 107  1: 107  :1 138  1: 155  1: 160  :1 170  :1 170  :1
IDRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS      1L.S.1,   -  180.22. 1 $0.3. 180.31. 180.31. 180.31s 180.31. 180.41. 180.59s 10.65a 180.65. 1*0.65s It
'INIOR DISPERED WORKS       1L.S.182.34. 18S2.67. 1 2.8u 182.82. 182.82. I182.89a 184.07. 184.69. 185.05. 185.09. 35.050 16.00. 1
'COASTAL PROTECTION WORKS   11.. 1 1.15  1 5.601 6.30  1, 6.30  1, 6.30  1 6.30  '1 6.30  I 8.46  It 8.46  I 8.46  1 8.46  1 8.46  '1
IMSEANUSORS                  1..0.518.510.018.018.818.018.010.010.018.018.010.D I
l0&M AND CONSTRUCTION       a    a        a       a       a       a       a       a        a       a       a       a       a        a
IEQUIPENT                   1L.S.180.52s 318133. 12.95. 132.99a 185.20. 186.33. 18S7.0. 17.80. 388.24s 188.12. 188.12. 188.24. 
IDUILDINGS                  1L.S.1$0.80s 182.669 185.78. 189.39S' 112.51.1818.37.8t2l.62.1824.31.I824.62.1825.02.8$25.02a,125.0o2,



MALAYSIA
LOAN NO. 1717:NA - HUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
FINANCIAL IIIPLEHENTATION PROGRESS
!  RFVISEfl   RCVISfD                     EXPENDITURE (M$ HI.llON CUNUIATTV{E
,APPRAISALIESTIMATE 1ESTINATE  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------,'
CATEGORY             1ESTIMATF   1 1980   ,  1985   '                            ACTUAl                                      ANTrCTPATFD        I
- ,-,                 *          t_______________________________________---_---------_------------!-
'                    ,  fMSs,l  . H  M5~~(s,)     (KSR,)  11979 119s80 ,l1E. ',1982  1 983 ,' l04 I IQ5 ', l6 ! ti;7 ,tP0''8 ,  '3,84   1990 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------_______
*                                t          itt                          t I  I               t      '       '       i       :       :       !      :       t 
,CIVIL NORKS
'ta1O-Far Irrigation             ,          '           ,          '
S1oek Deve1opment          ,' 68.80  8' .66    113.00  111.46114.02,19.85131.60,  43.09: S5.801  70.13i' 81.6 4             .15!         n4.j'!l4.0)1!!.e I
,(b)General Irrigation
System Improvement           1   9.20  1  12.50  t  10.00    1.11; 5.131 6.09! 6.351   7.061  7.061   7.21!  8."!  8.56! Q2   9.921  9.41!
i'~~~~~~~~~~ ,-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -1------------- ----- --- - - - --- - -- ------ -- -- ----- ------ - -- ----------- ---------- ----------- --!
Sub-Total            1  78.00  1 101.16  1 123.00  112.57!19.15!25.94!37.951 50.15i 62.261 'v.341 90.Ol1 e    i      .'11l04.85'1l2.'121.2!,'
!                        i~~~~~~~------------'---------------------------------------------
IBUILDINGS                       1  10.90  1  24.48  1 24.22  1 0.80  2.b61 5.781 Q.,9.  12.511 18.37? 21.621 24.31, 24.A2,' 25.02. 25.02'
!EOUIPHENT                       1   6.60  1   5.72   1   8.05  1 0.521 2.171 2.931 2.9q!  5.201  6.331  7.001  7.RC! 8.241  8.241  8.241  R.W
NAND ACOUISITION                 1   6.90  1  20.09  1  28.00  1 2.40' 5.141 9.57112.77I 15.001 18.241 19.751 21.831 24.471 24.831 26.83! 31.001,
!ENGINCERING & SUPERVISION       1   5.80  1 24.70  1  31.57  t 1.46h  3.891 8.31112.391  16.581 21.031 23.101 25.86; 28.601 31.26: 33.q1 35.7611
IPILOr-PROJECTS & STUDIES        1   4.40  1   4.40  1   0.66  1 0.011 0.221 0.331 0.44,  0.53,  0.601  0.731  0.731  0.731  0.73! 0.731  0.731
JTECHNICAL SERVICES, TRAINING,;             1           ,          ,      1     1      I      ,      ,       I       I       ,                              t
tMONITORINS AND EVALUATION       '  2.20  '   2.96  ,   2.77  ' 0.01' 0.07' 0.11, 0.22'  2.231'  2.48',  2.53,1  2.53'  2.65,  2.651  2.651  2.65,
Base Cost Estimate         1 114.90  1 185.71   1 218.27  ,17.77,'33.30i52.97',76.15,112.20,129.91,152.07,'173.07,186.11,197.42t2l0.221224.61I
!PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES          ,  11.70  1  11.20  1   5.37  1   -,   -,   -,   -,    -                 -      -       -       -       -       -  I  1.3?t
IPRICE INCREASES                 I25.50  133.071               -'-I-1-'- I   -1                              I   -       -  I   -        -  I   -        -,
I                                I,
*     TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        1 152.40  1229.98   1 223.64  !17.77?',3.301S2.97176.151102.201129.911152.07117'3.071186.111197.421?10.221225.93_
I                                          I I  I  I  I  I  I       I       I      I       I t  t                  I       I 
I          I          I          I      t     1      t                      I      I       I       I       I ID I



- 63 -
Annex I
Tab.?le{ 4
17 -  MAMA AY'IA
I.OAN NA   1Z27  MA:IJ  A  Ti TRPIG:ATTON PROJrTCT
PROJF(C`T PrrMPLF-TTi-N RF PORT
COMPARISON OF ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
ANNUAL PROJECT EXPENDITURE
YEAR            F-ST:MATF AT                ACTIAI               EXCHANGE-
APPRAiTSlI                                      RATE *:
Olss      (r)is$)                          US $1 -M$
'           ~~~~~~~~~~~~I            I                       I 
1'979                                           Is4 :>   :   :q.15  2.18
I '7g.>.o  '         I l ,<;       '         7 1f.         1      2.17 -  7
Vl01 28]   ,1                                0 4  I. 55           2.30
1a92                 19.4                     2.,95
1983 r                1 . I'D               11.23                 2.32
1 94       111.4                                                  2.34
1 9PI                                           4                 2. 4         I
19 6                                  I  I11
'  1 9n 7  1                       :         5 17                 2.52
19i0-0     t                       t         e:4-40               2.57
4 . 9IF      r       2. 57        I
1990                                         6.11                 2-57
,                       I                       I 
'           ~~~~~~~~~~~~I            '                       I
Total                69. 0                   4. f; lI
S           I                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I           ~~~~~~~~~~~~I            I                       I 
* Exch;7inge rates taken ft om National Bank Annual Rtepo.rts up to 1.9:;7.
198  -1990 rates artet predictinns



-64.-
Annex 1
T8t.de 5
MALAQYSIA
LOAN NO. 1717--MA: MlJDA II  RIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION PROJECT.
COMPARISON BETWEEN SAR ESTIMATES AND
ACTUAL EXPENDITURE
IACTUAL EXPFNDITURE I
I   SAR   O1----------               COST
l  ESTIMATEII   TO                 I OVERRUN l
PROJECT COMPONENT            I               1987    I COMPLFTEI
PROJECT*!
(M$m)   I(M$sm)        (M$m)  l ()
I - -- - - - - - - ---- - -.-.--- ----- 
I                                      .          I           I           I           I
11- CTVIL WORKS:                       I                                  I           l
I   a)Orn-farm Irrigation
Block Development               l        f0,80  I    00.15   I 112.29  ;  f-3.?i  1
l   b)Genieral Irrigation
System Improvementl   9.20   |                    .56   1    8F92      --3.04
;  -- - . . I, .       I         -.l     . ....     . .    I
5  7.00      9A.71   1 121.21   1  55.40
I                                      1          1.          I           I           I
12. BUIL..DINGS                           10.90       24.f2   1  25.02      129.54   1
13. EQUIPMENT                          0 6 fi.0  1   9.24   1   8.24  1  24.0R5  1
14. LAND ACOIUISITION                  1   6.90  1  24.47   1  31.00   1 349.20   1
15. ENGINEERING & SUPERVISION          1   5.80   1  28.69   1  35.7f6   1 516.55   1
16. PILOT PROJECT & STUDIES            I   4.40  1   0.73   1   0.73   1 -*0341   1
17. TECHNICAL STUDIES, TRAINING, 1                1           I I
1   MONITORING & EVALUATION            1   2.20   1   2.65   1   2.65   1  20.45  1
t ..................~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    --  :           _ . * . .   . ...    I-   .     --    . .   I .t
TOTAL BASE COST             1 114.00        I 186.11   1 224..61   1  95.65   1
I                                      I          I           I           S           I
10. PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES             I  11.70   1    -      5   1.32   1  00.7?1
19. PRICE INCREASES'                      25.90   I    -      I     -         I
I                  ,                         ,                   _.  .__........I.... ...  _........,...............        ..  
TOTAL PROJFCT COSTS            I 152.4n   1 106..1     1 225.93   1  4A.2S  1
*Estimates to complete the project in 19R90



- 65 -                                   Figure 1
MALAYSA
LOAN 1717- MA' MUQA 8 RRIAION REPORT
PROJECT COMPLETON REPORT
NWMSON Of INPWENWN SOEOIE - TERiY SYSEm
_.   SYSTEM        T                 N     11 t1 I 979    IO 19     1     16   1M            199   9
I  CtRBO 9.                 _ 
t49S h)                              l 
(495 I. 
2 SCR8DiSb         _ _        _        _         __                 _
(who)~                                        - 
2 SUIIO Sb
plum 2                                  -                             
(206 ha)                                                                   IN-  _
2 SRU  Sb                                                                               77_
_ t- - - - - F- -__
3  ALSO7
Phase?
1218h1)       on
4  ACR0D 5.
(710h)      _
3  ALSO?7
( ttt,o)xb   -   -   -                    _ -  -   -   -
S  SCRBD5Sbi
6  ALMD6
(6M1 ha)
6  ALSD 6                                                                                 %
Ptim*2                                                              - T > -i--     ,  8
C 247 ha)
7  ALSOD
1363 ha)                                 *     --
a  CCRBO I
Plume 1 *=                     ,      I-      
_ (477 ha)
8 CCRt0 I                                X     §     I                  I      I 
Phase lb1
| 296 ha)*
LEGEND
APPRAISAL                             ArTUAL
LAND ACQUISMON                        LAJU1 ACUISIIMON
PLANNING AND DESIGN                   PLANNIG  D DESIN
I_mnmi TENDTRING                               TENOERING
CONSTRUCION                           CONSTRUCTION



wqmm   OIIF nnmWO    SwoEOUES -  nm   ysm            66 -
*L.   SE          -   07-    m1 M I                                  I                  -       -m
mm 2
_Ct222)               _- I   .-.    . _
9  ALD09b
(435 1.)                       ___
n  D130W1d&1g          _      _    
CU61 a)
u  ~ ~           -nh  _              -.|.   - _                                            -   
(79 be I
14 CR5O 36 b_
(813h1.)
_   _  -                               _-..
14 SCLIO 2
17 CCRSO 14b
It58bl)                        _        _                                _ '..
IS ScRDO4
U  SCRUO4) 
19 SCRBO 2
____,                                                                          -. 6  i j__ 
20  LOBO 2
LEGEND
APPRAISAL                           ACTUAL
-    LAND  _ L    ACOUS                     LAM   ACQTON
E   PLANNING AND OESIGN                PLANG AND OESN
TO1hh_    TEND G
CMNSTRUCtIN                   _     CONSTRtON



-       -it z - 7 -       -       67 -
ji SYSTEi            11    197e  9 196    16   132    -    -8   -M     -0    -         -    -     "t-
_____,_                               1__3                      ... __6 .9516  9  99i
21 CQOO 2a
(1 M3
X- -lw  -q                .    -                           m_*__
23 LOW 6
C 547 ha)
24 RtCO 2b
-  _-   -  
2z  scesnI
_i (CRD0 6
2   ARS_ 4
Pmsh __=  I
29  ALSO 4
phase 2
251 be)
30  CR80u                      _                   3b   
31 LBR S7
C S9S ha)
32  AC L.4C
C345 ho)
33 CCR9D 9a
C(340 ha)
34 CCR89 _14.
PhaseI
___I . 3_9_h_-
LEGEND
APPRAISAL                              ACTUAL
LAND ACUOfCISITN                 _     LANO ACQWISIlIN
PLANNING AND DESGN                     PANNG AND OESN
_03 TNDERNG                              _     TENOERING
tWIcTRuCTION                           CONSTRUCTION



-68
SYSTEM       1977    978   19    1980   I6    192   1983  1984  1985  198    1987  1988   1969   990
O. ( ___-_____--                                                                               -        G  --59
34 CCR8O14c                                                                                   150%
Phtase 2
(l57 ha)                                     m                                                      9 U:
35  ARBO c
(46 ha)-                                                  -*                   -
36  ACLBO 4b                                .       I    -                                    j 75%
_ 270 ha )                                                                     -  -
37 CCLBO1    ._                               77n   = _
(134h)          _                                         -      m      -
38  5(1.._3                                                                              ___   46%
Secondary -
38  SCLBO 3
_99t ha)                                                                                      6%
LEGEND
APPRAISAL                                 ACTUAL
LAND ACQUISMON                            LAND ACQUISMON
PLANNIKG AND DESIGN             PMM         ANNIN6 AND DESI1N
T                                         TENDERIN  tENERIN6
r    J ,CONSTRUCTION                                CONSTRUCTION



- ulDUg       ll
9               ~~~              ~~sum iiml0      nuSl O) 
131AOM 1      r3  gMom
w
mml-i >- -
i   xftlW                 -    
*.f  i        Ift a
I                .Al -            nf* 
-      L 
_m-           1           tDl 1 >~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Ser    e               1VA
gm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
gm   Si
t ^          .  - ~~~~~~69-



rN PRECAST COC  REZTED
SLAs LUIo                                                                  SETT   CULN
LONGITUDINAL SECTION
MILD SIOL SFAICER Psm-  C. NO. A 6                                  ~~~~~SMALL FLAP GAIE (SUPPLEWMEAR  I5RRSWM'
1211U105lA415S  STE LF
O   AND NUT
t2mM. STAINLESS STEL BOLT        C1 *.mCAST h-TSITU SLAB 
Own   e tH. CONNErCTING ICOM//82      
12mm TN. RUDBER SEAL,          * i ,                COUPLlNG OR EQUIVALENT
ttmm STAJNESSSU       TEEL -   -                  -- ___-                            \\        \L
BOLT A'  NUT                                                                                                                                FA GT
TDIS SURFACE                     INLOT                                                                                                                  I
AND PLAINS INIS            
195AC. PIPE
U.A.C PR     i.T  DUCT
OR EQIVALEN4T            CCE    IE   A
PRECAST CONCRETE INLET
60mm" THICK PECASTIUNII  UNI
CONCRETE  LS.A     ---------4
DETAILS OF INLET                                                         ISOMETRIC  VIEW  OF INLEI
(DIMETNSIONS (N NW4
DETAILS OF 60 FARM  IRRIGATION TURNOUT (F. . T.) FOR
CONCRETE LINED CANAL



_ 71 -
Annex 2
Table I
MALAYSIA
LOAN NO. 17171-A: HIUDA3I IRTIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT COLPIETION REPORT
CROPPED AREA AND CROPPED INTENSITY
(Nec tares)
RUDA It AREAS                 NON-,'JDA II AREAS   I         TOTAL                5
O       SEASON       , DIRECT  O TRANSP- I TOTAL  I DIRECT  I TRANSP- I TOTAL  I DIRECT  5 TRANSP- I TOTAL
1t                   |SOWING    LANTING 0 AREA   I SOWING  , LANTING 1 ARFA   I SOVING  1 LANTING 5 AREA   O
O  PLANTED I        5           PLANTED I                      PLANTED O
1----------------- --------------------------------------                          ----------------
I            I ~~~~~~~~           I                              tIIs
I                    I         I          I         I         I          I         I         I         t          I
t                    I         t          t         I         I          t         t         I         t          I
Off Season 1977   1    -          -         -                   -          -           9     8655   1 88664  1
Main Season 1977  1   -    5 -              -             I                 t                9598   958$98 
Off Season 1978   0   -           -         -         -         -          -         -         -
MHain Season l97   1   -    1   -    5                       I                 O         85      95813    95898  0
I Off Season 1979   1                               -                                    32 1 88632   88664 0
5 Nain Season 1979        -         -          -         -         -         -          101  1 95717  1 958q8 
I Off Season 1980         -         -          -                   -                    662  1 88840  1 89502  1
Hain Season98 I    -              -         -         -          -         -         858  1 95040  1 958981
Off SeasonI9 18       -                    - I                            -        4126  1 06118  1 90244  '
main Season 1981  I   -           -         -         -    , -              -        64is186865 1  93280 1
I Off Season l982   1   -                                                                7 -    I   -    I   -    I   -    I6-8  I
Hain Season 1982  1   -           -         -         -         -          -       22100  1 73151 :  95251
I Off Season 1983   1   -           -          -         -         --                 34300  ' 54889  5 89189Q 1
1 Main Season 1983  1   -    5   -    t   _              -    1   -    5   -    1 27099  1 49451  0 75549  '
Off Season 1984   0 1123   5 3706   0  4829  1 4277  , 3452  1 722J9  O 44400  0  30658  1 83058  '
Iain Sedson 1984  .  1177   , 36449        4826  5 22714  0 67930  1 90644  , 23891  5 7157Q  1 95470  5
O Off Season 1905.    3507   1 5910   1  9417  ' 24576           56693  1 P1269  I 28083  0 62603  1 90686  1
, Hain Season 1985  1 3340   1 60'0   1  94'0  1 599S5  5 26323  1 $6298  1 63315  5 32393  1 95708  1
Off Season 1986   5 7262   , 4233         11495     52140  0 27331  1 7q471  I 59402  1 31564  1 90966  5
Hain Season 1986 5  5905  5  5577            11482   41q44  ,  42568       0 A4512  1 47840  1 40145  1 959Q4  1
Off Season 1987   1 11203   1   !00   I 12113       76719  I   801    77520  ' R7922  1   1711  1 89633  1
Hain Season 1q87  I 7880  ,' 5306   0 1316          54870  1 28066  1 82q36  1 62750  1 33372  1 %122  5
Cropping Intensity 1977 - 1983 - 176%
Cropping Intensity Non-Huda II Areas 1904 - 1Q87   191%
Cropping  Intensity Huda rI Areas 1984 -14S7: 199%



- 72 -
Annex 2
MAI .AYSIA
OANA NO.  Z717--MA: MIJDA IT IRRIGATION  PROJECT
PRROJCT COMPLE ITION REP(RT
LAND ACQUIS1TION PROGRESS FOR TERTIARY SYSTEM
(As At Auoustt 192S)
, lIR,R.T I    TERTIARY          , NO. OF!   DATE OF             PRfGRESS (%)
BLOCKI         SYSTEM             LOT35  SUBMTSsION
NO. 5TO LAND OrFICFI FORM  'G'  FORM  K'
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -1--  5--- ---- 1-- _ __,- ___ 
1  !CCRB,r  9                  71,1 17 I      .9 74    5 6. 5 S    I  -Jf; 5
.  1SRPRBD 5,b                    5261.     , 30.07.77   1     011        :i.7 
1  2   1SCRBD Sb t(Sq. Daun)   271.           27 .10 :5        5. 2    I 5 4
1  3   lALRD 7 (Kediah)         tf.  ,'  ?4 0777            90n         74.7
1  3   IAIL,D 7 (Perlis)           245   1   24-07.77    .         6.7    5  967    i
4   1ACRBD 5                   3           24 .01 .7    I :.6           70.5    t
5  ISCRBD SBI                  429        02.073_77    1  93.7    1  09._7
6 f.  IALFRD 6 (Perlis--Ph.ll) .255 I   27.02.00            9.  no.
is               2~~~~~~~5.10.R01-
I@ AL.R f   (Pertl i-, -Phl *),  2-  ,75lX ::1 A,-                  l(<Ilo I1.oi 
6 , AIB3D    (Kthiah)           10         3  I07 '    .-305    i60 S. 'f-.5 1 I
7   'ALRBD 0 (Kedahl)            7'3       1A'- ..07. -80   3?.. 1     76. 9
7   'A1 AB1D t (Perlis)                    I 3  14071 I     77.6        71 7
1   3   CCRBD I (PhasRe 1A)    2n00   1   22 04. 7:    i  97 j:,         6.r 
0   ICRR)D I (Pr. :,e1 iP),    206 f  1 .5 06 ,A-5.         Q -rfl,     F  7, 13
3  'CfRR .    I (PhastL7:1sA .  2            (15  2  >16 . FLI I  --4 1  73. 7
9   'AI    B                  7354       0-6D .B.79         5.           , 3
10  11.B1 81  v               ,  -- -i   2r r-           i  ,. --   1 76.3
].   I ,ARBD 1                     l3       1601   . 7: O  in00.    0    10o.o
112  !LFRRBD 7                   451        0,'30.101 ,?  I  9.6  f           5
13   'ACLBD P,O13 (PhaF1a:se 1.)    2 1'6 I  20- 0?9         92.         91. 7
173   Ar'L RD Or (Ph-e 2)         4    1   0n.:1. -1 o  tn i    .2       7.21?
1 14   1OO'RBD 7F1 & 3F2                      10.073t 7f-      966         95.73
t 15  tCoRBDI IO,C2A               It'l.4   ..0 7              91.5        09.0
17 l  CrRID 14'?                 rp         2 .04.37        IOWO       100.0
i    lf   t St%9*8Dr    4    {f>,\s   i    f l 4   i   15  04    7~, I-.  ot '--i     fi  inn-n5 7
1 F  ISCRBD 4 (5)               414         15_07.79 {6 t_5- 7
1R  1SCRBRD 4 (I fl              54/4       30,0) 4.1003     35.         I 83.3   1
19  IS-RRD 2 (S)                 2          21.0f7-00    i  92.- 0       91 . f6-
1 19   SrRBD    (UJ)               154. ( tz                 1 ef- o- 4  1  7.3- 
20   ILBRBD 21                             20.07.81        389 .9       0-9.~9
21   1CCL-BD 2A                                                90 21.02.t2    I  90.4  837.3
22   ISCRBD 53                   435   I5  7507.79           93.3    t  92.0
1 23   IL-RRBD 6                   359   t   n7.06-.P 0        90.0        89.1
(Con td. 7



_ 73 -
24  NMCD 'P ,125'.                        , '   ,) 03' 72.97     96.5         96 .1
8  ;    h>E .15-t^.;' '.11   .                                 '    55'.    ,  55  .     t
-2fi  l SrnRr.S   1 (Pha -zw 1)   5,7f         1 I-) 1 0 .       3 81 f       72.2
. 26. IS>>CRRD I (2              .       , .2)  9  n-l -. .34    74.2         73.0
27     CC'RBD 6 (phasf I)                          I t .   2, 1   7 ..2   7.9  8 37.9
27   ICCRBD 6 (Ph s.e 2)           1'?S        07.04 04    i  6t 6. 9         65.7
2    1 ARBD 4                    1 25 .   1 2 - 01 .1            G33 9        32.8
29   1ALPD 4 (Perlis)              - 3.1_5     10.03- 7      J  98.4   9J       . 1 I
29   1ALRD 4 (Kedatb)            1 205   1    in 03.78    ' 9.                87.3
30 5  CCRI) D 9B                   113         30n.05.S1    J:.5    ,  7£.S 
31   ,lIBRBD 7                     3£6.   ,    14 .12.F-80       94.0         92.4
32   1ACLRD 4C                     172   J   19..12..l           92.4         90.7    1
1 33   JCCRBD 9A                   I1797   I   29 1I.I 13A     ,  76e0         73.2
1 34   1CCRBP 14C  (Phase 1)   1 l3n0   I   05.07.?             J  95.0         95.0
34   !CCRBP 14C  (Phas:.>  2),   4,0   1   23.06-81    I  50.0                50.0
35   1ARBD  1C                   '325-.s   1   21.02.82          89I 8    I 6.5
36i  IACIt-D 4J                   I1:          18.11.81          70.4         71-9
37   tCCLBD 1 (Phase 1)    ' 427               16J3.00.2    J 5.7             82.7
I 37   ICCILD I (Phase 2)            119         2P.02.03      5I .83:D3    5,SS.S
I 33   !SCLBD 3                      490n        24-0605    i  90.0    1  70.n0
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _                             _          -. .- _ _ _ _ _ .- . ,  ..--.-. .-_.  - 
TOTAL            11i633  '                       07.3         83.:
.~~~~; = . = __= 7= _= =.=_ I ... . ............... =  == ::_ =  z  == ==_=_=_===__======, _     ==_ .=
Note:  Fot m 'G' -denotes stage where the rate- of compensation has
been agreed.
Form  'K' -d denotes stage where the comperisation is paid and
the Land acquisition  process is completec.



- 74 -
Table 3
MA .AYfUA
lOAN 1NOl0.. h   1717 MA. MIJDA II IRRIGATTON PRLOJECT
PRO.TFf'T COfMPIF TT(') REPORT
RATE OF PHYSICAL PROGRESS
7            ..             , 7     .      _-   .7        . r  . 7    .. .._......., .   ....._.........  - ............  _......
G RO            LAN!)          1FT ARr- A     CI.JMlJI.ATIVF
YEAR        AREA          Al'O(IJTRE>D  CI'CMPL FTED          AREA
O' -IMPI FTFD                                        (ha)
0 t4a)                           (Ha)             (h (a)
I  ___ _                                                                    I 
1981  1'   130                  64             1236             1236
I        I                ,                8                O 
V14SD2       1933)              qI  837                         3073
1 903        2944.             146            21302             5875
1 13S:4      3335              165            3170              9045
1985        1276               137            2A31             11676
190 ,    376 0                186            3574             1 502S t,
I   I      I                I               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  e
I987          2         t      1.62      0      lia            101360
19F13F0*I    3232              160            3072             21440
1Ip,f4: }30                     41              7c9,           22229
1.9II90.:    2879-             143            2736.            24965
I-------I             -3----         ----  ------------ - ---------I
TOTAL       26.26s5           1300            24965
* Projpcted for- years 19813 - 1990



-75 -
AnneQX 2
Table- 4
!l'Aftl H(3. '1'3- MIA: MIMTA IT TP.fiTGAT1ON PROJECrT
PRA-017 rfl OMPL.FTT ON. RFPCiRT
HYDRO)LOGICAL-DATA 1270    1988
IKr-'.rVcIR~ I   'TAI             T9"TAL-         TOTAL          TOTAL
l:'Tf"Af-l- Al-1,NI JIA,    ANNU-.AL        ANN!i [AL      ANNU-Al.
YE-AR,       ON1         !ATI1F AlI t   RESERVOTR   1UNCONTROLL EDt   WATER    1
1,;l.. FF.-               I,NFLOW                FLcW         SUPPLITED 
(ti I. CIAOif u                (Mil . r'ubtic I (Mil. Cubic   (Mi.l. Cu-bics
M~~~tre~~~- ~ ()           Metres)          Metres)         metres) 
-    ......~~.       -*. -- - -  - -  -
1 1970      660.95. 25.1 0                 P1114.-0o         N..A         291L64
19771     12:32.41        2471.00         570.4A            4. A         206.47 
1972 t'122.2.51           2293.10         7/---2.OR    I    N..A         S5-540    I
1 .1173)    12754.-19      22-35.70"      1033..44           N.A          598.39    I
1974      12?                             52 72  - A0527.It    N-A       I0.1
1 1975      028t l,  1 . V4  2102.50  8tI356:. 35    '  1035.10           583.63    I
' 1 976 1    )-48.M    I  2249.0n          8-25.0(5        790.18         954.62    I
.1977     741..-1         .1 t~ 3. -1 -0  5 40.05         386.69         1061.55
1. 17f,  11f'  Q   I9-77.10  't 509.21.             414.087         93.11    I
1 ;  I-,'t 782,".  It  761?3 .3O5  I   599.11          692. 48I       755.58    I
1901-0 It el52 -7.7       21 7.7.-00      702. 48         577.3S         61 5.52
39198 1 It 501.00      1429-50            710.17          350.81         1027.26
190-2  .   140-04         24617.40        874.51          837.13         468.62
191D:3 I   594 _71"       23:07..40       918.68R         779.14         8 44.810.I  I
19P04  ' 011107.04        1595.30         774.71.         549.03         848.20    f
319-45  '   734.2 ?        2066. -30   1 729.54            629.90         869.19    I
1 Q816 It1   fli '3 /1    200,5.0 en      533.-833        835.73         720.75    1
1987  It  3147.8-         1023.8          014.0Cl1        915.90    1422.23
3 £"leItJ    74'+J ..        N.A    It    4-A                N-A             N.A      I
N.A-   Da~t1i Not Available



- 76 -
Annex 2
T,.ibl
MAI AY-TA T A
LOAN  NO.  .1  1' MA:  WtllIDA  T                 I PFRTGAT rTl-  PPRO-._.:T
l-pRIV;rV-T   _r;nML Fi FTrTON  IKrFt IF
LOAN DISBURSEMENT
Anticipatedi (SAR) Arid Actual Schedule Of Disbursements
IRRi.)  F--T.<.t'AI    F'A AF         Af.'f    !  AlFT, FT)T<"PURU FMT-FNT  IJ) $            Ll -    ,TON
I     a.rAND   :FM- r--_
I  APPRATC,Al PF<UrIMATF'                             ACTI AI 
,        . --   ,                                                   -        t-------- -.-  -.-
I     F V. C)                     IIt
2nd                                         1T1                                   1.47              t
J~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                                       . 
I     FY  .-1i
II                                I                        n                                                   I
II        2ndt .-' .1?n I750
£     ~    -n~                                                                              4.'?I  f .I7 
I . .                                                          '.n
rY  :n ~~~~~~~~~2-.:  . 4'
. st:        I                 .~~~~~~~~7   .0                       1. 7.  0            t n,
.'                                I                                           S nd                             II
I Y02                      I                                                                            I
2rid             ~~~~~~~~~1 cacle               i   v                    2 .It
*         1 .-.., I.._    ,i'   I                                                           . -. _* D          t
I         En                      I                 >*.2,f-l                  !           35no  
I                                 I                                           I
I                              ~~~~~~~~~~I 
si   ~         ~~~~~ I                                                      It26-7 
F Y   N.                   ,i                         I
lst:                                                                           2I..   ..4
i         :n '                    I                     .                     I 
I    ~     .'iP4                                      9                       I           i?....)I9  4
I       ii   t                    I                                           I           : m(I n
I                                 Irs-                                        I                                Ianslld i  ,     44 
t                        ~~~~~~~~~~I                                 I                                t
j     ,FY  04                     j                                                                            I.9,,  ttn   s.-r 
I                                 In-  i                                                                      Intu          fi.:ts'  -       7fe& 
t                                 t                                           i                                I
5          sI                     I                                           i           2:.I, 
I   :?nd. i ')'-t Co t 2                                             I                                I
tst                                            ,1  0                                 _  _. r   .0...  ..                ..
liI^I   o  ner.   ft   trI  Itrf  I\Jtt il-   it}ful¢ioen    41.''J1t



MUDA II RIATION PRO.'CT
PROECT OFFICE STAFF TURNOVER -TEENIOAN & DA      ME
POSTS APPROVED
80-                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POST RLLED
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
60 /
.R, I ! I ~~~~~~SAF                                        II  
S.f,TURNDVER
M TRANSFERRE 14
C3 TRANSFERRE OMT
on~~8 79 sae              3    84    as   t16    8       B
YEAR



CIDA   IRRKIGON PROJET
PROECTI  EE SAFF TUROVER - ENGINEERS
30
_~PS 1RIEDD
79 8.    as e8t    82    63    v       65    a6    11    88
YEAR



- 79 -
Annex 3
Table I
MA! AY!73A
T. AN 17-17-MA: MIJDA TT TRRTGATIY)N PROJECT
PR,(ITFr,T !2-)MPI FTTO'N RFi-P:RT
COMPARISON OF NET YEILDS
NOM OF           MlIDA TT        NON-MUIDA II
SiEASON            COMPLETED    IRRTtATIN         I  IRRIGATION    I
Ml JDA TT        BLOCKS                         I
I  t    Bl .l-C.KS  I   ( t.3onss/ha)   '   (tons/ha)   I
*                      I                           
Off Season 1981                              3.6               3.7
Main Season 1981             --              3.7               4.1
Off Season 1982              1               2.9        i27
Ma-in Season   8             3               3.5               3-6
Off Season l98S3   '         45i             2-3        ,      2.5
Mairn Season 1983  1         ;               3.1                3.2
Off Season 1184   I.1                 '       -.0              2.8       It
Main Season 19R4  .         1.  1     I      3         .       3.7
off Soa.onr! 19P.5          17        1      :S It              3.4
Main Season  `941.15       1.9               3.9               3.6
O Off Season 1986   It         23               3,4               3.3
I Main Season 1986            26                4.1               3.9
Sourcet  Mijda    Fvaliiat-or- SurveyI  .                 i
Soul.rCe?: Mijda I11 Eva lat. ior- Survay.



- 80 -
Ar ir,x x
MAIA YSTA
LfOAIN Nr;. .1717- MA: MJV'A I'T TREIVGATTON PROJFCT
PROJECT Cr'MPILETTOh REPORT
COMPARISON OF LAROUR UTILISATION PER HECTARE 1986
MUDA TI  INON-MUDA 111
IIRRT(;ATTOlN'  IRRTGATION 1  AVFRAGE  I
BLOCKS         BLOCKS
I       ~I                              O              I 
(w -n--hour-s) I (man-hout-f-) I(man-hours) I
I   _                             I      l      I       O                _ _
11. Seed Pr-eparation & Nu,rsery         10.6          13.1           11.7
,2  Lan.i Preparation                    20-. I    21L1               20.0 
,
S3. Transplanting/Seeding               113.9         119.7          116.5    ,
I                         a ,aII                                     I
,4. Padi Management                      49.4          56-2           52.3    1
*                                  ,             ,              I             I
.S. Harvesting                            4,7          .14.9           9.1
16. Post-Harvest Work                     3.1           59             4.5
I                                  I             I              '             ,,
I                                   1 ____._                   I        ____.__ .__  I _____  
I                         I~~ I                        I             '
Total                    203.2   I   230.9            214.5    I
I                                  I             I              ,'o
Sourc;e: Muda II Evaluation Sulrvey



Annex 3
Table 3
MALAXYI1A
LOAN NO_ 1717-MA: MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMPAgATIVE STUDY OF WATER UTILISATIN  OR
DIFFERENT PLANTING CULTURAL PRACTICES
IN A MUDA II IRRIGATION BLOCK (CCRBD 3E1&3E2)
I  I  I   5   I             WATER SUPPLY (mm)
ISU     INO. OFi AREA    CULTURAL  5--
NO-       DAYS 5PRACTICE IPRESATURATIONISUPPLEMENTARYI TOTAL
(Ha.) I                PERIOD      O   PERIOD      i    
- - - -- - - -- -  - -- - - -  - - - - ---  - -- - - - --- - - - - 11 - - ---- - - ----   -
a    Al     1  167 t  29   I  Trans-  1    239.6         1   1287.5        1527.1
I   I       I        I ~~~~p'lanting I                   
I       ~~It    ItIlI                                           
--------  ----               i            ---------1--------------1--             -
I ~   ~ ~~~ I':I   DtrY             II                                        I
IFS/F6   I  131 150   !Ploughing i    145-6             I iiin.9     1256.51
t    :       :        t  t)~~~1   irect  1                    
1    7       '       ~~~~~I Seeding  I            It             It        11
I    I   ~~Dry            ItI                   It          I
E3    I132 11  16  ',PJnughing             4            1143.5      112A5,71
I    O       5        I~~~~~ Diretct  5            
I    ,       I       ~~~~~1S5eeding  111I
iDesigned 1 15.7            ITrans-  0    2Ri-n               1 2f;t,      1$4h 
I   i       I        I ~~~plantingI                                         I
:~~~~~~=': i77:=7 7                            
Source:  Mada IT Pilot Pr ject Stadies
rCRRD 3el &3e2



- 82 -
Annex 4
Table I
MA.AYSIA
LOAN NO. 1717-NA: *tDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
CALCULATION OF OPERATION AND  AIMT NCE CT OF A
1000 HECTARE IIIA I} IRRIGATION BLOCK
ACTIVITY                             RATE              CYCLE/            COST
I  I   (ifs)         FREQUENCY/YEAR        (M$     1
i                                                  i* 
,1. Clearing and desilting of tertiary canals    I                   ,                    I            .
25 kh.                                        I $lbO/ko/cycle  I          3          1 12,000   1
12. Clearing of tertiary drains 22.5 km.           I $180/k/cycle  I           4             '6,?o0
,3. Clearing of ISU boundaries 18.5 km.               $ S60/ku/cycle  1        3              3.330
,4. Maintaining ring bunds at drainage outlets   I                                        a I
245 numbers                                   12/no./tiae   ,             2               980
S. Laterite surfacing of tertiary farm roads                       I
47.5 h.*   $4000/kn s                                                 once every        38,000
16. Repairing pot holes on tertiary farm roads   1                          5 years       I
47.5 km.                                           $170/km      '      annually      1  8,075   1
,7. Repaiting ISU boundaries 18.5 km.             $ISO/ko                   annually      !  3,700   1
I8. Desilting of tertiary 4rains 22.5 km.          I   $265/km       O once every S years ,   1,193   1
O9. Topping up of bunds - im.                           $ P601/km     once every 5 years O   1,800   1
110. Repairing irrigation and drainage structures .                                       Ia 
84 numbers                                    I   $20/no.              annually        1 1,680
11l. Repairing farm irrigation turnouts and farm  '                                       a           a
drainage structures 500 numbers               I      6/no,             annually          3,000
112. Operation of farm irrigation turnouts and                       a                    a           I
drainage outlets (2 casudls for 6 months per                                             7,660   1
a   year per 600 hectares)                         I                                      a           a
£~~                                                     .                    .      
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I , 
:Total cost of operation and maintenance per 1000 ha.                                        $ S97,618  0
a                                                                   a           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a                                                                   a           a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 83
Annex 4
Table 2
HALAYSIA
LOAN N0. 1717-TA: NDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
PRMJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FIMANMJAL CAPITAL  OT BREAiMN
(n43)
YEAR
ITEN              -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------I  TOTAL '
1   ' 2   t 3   1 4   7S           6   1 7   1 8   7 9   : 10*  H 11t  1 12*  7
I              .                   .          I  _       ..         I  _          ,                                     
---                            7         7         -   '          -    -       ---- I                          3.  '           £ -
1. Civil Yorks               '11.46 7 2.46 15.84 111.74 112.20 112.71 714.33 111.51 h10.00 74.30 1 8.10 1 9.74 7114.34
72. Coastal Protection         10.5  I 3.80 10.87 1 0.25 , -   7            0.15 1 1.06 1 -   I0.197 -           -   7 6.8?
I  I       I      I      I      I          O 067~
73. Miscellaneous works   I     .S6 10.11 ''-I-I-'7-'-I-7-I-I06 
7 4. Najor Drainage               -     0.21 10.08 1 0.02 1 -         -       -     0.10 1  .18 1 0.17 1 -        -   I 0.761
J5. Equipuent                  '  .52   1.65  0.76 I 0.06 12.21 11.13 1 0.67   0.00 I 0.32 ? -   7 -   1-                 8.1?'
I. Buildings                   0.80   1.86   3.12 I 3.6  1 3.12 '5.86 1 3.25 7 2.69 ' 0.71    -          -       -   I25.02 I
i Land Acquisition            2.40   2.74   4.43 t 3.20 12.23   3.24 : 1.51 t 2.08 1 2.00 ! 1.00 7 2.00 t 4.17 5 31.00 t
P. Engineering & Supervision! 1.46 t 2.43   4.42 1 4.08 t4.19   4.45 , 2.07 1 2.76 12.70 ' 2.70 t 2.70  1 1.80 t 35.76 7
H 9. Pilot Project & Studies    0.01 t0.241 10.11 10.11   0.4 tO.07  0.13                                                 0.73
110. Technical Services,                             t
Ttaining i !onitoring            I       I t           I       I t           I      I t       t      t
& Evdluation              t0.01 t 0.06 10.04; 0.11 12.01 '0.25 1 0.05    -   1'.01  -   '-                   -   I 2.61i
t~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~ .                    I      I ,       ;      7    I      I       I      I      t              ,       7 
I                              I      I       t      I      I       I      I      i      :       I      t              I       !
*            Total             117.77 115.53 ,19.67 123.18 126.05 727.71 122.16 121.00 115.99 , 8.36 :12.80 115.71 1225.93 1
* Anticipated.



- 84 -
ALAYSIxA
LOAN NO. 1717-NA: UDA II IRRIBION PIOJECT
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
DERIVATION OF PROJECT FIMM(CIAL COST
--------:::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::                                                                           :
YEAR
I              ITEM                  -- ---- ------- -------------OTA
O                                  I 1   1 2   1 3   1 4   I 5   1 6   1 7   1 8   1 9   1 10  1 11  1 12  .
'1. Civil Morks (1ion)             111.46 12.46 I5.84 :11.74 112.20 112.71 114.33 111.51 .10.00 14.30 1 8.10 1 9.74 :114.39
i                                  *      *      *          *     .      .      .     .      .           a      a      a .
12. Coastal Protection (251)       I0.14 10.95 IC.22 10.06 1 -           -    0.04 10.27   -   1 0.05 1 -          -   1 1.73 1
t                                  a      1      t      I      t      a      a      t      a      a      I      a      I       a
13. Hiscellaneous  orks (252)      10.14 10.031  -         -      -                                             I---17 -   I   .1
14. Hajor Drainage (632)           1 -   .0.13 .0.05 I0.011   -          -      -    0.06  0.11 10.11 1 -   3             0.47 1
i5. Equipent (25Z)                 10.13  0.41 10.W   10.02 10.55  0.28 10.17 10.20 10.08  1               -           1 2.03,
B. Iuildings (252)                 1 0.20   0.471 0.78   0.90 1 0.78 11.471 0.81 10.671 0.18 1 -   I -   ' -   I 6.26 1
17. Engineering I                  11.46   2.43  4.42 1 4.08 1 4.19 14.45 12.07 12.76 12.70 .2.70 1 2.70 1 1.80 . 35.76 1
1  Supervision (100)               1             a      a      a      a      a      a      a      a      a      a      a       a
a   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~--- ----------          ----------
5                        '    ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~It    It    I1I I         I      I      I 1 1      1      ' I            ',
I              Total               115.35 1 6.88 111.50 116.81 117.72 118.91 117.42 115.47 113.07   7.16 110.80 111.54 1160.81 1
a                                  a      a      a      a      a      a      a      a      a      a      a      a      a       a
t                                  a      a      a      a      a      a      a      a      a      a      a      a      a       a



- 85 -
Annex 4
Tabl.e 4
MAI.AYSIA
LoAN NOC3  117 MA: MLJDA II IRRTGATION PROJECT
PROJFr-T COMPLETION REPORT
PROJECT FINANCIAL CAPITAL AND MAINTENANCE COST
CAPITAL. COST       IOFFRATTON AND5
YEAR                                      MAINTENANCE COST
(Ms,n)                      (M$m)
I t
2                1.1.50
I                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I      ?      I          A   F t)      I                                 I
I                tAJ l f. F l   '0n. 12
1  5             17 _.72        I_ 0
I(.C0 SO1                                       I
7          It                                                       It'.)C 
:  .7  f         17.I42                        1 14
£ --   |  1 ' s _ 4 7                  .1.14
in ';      5           1..i 7                       _4
I             I .I                                    ¶ A2    .          I
14      '           -            I              ..-44              I
,'   t r)  . f)   li   _.                   ,)., 4 as          I
77 I'  7:      7 7           :                       7
_12 ..         ..._._... ._._..... ..  _  ._== __......... _____2.17  ___=. =_.   =.   



.WAAYSIA
LO'AN NO, 171741A: HIIDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
FROJECT COtiPL[TION REPORT
PADI PRODUCTION BUILD-UP
1                    M~~~~~~~~AIN SFAS~N                                          WF  SEASON                      I TOMA         TC-TAL
------------  ------------------------------------------ PRO!)UCTTI'HPRODUCTION',
IYFARIUNBENIFITTEOIAVERAGFIBrNirITTrD APFAIAVERAGFI sFAVMALA HIllPFNIFITTFD,AvrRAGF!8FNIFTTTE0MAVFRAGEI SWAONAt   WIT4                 WVTWOIJTiHIMCRFIEHTA
AREA      YE              -YIELC 1FRODUCTON!    AREA                   YIELD      AREA      ' YrELD 1PRODUCTIAN! PROJECT    PROJECT    PRODUCTIONI
*  2    '~~~~~~~~~~~C '  ?~~~~~~~'T                       7~~~~~    7                                                         
(Hal          I       I  /6   -44  (A   I        I..d To.p !                                                r12i-         Is  To           1(Tns
I    I                I        I~~~~7               j                                                               I J       1; I15   IS
4 1   24,VS   1  3.6   121,00  1 ld,36    7.5  I1 94,i!            1,"       12           1,224     2.9  154,777  1148.9" i 148,449                 528
51 23,0312   1   . 2  ! 3,2331'  3,      3.1   R1 A,223        17,504       2.5  11  5,042    -2.3       SO ,757    133 ),06  !153,9,51          35
6     20,Q91   f  3.7   /4,18!   5,117S     3.9    9%,V!           15,264       V.        516;     3.0  160,187  1 115$,823)  1153071             3S,) ?
8     13,981       3. q  h12,2P4 lll,t76    4.1   102 1lOI 1 ,  i2,2U           .3. I  11,559        3.4     74,346,   17t6,764    16F,05         8,459
9 10,221       3.8  i1,04                                          135011%9  If  2.5  115,0998    2.0    63,204    I63,O44    14Q,710     17,7334
t'10     6,941  t'7.9  1'19,324 N18,10  '  4.2)   104,!57  1          5,275       3.5  1  18,84       3.i8     P7,562    191078    1?2,247       19,481
11      7, 70"      1.'  12,55A 171,40 1              1fl9,102       2,S10       7.    21,226        4110,5              Mh O,62)     7,1         27,?1 3 
12  2,879  4.1  1237386 122,220    4.~~    i13~7~   1    2,!~u  3.9     22,00'7    4.4    105,364    219,421    185,534      33,8R
13       -- 126,265 124,963 1  4.6  1 114,75?                         -           - 1 4,3            4. 10846            2,5          1,54        38,037   1
Note:  Lanid acquisition      5%
Ctopping intensity without project        IY6
Cropping intensity with project           1Q9%                                                                                                              Ij



-87 -
Annte)x 4
MALAYSJA  ~Table 6
I OAN 1NO. 1.71U'MA: MIIDA TT TRRTGATTON PROJECT
PROXECT C.OMPI FTTON FrrORT
CROP PRODUCTIONt COSTS
APPRATSAL      ---"      -       1
-  -  - . ..-  ~~ESTTMATE   WITHOUT     WITH
I       ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ItI
1L.ABOUR TNPUTS) (mnan--hours/ha)  ItI                        tI
Land Prepar atiorn anid Nursery         93 1    - 1        3      1 ..3  £ 
Transplantin,g/Sotwin,g                I e- I1A     11,17       113.9 
C rcop Mainitenance/Tranispn't          126.7     I   56..-?      49.4
Harvesting                             1 39. 3       20P   I      0. -0
I                              4 1,31n       2,30.~~~~~~~~ _  I-   I
IAGRICUL.TURAL INPUTFS (kq/ha)
AmmonitiAM Phosphate                    1?              
Compound (N-P-r)                        '1       I   IQ37   i      3    I
. Jra                                  12           10     1    O
Insecticides                            0e-          10          10
Seeds                                    55-0.                  1501
CrONTRACT TNEt)T'UT, ($/ha)
PlOuAghingj                             I21 I200                 20 0
Hat vesting (combin,eA           f1 I-  210                      210
Prices (s/kg)
Ammonium Phospk:ite
CofnPO.Ind (N.P.K      -0~ :-310
Urea                   .-- .,:;
In e~t. j. r idr         I 70
Seeds.                   1 . n00
Seed rate- 25 kg/ha for tracv-pl.dnt Ing
-0.0 kg/ha for- ditrect soDwing
Appraisal   63% har-vestin-g by combine
-100% transplanting
-    ~PCR           100% har-vesting by combine
-40% tr-ansplanting + 60% dlirect sowing



- 88 -
Artr;ex 4
Tablt 7
MAL AYSIA
LOAN NO. 1717-MA:,   IJDA IT ThRIGATICIA PRfJFC,'T
PROJECT CtMPL ETIlN RiPO)RT
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PRODUCTION COSTS
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~n    ..                                                   7   7.   7   :
F'NANCIAL I ECONOMIC
'LABOU.R INPUTS:                 A-p p t a i¢. l.                 10 -Xn 20   I  7I20. 7
1 =----        -----       ..--P1'R Wit  t-i-tt P- -  -       .j .. t  1-. -30-- 45 -.' 90
PCGR With  Prrj-iscXc       I  202-60  ,   3C13.90 0
I~~~                                                          .
lAGRICUITURAT  INP: TS:    Appr asi m-:-zi..-I                       3           7201 i 11490
PCR Without Prnjo.-ct  ,'          0-50         3 54 75 7
PCrR Wi,th  Ptoject           1        - s020   154 0 370
I                                                             I              .               I
I'ANCTRA..T        INPT::         AppTa\iPi                   ,   1.4 -ll  l   172 -    1
PC5R  Witht,ut Project         41n-no    n.5 4n,
PCR Wi t-th  Projt              417.-o          ,;5. 30
~CTOTRAL:     NPT:App1-)ra is,-a7I?7 1fl4. I                                     9fO7O
i--- -.-         r-o'rv Wi thoiut         ,.P1.) -30 4104
PC(R  With Pro je-ot        , 7- 2-10          7-. 47
I.. rtC.jCZ ..i7-534
Note: fConvic-tr'.icRm  Fac:tot  ff*E- osjr i   l.Atut ,ti  i rnpu-, t  - ..
Clornvors&icor  fact.or fto  lab3out  . I '. 
Convet-sion  factor fot  -ornt:ract. input. - 0.7.?



- 89
A,rfl~'-l   4
MALAY`JA
L f AIA I 1 7' MAh- - MIA. I T T RRIGAFTCIA PROJE:CT
F1ThTC   IY; ;T1! _nf .r1 tl lf- r oiffr;-r
INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION COST
APr!TT(llAL  ARFAIOMST SAVTNGSIPRODIICTTON I    TOTAt
1YEARIBENrFITTEl', Rriij;tJiT Y:Nr                  FROM        1 COST  FOR   'INCREMENTAL.
.    ARfA          PFODUClTIOHN          l;F!!TFTTTrTD   INCRWMFNTALIPRODUCTION
AREA             AR ARA           COST        I
(H)               (H'a)               (M$m)              (M$m)            (M$m)
.     ..    .  ..   .   -                                                      I
J4  't    2,46-:0               236   ' ,    0.103  5              0  17p,           0 n075 
Z .5 : -X711  r>s                              0 - 2t            0- O41            0O1845
6  5 1l,6i91                             1 141             5    0.-43       ,    0 352    It
',7  5 1 :0, 000             1,2,   1            0-5 72.  5      .1.. .Ql 21.        0 542    ,'
8  5t  23,215   t         ,2?4'               n  7g               .ff             o    o
9-  I    -30 1  34    II 2, e-:105             1 27,    2  1,39                    0-914       I
j  0  5I  3Ff15f>   I          3 ,I 5    1.535                  1    26          i    1101
i 1 13   4 2,666E    5       4,084          I    1.792.'       .    3.077       1    1.205       7
-12  I  44,236   .          4 2:;s              I I  I5s      I    7.I. 190      1          332
13  ,  4a a' I0             4.754              2-0n7        |     3 5£.2           1.495
5    .~.,115        ~      S:35 5  5  5                   :.              .I
= =                           =           =   :.        :===_=..=..  :==_..    :=:                      



-90  -
AeI 4
MALAYSIA
LOAMNO. 71717: NM   11 IRRIGATION REPORT
fROECT COIPLETI1l REPORT
E[ONOMIC RICE PRICE StRUCE
(rQtat IW8 Prime)
11980 1 II 1 1982 1 1983 0 1984 . 1985  1 M 9     19    1 1988   19891990 1 1995  200 1
Export price Thai St broken, f.o.b.   O      I             1 I           a I      O           a I      I      :           a     a
5Bangkok (SUS per ton)                   499     552 1340 1330    305  0 259 1212 1210  I216  1229 1248  0 254 1259  I
06rade differential (less OS0)        1 .449 1 497    306 1 297  1 275  1 233  1191  '189 1194 1206 1223 1 229 1233 1
1Price of rice, c.i.f. Penang (USS/ton)O  47 1  527 I 336  1 327  1 30   1 263  1221  1219  1224  1236  1253  1 259  1263  1
:Price of rice, c.i.f. Penang (N9$/ton) 1 1198 1 1318 5 840  1 818  1 763  1 658  1 553  10 548   560  1590  1 633  1 648  1 658  1
'Port handling charges                    14 1  14 1 14  1 14  1 14  1 14  1 14  1 14  1 14  1 14  0 14  1 14  1 14  1
Otransport charges to Alot Setar      1  23 1   23 r 23  1 23  1 23  1 23  I 23 1  23  1 231  23    23  1 23 1  23 1
illbolesale price, Alor Setar         1 1215 1 1355 0 877  1 855  1 800  1 695  1 590  1 585  1597  1 627  1 670  1 685  1 695  1
Otransport, aill to Alor Setar        1   61    61   6  1  6 06       6  1  6 0    6 16          6  1  6  1  6  1  6  1  6  1
!Ex-sill price of rice                1 1229 1 1349 1 8 1 1 849  1 794  1 689  1584 :579  1591  1621  164  1 679  1689 0
OPadi equivalent                         7 991 87    566 1 552 1 516   448  1380  1376  1384  1404 1  32   441 1448 1
llNilling cost                            501    50          501  50150    50 1 50s    S0            .50 1 50    s 501 50
'Fare-gate price of padi              1 7491  827  516  1502   466  1 398  1330 :326  1334  134   382   391  1398  1
a~~~~~~~~~~~ . a                          a      a      a             *      .      a      a      a      .      . 
a                 a      a      a      a      a      a      a      a      a      a     a      a      a      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 91 -
Atririvx 4
TdLbIe  £10
MAt AYSrA
LirAH  NiO-  17!7-MA: M!!JDA II TRRh,ATIO!] PR')JEr'T
PRc 1ECT r(IMPL PETTON REPotRT
INCREMENTAL PROJECT BENEFITS
TINCREMFNTAL  I  PADIT          VAI  ,.lE OF    I iNCR:FMFNTAL   ' INCRFMETNTAL
YEAR : PRODUCTION         PRICE  ',INCRfEMtMNTAL    PRoDUCTION         PROJFCT
PRODUCTION         COST       :  BENEF1.S
i t(Tons)  '(M$/ton)   I  (M$m)              I   (M$m)            (M$m)
3..                   .            .               .               .  
I  1      !,                                         II
1   1.   It3                         It             It               ItI
.,   4   t,   528       051     t    0.272           0 .n175           n 0.197
5            35          502    5    0.018    ,   0.184               *-0.166
I.   6   '    3,75P          46f.   It    1.748           0.52        1     1.396    I
7         866:           398          5 - 450        0. 542      I    2..908    I
II   p ~~~~~                ~     II                                              I
:   8   ,    9.  ,4,59     330           2-791          0 .700     1    2.ng        I
It   1       13,334    1   326'   1    4.347              0.914       t    3. 4 33
10  It   19,48.1          334          6 .507    1   1.101              5.406
1 11     27,713           354           9.8-810        1.285            P...525
12   1   33i.87    1   382            12.945           1.332      1   11.613    1
113-16       3 3,038   ':  382            14.531          1.495           13.036    :
l17-21  :   38,0308:   1   391   It  14.fs'/3             1.495           13.378
22-35  l   318,038    l   398            1,. i39    1   1 495            13.644    t
3                        t 3         3               3                1 
_3=   = = = =  _ , _  _         3  _ =  =   _    = _ =   _ = =  _ _  _ _ = _ =  _



-92 
Aru,m-" 4
Tabie I1I
AIN AY'- '- e-
L OAN H-' .I l-, MA: N"I DA, TT 'nRTGAT tIVt PrzJFrCT
FR\tJle(T             !-~w~   TTr f311  RFr'ti:-vT
CONVERSION FACTORS TO 1987-PRICES
YFAR                               r-ACTOR
a      9a                                II
I                                                             I~~~~~~~~~I07
a19U0
I                 I                                           I~~~~~~~I     2
a1982 71



-93 -
Annex 4
Tablt- 12
I OAN Nl   1717--MA: .MLJI)A II IRRIGNT TON PRCOJECT
PPtf)JF'IT C.(') f'F-VTON ~R-F',r,
ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(1907 Constant Prices)
CAP-ITAI.           M [       TOjTAl          TOTAI.            NET
IYEAR       MOST         (-CC"-T      PRi'.JCT    1T?CRUMFNTAL  1 INCREMENTAL-
k,CST     3JTNFF'TTS      BENEFITS
I(M$m)'   (M$m)          (MUr)(i)                       (M$rn           (M$m)
1 I  1/4.47    I14.4t7                               --14.47
2  6. -7'7                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~-6..77
3     10.45   It1O.45                                              -1.4
4 '1 4.45            0.11.    1   14.56       It    0.2n           -14.36
5     14.64          0..??    t   14.91.           -0.17           -15.08
6 I14.974            fl049         154              1.40           -14.03
7      13.71   It 0..2?            14.43      11    2.91       It --31.%2    I
8     12.07-         0.93          103.63     I1    2.09           -11.54
9      10.06   11 1.21             11.27      13    3.43    It      --7.04
10 It 5.51            1.43           6.94      It    5.41    It       -1.53    I
It   5.51   t' 1.67   It          7.11              ,53-            1.35    I
1 2     3.1139        1.73          i0t  .211.61                       0..99    I
115-16      -1.95                       1 .95          13.04            1L-09
117-21  't1.95   11                       1.95      i  13.38        1    11.69    I
122-34        --           1.95   11      1.95      1   13.64       It    11.69
35 1  -32.07          1.95-   1  -30.92             13.64    It   44..56
Ecoyr.omic Rate of Return = 6%
Net Present Valuje -.--M$24-2mn
Conversion factor For constructiorn -7. ). 77
Conversion factor- for gover-ment arid services    0.80



-.94 -
Annex .E
Tarble 1
OI4A P'1- 171 -_MA      jjF!PJT 7 _7r )ATT   RFPt-O)RT
lt[Z- -1 --k *  0J I     E -A&
ANNUAL (2 SEASONS) CROP IBUDGET FOR MUDA II AREAS
TRANPLANTIN6 CRO7P 19866
*~~~~                                          ~~  I  I       I 
:                  :           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  a   a 
j  hd       3 f-,  .  ' .3 ha  I ''2 .? h  3.5 ha
,PRODUCTTON COSTS:
Land Preparation               1 99. .R7  '  419-02  ,   728:77 0  1038.71
Chemical & Other Inpuits        5   P.  1  1 20 032      134 -.2 '   220.46 1
i Transplanting/Sowing   ,    224.-10i   514.0  ,   960..41  i 1340n04 
'larvestirig                   277.26  1  642.20  1  1110.39    1834.80 
other L-abour Charges       1   14-7        36.25  I      5148        73_11 t
5 Transport                   '  125.75  1  2q7.65  1   453.78 t 705.95 1
1Total. Production Crosts    1,  99-43    17-:3;39       3439.65 1  5213.07 1
i                  11 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I11
,CASH INFl OWS:
l Padi Income                   2334.94   6' 297.0    t 11234.77 t 19045.16
t Labour In,come                  42.. 13 -                 -           -
O Other Agriculture- Income 1t65.46            4.16          0. 91      30.94 1
____ ~  I                   -_ l_  _ __  __  ___ __ __
!Total Cash Income       t      2542..53  1 6301.24    11235.681 18076.10 '
tTAXES                           . 119-92    4 3166        739.65      971.72
I                             I     .I                £            I 
tTotal Net Income       t       1523.18 t  4136.194 t  7056.38   11891.34 ,
s;our-ce   Muida II Evaltuation Survey.



- 95 -
Anlnex 5
Table 2
MAl. AYSIA
OA_N NQ. .1 17 M7A: MIIDA TI IRRTGA(IfN f rtOJECT
PROJECUT CnOLPLFTTON PFPORT
ANNUAL (2 SEASONS? CROP BUDGET FOR UNIMPROVED AREAS
TRANSPLANTING CROP 1 94pj
,                        ~     ~    ~~~~~            ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I    -  I  I 
0. 6 h.    1.3 ha 1 2.2 ha 1  3.5 ha
_________           I ,    ____ ___ _ _ __  I  _ _
PRODUCTION COSTS:
L-and Pre-paration                 216.32    41711    626.89 ' 1038.71 1
I Chemical & Other Inputs         1   46.27 1   76.39    142.63    327.40 1
X Transplanting/Sowing            1  261.42 ,  481.02   1014.95   1340.04 5
H Harvesting                      I  526-82 1  657.94 11 116.07   1834.80
I Other Labour Charges            ,   19.54 i    28.39 1   36.77 1   73.81  1
Transport                           120.7Y   I  269.03 1 608.36 5  705.95 1
.Total Production Costs             1191.69   1929.70 1 3615.67 I 5320.71 t
,'                                I                      I 5        5 
C OASH INFLOWS:                  It                      I
I                                                        I I        t
II--- - -- - - - - -                         I
5 Padi Incoame                    I2675.19 I 520-.86 111420.87 518851.96 I
t Labour Income                        19.86 i   37.88       64.19 1
OI Other Agriculture Incom* -          14.19 1  109.20    185-07    295.45
5                                 I           I          S          I          5
ITotal Cash Income                t2709.24   6 6075.96 I11678.13 119147.45 I
',TAXES-.                            1 36.80  5  322.37    5 88.13 :  794.87 1
I                                 I          .           I          S          I
I                                 a                      I          S          I
5Total Net Income                   1380.75 5 3823.81 5 7474.33 :13031.87 t
i l                --_- |___                  a           _____              a
Source   Muda IT Evaluation Study.



96 -
-A.MAY9TA
..  _IN NO   1717`-MIA: _MIDA  TT TIRPRI TIGT tON  PrpL-T
P kl1JECT  COtMPiIT.Tou rp,ff7 f-T
ANNUAL  (2 SEASONS) CROP BUDGET FOR MUDA II AREAS
DIRECT SFEDING CPOP 1 986
!~~                                ~      ~     ~    ~ ~         ~       ~~~~~~~~ :.  I  I
0-,; _.~  t   * -  h,--i     -       a - t '   -.5 hfi
tPRODUJCTION COSTS                                                                 I
Land Preparation                      2,-1      f      52 233         F0 -.. f        6'i_74 t
IChemical & Other Tnputs  It               .74         2?4..?l        ,337'0          352_25,
TransplIantinng/Sowing                   -             21 1.5.i.si 7  t    350.54
'li sar-vest >tri n g                 203.93        te 56. t9  1021.90              1707-39s
I Otht?r Labour Chat get3'              l. .0-40       36.36,7n   f      e-04          95_49
Tt anspor t                           16n - 44  2,        9SS /5565.57               7'3 66
I                                    I              I      -    - - -. -.  I  -.   I       -. ._   _  _ .  _    .__ I
.Tital Prodluction  Cof.-.ts              '2f2         362.1-14        2 8f'7.i49     300S.07
*                                    1              1               I              I 
!CASH  INFl-OWS:                                                     t
*   .  _~~~~~~~ ~~~~ . ,                                                 I               I ..............   
20.2 75 '     .z.75  .f-754.§    :17605..6... ,' 176,05 46
L abtour  Incottmf!          :          211.11    t   25.40             - -
fither Agricultur   I ncme               --             -               -        '    S4_77
I                                    I  _ __   _              __  _ ._  I   __         .__. _.   . _ .         I ..._.__.      . ...       
MTtitail Cash Tncome                   204l.(.         6flt.09  ;  11054.45  1 17090.23 i
I                                    I              I              I               I 
,TAXES                               5   111.31         382.93           650.33        1240.90  1
I .  .____._I1I
Tota l Net Incom*.            .        2013..31        4776 .0f2       7S40-.63    12741.26
~-.....e  ,,,,___, ___,_,, Evalua........ tion Sf ~  -~~ ~ Q  -~~~~--~~ tUd-  -  !
¢Sourfe  :Muda II Evaluat.ion  Study



l                 s    -t-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iDX
Annex .
Table 4
LOAN N.. -1717-MA: MU,I I1 IRI        IN O
PROJCtT-COMPLETION REPORT
A4NUAL (2 SEASON) CROP BUDGET FOR UNIMPROVED AREga
DIRECT S6EED iG  R   1996
*             _-                   *     _     _     _      _    * *__* - .__a__ 
a                            a           I           I            O           :
:  0.6 ha  1  1.73 ha  I  2.2 ha  : 3.5 ha
II                                       I   =  ______ I _ _ .-_. ._ _..____  --._-_.-.-   __ --.-- -
PRODUCTION COSTS:                                                 ,
Land Preparation           1 232.11  1  473.61          558.11 1  1204.6O :
I Chemical & Other Inputs  1   68.46        125.93  1   266.72 I   344.21
Transplanting/Sowing             -          I._ I8   62.20 1   20A.82 i
Harvesting                 : 279.63  1 rS.56.76  1  1165.55 ' 1768.54 1
Other Labour Charges       I   20.66  1   45.02  1    49-44    f162.24 1
Transport                      103.52  1 312.78  1   495.45         e76-.72 :
.Total Production Costs    : 704-38  1   -390  1  2597.97 1 45e-3.13 1
IrASH INFlOWS:I
a                     a~~                ~ I    :         I
1 Padii Income               : 2651.15    fi361.72    11741.25   10086.00
L;abour Income                 40. 12  1   21.42
Othet Agricultture Income        -         140,39                     2.44 :
*                                        :     I                  I           : 
'Total Cash Income             2691.27    652,3.53    11741.25   180:.R.52 :
:                            a           :           a            I           I
ITAXrS                          121.4fl  l    O. 7n7      5;;38. 65 1   93S.59
:------              ~      ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~I  :  a  :  a
Total Net Income             I 1065 41    4519.26       8604.65 1 12,56.n  I
Iource            : M:da  .I Evalution"udy:                                  :
Souirc^e  Mudaie TJ Fvaluat-ion 7Stilfdy



PS I of 6
A   fl.    JABATAN PARIT DAN TALl AIR. MALAYSIA.
)fltJIWAMA    (Drebtagm e ad Im ongad p.Dqms. Maltui).       CollfT  I      OR J_
KEMENTERIAN PERTANAN.
(Minisnv of Airk  t}).T
JALAN SULTAN SALAHUDDIN,                                 Tdkmaw: 0291c
50626 KUALA LUMPUR.                                 ,    r*  onuc
MALAYSIA                                              TAX N0: 603-2914292
Ril. Tam:
(Your Rep.
WtA 3t 2M-477-6391
Rai. Kamsi (13)dla.PPT.689/S/2
OrOa Re%              Jld.2
Mr. Grahm Dbnaldson.                           Trikh:     April 1989
(2uiet,                                        Dae
Agriculture, Infrastructure and
lusmn Resources Division.
Operations Evaluation Department,
The World Bauk,
1818 B Street N.V.
Vashington D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Donaldso,
le: MALAYSiA - Muds II Irrigation Project (Loan 17171-W)
Project Completion Report
Reference is made to your letter dated Febroary 13, 1989
inviting comnts on the Project Completion -Report (PCR) on the
Muda n Irrigation Project (loan 1717-N).
I have had the opportunity to see MAM's comnts on it atd
am in full agreement that the Report is overall a fair, balanced
lvaluation     and accurate docunmnt except for a few ambigtities in the Evaluation
Sums" Ma       Saary, which, if left uncorrected, could cast a different cornotation
bee revIsd    to the umaning of what WaS intended, or detract from the accuray of
the statments made.
The first correction necessary is to the statemnt .      and in
later years implementation was slo' because the New Econmic Policy
allowad mny inexperienced and financially wek contractors to be
awarded contracts" on line 4 pars 3 page (ii). The New Economic
Evaluaton      Policy cannot be faulted for the financial problems thmst upon the
Sua_           contractors. This was in fact a consequence of the recession whereby
amended        any had the security backing of banks and financial institutions
sudAenly withdrawn from them. These contractors had significantly
underpriced in order to win their contracts in extremely competitive
bidding, which in tur had arisen from too rM  contractors chasing
too few works. Such absence of sufficient contracts had also forced
contractors to venture into fields they were not entirely familiar
with (e.g. traditional PWD contractors taking on DID works), thus
accounting for the introduction of tbe inexperience factor.
2/..



ATT"ACUIR? I
Page 2 of 6
_ 99 _
Another correction of fact that has to be =sda appears on
lines :1-13, par& 1, page 12 vhere it is stated that "GM and
the Bank decided not to proceed with tertiary d.velopeent in the
lr. eI            reusining 75Z of the Muda area, as was originally intended, and
revised           a proposed water supply aupuntation program was dropped".   As
far as I am aware, these projects have only been deferred for the
present, not cancelled as implied.
Finally, I wish to fully endorse your observation on Bank
Performance as appearing on lines 5-7, para 47 page 12, where it
was pointed out that time required for land acquisition was severely
under-estimated. In future, it is hoped that full cognizance is
riven to this need for more time and the perioa of implementation
for such projects be extended to seven or eight years itstead of
the usual five,
Please accept my apologies for the slight delay in submission
of the above comments. This letter is being faxed to you first,
followed by the original under normal cover.
,est regards,
Yours sincerely,
. R. DA. WECH)
Director General
Department of Irrigation and Drainage
Malaysia



-100-                         acw(r I
ap3  of 
.~ ~ ~~~zs Mr                   rn=    "MOM          VS234 '  t  t
.W A U                     0 060-03 *2554a64
'               p~~~tciie  avio* CO    htt
t. bs                       0"W~~~~~ot:  1.4.1989   Pagof 
(Wm Cable mu use Only)
208   IMuM   PR# OANARl ONA
AM=    H=   A0RZCU7AE  NIATUCiR  AMD HMIAt4 RESciRCES tiXV.S30Z4
OPSRA?ZO rEVAWAT= DEPAWUIINT9
U~~~~~RW~~A DANK.stSo
CoWA  N  D.C.. USA
FMx tun:00                        202         477-6391
St  1t    OM  CO: _M    mM
- s   REYRLWIER OF ktS1UARSii      1989 ON 1 'wJtT
CMMPZETION MPECzR2 tUDA fl IRRIGATUCM
PROJECT (LN 1717-HA). I AN PLASD TO
515MT HEREWZ?) CO91E-TS FA TM     OVEPMENT
0 MALAIA FOR YOUR COMIDERATION.
2.      MM DUAR'HfT OF IRRIGATION WILL BS
*   SMI-TTI  . THEI IM)WM?S DIRIXLY TO TM
S  |m lahIK NJIB HUSAIN
I   xl 4Vxs4    MM=_  C  DIVISION, FLrLRAL TR.AS   |.
wzamr NsNM-.  d246U0        iQhLuns       22UO .U.  2.
MlUIDE     D:                                  sIYi



- 101 -
fta 4 O
VAX
-     OJCpaojac  CWIoLMTIoN RApCT . (pKsq  Ott IUD4I I  IlAVIAtI
PROJ3CT (LN NO. 1717-MA). OUR COMMENTS ON THE 9CR An$  AS
FOLLTOS s -
THU GOVMIWMMNHT OF9 MAYSIA tONm) im PaiNCiPLE 'AWSEs WfLM
TO   CONTEW*S  OF  THE  MAIN  REPORT  AS  IT  BASICALLY
REPRESBUTS WHKT THE NADA MANAGEMENT HAS REPORTED UPON IN
Evaluation    ITS PCR WHIC'H WAS XUBMIlTTED Tl THS WORUw MAIUU.  TH  MAlIN
bas been     PEEORT SEEMS TCo BE FAIRLY  BALANCSO 14 ITS VIRWS AND IT
revised       CONTAINS BOTPH CRITICISMS AS WELL AS COhPLINEMTS TO TUE
PROJECT.   WE  FIND  THillS  ALANCE  IS  ASENRT  PROM  TlR
EVALUATION SUMMW4ARY WHICH SEEMS To BE UWIDUBLY NEGATIVE AND
CRIKtICV .   A VKbUN RMAiNt UNLY THkr 9VAb0&kiUt bUNAY
WOUWLD BE GIVER THE WRONG PICTURE OF TIlE PRQJ'C
PERFORMANCE AS MENTIONED IN THE MAIN REPORT. IN CERAIN
INSTANCES ALO. 'THE bUMNAR1iEO SENTENCES HAS FALLL0 TO
RETAIN THU ORlGINAL4 ARGUNEN1J AS SET FORTH 1N THE M4iAN
REPORT AND HAS AT'rAINE) A DIFF&iENT CONNOTATION.
NVALUATION SUMRY
1.     PAGE (ii), PARA 3, 4RD LINE .
....... MM ECONOMIC  OLICY ALLOWD M    ZWRRIWCID AM
PINANCIALLY WEAK CONttACTORS TtL RH AWARDED VOWRACWY.
Evaluation    THIS SUMMARY IS KI*LWjKADING ANU PAINTS A DIFFERENT PICTURE
Sumnary       PROM PAt  Ii 3 PAM  )U.   Aa4L CONTMRACTS UiVEY4 UNIJER THE
aaended       PROJECT  WAS  SUBJECT  TO  OPEN  BIDDING  AND  WAS  PULFY
COMPETlTIVV.  I1 -S i VIGVURNMENY PROCEDURE (ANB QNb WHICH
THB WORLD BANK ItISISTS WE FOLLOW) , THAT THE LOWEST AND
MOST REASONABSL  SLUDEk BH  AWARDE)D THE CONWPRACT, UN4EiSS IT
CAN BE OBJECTIVELY  PROVEN THAT THE CONTRACTOR I:  NOT



- 102                       ATTACHEN I
Page 5 of 6
PAGE (Ii), PARA 4. RRD LlNE PltOX -W'rTOM.
5*.4.SIVCE oUpTCrAL SUBSIDIEs (pta  VEILISMS MO A
PAD!  DElIVERy  eoNuS) WWH   A  DIISINCWIVE  TO  RA SING
AS STATED IM PAGE 13' OF THtE MAt REPORT, TUE QOV8RNM8NT
SUBSIDY SCHEMES 'WERE ItTRODUCED IN RESPONSE TO FARMER
Evaluation    BMANt)S  FOR  1MPROVSv  INCOMWS.    tT  IS  AN  INCOME
Suiiary
revise      IMPROVEMEN': SCHEOM  &ND NOT AIMED AT RAISING PRODUCTIVITY
P1R SE.  IT It NOT CORRECT TO TI&tJ UP 'THB SUBS;iDIES NOW
WITH PRODUCTIVITY, ALTHOUGH THE REPORT AGREES THA'I YIELDS
DID INCREASE  tMN19DLATSLX Y0QILLWINLi TH IS l1t&ROUIJV$TON O)f
THE FERTILISE:R SiUfBSiaY.
OVEIRVIEw
PIAGE I, PABtA It, YTl'. iLtllX rt1tsv  wer-.
-'0413LAU  YEAS  MANY CONTRACTS WMRE AUDD  TO
FlRlS WINTf INSUFFICLWT IFINANCIAL  MD TCHNICAL CAPACITY,
WHICH RfEiLTED tN PURTUiE DELAYS'.
AS POINTED OUT EARLISR, TH8RE WAS J40O DELIBERATE INTENT 'To
Pars. 16    AWARD (CONTRACTS TO SUCH  eONTItACTURS, AS THE S£NTSNCE
revised
WOULD  IMPLY .   ALL CONTRACTS WERE GIVEN OUT IN  OPEN
COMPETITIVE BIDDING AND GOVERNMENT iPROCEDURES SPECIFY TUE
AWARD TO THE SOWEST TdN*DERI, UNLESS OBJECTIVELY PROVEN
THAT HE IS INCAPABLE OF UNDERTAKING THE JOB.
4.      PAGE 7, PARA 26, 6TH LINE FROM  OTTOM.
*IST  STUDIES  ARR  CNTINUING, SVERA6L  WIMS  JUAINE
T8MICAL ABSISTANCEs
Changed     THE PILOT PROJECT STUDIES SET UP UNDER THE HUDA II PROJECT
pars. 26    Is CONWUCTLY COMPLETELY BY PROJECT STAFp.  THERE IS A
SEPARATE PILOT PROJECT STUDY UNDERTAKEN BY THE JAPANESE
TARC RESEARCHERS WITH MACA SUPPORT WHICH WAS STARTED
BFOMR  THE MUDA II PROutCT BEGAN.  JAPANESE TECHNICAL
ASRSIPANCR tS NtO  TNVOT.VEO fN THR MIJDA Tr PTLOT PROJECT
STUDIES.
t3$UIIE8 



_A,03 _ATTACH     I
Page 6 Of 
5.     PAGE 12, PARA 44, SRD) At.4L LstUN tI'vrrJ.
*ty TUB CIRCUN8?AMSF V*QN MND TH EB    DEC nAD  NM  TO
PROCEED WITH TERTIARY DELOPMENT IN TEN REMAIING 75% 01
ToU MUDA AA  AS WM ORIGINALLY INTENDED, AND A PROPOSED
Reflected in WATER SUPPILY U.GMMAIMN PROGRAMR WAS DROPPUD
para. 44    TERTIARY 1PV9LOFMENT  Z:  THE BIMArNTAG 75% OF THE MUDA
AREA* AND THE3 IiATER SUPPLY AUGtUENTArION PROGRAMME, WAS NOT
PUT 'P AS A PROJiCt' PROPOSAL fBY t4ADA/U1D TO THE GOM,
AIDTHOUUH P"1'IV v^iSCUlSIOdS wdiE HELD) INJTERNALLY kZE6ARDING
THE VIA81- ~TY OF T'HlI PROJECT.  THSEB  PROJECTS  lAVE NOT
BEEN DROPPED, AND rHsY mAY as PURSUED LATER ON WITH GON IN
ANOTHER FORK OR WHEN CONDITIONS ARE RIGHT.
6.     PAGE l , PARA 46, 6T  ALINE .
'SUBMITTED  C-12  KONTHS  DUE  TO  DELAYS  IN  TUE  AUDI?
DEPARTMBWT
Changed     THESE  'DELAYS' ARE DUE MOSTLY  'tl) *riMB  rAKEN TO QUERY
para. 46    DETAILS OP 'PRE ACCOUNTS AND UOES NOT REFLECT THE LACK OF
ACTION OR DELAY IN TAKING ACTION BY THE AUDIT DEPARTMENT.
BEST REGARDS.
(NDOD. RWSLI B. H.?. HUSSEIN)
SECUlARY) t FINANCE DIVISIO0i
c f 0)0-944-



