Document of
The World Bank    FILE copY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2547-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA
FOR A
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
May 16, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worild Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00     =  M$2.21 *
M$1.00      =  US$0.45
M$1 million = US$452,000
* The exchange rate is floating; the rate used in this report is the
short-term average at the time of appraisal.
ABBREVIATIONS
BPM    -  Bank Pertanian Malaysia (Agricultural Bank of Malaysia)
CCL    -  Critical Consumption Level
DID    -  Drainage and Irrigation Department
DOA    -  Department of Agriculture
FDC    -  Farmers Development Center
FOA    -  Farmers Organization Authority
ISA    -  Irrigation Service Area
iSU    -  Irrigation Service Unit
MADA   -  Muda Agricultural Development Authority
MARDI  -  Malaysia Agricultural Research and Development Institute
MOA    -  Ministry of Agriculture
SMP    -  Second Malaysia Plan
TMP    -  Third Malaysia Plan
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA - MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Malaysia
Amount:           US$31.0 million
Terms:            17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at
7.9% per annum.
Project
Description:  The main objective of the proposed project is to raise the
productivity and incomes of about 16,000 smallholder padi-
farming families through improved water management in those
parts of the Muda irrigation area which are least adequately
served by the existing irrigation and drainage network. In
additiDn, by strengthening agricultural support services, the
yield and incomes of all 60,000 padi farming families in the
Muda area, or 340,000 people, will be improved.  To achieve
these aims, the proposed project would provide financing for:
(a) construction of tertiary canal and drainage systems and
farm roads in 37 discrete irrigation blocks; (b) improvements
to major outfall drains and natural channels; (c) rehabilitation
of coastal bunds; (d) construction of tidal gates, water control
structures and escape structures; (e) upgrading of the existing
water control communications system; (f) construction of work-
shops, administration buildings and seed stores; (g) pilot pro-
jects, engineering and management studies, a groundwater study
and a rural development project feasibility study; (h) purchase
of vehicles and equipment for project works and studies; and
(i) consultant services and training.  Benefits:  Upon project
completion, incremental padi production is expected to be
56,600 tons, or 2% of total domestic supply, and median income
of project beneficiaries is estimated at US$430 per capita per
annum, compared with US$250 at present. Risks: The risks are
no greater than can normally be expected with operations of
this type.  The main problem encountered in similar projects
in Malaysia has been delays in implementation. This experience
has been taken into account in sizing and scheduling the
project's civil works, and in providing for sufficient
staff.  Sensitivity analysis shows that the economic rate of
return would not be sensitive to implementation delays if
they occur despite the precautions taken.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated                                                   Local  Foreign  Total
Costs:          Project Item Groups                       --- (US$ million) ---
On-farm irrigation block development    21.3    15.6    36.9
General irrigation system development    2.1         2.1     4.2
Buildings                                   3.4      1.5     4.9
Equipment                                   0.2      2.8     3.0
Studies                                     0.7      1.3     2.0
Technical services                          0.7      0.3     1.0
Total base cost                    28.4    23.6    52.0
Contingencies
Physical                                  3.0      2.2     5.2
Price                                     6.6      5.2    11.8
Total contingencies                 9.6      7.4    17.0
Total project cost /a              38.0    31.0    69.0
Financing
Plan:           The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange com-
ponent, estimated at US$31.0 million, or 45% of the total
project cost. The remaining US$38.0 million in local costs
would be financed by the Government.
Estimated                                         Bank Fiscal Year
Disbursements:                   1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
-------------- (US$ million) ---------------
Annual            1.5      4.5      7.2     8.6      8.0      1.2
Cumulative        1.5      6.0    13.2    21.8    29.8    31.0
Rate of Return:  18% on 78% of project costs for which benefits have been
quantified.
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 2344-MA, dated May 16, 1979.
/a Because of the tax-exempt status of government departments, cost estimates
exclude all known taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO MALAYSIA
FOR A MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Malaysia for the equivalent of US$31.0 million to help finance the Muda II
Irrigation Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years including 4 years
of grace, with interest at 7.9% per year.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report, "Malaysia: New Perspectives on the
Third Malaysia Plan" (No. 1594-MA), is dated October 14, 1977. Detailed data
on Malaysia's economy are shown in Annex I.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia has done well in the past
and, in particular, during the Second Malaysia Plan period (SMP, 1971-75).
The per capita income of US$930 (in 1977) is among the highest in Southeast
Asia. Public and private investment activity was stepped up and, as a
result, GNP growth, which during the 1960s averaged 6% a year, increased
during the SMP period to 7%. Moreover, the declining trend in the terms of
trade during the 1960s was reversed during the 1970s, and as a result there
was an acceleration in per capita income growth on a trend basis from 2%
during the 1960s to about 5% during the SMP period. Progress has also been
made in reducing the economy's dependence on rubber, and the manufacturing
sector has performed well in terms of output, employment, and exports. With
a high export component in GNP, the country is very vulnerable to external
fluctuations, which were significant during the SMP period. In spite of the
increased investment activity and resulting current account deficits in the
balance of payments, Malaysia managed to maintain a strong external position
during the SMP period with relatively low debt service payments and growing
international reserves.
4.        Notwithstanding this good performance, existing racial inequalities
in income and employment, and considerable poverty, especially in the country-
side, persist. The inferior income position of the Malays is related to the
concentration of Malays in traditional smallholder agriculture and their
meager ownership of corporate assets; furthermore, Malays are poorly repre-
sented in the modern industrial sector, especially in managerial, profes-
sional, supervisory, and clerical occupations.  The inequalities threatened
the stability of the country and, in 1971, prompted the Government to intro-
duce a New Economic Policy, which is designed to achieve national unity
through the two-pronged objective of eradicating poverty and restructuring
society to eliminate the identification of race with economic function.
/1 Parts I and II are essentially the same as those contained in the cor-
responding sections of the President's Report No. P-2449-MA, dated
January 16, 1979, on the Fifth Education Project which was approved on
January 30, 1979.



- 2 -
5.        More specifically, the policy proposes to reduce, in a 20-year
period (1970-90), the sharp income differences between Malays and non-Malays
by reducing disparities in the ownership and control of wealth in the cor-
porate sector, and by reducing the concentration of Malay employment in
traditional low-income rural activities, while increasing Malay presence
in the relatively high-income urban sectors. Since poverty is largely
concentrated among Malays, a redressal of poverty would contribute signifi-
cantly to a reduction of the racial inequalities of income.
6.        The principal means proposed to achieve these objectives is a rapid
growth of the industrial and service sectors. This growth will not only
increase average incomes but will also serve the objective of racial restruc-
turing of the labor force. In addition to pursuing a rapid growth strategy,
the Government also proposes to achieve its goals through more direct means:
on the poverty side, mainly through public investment programs directed
towards the poor; and on the racial restructuring side, through controls and
quotas.
7.        In mid-1976, the Government initiated the Third Malaysia Plan (TtMP,
1976-80) reconfirming the goals of the New Economic Policy. The major
objectives of the TMP are: (a) to reduce the overall incidence of poverty
(from 44% in 1975 to 34% by 1980, which would mean reducing poverty in the
agricultural sector from 63% to 49%); (b) to increase Malay employment in the
modern sectors of the economy (from the 1975 Malay share of 32% towards the
1990 goal of 50%); and (c) to increase the share of Malays in the equity
ownership of the corporate sector (from the 1975 Malay share of 8% to 16%
in 1980).
8.        The TMP goals are set out in a framework of substantial economic
growth. The target growth rate for GDP is set at 8.5% per annum. Private
investment is targeted to grow about 10% a year and public investment about
6%, resulting in an investment of M$44 billion in current prices over
the TMP period. Public development expenditures were set at M$18.6 billion,
with a higher level of M$20 billion targeted if additional resources became
available.
9.        In addition to following a rapid growth strategy, the Government
proposes to reduce poverty through direct programs that will raise agricul-
tural productivity. In the TMP, one quarter (M$4.7 billion) of total public
development expenditures is allocated to the agricultural sector (compared
with M$2.1 billion or 22% in the SMP). Of this, more than one third will be
spent on increasing productivity in existing agricultural areas. In addition,
one million acres of new land are scheduled for development. As a means of
reducing poverty, the TIIP also provides for improved housing and other
essential services for the poor in both rural and urban areas. The TMP also
stresses that greater attention will be given to improving the less developed
states.
10.       Recent economic information, however, has significantly altered the
macro framework of the TMP. First, there was a larger recovery than expected
in traditional exports and in the terms of trade in 1976, as well as higher



present and prospective levels of oil production. Second, it now appears
that the rate of private investment (excluding investment in oil) fell
considerably in 1975 and 1976 and did not recover significantly in 1977.
11.        During 1976, significant increases in exports, both in prices and
volumes, particularly of oil, combined with moderate increases in imports,
resulted in a current account surplus equivalent to about 6% of GDP. Despite a
reduction in market borrowing by the Government, reserves increased by US$900
million. At the end of 1976, gross official reserves were the equivalent of
about seven months of imports. This favorable balance of payments position
continued in 1977.
12.        Current projections of oil exports and of export prices in general
are higher than those used as a basis for the TMP. Therefore, the resource
outlook for Malaysia is now brighter than was forecast in the TM?. Overall
export earnings during the Plan period should be about US$5 billion more than
was forecast. Largely as a result of this increase, public sector revenues
are also expected to be higher by about US$3 billion. The likelihood of these
additional resources has prompted the Government to increase substantially
the allocation for development expenditures from M$18.6 billion to M$32 billion.
While actual expenditures are expected to fall far short of this increased
allocation, the projected expenditure level of M$25 billion would still be
significantly above the original target.
13.        While the availability of resources is thus expected to be consi-
derably improved, there is some uncertainty about achieving the Plan's
private investment targets. As a result of the decline in the rate of
private investment during the past few years, private investment would now
have to grow substantially faster than the projected 10% rate during the
remaining years of the Plan in order to achieve the Plan targets. While
there are a number of possible factors involved in this downturn in the rate
of private investment, particularly manufacturing investment, it is difficult
to determine their relative importance with any certainty. First, the world
recession which began in 1974, no doubt had some negative impact in Malaysia
on private investments planned for 1975. Second, 1974 was a peak period for
private investment in Malaysia so that some cyclical decline in the rate of
private investment would have been experienced in 1975 anyway. Third, there
was considerable uncertainty in the private sector regarding the impact of
the Industrial Coordination Act (ICA), passed by the Parliament in 1975,
which enforces racial restructuring targets for equity and employment through
a system of licensing existing and new firms above a certain minimum size.
14.        The Government acknowledged the uneasiness in the business community
and amended the Act in 1976. An important change approved was the establishment
of an appeals procedure. The Government has also repeatedly emphasized that
the restructuring targets will be implemented in a pragmatic manner and has
embarked on a vigorous investment promotion drive. Nevertheless, a major
recovery in the rate of private (non-oil) investment is not foreseen during
the next couple of years. Partly to offset this possible shortfall in private
,investment, the Government has increased substantially the public investment
targets for the Third Plan.
15.        Assuming a moderate long-term recovery in private investment, Malaysia's
balance of payments should, aside from short-term fluctuations, remain in surplus.



-4-
During the Third Plan period, 1976-80, the cumulative current account surplus
should exceed 3% of GDP compared to a negligible current surplus in the
previous five years. Such a current account surplus would be sufficient to
provide for an adequate level of reserves, and public capital inflow require-
ments are likely to be less than originally projected in the Plan. At present,
about 16% of public debt outstanding and disbursed is from the World Bank;
this percentage may increase somewhat by the early 1980s. Reserves are also
expected to continue to increase slowly, while the debt service on public
obligations is likely to average about 5% of export earnings, slightly lower
than the present level of 7%.  The Bank's share of debt service is currently
about 11% and may increase to 12-14% by the early 1980s.
16.       In general, over the next few years, it is likely that the Govern-
ment will need less external capital than previously forecast, largely because
of strong commodity prices and oil earnings. At the same time, Malaysia has
a serious income distribution and poverty problem. The country needs techni-
cal assistance and expertise to help develop poverty alleviation programs and
to assist in designing and packaging projects that reach out directly to low-
income families. The Malaysians believe strongly that project borrowing, par-
ticularly from development institutions such as the World Bank, is necessary
to assist them to mount an effective attack on poverty. Bank lending is there-
fore focused on strengthening government efforts to reduce poverty directly.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
17.       The Bank has made 45 loans to Malaysia for projects in education,
population, agriculture, forestry, industrial finance, power, water supply,
sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads, and urban transport.
18.       Although in many cases disbursements have been slower than expected,
the execution of Bank projects in Malaysia has generally been satisfactory.
As of March 31, 1979, the loans to Malaysia held by the Bank amounted to
US$902.8 million. Seventeen loans have been fully disbursed. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as well as notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
19.       While currently Malaysia is a resource surplus country, the openness
of the economy (exports constituting 45% of the GDP) and the volatility of
the prices of Malaysia's main exports (rubber, palm oil, and tin) make the
continuance of large surpluses uncertain. To cushion against fluctuation in
exports, large reserves are needed. With regard to Bank lending, however,
the primary consideration is not resource transfer; rather, it is institution-
building and helping Malaysia to expand its capacity to implement programs to
combat the deep-rooted problems of poverty and unemployment, particularly in
the rural areas.
20.       Malaysia's commitment to assist its low-income groups has strength-
ened significantly in the past few years. The Bank can justifiably take
some measure of credit for its efforts to help Malaysia identify and prepare
projects geared toward the rural poor. The number of rural development
projects recently financed and in the current pipeline is impressive.
Recently, in order to reach a greater number of low-income households, the



Government and the Bank have been emphasizing in situ agricultural projects,
such as those for small-scale irrigation, integrated rural area development,
and agricultural support services.
21.       While these recent projects are by themselves impressive, they are
not truly representative of the Government's general capacity to develop
projects; this capacity remains very weak, largely because of a shortage of
trained staff. With the help of the UNDP-financed and Bank-executed State
and Rural Development Project, which provides technical assistance to
selected federal agencies and state governments, the Bank is helping the
country to develop further its programs and projects for reducing poverty.
22.       The country needs assistance to develop poverty redressal programs
and projects that would reach out directly to low-income families in the
rural and urban areas. Bank loans are assisting those in absolute poverty by
strengthening research and extension, and providing on-farm development
including irrigation and drainage, and other facilities such as farm-to-market
roads. At the same time, the Bank will continue to assist lancdless laborers
through development of larger areas of new land for agriculture. Bank
lending will also help improve support services by expanding extension
services, increasing agricultural and small-scale industrial credit, and
producing higher quality seeds. The Bank plans to mount a concentrated
effort to help such institutio, is T'`DA (Rtubber Industry Smallholders
Development Authority), FELCRA (Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation
Authority), and BPM (Agricultural Credit Bank). It also plans to help the
Government expand social services, particularly for low-income groups,
through assistance for formal and informal skill training and for the
expansion of family planning services. Assistance to infrastructure develop-
ment would be very selective.
23.       IFC has been active in Malaysia since 1963 and has made six invest-
ments totaling US$8.69 million. The total commitments under the investments
held by IFC as of March 31, 1979 amounted to US$1.23 million (Annex II).
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
24.       Malaysia's agricultural sector occupies a predominant position
in the country's international trade through the exports of natural rubber,
palm oil, hardwoods and pepper. Agricultural commodities generate about 60%
of the country's export earnings and about 30% of GNP. Most of the agricultural
land in Malaysia is under three crops: rubber (58%), oil palm (18%) and padi
(14%). Except for oil palm, all principal crops are grown mainly on small-
holdings, althciig- private and public estates continue to play a vital role
in the production of rubber and coconuts. Reflecting world market conditions,
oil palm is gradually replacing rubber plantations in coastal areas since
these areas are better suited to the cultivation of oil palm. This trend is
evident in both smallholder and estate production.



- 6 -
25.       Agriculture, which currently employs 49% of the labor force, will
continue to be the largest source of employment, providing about 12% of total
new employment in the long term, according to the Government's projections.
The sector also accounts for two-thirds of the poverty households which are
defined by the Government as having insufficient incomes to purchase the
minimum diet needed to maintain good nutritional health and other essential
needs such as housing, clothing, health and education.  According to Government
estimates, 55% of the farm households in Peninsular Malaysia are in poverty,
with the incidence of poverty rising as high as 74% among padi farmers. One
of the Government's basic policy objectives is to help eradicate poverty
through programs aimed at productivity increases on existing smallholdings,
and by resettling people with little or no land on new land developments.
The land development programs provide new settlers with the means to earn a
better living, while relieving pressure on the already occupied land.
26.       The Government is committed to a large degree of self-sufficiency
in rice production, which, as a result of favorable weather in the early 70s,
reached nearly 90% of domestic consumption. Self-sufficiency has, however,
decreased since 1975, mainly due to unusually poor weather affecting the Muda
region. A prolonged drought in that major rice-producing area resulted in an
increase in the import of rice to 18% of domestic consumption in 1977 and
over 20% of domestic requirements in 1978. Reversal of this trend by increasing
rice production is thus a serious national objective.
Irrigation Development
27.       Rice production is largely confined to irrigated areas in the
coastal plains. The Government has encouraged and maintained support for
irrigation development in order to reduce the country's dependence on rice
imports, and to alleviate the poverty of large padi-farming communities.
Government-financed irrigation development began in 1880 with the first major
irrigation scheme in Krian, followed by the construction of irrigation
systems in Sungei Manik (1933), Tanjong Karang (1937), Pasir Mas (1958),
Sungei Lemal (1962), Muda (1965), Kemubu (1967), and Besut (1970). About 80%
of Peninsular Malaysia's 370,000 ha of padi land has now been provided with
some form of irrigation and 57% of the irrigated area is technically suited
for double-cropping. As part of the overall program to increase rice produc-
tion in the country, the Government continues to invest in construction of
drainage and irrigation facilities. Under the Third Malaysia Plan, about
97,000 ha of padi fields will be provided with new or improved facilities.
By the end of 1980, the area suitable for double-cropping is expected to
increase to 278,000 ha, or 73% of the irrigated area.
28.       The Bank has participated in irrigation development in Malaysia
since 1965 when it financed the first Muda Irrigation Project (Loan 434-MA),
followed in 1967 by the Kemubu Project (Loan 500-MA).  These projects have
been successfully completed and, according to the Project Performance Audit
Report (Sec M76-670, September 24, 1976), have made a major contribution to
the Government's two objectives of reducing rice imports and improving rural
incomes in three of the poorest states of Malaysia. An additional five



Bank-financed projects, i.e. Western Johore Agricultural Development Project
(Loan 973-MA), North Kelantan Rural Development Project (Loan 1294-MA),
National Small Scale Irrigation Project (Loan 1444-MA), Northwest Selangor
Integrated Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1522-MA), and Krian-Sungei
Manik Integrated Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1632-MA), had irri-
gation and drainage works as their major components.
29.       In recent years, the major thrust in irrigation development has
shifted from construction of new schemes to providing tertiary canals and
drains in existing schemes to upgrade the standard of water control necessary
to increase padi yields and cropping intensities. Improved standards of
water control have been augmented with strong integrated agricultural ser-
vices to realize higher padi yields, production and farm incomes. Although
the Bank-assisted irrigation projects under implementation have, by and
large, been slow to get started, due primarily to staff shortages and delays
in land acquisition, the Government is taking appropriate action to remedy
the situation. Since the Government is committed to an expanding program of
investment in rural areas, however, staff limitations are likely to persist,
and have been taken into account in the implementation schedule for the
proposed project.
Institutions
30.       Nearly all government agencies involved in agricultural development
are in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), including the Federal and State
Drainage and Irrigation Departments (DID), the Federal and State Departments
of Agriculture (DOA), the Farmers Organization Authority (FOA), Bank Pertanian
Malaysia (BPM)(Agricultural Bank of Malaysia), the Malaysian Agricultural
Research and Development Institute (MARDI), and the semi-autonomous Muda
Agricultural Development Authority (MADA). The National Padi and Rice Board,
which regulates marketing, milling, and import of rice, falls under the
Ministry of Public Enterprise.
31.       DID is responsible for planning and carrying out most public
works for water use and conservation throughout Malaysia, including irrigation
of rice fields, drainage of tree crop areas, flood and coastal protection and
major urban drainage. The Federal DID, with headquarters in Kuala Lumpur, is
responsible for overall planning and design, while the State DIDs are respons-
ible for operation and maintenance. The Federal and State DIDs usually
cooperate in the supervision of construction of major projects.
32.      The Federal DOA provides policy guidance and technical support to
the State DOAs. Technical support services to the State DOAs are provided by
Federal branches for crop production, crop protection, soils, agricultural
education, extension, and farm mechanization. The State DOAs are primarily
responsible for field extension services. A recent Bank loan for the National
Extension Project (Loan 1493-MA) is assisting the Government in improving its
extension services throughout the country and in improving seed supplies.



- 8 -
33.       MARDI has been responsible for all crop research (except for rubber)
since 1971. Rice research is problem- and location-oriented, and focuses on
varietal improvement, plant and crop physiology, agronomy and crop protection.
Through central and local research, MARDI formulates packages of recommendations
for specific padi areas and soils. A Bank loan for the AgricuLtural Research
and Extension Project (Loan 1115-MA) is assisting MARDI in expanding its
research capability.
34.       The Farmers Organization Authority (FOA) is responsible for super-
vising Farmers Associations and cooperatives with the aim of integrating these
organizations into Farmers Organizations which are served from Farmers Develop-
ment Centers (FDCs) covering from 1,000 to 6,000 farm families each. The FOA
provides credit, supplies inputs, and markets and processes agricultural
products through the FDCs. Marketing of rice is mainly carried out by private
enterprises.
35.       Malaysia's agricultural credit bank, Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM),
was established in 1969 to strengthen and coordinate agricultural credit
programs, with particular emphasis on loans for small farmers. It presently
provides short-term credit to padi farmers, and medium-term credit for pur-
chasing agricultural machinery, and for purchasing and developing land.
Crop production loans are mainly channeled through Farmers Organizations,
but eligible non-members may obtain credit directly from BPM. Expanding crop
production credit to the majority of small farmers is one of the objectives
of the proposed project.
36.       Since 1970 the management of the engineering, agricultural extension,
cooperative, production credit, and monitoring aspects of the Muda irrigation
scheme has been vested in MADA. MADA was originally staffed by officers
seconded from other Federal agencies under MOA, in particular, agricultural
officers from DOA and engineers from DID. In addition to taking full responsi-
bility for operating and maintaining the irrigation system and dams, organizing
27 Farmers Associations and numerous business subsidiaries, implementing
agricultural credit and extension programs, and promoting agricultural
innovations such as mechanization of land preparation and harvesting, MADA
has for several years undertaken a series of pilot development projects and
studies. These pilot projects have been aimed at developing a system
of tertiary irrigation and drainage development which would be implemented
over the entire Muda command area, and have resulted in detailed analysis of
civil works requirements, cropping schedules, water management guidelines,
water demand and availability, and project costs and benefits.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
37.       The project was prepared between 1975 and 1977 by M)ADA and
appraised in October 1978. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2344--MA), dated
May 16, 1979, is being distributed separately. Supplementary project
data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from
April 5 to 10, 1979; the Malaysian delegation was led by Mr. Duleep Singh.



-9-
Project Area
38.       The Muda irrigation scheme is located in the states of Kedah and
Perlis in northwestern Peninsular Malaysia. It covers about 98,000 ha of
padi land, farmed by over 60,000 families on individual smallholdings. Limita-
tions of existing infrastructure restrict cropping intensity and yields, which
limit average per capita income to about US$250 per annum. Thus, while Muda
farmers are generally better off than padi farmers elsewhere in Malaysia, they
are poor in comparison with most other occupational groups; approximately 60%
of Muda families subsist on incomes below the absolute poverty line.
Project Description
39.       The proposed project would be the first phase of tertiary irrigation
and drainage development throughout the 98,000 ha Muda irrigation area.
The main objective of the proposed project is to raise the productivity and
incomes of about 16,000 smallholder padi-farming families in those parts of
the Muda area which have the least adequate water control at field level.
This goal would be achieved through construction of tertiary canal and
drainage systems and farm roads in 37 discrete irrigation blocks covering
some 25,000 ha, selected from among the 110 blocks which comprise the Muda
padi area. The number of blocks to be included was determined by DID's and
MADA's capacity to implement work of this kind over a five-year period.
Agricultural productivity throughout the Muda area would be improved by
establishing a highly organized extension system under MADA, and by improving
operation and maintenance facilities, equipment fleets, and the drainage and
coastal protection works serving the entire area.
40.       The proposed project represents a natural follow-up to the first
Muda Irrigation Project (Loan 434-MA), which provided the storage facilities
and main canal system to transform an impoverished single-cropping padi area
into a relatively commercialized region characterized by a high degree of
double-cropping.  While that project was a notable success,/l the design of
the field distribution and drainage system, based on the standards prevailing
in Malaysia in the 1960s, involved widely spaced secondary canals and field-
to-field irrigation and drainage. At the time there was little experience in
the design and construction of more intensive systems of on-farm development,
which have recently been introduced in Malaysia and other countries in the
region. Also, the short-statured, high-yielding padi varieties which depend
on precise water control at field level were still being developed when the
Muda system was being designed. Finally, the main concern of the designers
at the time was a series of difficult, large-scale engineering problems which
were successfully resolved within a relatively short time, allowing for later
/1 The Project Completion Report (No. 795-MA) of June 15, 1975 estimated
the economic rate of return on the project to be 18%. An updated analysis
based on experience through 1978, using lower actual cropping intensities
and yields and a higher actual and projected world market price for rice
than in the PCR, also gives an economic rate of return of 18%.



- 10 -
development of more intensive field distribution, drainage and road systems
now being proposed. On the agricultural side, the project was successful in
promoting significant institutional improvements which brought about the
unification of services under one authority, the allocation to MADA of a
strong cadre of competent and committed staff, and a pragmatic approach
to achieving goals. Its main accomplishments were the promotion of double-
cropping and the introduction of production credit and inputs through a
number of "saturation coverage" extension campaigns, with the participation
of all MADA staff, local government officials and community leaders. For
the future, however, the campaign approach alone will not be sufficient to
sustain continuous improvements in agricultural practices, input usage,
yields and incomes. Field services must be intensified so that farmers can
realize the full potential benefits of investments in infrastructure at the
field level.
41.       Tertiary Development.  The proposed tertiary system designed to
intensify the existing Muda irrigation scheme is the main feature of the Muda
II project. Each irrigation block would be divided into four to six Irrigation
Service Areas (ISAs) which would be served by one tertiary canal. Each ISA
would be further divided into Irrigation Service Units (ISUs) of 15-25 ha,
each of which would follow a uniform cropping schedule. The overall cropping
pattern within each block would be staggered over a period of two months, but
presaturation of each ISU would be completed in eight days or less. Upon
completion of construction, 80% of farm lots would have direct access to
tertiary canals, drains and access roads. The irrigation run from a tertiary
canal to a drain would be 300-500 meters, compared with the present distance
between secondary canals and drains of 2,000-2,500 meters. All tertiary
canal embankments would carry a laterite foot path or farm road, while all
tertiary drains would have a farm road on one bank. In addition to the 37
blocks, a series of small, scattered, tertiary canal, drain and farm road
systems would be provided in high priority locations throughout the Muda
area, benefiting a total of about 1,200 ha.
42.       Other Project Works.  Major outfall drains and natural channels
would be improved where experience has proved them to be inadequate.
About 6 km of coastal bund which has been damaged by wave erosion would be
rehabilitated and faced with rock, following a design concept used success-
fully in the Western Johore Agricultural Development Project (Loan 973-MA).
New tidal gates, water control structures on the primary canal system and an
escape structure on the southern main canal would be built, and the existing
water management and control communication system would be upgraded and
simplified. Additional workshops, administrative buildings and seed stores
would be constructed at appropriate locations to serve the entire Muda area.
43.       Equipment and Vehicles.  Vehicles and equipment would be purchased
under the project to improve the capability of DID to supervise construction
and of MADA to operate and maintain project works. The workshops to be
constructed, enlarged and equipped under the project would perform routine
maintenance and minor repairs for this equipment, while major repairs of
heavy equipment and fabrication of parts would be undertaken by the DID
Federal Workshop in Ipoh. Agricultural equipment and vehicles would also be
purchased to improve the mobility of MADA agricultural extension staff and to
enable the FDCs operated by MADA to provide expanded transport and tractoring
services to farmers on a fee basis.



- 11 -
44.       Studies.  An important feature of the first Muda Project is the
program of studies and investigations carried out by project management to
improve efficiency and provide a sound basis for future development. Many
features of the proposed project are based on the experience gained from the
pilot studies. Similar studies covering engineering, management and pilot
tertiary demonstration areas, would be carried out on a regular basis under
the proposed project, and additional staff and operating budgets would be
made available. An assurance was obtained that by December 31, 1979 MADA
would prepare for review by the Bank a detailed program for studies (Section
3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). The proposed project would also include
two studies related to future agricultural and rural development outside the
Muda region. One is a groundwater study for the development of additional
water resources for irrigation in selected areas of Malaysia. The other is a
feasibility study for an integrated rural development project in the Pergau-
Golas region of the state of Kelantan. These studies have been included in
the project in view of the institution-building aspect of the Bank's technical
assistance to DID for groundwater development and the significant economic
and social implications of the Pergau-Golas study for the development of the
Kelantan river basin, one of the poorest areas in Malaysia.
45.       Consulting Services.  To augment the DID and MADA staff available
for this project, the services of local consulting engineers, surveyors and
architects, including 200 man-months of professional staff, 100 man-months of
technical assistants and 150 man-months of technicians and draftsmen, would
be provided under the project. Total costs of this consultant input are
expected to average US$1,300/man-month for professionals, US$950/man-month for
technical assistants and US$430/man-month for technicians and draftsmen.
In addition, approximately 170 man-months of professional consulting services
at an estimated cost of US$7,000/man-month would be employed to assist with
the proposed groundwater and Pergau-Golas studies. Assurances were obtained
that consultants employed for project implementation and studies would be
acceptable to the Bank and would be engaged as required, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       Training.  The project would include funds for short- and medium-term
training for selected DID and MADA staff and farm group leaders. Local training
includes project orientation training for all key staff and farn group leaders,
short field courses for ISA farm groups, and program review sessions after
every cropping season for all field staff. Longer-term in-service training
courses for agricultural personnel would be conducted at the Rural Extension
Training Center to be constructed at Telok Chengai under the Nat:ional Extension
Project (Loan 1493-MA), while water management training would be conducted at
the Water Management Training Center now being established by DID at Kota Bharu
in Kelantan. Training would also be provided for 18 technical staff in rice
production, crop protection, agricultural engineering, monitoring and evalua-
tion, engineering design techniques, erosion protection, water rnanagement,
agribusiness and extension methods. Two-week training and study tours to
neighboring countries employing the integrated agricultural services system
would be provided for farm group leaders and field workers involved in extension,
water management and agribusiness activities.



- 12 -
Project Cost and Financing
47.       The total project cost is estimated at US$69.0 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$31.0 million (45%). Because of the tax-exempt
status of government departments, cost estimates exclude all known taxes and
duties. Physical contingencies of 10% were applied to all works and equipment.
Expected price increases over the implementation period amount to 21% of base
costs plus physical contingencies and assume annual rates of price inflation
of 7% for civil works and services and 6% for equipment and vehicles in
1979-83. The proposed Bank loan of US$31.0 million would finance the foreign
exchange requirements of the project. The Government would finance all local
costs through annual budget allocations, and would provide funds to MADA for
carrying out its part of the project as a grant. Retroactive financing has
been included for most Bank-assisted projects in Malaysia to maximize the
Bank's participation from the beginning of project implementation, to ensure
that satisfactory procurement procedures are followed from an early stage and
to facilitate discussion of staffing requirements and agency responsibilities
early in the project cycle. In this case, basic issues concerning project
scope, procurement procedures, staffing requirements and inter-agency colla-
boration were resolved in the course of preappraisal in November 1977 and
follow-up discussions in March 1978. Construction of sample areas began in
early 1978 and all construction since April 1978 has been in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank. The loan would therefore finance reLro-
actively the foreign exchange component of expenditures incurred since April
1978. The estimated total cost of such works is US$2.8 million, of which
US$1.4 million (50%) would be foreign exchange.
Procurement
48.       All tertiary works within each irrigation block would be tendered
under a single contract, resulting in about 38 tertiary works contracts /1 of
about US$1.1 million each. To the extent that progress on design and land
acquisition permits, such works would be grouped in appropriate bid packages
and contractors would be allowed to bid on one or more blocks. Other civil
works and buildings (US$12.0 million) would also be tendered in relatively
small packages of about US$2.0 million. Because these contracts would be
small and scattered, and would require coordination with operation and
maintenance activities, land acquisition and large numbers of small farmers
maintaining continuous cropping schedules, these works would not be suitable
for international tender. Contracts would thus be awarded after competitive
bidding in accordance with government procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
The local contracting industry is competitive and strong, and local tendering
is well managed and publicized. Bids would be accepted from foreign contractors
who wish to participate and no preference margins would be utilized in the
evaluation and award of civil works contracts.
49.       Equipment and vehicles (US$3.8 million) would be procured under
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. A
15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is less,
/1   Construction of 37 discrete blocks and one other contract for a series
of small scattered tertiary works.



- 13 -
would be extended to local manufacturers of these items. Off-the-shelf
items costing less than US$35,000 each and limited to a total of US$1,200,000
would be procured through normal government procedures. Force account work
would be limited to the fabrication and supply of gates and hoists for water
control structures (which would be executed by the DID Federal Workshop in
Ipoh). The total cost of such work is estimated at US$0.9 million.
Disbursements
50.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against foreign
exchange expenditures on directly imported equipment and vehicles, 100% of
the ex-factory cost of such items manufactured locally, and 80% of the total
cost of locally procured items. Disbursements for civil works executed by
contract would equal 50% of total costs. Disbursements for force account
work would equal 50% of total costs, and would be made against a certificate
of expenditure, the documentation for which would be retained by the borrower
and would be available for inspection by the Bank during project supervision.
For consulting services, fellowships and study tours, disbursements would
equal 100% of total expenditures. It is expected that disbursements would be
completed by December 31, 1984. The disbursement schedule is given in the
Loan and Project Summary.
Project Coordination and Implementation
51.       MADA is responsible for a wide range of administrative, agricultural
extension, engineering operation and maintenance, agribusiness, monitoring,
evaluation and planning functions pertaining to the general agricultural
development of the Muda command area. The present General Manager of MADA
would serve as Project Manager and be responsible for coordinating the
implementation of the project. He would be guided on policy matters by a
Steering Committee chaired by the Secretary General of the Ministry of
Agriculture and including other officials the chairman may nominate.
MADA would be responsible for the design, tendering and construction of MADA
offices, workshops, quarters and pilot projects, and for upgrading the
existing water control system. Final design and contract supervision of
drainage, irrigation and coastal protective works would be the responsibility
of DID. To accomplish this, DID would establish a Project Office in Alor
Star headed by a Project Director, with branches in the four MADA districts.
The Project Director would report to the Director General of DID and coordinate
DID activities in the Muda area with the Project Manager. The commissioning
of all completed works would be the joint responsibility of DID and MIADA,
while the Engineering Division of MADA would assume responsibility for
operation and maintenance upon satisfactory commissioning of the works. To
ensure that design concepts, features, assumptions and data are transmitted
effectively from the DID design staff to the MADA staff who would operate and
maintain the systems, assurances were obtained that upon completion of final
design, DID would prepare a designer's operation manual covering major
project works (Section 3.09(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
52.       The agricultural service component would cover the entire Muda
area. The Agricultural Division of MADA would be responsible for imple-
mentation, but would work closely with the State Directors of Agriculture
and the Federal technical units represented in the area to ensure efficient



- 14 -
use of staff and facilities for the MADA and non-MADA areas in the states of
Kedah and Perlis. The objective is to achieve group action at field level
with regard to planting and irrigation schedules, water management, pest
control and other activities. Groups of roughly 100 farmers would be
organized according to Irrigation Service Areas covering contiguous blocks
of 100-200 ha of padi land, and each group would be provided with an
effective integrated service package covering extension, water management,
plant protection, credit, input supply and marketing on a regular and
continuous basis. An assurance was obtained that MADA would prepare an
operations manual for extension and other supporting services, and would
submit a draft to the Bank for review by December 31, 1979 (Section 3.09(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       The most serious threat to the Muda region is pest attack by the
brown planthopper, which has caused serious losses in neighboring countries
practising intensive rice cultivation. As Muda is the "rice bowl" of
Malaysia, a widespread outbreak would not only reduce project benefits, but
would jeopardize the Government's efforts to reduce rice imports. The
Government is currently reviewing a national program to strengthen crop
protection services and assurances were obtained that, as part of that
program, the Government would submit to the Bank for review a proposal for
strengthening the crop protection program in the Muda irrigation area by
December 31, 1979, and would implement an agreed program by June 30,
1980 (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       The project would be implemented over a period of five years.
Construction of tertiaries in the first irrigation block began in early 1978
and all construction is expected to be completed by the end of 1983. The
agricultural support programs provide for a buildup of staff and facilities
over the implementation period. Assurances were obtained that all DID
and MADA staff required to implement, operate and maintain the project would
be appointed in a timely manner (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Assurances were also obtained that the implementing agencies would maintain
separate accounts for the project which would be collated by the Project
Manager, audited by auditors satisfactory to the Bank, and forwarded to the
Bank within nine months of the close of each year (Section 4.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Production and Marketing
55.       Project area farmers have already adopted high-yielding varieties
with reasonably high rates of inputs to optimize their yield under conditions
of limited water control.  Project works would reduce farmers' dependence on
their neighbors for irrigation, drainage and access, and would allow the
establishment of clearly defined cropping patterns, while the greatly
intensified extension and service system would encourage the shift to an even
higher level of agricultural technique. With the project, the sustainable
average cropping intensity in the blocks to receive tertiary development is
expected to increase from 175% to 193%. Average padi yields would increase
with tertiary development from 3.3 to 4.0 tons/ha in the main season, and from
3.5 to 4.3 tons/ha in the dry season, while padi production would increase by
about 30% from 150,300 tons at present to 193,300 tons at full development.
In addition, an estimated incremental 13,600 tons of padi would be produced
each year due to improvements in general engineering and agricultural services



- 15 -
in the parts of Mluda currently not covered under this first phase of the
tertiary development program, bringing total incremental padi production from
the project to 56,600 tons (36,800 tons of milled rice). This would represent
an increase of 2% of the total domestic supply which, in the present deficit
situation, would be easily marketable within Malaysia.
Farm Incomes
56.       At present the total annual family income generated by a median
1.4 ha farm model is about M$3,000 (US$1,360). This family income, which
includes income from agricultural wages and off-farm work, is approximately
equal to a per capita income of US$250 per annum. The range of per capita
incomes derived from the various sizes of farms is relatively narrow, varying
from US$120 for a 0.2 ha farm to US$470 for a 4.5 ha farm. These figures
should be compared with the estimated absolute poverty line of US$270, the
critical consumption level (CCL)/l of US$430 and the national average personal
income of US$1,030 (all in 1979 prices). Approximately 50% of project
beneficiary families subsist on incomes below the absolute poverty line,
while 90% are below the CCL. At full project development, the median per
capita income would rise to US$430, approximately equal to the present CCL,
while the projected national per capita income would rise to US$1,530.
Implementation of the project would lift 75% of all beneficiaries out of
absolute poverty, but would still leave more than half below the CCL. Given
the typically small landholdings, this represents the most cost-effective
means of dealing with the hard-core poverty problem in the project area (at
an investment cost of about US$3,050 per family), while emphasizing the
difficulty of raising incomes in the padi sector apace with the rest of the
Malaysian economy.
Regional Impact
57.       A separate analysis has been carried out to measure the project's
impact on incomes in the surrounding region. These indirect effects would
arise mainly because the higher incomes flowing from the project would induce
increased demands for the output of other sectors, as well as investment and
intermediate goods. The results show that for every additional dollar of
value added in padi production arising from the project at maturity, there
would be about 75 cents of value added generated in "downstream" effects,
mostly accruing to nonfarm households. Each dollar of "downstream" value
added would require about one dollar of complementary investment appropriately
distributed over all nonpadi sectors.
Project Charges
58.       Given the low incomes of the padi farmers in the project area,
government policy would require no special taxation of project beneficiaries
/1   The level at which the Government gives equal value to additional private
consumption and additional public sector investment. In this case it
has been estimated by the annual per capita income level which is exempt
from income tax.



- 16 -
to recover project costs. The farmers already pay a wide variety of land-
based taxes and irrigation rates averaging US$19/ha/annum, and an Islamic
padi production tithe (zakat) to the Kedah and Perlis State Departments of
Religious Affairs, which use the receipts to finance the religious school
system, teachers' salaries, welfare expenses, and maintenance of mosques.
Zakat payments are an integral part of traditional Malay culture, which
remains an especially strong force in the padi-farming areas, and they can
be expected to continue regardless of general tax policy. Estimated zakat
payments average about US$100/ha, and are projected to increase to US$160/ha
with project-induced production increases, far in excess of incremental O&M
costs of US$25/ha. Incremental zakat payments discounted at 10% over the
life of the project would recover 26% of project costs. Rent recovery
indices vary from 0% to 14%, averaging 11% for the entire project. It should
be noted that O&M of irrigation facilities in Malaysia is totally divorced
from collections of either land-based irrigation charges or zakat payments;
irrigation O&M is financed out of general revenues supported by a highly
efficient and generally progressive tax system, and that the level of O&M is
not constrained by a shortage of funds. In view of these factors and the
level of farm incomes, the present structure and level of charges are consi-
dered acceptable. Assurances were obtained that the Kedah and Perlis state
governments would continue to collect irrigation charges, the level of which
would be determined taking into account O&M and capital costs, incentives to
farmers, farmers' capacity to pay, and other taxes and charges imposed upon
them, and that the Government would exchange views with the Bank from time to
time on the level of those charges (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
59.       The expected economic rate of return of tertiary irrigation block
development, representing 78% of total project cost, is 18%. Although it was
not possible to compute an economic rate of return for minor general improve-
ments and agricultural services outside the tertiary development area, an
indirect analysis indicates that padi yields would have to increase by only
40 kg/ha to justify those investments. Such an increase is well within the
production response which would be expected. The economic rate of return
showed little sensitivity to the assumptions made about padi yields, cropping
intensity, prices, construction costs or development period. The project
would directly benefit some 16,000 smallholder families with improved water
control and farm access, and all 60,000 smallholder families in the Muda
irrigation area, or about 340,000 people, with improved agricultural services.
60.       Most project beneficiaries are poor, with incomes below the CCL.  In
order to measure the impact of the project on income distribution and saving,
a social cost-benefit analysis was carried out for the tertiary development
area to reflect the Government's objectives of growth and income distribution.
The results of the analysis give a social rate of return of 35%, indicating
that the project would have a positive distributional impact as well as
satisfy the traditional economic efficiency criterion. Sensitivity analysis
showed that the project's social rate of return would exceed the economic
rate of return under any reasonable assumptions about the Government's
economic and social objectives.



- 17 -
61.       Project risks are no greater than can normally be expected with
operations of this type. The main problem encountered in similar projects in
Malaysia has been delays in implementation. This experience has been taken
into account in sizing and scheduling the project's civil works and in
providing for sufficient staff. The economic rate of return is not sensitive
to implementation delays if they occur despite the precautions taken.
Environmental Effects
62.       All project works would be implemented within a densely populated
area which has been relatively intensively cultivated, chiefly for padi
production, for generations. Chemical fertilizers and pesticides are already
widely used in the area and the extension service would continue to caution
farmers in the use of toxic chemicals. Effects on the existing environment
would thus be minimal.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
Washington, D.C.
May 16, 1979



- 18 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAYSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MALAYS IA                                                  /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             329.7                                                     SAME          SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       60.4                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   230.0        440.0      930.0            616.0       867.2       1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       242.0        469.0     541.0            522.0       578.3       1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                           8.1         10.8      13.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 25.9           26.9       30.2             30.1       46.2         52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                         24.0         33.0      39.0             156.8       50.8         27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    152.0          185.0     215.0            794.8        93.3        116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.8 /f.g   44.7 /R   42.1 /f           40.8        42.9         34.8
15-64 YRS.                           53.4 /_.A   52.1 /R   54.4 ft           55.4        53.5         56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.8 /f.R     3.2 /g    3.5 /f            3.2         3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.8          2.9        2.7              2.3        2.5           1.6
URBAN                                5.5          3.0       4.8               5.1         4.7         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       45.6         36.5       31.5             34.6        37.8         27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       17.8          7.8        6.3              8.7        10.8          9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..           ..        2.2 At           2.6         2.5          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..         56.0      69.3
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            8.0       34.0             22.1        20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970=100)               70.1 /f    100.0 f   125.4 ft           106.8      107.3        103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    109.0 /g    112.0 ft  115.0 /f          108.7       105.3        110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            53.7 /g      49.0 /f   56.5 /g           57.7       63.0         77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         17.8 /g      20.0 /g   18.5 /R           17.0       21.7         22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..          4.4        4.0              4.0         8.0          1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.7           56.7       59.4 ft          59.0        57.2         63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             68.9         40.8 /g   33.2 /f           44.0        53.9         38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         29.0      34.0              21.9        56.8        67.7
URBAN                                 ..        100.0      100.0             58.3        79.0        83.5
RURAL                                             1.0       6.0               9.8        31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                            59.0      60.0              28.6       30.9         70.3
URBAN                                 ..        100.0      100.0             66.6       45.4         90.7
RLSRAL                                ..         43.0      43.0              14.8        16.1         38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            6500.0 fg   4040.0          ..           4103.1     2706.8        1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2600.0  t        ..    1570.0 ft         1520.2      1462.0       849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              290.0 /g    270.0 /g  270.0 ft           657.1      493.9         275.4
URBAN                                 *-         80.0 fg  110.0 /f          145.5      229.6        129 .9
RURAL                                 *-       5600.0 /g  980.0 /g         1011.8     2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..       17.2             19.0        22.1         18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.9          5.6 /g      ..              5.2         5.2          3.9
URBAN                                5.9          5.9 /g      ..              5.2         5.0
RURAL                                 .           5.5 ft      ..              5.4         5. 4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                3.0          2.6 ft      ..               ..         2.0          0.9
URBAN                                2.3          2.3 ft      ..               ..         1.5          0.8
RURAL                                 ..          2.8 ft      ..               ..         2.7          1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
})F DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..         43.0/g       ..             39.1        64.1         59.2
URBAN                               82.9         84.7 /g      ..               ..        67.8         78.0
RURAL                                 ..         30.0  t      ..               ..        34.1         12.5



- 19-                                                      ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAYSIA. - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MALAYSIA                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) La
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION ic   GROUP Id    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  96.0         91.0      93.0             95.6        99.8         97.6
FEMALE                83.0         87.0      91.0             93.7        93.3         87.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  19.0        34.0       41.0             43.3        33.8         47.8
FEMALE                13.0         28.0      36.0              38.6       29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  5.0            3.2       3.2             11.3        12.8         22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             28.0         31.0      33.0             30.0        34.9         25.4
SECONDARY                           38.0         26.0      27.0             25.4        22.2         24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         48.0         55.0      60.0 /h          84.0        71.8         96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..              9.3        12.4         32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..             97.6       104.5        201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         18.0      33.0             21.8        28.1         97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   61.0         65.0      89.0             25.9        45.2         70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 16.0            9.4       8.2              4.6         4.6          4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       2300.0      3600.0    4200.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    27.0         31.4      31.4             33.2        25.7         17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               56.0         49.5      45.2             48.4        46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.7         13.7      14.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 34.2         33.8      33.9             38.9        33.8         33.7
MALE                                  48.8         45.7      45.9              48.6       48.1         50.8
FEMALE                                18.9         21.5      21.5             28.4        17.3         12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.6        1.3              1.2        1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         28.3                       17.3        23.6         20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           56.0        ..             45.6        52.3         47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          3.5        ..              6.5         4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         11.2        *-             17.3        13.1         13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      246.0           140.8       191.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      222.0           112.8       193.1        157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      265.0               ..      319.8        448.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..      239.0            76.8       197.7        313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      20.0             27.7        19.8         23.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      52.0             40.4        35.1         54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwiae noted, data fur 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper Middle Income
($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1957;  /g  W. Malaysia;   /h  1972.
September 1978



- 20 -                                                                         ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INaDICAIORS                                                      Page   3   olf   5
SDl:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geonetric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator a.d rho nos:
populateo country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indirators depends on a-silability of date and is not uniform. Doe to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water snd escreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty ate
siepIe population-weighted geoxetric eaons without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAIl AREA (thousand sq. kro)                                                               Population per hospital bed - rotal, urbat, ovd rural - Popucaticr  tuf-
_ctaL - Total nuroc area cmo.rling land area and inland waters.                             urban, and royal) divided by their respective vamber of hospital  -'10
Agr_cultural  o-vt recant estieate of agricultural 0000 used temporarily                    available in public and private general and specialized hospitai and tr-
or yermanrrtly for cra?s. pautnre, oerkot and kitohen gardens or to                       habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently utaffed by
ti  faiLow.                                                                               at least one physician.   Estabhlishntas pr-vdieg principally   andiW.
ours are non included.  bRat  boopitial, however. , Onvinde I r  an -c  c-
CNP PER  APTA   Sij- CN:' per capita estimates at current market prices,                     cal cenrers not permanently staffed by a phy.ician fhut by a -nedical  s-
calculated by same coonersion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sitent, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-pstient aroon-d-iotn rod
19C, 1970, and 1977 dots.                                                                provide a liit ed rxnge uf =ediral farilities.
Adeissians per hospitel bed - Total nu=ber of adnisohons to or dlschorgrc
ENERiY CONSLMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual . onsumption of rommerrial energy                     froe  hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(veal cod lrgrrt, petroleum, an,ural gas and hydeo-, -xclear and gee-
rbhrmal electricity) ho kilogrums of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average slam of house.;hold (Persona per hosehold) - total, urban  and  ural -
POPULATION Alit VITAL STATISIRTCi                                                            A heu..eheld c..es.ista  faeo  ef,idividua:a1wI share  ivin  cu ...
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if cot available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or ledger moy or ray nrohr beincuded cn
averoge of two cod-year estimates; 196C, 1970, and 1977 data.                             the household for statistical purposes.   Stutistica-  definitirns onf lnr-
ir3un populattun (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tin; different definitions of urban areas may affert c-oparability                    Average  anuber of persons Per coos - total, urban, and ruanl - Average cv-               
of data aong countries.                                                                   ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conve_tlcnal
too densitY                                                                           dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings excludo rvn-p-rtent structure- u-.
Per _sq. ki. - Mid-year population per square kiloneter (101 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity (perrent of dwellings) - total, urban, aid cural
Por sq. ki. agrigulture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Conventional dwellings   ith electrioity  in living quarters us percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Pcpulanion age strurture (pernenc) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and rerired (61 years and ever) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Fcualcgrnwr  rac -  pren)-tta,ad  ra    Compound annual                            primary ehnol - tota,l, and fenale ,- Total ad femal  enrollmet of all air.
gr-wrh rates of toal and urbar mid-yea, papulati.ns foe 1950-60,                          at the primary level  a perctage  of respectively primary ..         h ol-age
196C-7C, and 1970-71.                                                                    populations;  normally includes rhildren aged n-il yearn but ad!noted Icr
Crude bur     ou rae_(per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                    different lengths of primary education: for  -cuntrie- with univensal .        du-
mid-year popylanion; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment nay exceed 19O  percent since soee  pupils are below cv
1971 and Cfinc-pear aneragr endig ic 1975 for nost recent entlnats.                      above ch. efficial school age.
Crude odth rate (per thosuand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                       -econdarv school - total, and female - Cemputed an aohoe; secondary  duca-
vrear cupulatios; ten-y-ar avith-ctir averugns ending in 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approv-d primary instruction; pry-
-oA  f.c-yvea  averoge onding in 1971 for =oscrenct --       ti-at-.                     sides general vocational, or toucher training inscructions fcr pupic
-;rsu reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a unman will bnar                    us-ally of 12 to 17 years of age; orrespondencecourses arc grnvcu
iu  cry normal -opr-ducti-o period if nhe eoperienres present age-                       excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually fine-year averages ending in 1960,                    ocational anrollmene (Percent of secondar-) - Vc-uri-al inutirjr-., in-:n
197C, and 1575.                                                                          clude technic-l, industrial, or other progra-  whiri operate undevnopentic
Family planning - acceptoru, annual (thousands) - Annsal number of                          rr as departments of secondary institutiosu.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                  Popol-arecher ratio - primary, and secondarv - Total students enrclled  c:
planning program,                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of tsach-rs in thy ccvrr-
F-mily pl-siog-nuora  prero   aridwmc   Perenag.                       o                     pending levels.
marriedl women n f niuheasrb-ing  ge (15-44 years) who use birthc-ontrol              Aduit literacy rate (percent) - Litnerte adults  able vc mad and ovitn  an
devices to all  earned women in naoe age group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 1  years and cccv.
FiOl  AND NfTRITIIN                                                                     CONSUlLPTION
index o  food yroducclun per capita (lY7C=lCC) - index somber of per                   Passenger cars (per thossand population) - Pussenger corn compris;nclre  ur :
capita annual production of all ford commodities.                                      seating  less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearten any vi1:tux
Per capita supply of colonies (percent of ronolrenests) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energv equivalent of sot Toni supplies available is country per capita                Radio receivers (per thusand populocics) - All typen of receive, u  c, di-
pen day.  Available supp1ios comprise domes.ti  production, imports less               broadcasts to general public per th.ousnd of population; excludes uvluc,cccu
e-po-tc, any changes in stock.  Net supplies  -elude animal feed, seeds,              receivers in countries and in years whon registrati-n of rudir sets wan in
quenritirs curd in fod proceesing, and louses in distribucion.  Re-                    effeoc; date for recent year  may non be c-mpoaalc incesos ncuntvr.
quir-rennunvor  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs fur nor-                 abolishnd licensing.
n.a  activity and hbaith cunsidering  environmental tempeorture, body                 TV receivers (per thousand  opulanien) - ITV receivers for br-udc-rt cgrve-i
ceighto,  ago and sex diniributioes  of popuiation. and allowing 1i  per-                 public par rhousand popula-ien; exrludes umlinenson TV receif ens in v
cent,, cr wasce at household level,                                                       tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in efcec.
Per capita supply oi protein (grois per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper cirnalation (per  thousand population) - Shows the arorage ucrrsu--
capita  net supply cI icod per day.  let supply of food is defined as                     tion  of "daily general interest newspaper". definod as a  oeriudicul pucli-
above.  Require=ents ifr all cnuntrie- established by CSIA provide for                    cation devoted pri.earily to recording general nus,  In in conidcred tc
amint mum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 21 grats                     he 'daily" if it appears at leot four  imes a week.
of un.al and paine protein, of which 1C grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendanne per c.pice per your - lusnd cc thi  ccshcr -        ( <Arty
These otuncu-ds are lower th-a those of 75 grams of total protein and                     sold during the year, including admissions  vt drive-ir cnom-ac arc  c-vt
I3 grant of urinal ptrotin an as  -venuge for the rorld, proposed by                      units.
FAy in thr Third Wirld FoodSurvey.
for capcto crvoici  supiplyn fromnimol and Pulse  -         Protein scpply of forod    EMPLOYMENT
derived Iyre  ani:ais and pulses in grams per day.                                    Total labo  force  (tho.uands) - Efconnically active per-ons, including ac:oc
Child (age - 1-4m a           r                     - Annual  deaths per thous-             forces and unemployed bat eocluding hbusec-i-e,  students, e t c. C  f     n.-
and in age gr-uc  1-4 years, tc children in thin age group.                               tiers in various countries are not conp-rable.
Female (percen) - Fe=ale labor force as percentage Cf totul lance fcrcn.
HEAL-H                                                                                    Agriculture (percent) - Labor forno in farming, f_crosty.  hurting and fisind
Lit cesocvancy at hicti (years) - Average number of years of life                           as peroentage of total labor forre.
vemaiving  st birth; usually fin-ypear averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (pernnnt) - Labor for- in mio ig, cetrtcrucion, manufacruring usr
and 1- 75.                                                                                eltetiriy, water and gas as percentage nf total labor force.
Infant met:alivy ruin (pernthouuand) - Annual deaths of isfannt  under P-rniu-panion rate (percent)   total., mai, end fem-la                             Trial, m-1r, and
one your of ago per th-osand lion birhts. teale labor force as per-ntnnges of their re-cective poyulasinu.
AcSum o e  afoar (perct of population) - totaL, urban, and rural -                            Rene ture    s a1. popdj-ted p-tinipati-on    s  reflecting are-se
',,nh,r cf pepIc (rura, urban, and  -rura)wirh reason.able o-ens to                       - r-t-  of the Popcluti-n  end  o-g ti-  trend.
sole outer cupply (includes treated surfare waters or untreated bht                   E.oenoic dependency ratio - Ratio of copulation  -nde- 15 und 65 and ccvt rs
-uncotcamnated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor force in age group of 15-64 yearn.
and u,,itury wells) as percnrtoges of their renpe_tive posplationa.
n an  urban  area a public fountain or standpo-t located not more                   IgCOSE DISTRIBUTIOS
mnan 23C nrers fmv a house may he considered as being within me-                      Percentage of private incore (both in cash and kihd) received by rirhest
nonab:e access of thur house.  In rural areas reasonable acress would                     percent. richest 20 percent, poorest 20 porcent, uvc poorenst 4J             - prcen
Iply that the  -rnoe Ce or nembers of the household do not hone to                        of households.
spend A disproporti_nuae pert of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Accens to excreta diEosal (percent of eocularten) - total, urban, and                    Entimated absolute poverry income level  iusi  Per capita)-uban ..t,i raunl
rural - Number of people (cotal, urban, and rural) served by:esreta                         Abso-lte poverty income level is that incone level beluw which a minut.a
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  lExreta                          -turitionally adequate diet plus essertial nun-food requirements is 'G'
d.tpucsl nay cnclude one -cllection and disposal, with or without                         affordable.
tr_averni  of human excreta and waste-water by water-boe este eIsimared relation povety iEsome lee  (TSS pr  -aitul -b- ad rrl
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                      Re;atine poverty incoe level is that incme 1lel les  uhan one-third
PRoulatii par phvsician - Papuiation divided by number of prrcticing                        per capita personal income of the country.
pynyicianrs qu-lified from a medical school at unoiersity level.                       Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urcn and rural -
Pc  lutiun  per namsing Fettle - Population divided by number of                            Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "abuote your' cr
pravtlcing male aed female graduate norses, pr-etial nur-nn, and                         "relative poor"  hiche-vr in greater.
Economic and Social Dat. Divinirn
Efooomic Analysin and Pr-jeuclons inpcr:scvr



- 21 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - MALAYSIA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977:                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(% in constant prices and M$)
US$ Mln       %      1960-65   1965-70   1970-75   1976   1977
GNP at Market Prices            12,632      100.0      6.9        5.6         7.0      10.8    7.1
Gross Domestic Investment        3,053       24.2      9.4         7.7        6.2       9.8   19.7
Gross National Saving            3,671       29.1        .
Exports of Goods, NFS            6,592       52.2      4.1        6.5         5.8      17.0    3.7
Imports of Goods, NFS            5,491       43.5      3.3        5.7        4.0       8.8   13.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added               Labor Force                V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln                       Min          %             US$            %
Agriculture             2,367         29.1           1.9        45.2            1,246         59.7
Industry                2,224         27.3           0.6        14.3            3,707        177.5
Services                3,553         43.6           1.4        33.3            2,538        121.6
Unemployed                  .            .           0.3         7.2
Total/Average       8.144        100.0           4.2       100.0           2.088         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
MS Mln           % of GDP
1977        1977      1974-76
Current Receipts                  8,940        27.9         25.7
Current Expenditures              8,318        26.0         23.0
Public Authorities Surplus          341          1.1         0.8
Current Surplus                     963          3.0         3.5
Development Expenditures          4,332         13.5        11.7
Foreign Borrowing (net)             629          2.0         2.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES    1969  1970   1971  1972   1973   1974    1975    1976    1977
(Million M$ outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi-Money         3,724  4,131  4,666  5,770  7,574  8,729  10,001  12,769  14,861
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                       909    833  1,045  1,186  1,375  1,746   2,148   3,036   3,583
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                      1,841  2,246  2,572  3,014  4,586  5,278   6,084   7,471   8,970
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money
as % of GDP                  33.1   33.3   36.0   40.4   40.0   37.8    45.1    46.4   46.4
Consumer Price Index
(1967 = 100)                99.4  101.3  102.9  106.2  117.4  137.8   144.0   147.7  154.8
Annual Percentage
Changes in:
Consumer Price Index           -0.4    1.9    1.6    3.2   10.5   17.4          4.5      2.6    4.8
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                       6.4   -8.4   25.5   13.5   15.9   27.0    14.6    41.3   18.0
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                       9.0   21.9   14.6   17.2   52.2   15.1    15.3    22.8   20.1
not applicable
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-77)
1975    1976   1977                                 US$ Mln      %
(US$ million)
Exports f.o.b                3,774  5,248  6,043
Imports f.o.b.               3,472  3,759  4,521         Rubber                   1,148       22.9
Nonfactor services (net)    -282   -345   -446            Timber                    765       15.2
Resource Gap (deficit)          20  1,144  1,076          Petroleum                 624       12.4
Factor services (net)         -303   -367   -483          Tin                       599       11.9
Net Transfers                 - 33   - 39   - 41          Palm Oil                  586       11.7
Balance on Current Account  -316    738    552           All Other Commodities 1,160          25.9
Total             5,021      100.0
Direct Foreign Investment    359    300    481
Net MLT Borrowing /a                                      EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1977
Disbursements             588    443    644
Amortization               84    143    318                                           US$ Mln
Subtotal                  504    300    326
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed   2,053
Other items n.e.i.            -476   -425 -1,160         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Increase in Reserves (-)    - 71   -913   -199           Total Outstanding & Disbursed   2,053
Gross Official Reserves                                  DEBT-SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977
(end year)                   1,701  2,513  2,794                                               %
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed    6.5
Fuel and Related Materials                               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Imports                      425    516    578         Total Outstanding & Disbursed    6.5
Exports                      402    750    859
of which:  Petroleum       359    695    817
IBRD/IDA LENDING (March 31, 1979)
(US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                              IBRD
Average rate during period:                               Outstanding & Disbursed            396.2
M$ per US$      US$ per M$       Undisbursed                        534.6
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed   930.8
1971            3.05            0.33
1972            2.82            0.35
1973            2.44            0.41
1974            2.41            0.41
1975            2.40            0.42
1976            2.54            0.39
1977            2.46            0.41
1978            2.32            0.43
/a  Medium and long-term capital flows are obtained from World Bank debt data and
are not comparable with balance of payments estimates.
.. not available



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (AS OF MARCH 31, 1979)
Amount in
US$ Million
Loan                                                                 (Less Cancellations)
Number  Year   Borrower                      Purpose                  Bank   Undisbursed
Seventeen loans fully disbursed                                       301.6
774   1971   Sabah Ports Authority   Ports                           16.1        0.3
810   1972   Malaysia                   Education (II)               15.5        4.4
880   1973   Malaysia                   Population                    5.0        2.7
885   1973   Malaysia                   Land Settlement              25.0        5.5
908   1973   Malaysia                  Water Supply (II)             13.5        1.6
931   1973   Malaysia                  Highway (II)                  19.5        5.5
967   1974   Malaysia                  Land Settlement               40.0       16.7
973   1974   Malaysia                   Agricultural Development   45.0         36.7
974   1974   Malaysia                   Education (III)              19.0       13.9
1031   1974   National Electricity
Board                  Power (VI)                    43.3       7.9
1044   1974   Malaysia                   Land Settlement              36.0       26.0
1115   1975   Malaysia                   Agricultural Research
and Extension              28.5      25.4
1178   1975   National Electricity
Board                  Power (VII)                   35.0      21.2
1213   1976   Malaysia                   Sewerage                     21.5       20.3
1214   1976   Malaysia                   Urban Transport (II)         26.0       20.4
1294   1976   Malaysia                  Rural Development             21.0      20.3
1329   1976   Malaysia                  Education (IV)                35.0       34.0
1376   1977   Malaysia                   Highway (III)                35.0       25.8
1443   1977   National Electricity
Board                  Power (VIII)                  22.0      21.4
1444   1977   Malaysia                   Irrigation                   39.0      38.2
1493   1978   Malaysia                   National Extension           19.0       19.0
1522   1978   Malaysia                   Agricultural Develoment    26.0         25.5
1580   1978   Sabah Ports Authority   Ports (II)                      13.0       12.9
1590   1978   Malaysia                   Land Settlement              28.0       28.0
1608   1978   Malaysia                  Population (II)               17.0       17.0
1618   1978   Malaysia                   Coconut Smallholders Dev.  19.5         19.5
1632   1978   Malaysia                   Agricultural Development   26.5        26.5
1657   1979   Malaysia                   Fifth Education              38.0       38.0
Total loans (less cancellations)                       1,029.5
of which has been repaid                                98.7
Total now outstanding                                    930.8
Amount sold                                43.6
of which has been repaid                 15.6           28.0
Total loans now held by Bank                             902.8
Total undisbursed                                                   534.6



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF MARCH 31, 1979)
Type of            Amount in US$ Million
Year                                  Business         Loan       Equity      Total
1964   Malaysian Industrial
Development Finance          Development
Ltd. (MIDF)                  Financing             -        1.31        1.31
1966   Tasek Cement Ltd.             Cement            1.28        0.28        1.56
1968   Malayawata Steel Ltd.         Steel             2.45        1.01        3.46
1969   Malayawata Steel Ltd.         Steel                -        0.23        0.23
1970   India-Malaysia
Textiles Ltd.                Textiles           1.25        0.25        1.50
1974   Malaysian Industrial
Development Finance          Development
Ltd. (MIDF)                  Financing             -        0.63        0.63
Total gross commitment                          4.98        3.71        8.69
Less: repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs             4.00        3.46        7.46
Total commitments now held by IFC               0.98        0.25        1.23
Total undisbursed                                  -           -           -



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Loan No. 774   Sabah Ports Project; US$16.1 Million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: August 24, 1971; Closing Date: September 30,
1979
Work was satisfactorily completed on the new berths at Kota Kinabalu
and Sandakan by end-1976, but slow progress in completing the access road to
Sandakan delayed full use of the Sandakan berths until mid-1977. Delay in
mobilization and procurement of materials and difficulties in retaining
suitable consultant engineers, compounded with the world-wide inflation,
resulted in a cost overrun of about 50%. Settlement of an outstanding claim
by the contractors is being processed by the Sabah Ports Authority. Final
accounts are expected to be completed before September 1979.
Loan No. 1580 Second Sabah Ports Project; US$13.0 Million Loan of
September 20, 1978; Effective Date: November 10, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project aims at (a) providing Tawau port with the capacity to
meet forecast traffic; (b) providing the ports of Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan
and Tawau with cargo handling equipment to meet future traffic growth and
to replace worn-out items; and (c) improving the performance of the Sabah
Ports Authority (SPA) by providing technical assistance and staff training.
SPA has appointed consulting engineers for detailed engineering and supervision.
Tenders for the civil works are being finalized. Traffic and financial
results for 1978 were generally better than forecast. SPA intends to invite
technical assistance proposals from management consultants in mid-1979 when
adequate counterpart staff will be available.
Loan No. 931   Second Highway Project; US$19.5 Million Loan of August 22,
1973; Effective Date: October 25, 1973; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980
Overall, the project is about 90% completed. Two of the three
contract sections constituting the new Kuala Lumpur-Seremban Expressway have
been completed and the third section has been partially taken over. Except
for a two mile section at the northern end, the Expressway was opened for
traffic in October 1977. The improvement works to the existing Kuala Lumpur-
Seremban Road are almost completed, but the widening and improvement works of
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
the Kuala Lumpur-Batang Kali Road, which were started in November 1976, will
still take more than one year to complete. Consulting services for various
studies and detailed engineering have been completed. Construction costs have
escalated sharply because of rapid inflation, and the total project cost is
now estimated to be US$49 million, compared to an appraisal estimate of
US$37 million.
Loan No. 1214 Second Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project; US$26.0 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effective Date: November 11, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The main objective of the project is to increase the efficiency
of the transport system in Kuala Lumpur. Public transport services will be
improved while the use of private cars will be restrained. Although primarily
concerned with urban transport, the project also introduces new approaches to
residential development for low-income families. The main components are:
(a) road and intersection improvements, traffic engineering and control
schemes and construction of new radial roads; (b) transport policy measures
including introduction of minibus services, traffic priorities for high-
occupancy vehicles and area road pricing; (c) provision of new serviced plots
for households and businesses, and improvement of infrastructure services for
existing households; and (d) technical assistance to support traffic management
and transport planning, to prepare an urban development project for Kuantan,
and to review national housing policies and programs. Overall progress on the
transport components has been quite satisfactory, with a sharp acceleration in
construction activities over the past several months. Initial delays, however,
have not been fully overcome and the estimated project completion date has
been moved back 15 months. Execution of the residential components has been
less satisfactory due to administrative and policy problems which are in the
process of being resolved. This is resulting in some project redesign. Cost
overruns are expected in some project elements, especially in the Traffic
Dispersal Schemes.
Loan No. 1376 Third Highway Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1977;
Effective Date: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The main objective of the project is to improve the highway
network in the East Malaysian State of Sabah through the reconstruction and
upgrading of priority links and the development of the road maintenance
capacity of the Sabah State Public Works Department. A further objective is
to protect road investments in Peninsular Malaysia through a pilot program
for road maintenance and pavement strengthening in three states. The project
also includes an urban study of Kota Kinabalu in Sabah and a transport/railway
study in Peninsular Malaysia. Construction work on the east and west coast
roads in Sabah started in September 1977, about five months behind schedule.
Progress thus far has been unsatisfactory. Overall, with almost half the
construction period expired, less than 20% of the work has been completed.
The Government has been requested to take the necessary steps to expedite the
work. The highway maintenance and upgrading program in Sabah started about
twelve months behind schedule due to late appointment of consultants to assist
the Sabah Public Works Department. While satisfactory progress has been made



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
on the preparatory works for the pavement strengthening program in Peninsular
Malaysia, the reorganization of maintenance sections in the three pilot states
is behind schedule due to staff shortages.
Loan No. 1031  Sixth Power Project; US$45.0 M4illion Loan of July 25, 1974;
Effective Date: October 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
Loan No. 1178  Seventh Power Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of December 17,
1975; Effective Date: March 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1443  Eighth Power Project; US$22.0 Million Loan of August 3,
1977; Effective Date: January 9, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The 275 kV transmission lines from Temengor to Papan and from
Port Dickson to Malacca financed under the Sixth Power Project have been
completed. Under the Seventh Power Project, the final stage extension of
the Prai Power Station (3 x 120 rrW) is about 40% complete and progress is
satisfactory. The Eighth Power Project (the Pasir Gudang Power Station,
2 x 120 MW) is still in the early stages of construction; 20% of the work has
been completed. NEB's financial performance is deteriorating and liquidity is
tight. Unless remedial action is taken soon it is likely that NEB will not
meet the covenanted 8% rate of return for FY79. NEB and Government are in the
process of devising means to improve NEB's financial position.
Loan No. 908   Second Kuala Lumpur Water Supply Project; US$13.5 Million
Loan of June 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 27, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of the expansion of water supply facilities
to meet increasing demand in Kuala Lumpur and the Klang Valley area. The
first part of the project, comprising ordinary water works, was completed in
1976, practically on schedule and within the cost estimates, and is operational.
The construction of the Langat Dam, the last and major work of the project,
is progressing satisfactorily and is expected to be completed by the end of
1979. Completion will be two years behind the appraisal schedule. Cost of
the dam is likely to be about 25% more than originally estimated, resulting
in an increase in total project cost of about 15%. No difficulties are
foreseen in raising the additional funds required. Staffing problems persist
within the Selangor State Water Department, which is responsible for the
project. Physical operations are satisfactory. There are deficiencies in the
accounting, billing and collection and reporting system which the concerned
government agencies have undertaken to correct through a program of support
for the Water Department.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan 1213-MA   Kuala Lumpur Sewerage Project; US$21.5 Million Loan of
March 11, 1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is the first stage (1976-81) of a 30-year master plan
for sewerage development in the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area. It includes
the extension of sewage collection (about 70 miles of trunk and lateral
sewers) and treatment facilities to serve an additional population of 200,000
in the Kuala Lumpur Federal Territory; the institution of a separate Sewerage
Department within the Kuala Lumpur City Hall, with its own accounting system
and finances; engineering and management consultant services; staff training;
and the preparation of sewerage and pollution control in the Kuala Lumpur
metropolitan area. The engineering of the project has been satisfactorily
completed. Construction of two out of the three major contracts (sewers) has
started. Land acquisition and resettlement of present occupants have created
serious problems but these are now being solved. The setting up of a separate
accounting system for the Sewerage Department (Kuala Lumpur City Hall) has
progressed well. Sewerage surcharges on water bills were instituted after
delays.
Loan No. 885   Third Jengka Triangle Land Settlement Project;
US$25.0 Million Loan of March 30, 1973; Effective
Date: June 22, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
About 23,500 acres of oil palm and 16,500 acres of rubber have been
planted. Planting and maintenance standards are satisfactory. A severe
drought in 1976 and 1977 caused heavy losses in rubber planted in schemes 21
and 22. A major program to supply replacements is under way and scheduled for
completion in April 1979. Oil palm on schemes 15, 17, 18, 19 and 23 has been
brought into production. Good progress has been made in village development
in 1978 but settler intake is generally 2-2.5 years behind appraisal estimates
because of earlier delays in construction of access roads. So far, about
2,200 houses have been completed and about 2,070 settlers moved into schemes
15-20. Initial intake to schemes 21-23 is anticipated by the end of 1979.
Water supplies are now satisfactory on all schemes but delays are still being
experienced in school and clinic construction. Oil palm mill construction in
scheme 18 is almost complete and the plant is expected to be commissioned
shortly.
Loan No. 967   Johore Land Settlement Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1974; Effective Date: May 16, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Clearing has been completed and final planting is being carried out
on Phase III of Ulu Dengar scheme. Planting and maintenance standards are
satisfactory. Oil palm production has started in 5 schemes and production
has recovered from initially disappointing levels. A major resupplying
program to replace losses to game is under way and boundary trenches have been
completed. Due to delays in infrastructure development, village development
is one to three years behind schedule. Rising timber prices and labor



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
shortages are also creating difficulties for contractors. Regular coordination
committee meetings have improved interagency relationships, but shortfalls in
construction of water supply and access roads will cause some further slippage
in 1979. The third and the fourth oil mills are expected to be completed
by June 1979.
Loan No. 973   Western Johore Agricultural Development Project; US$45.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: August 14, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project includes main and feeder drains, coastal embankments
and tidal gates to improve drainage in an area of over 135,000 ha in south-
west Peninsular Malaysia, as well as an integrated agricultural development
program to introduce intercropping and other changes in cropping patterns,
construction of Farmers Development Centers, and improvements in research,
extension, and crop processing. Civil works got off to a slow start and
are about three years behind schedule, but progress is accelerating.
Initial staffing problems have been largely overcome and some improvements
have been made in procedures to acquire right-of-way. Technical questions
on the optimum spacing and depth of feeder drains in acid sulfate soils
appear to have been resolved on the basis of a pilot drainage area. Work is
progressing on drainage contracts, remaining farm roads are being retendered
and prequalification of secondary road contractors is expected soon. Progress
on the agricultural side is generally satisfactory and in line with appraisal
estimates except for pineapple, where production is declining. The Project
Manager is taking steps to develop an integrated agricultural service system
to coordinate the efforts of the crop-based development agencies with the
extension activities in the project area. Work is also proceeding on the
preparation of a second phase project.
Loan No. 1044 Keratong Land Settlement Project; US$36.0 Million Loan of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Clearing and planting operations on schemes 8 and 9 are nearing
completion having been delayed one year by late logging. On four schemes,
25% of palms were damaged by game. Perimeter trenches are being dug and
seedlings resupplied. So far, 610 houses have been completed and 593 settlers
moved in in schemes 1 and 2. Settler intake during 1978 was less than half
that scheduled. Established contractors are reluctant to seek work in Keratong
because of its location and unattractiveness to labor. Rising timber prices
have created difficulties for small contractors which have been aggravated by
access difficulties caused by heavy rains in the second half of the year.
Limited use of a new highway is expected in early 1980. FELDA is also
withdrawing half of the housing contracts for villages 4 and 5 of town 22 and
will retender. These actions should result in more rapid progress in 1980.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Loan No. 1115 Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$28.5 Million
Loan of May 30, 1975; Effective Date: October 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation is more than two years behind the appraisal
estimates. A new Director General was appointed in mid-1977 and a new Deputy
Director for Administration was appointed in January 1978; the post of Deputy
Director for Research is still vacant. The effort to recruit international
scientists is still inadequate.  Ten scientists have been recruited, totaling
16.5 man-years, representing 15% of the total scheduled under the project.
An additional one man-year has been utilized for consultants to conduct nine
program reviews. Civil works and fellowships are the only components of the
project that have been proceeding at a satisfactory pace. The extension
component of the project is also more than two years behind schedule and has
had similar management constraints with a change in Directors occurring in
March 1978. Although there has been a marginal improvement in implementation,
the short-term outlook is not encouraging.
Loan No. 1294 North Kelantan Rural Development Project; US$21.0 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: October 28, 1976;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
The project will provide drainage and flood protection for 30,000 ha;
intensive irrigation for 12,000 ha of padi land; construction of 190 km of
rural roads; 15 small irrigation schemes serving 1,300 ha; 25 Farmers Develop-
ment Centers; and an integrated agricultural service system. Implementation
of civil works has fallen about a year behind schedule, due mainly to staffing
shortages, particularly in DID headquarters for design and tendering.
Providing adequate flood protection is the most difficult engineering problem.
Progress in finding a technical and economic solution acceptable to Government
bodies and local people has been slow. Total project cost is likely to exceed
the appraisal estimate by about 20%, due mainly to the higher costs of flood
protection and rural roads, and exchange rate adjustments since 1976. Ex-
penditures and disbursements are behind schedule but are beginning to accelerate.
Progress on the agricultural side is mixed. Progress on extension in the first
two districts is good, although introduction of the program to the next two
districts is more than a year behind schedule due to staff shortages. A good
start has been made in the pilot credit program, but proposals to introduce a
fertilizer subsidy for all padi farmers may, if adopted, undermine farmers'
incentives to repay.  The program to integrate irrigation O&M with extension
is scheduled to begin in June 1979.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan No. 1444 National Small-Scale Irrigation Project; US$39.0 Million Loan
of August 3, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project includes construction of small irrigation systems with
a total irrigable area of 54,000 ha distributed throughout Malaysia, technical
assistance and training for DID, procurement of equipment and a feasibility
study for the Rompin/Endau irrigation project. Construction is proceeding
satisfactorily and most schemes should be completed on schedule by the end of
1982, although some work may extend into 1983. Of the 195 proposed schemes
to be implemented under the project, 50 have been approved by the Bank for
inclusion in the project following appraisal by the Preparation and Evaluation
Teams, 25 are under construction and 61 more are in various stages of prepara-
tion. The interim report for the Rompin/Endau Study has been completed and
the final report is scheduled for mid-1979.
Loan No. 1493 National Extension Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of January 10,
1978; Effective Date: September 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
This is a project designed to strengthen agriculture extension in all
13 States in Malaysia, and increase the production capacity for quality of seeds.
The project was appraised in October 1976, but only became effective in
September 1978 due to internal problems over financial arrangements between
the Federal Government and the States (extension is a State function). All
key appointments that were conditions of effectiveness have now been made and
are satisfactory to the Bank. Implementation planning for 1979 has been
completed, posts have been established and 41 extension technicians have been
recruited, some civil works designed have been initiated and sites acquired.
The State of Sarawak has commenced civil works construction at 6 sites. There
are two issues that could hinder implementation: (i) timely preparation of
civil works designs, and (ii) the Federal Government's policy to establish
Federal supernumerary posts in lieu of permanent State posts during the
project period. These matters are being taken up with the appropriate author-
ities. Overall prospects for project implementation in 1979 are good.
Loan No. 1522 Northwest Selangor Integrated Agricultural Development Project;
US$26.0 Million Loan of March 8, 1978; Effective Date:
June 21, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
The project includes intensification of irrigation networks for
20,000 ha of padi, drainage works for 77,000 ha of tree crops, and facilities,
equipment, and training to support an intensified program of agricultural
services for smallholders. The project started out about one year behind
schedule due primarily to staff shortages, but significant progress has been
made in the last six months on staffing, the design and tendering of structural
tertiaries, and planning, survey and design of drainage areas. Land acquisition
should be relatively easy since the right-of-way is already generally available
for the drains, and structural tertiaries require only a narrow strip of land.
Progress on the agricultural component is satisfactory.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan No. 1590 FELDA VI Land Settlement Project; US$28.0 Million Loan of
August 11, 1978; Effective Date: March 9, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project supports the development objectives of the Government
to raise productivity and incomes, and to reduce poverty. It consists
of: land clearing and planting of 62,000 acres of rubber, up to 10,000 acres
of cocoa in a pilot project, and 500 acres of annual crops on an experimental
basis. About 6,200 families would be settled in the rubber areas, and 1,500
additional families would work on cocoa. The project includes ancillary
roads, settler and staff housing, and basic education, health, and community
service facilities. The first supervision is now under way.
Loan No. 1618   Coconut Smallholders Development Project; US$19.5 Million
Loan of October 24, 1978; Effective Date: February 23, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project consists of rehabilitation of about 44,200 acres of
traditional MT Coconuts and intercropping with cocoa, coffee, fruits, etc;
replanting of about 17,000 acres with hybrid coconuts and associated cash
crop gardens in the initial years; the provision for the importation of about
6,400 crossbred dairy animals for the development of about 3,340 integrated
dairy and beef operations; and the strengthening of support services for crop
and dairy production. It should be noted that importation of cattle has been
banned due to the recent outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease; this could
seriously delay the implementation of the livestock component of this project.
Loan No. 1632   Krian-Sungei Manik Integrated Agricultural Development Project;
US$26.5 Million Loan of December 13, 1978; Effective Date:
March 6, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide improved drainage and irrigation facili-
ties, access roads, training and intensified agricultural supporting services
in two separate areas, covering a total of about 30,000 ha of padi land in
the state of Perak. Despite Government action before loan signing to create
additional positions for DID engineers and district land offices, these
positions are only now being filled, with the result that the project is
starting off more slowly than planned.
Loan No. 810   Second Education Project; US$15.5 Million Loan of April 5,
1972; Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The project is financing the establishment of a curriculum develop-
ment center, science schools for the University of Penang, vocational schools,
and an educational television system. With the exception of parts of the
University and one vocational school, project institutions are practically
completed and operating. Project implementation is about two years behind
schedule because of earlier delays in appointing consultant architects, slow
completion of design documents and delays in obtaining Government approvals



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
for design and contract awards. Staff shortages on the project have also
contributed to delays. The closing date of the loan has been extended for
one year to December 31, 1979.
Loan No. 974   Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of April 5,
1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project assists the Government to develop technical training,
pre-service teacher training, and an East Malaysia educational television
system. Implementation has improved since a year ago when less than 50% of
project civil works had been tendered. Contracts have now been awarded for
11 out of 13 project institutions. Construction began in early 1976 and most
of the project institutes are scheduled for completion by early 1979. The
Project Unit is functioning satisfactorily, despite current problems with bid
evaluation.
Loan No. 1329 Fourth Education Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of
November 18, 1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project provides US$35.0 million for: (a) improved planning
and construction of approximately 850 primary schools in the most disadvan-
taged states of Malaysia; (b) establishment of four education resource
centers and one teacher training school; (c) expansion of two, and establish-
ment of three, industrial training institutes; and (d) further study of
community educational needs. Project implementation is improving. Disburse-
ment is proceeding normally for the Ministry of Education component. No
disbursements have yet been made against the Ministry of Labor and Manpower
component, due to delays at the design stage of the buildings. This is now
80% complete and no further problems are expected.
Loan No. 1657 Fifth Education Project; US$38.0 Million Loan of January 30,
1979; Effective Date: May 7, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is designed to equalize access to lower secondary
education throughout Malaysia and to improve the planning, implementation, and
management capability of public administration. It will provide about 46,500
lower secondary school places in disadvantaged districts, and establish a
Ministry of Education Staff Training Institute (MESTI) for administrative
school staff and government education officials, as well as a new central
campus and three new centers for the Public Administration Training Institute
(INTAN) in Peninsular Malaysia. The project also provides technical assistance
for the preparation of a long-term plan for occupational training and the
development of new teaching programs at MESTI and INTAN. Sites have been
acquired and site surveys are nearing completion. Contracts for architecture
design services for MESTI and INTAN have been awarded.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loan No. 880   Population Project; US$5.0 Million Loan of February 9,
1973; Effective Date: June 21, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The National Family Planning Board (NFPB), by activating the national
and state level committees and subcommittees, has recently gained greater
managerial control over the project implementation. With the creation
of the Project Construction Coordination Unit (PCCU), the Government has
succeeded in halting the slow progress in the civil works reported earlier.
To date, 337 buildings out of a total of 571 have been completed and a further
104 are under construction. According to the revised schedule, construction
of some facilities will be completed only by mid-1981. Due to this delay, the
closing date has been extended to the end of 1981. Disbursements increased
from 5% of the loan amount in September 1976, to 10% in June 1977 and about
46% in March 1979. Annual contraceptive acceptors rose from about 75,000 in
1976 to over 85,000 in 1978; more than 35,000 of these acceptors were reported
to have been recruited through the integrated rural health facilities supported
through the project. The percentage of women in childbearing age currently
using contraception increased from 16 in 1970 to over 39 by 1978.
Loan No. 1608 Second Population and Family Health Project; US$17.0 Million
Loan of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Government had met all the conditions precedent to making the
loan effective on December 15, 1978. Momemtum created with activities
undertaken to meet these conditions has contributed to the smooth beginning
of the second project implementation. Creation of the Project Construction
Coordination Unit (PCCU) with full-time staff has accelerated progress in
preparatory civil works activities. All sites required for facilities sched-
uled for construction during the first year of the project have been acquired.
Architect's briefs and sketch plans for most of these facilities have been
completed and some tenders have been invited. NFPB has drafted the action
plans for Family Planning specialist centers. Beginning mid-January 1979
limited clinical services and laboratory works have been started under the
National FP Specialist Center (NFSC). Recent administrative realignment in
the Ministry of Agriculture has created a greater supportive climate for
women's development programs and this has accelerated civil works preparatory
activities. However, unstable building prices, MOH's delayed decision on
MCH/FP clinics and sporadic religious sensitivity to family planning are some
of the potential problems that have to be watched closely.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 2 years
(b) Project prepared by: DID, MADA, MOA
(c) First presented to the Bank: August 1976
(d) Preparation mission: August 1977
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: October 1978
(f) Completion of negotiations: April 1979
(g) Estimated date of effectiveness: September 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Special conditions of the project are:
(a) MADA would prepare, by December 31, 1979, a detailed program for
studies for review by the Bank (para. 44);
(b) Consultants acceptable to the Bank would be employed as required for
project implementation and studies, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 45);
(c) DID would prepare a designer's operation manual covering major
project works (para. 51);
(d) MADA would prepare and submit to the Bank for review by December 31,
1979, an operations manual for extension and other support services
(para. 52);
(e) By December 31, 1979, the Government would submit to the Bank for
review a proposal for strengthening the crop protection program and
would implement an agreed program by June 30, 1980 (para. 53);
(f) All DID and MADA staff required to implement, operate and maintain
the project would be appointed in a timely manner (para. 54);



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g) The implementing agencies would maintain separate accounts for the
project; these would be audited by auditors satisfactory to the
Bank and forwarded to the Bank within nine months of close of each
year (para. 54); and
(h) Kedah and Perlis state governments would continue to collect irriga-
tion charges, and the Government would from time to time exchange
views with the Bank on the level of these charges (para. 58).



IgBRD ]-  At
P,.,.,A                                                                                  f7ib-u -y
_d d, i.,~~~~~~~~~~-A ,oE$RO/ 
R-,  Illy "I'll~
D.   a a, nrt;THAILAN00  OD nAA,   AA,~0
,-.    A,i-      r,drA -rt,earIs grosr.t-             .2'1
-I  w> 1.i
alt                                        OtIs'                                                                                                              ,,t,AAaA.,AtjA5An,rls~~~~~~,a,,Ot,,,arA,AIaAtA"'A0A'er..rAA'A.aa'~~~~R.,A                                                                       I
IOM.O                                     Itr  Ar                                   AAAAAA~                                                               br' $s1                                    tr,-d-AtE



