Document of
The World Bank FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2344-MA
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 16, 1979
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
Iheir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.0()        =    M$ 2.21
M$ 1.00         =    US$0.45
M$ 1 million   =    US$452,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)               8    0.03937 inches
1 centimeter (cm)               =    0.3937 inches
1 meter (m)                     =    39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)                =    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)      =    0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                  =    2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (cu m)            =    35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (MCM)   =    811 acre feet
1 liter (1)                     =    0.264 gallons (USA)
1 liter/second (1/s)            =    0.035 cubic feet per second (cusec)
1 kilogram (kg)                 =    2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)              =    2,205 pounds
1 milligram/liter (mg/i)        =    1 part/million (ppm)
ABBXE', tA TIONS
AA     -  AgricultuLaJ A;.sistant
AAO    -  Assistant Agricultural Officer
AO     -  Agricultural Officer
AT     -  Agricultural Technician
BPM    -  Bank Pertanian Malaysia
CCL    -  Critical Consumption Level
DID    -  Drainage and Irrigationl Department
DOA    -  Department of Agriculture
FA     -  Farmers' Association
FDC    -  Farmers' Development Center
FOA    -  Farmers' Organization Authority
GRP    -  Glass-Reinforced Polyester
HYV    -  High-Yielding Varieties
ISA    -  Irrigation Service Area
ISU    -  Irrigation Service Unit
LPN    -  Lembaga Padi dan Beras Negara - National Padi and Rice Authority
MADA   -  Muda Agricultural Development Authority
MARDI  -  Malaysia Agricultural Research and Development Institute
MOA    -  Ministry of Agriculture
MSL    -  Mean Sea Level
NPV    -  Net Preseut Vatue
O&M    -  Operation anid Maintenance
SARDEC - State Agricultural Research and Development Committee
SMS    -  Subject Matter Specialist
VHF    -  Very High Frequency
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA: APPRAISAL OF THE MUDA II
IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1. BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . . . .                                       1
General .   .. . . .     *. ...  . .                                1
Irrigation Development in Malaysia  . . . . . . . . . . . .         1
Project Formulation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        3
2.  THE PROJECT AREA  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         4
Location  . . . . . . . . . . . .   .            . . . . .  .   . . .  4
Climate   . ......       .  .    .... ...  .  .   ..... ..         4
Topography and Soils  . .    . .        ......    6
Farm Size and Land Tenure . . . .  .  ..... .............. .    .  6
Existing Infrastructure   ..        .         ..   .   . . .  .  .  .   .  7
Agricultural Services      . .................               .     8
3J  THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Project Description   . . . . . . .   .  . .  . . * . . * .        11
Project Works . . . . . . . . . . . ..                      .     12
Buildings      . .  .  .  .  .  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ....  .. .    14
Equipment and Vehicles  .. ...  .       .  .  .  .  .   . . .  .  .  .   .    14
Studies .....  .       .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .    .......... .    15
Water Supply, Demand and Quality  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
Status of Design and Construction   . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
Land Acquisition        ..... . .                                 20
Implementation Schedule   .           .  .    ...... ....  .   .    20
Cost Estimates  ...........           . .   .   . . .....    20
Financing ....  .  .     .  .  . ...  .  .  .  .  .    ...... .  .  .   .    21
Procurement   . . . . . . . .   . . .  .  .  .  .  ......  .   .    23
Disbursements   .              . . . . . . . .  .  .   .....    24
Accounts and Audits   ....  .  .      .  .  .  .    ........ .    24
Environmental Effects . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . .    24
4.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
Project Management  . . . .         . . . . . . . . .        . .25
Engineering and Technical Services  . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
Consulting Services   . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . .    26
Agricultural Services   .... .        .  . ...  .    . ......   .    26
Monitoring and Evaluation   . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . .    32
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited Malaysia
in October/November 1978 comprising Messrs. R. Harris, S. Hong, (Bank), P. Judd
and G. Thorsky (Consultants), while the agricultural aspects were appraised
separately by Mr. E. Boerema (Bank) in August 1978.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of-their-official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
5.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION           . . . . .. . . . . . . . .   32
Cropping Intensity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
Cropping Patterns ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .... .   . .   .   33
Crop Husbandry  ...   . . ............. . ... ......   33
Yields  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .........  .  .  .  .  .   .   35
Production  .     ... .......  . . . .    .. . . ....    36
Milling Facilities  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  . .  .  .   .    37
6.  MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES, INCOMES AND PROJECT CHARGES . . . .   38
Market Prospects  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..... .   .   38
Prices  ....  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    38
Farm Incomes  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . . . . . . .  .  .    39
Regional Impact            . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .    42
Project  Charges   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  42
7. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   43
Economic Analysis of Tertiary Block Development . . . . . .   43
Social Analysis of Tertiary Block Development . . . . . . .   46
Investments Outside the Tertiary Development Area . . . . .   47
Risks   .  .  . .  ..   .    .  .  .  ........       .  .    .  48
8. RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   48
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
2.1    Climatic  Data    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  5
3.1  Summary Cost Estimate  . . .    . . .  . . ...    . .... . .    22
5.1 Present and Projected Padi Yields  . . . . . . . . .  . .      36
5.2 Present and Future Cropped Area and Padi Production  . . . .   37
6.1 Rice Price Structure      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      40
6.2  Summary Farm Budgets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   41
ANNEXES
1. Water Supply and Demand
2. Cost Estimates, Equipment and Staffing Lists, Implementation,
Expenditures, Disbursements and Allocation of Loan Funds
3. Crop and Farm Budgets
4. Economic Analysis
5. Schedule of Critical Events
6. Procedures for Statement of Expenditure
7. Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
LIST OF FIGURES
Proposed Padi Cropping Calendar (World Bank-18927)
Implementation Schedule (World Bank-20077)
MADA Organization Chart (World Bank-19775)
MADA Agricultural Division Organization Chart (World Bank-18920)
MAP
IBRD 13613R - fluda II Irrigation Project



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE TUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.  BACKGROUJND
General
1.01      The Government of Malaysia has requested Bank assistance in financ-
ing the Muda II Irrigation Project. The project would be the first phase of
tertiary irrigation and drainage development in the existing 9R,000 ha Muda
irrigation area. The main objective of the Droject is to raise the productivity
and incomes of about 16,000 smallholder padi-farming families through improved
water management in those parts of the Muda area which are least adequately
served by the present irrigation and drainage network. In addition, by
strengthening agricultural support services and improving operation and
maintenance, equipment fleets, and large drainage and coastal protection
works, the project would benefit all of Muda's 60,000 farm families, or
340,000 people.
Irrigation DeveloDment in Malaysia
1.02      With most of Peninsular Malaysia's cultivated land under rubber
(58%) and oil palm (18%), rice production (accounting for 14% of cultivated
land) is largely confined to irrigated areas situated in the coastal plains.
Concern for reducing the country's dependence on rice imports to satisfy
its staple food requirements, and for alleviating the poverty of padi-farming
communities, has led to a long tradition of Government support for irrigation
development. The lank financed the original Muda Irrigation Project (Loan 434-
MA) in 1965, thus contributing to the largest single irrigation project,
indeed the largest development project of any kind at that time, in Malaysian
history. However, Government-financed irrigation development began long
before the Muda project. Surveys and design for the first major irrigation
scheme, Krian, commenced in 1880, followed bv the construction of major
irrigation infrastructure in Sungei 'lanik (1933), Tanjong Karang (1937), Pasir
Mas (1958), Sungei Lemal (1962), Kemubu (1968), and Resut (1970).  In the Muda
region, major drainage works (some still in use today) were constructed during
the period of Siamese hlegemonv, which ended in 1904, and in succeeding decades
i-he nr;t)7a;tgg arid Irrigation Department (DID) constructed several coTItrolled
drainage schemes which provided assured wet-season irrigation to the northern
half of the Kedah plain. Over the same period DID also constructed numerous
small irrigation schemes, with the result that 80% of Peninsular Malaysia's
370,000 ha of padi land is now provided with some form of irrigation facilities
and 57% is technically capable of double-cropping. Aside from Muda, the Bank
has financed major irrigation works in Vemubu (Loan 500-MA).
1.03      The Muda and Yemubu projects have been successfully completed.
According to the Project Performance Audit Report (Reference B 12), these
projects have made a major contribution to the Government's two objectives
of reducing rice imports and improving rural incomes in three of the poorest
states of Malaysia. The main outstanding technical problems of the Muda
project were deficiencies at the Muda and Pedu dams and difficulties



- 2 -
and delays in water distribution at the field level. Partial repairs of the
dams have been made but recent investigations indicate that additional techni-
cal problems exist. The Government has engaged consultants under the Krian-
Sungei Manik Integrated Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1632-MA) to
prepare a detailed investigation of the safety of the dams, and to identify
additional storage sites for the Muda project area. The study began in May
1978 and is scheduled for completion in December 1979. Improved water distri-
bution at field level would be the focus of the proposed project.
1.04      The main policy question in both the Muda and Kemubu projects
concerned compliance with loan covenants on cost recovery. However, Bank
policy on irrigation water charges has evolved since the two loan agreements
were signed in 1965 and 1967, respectively, and in 1975 the Bank accepted
the compulsory religious "zakat" tax on padi production as a substitute
for water charges. Since then, consideration of farm income levels and tax
payments, together with the Government's minimum target for rural income, has
led the Bank to accept the Government's policy for irrigation investment in
smallholder padi areas which requires no special taxation of project benefi-
ciaries to recover project costs (para. 6.09).
1.05      In recent years the major thrust of irrigation development in
Malaysia has shifted from the construction of new schemes, emphasizing pro-
vision of headworks and primary and secondary distribution and drainage
facilities to permit double-cropping, to the rehabilitation and improvement
of established schemes and the construction of small schemes. Under the North
Kelantan Rural Development Project (Loan 1294-MA), the Northwest Selangor
Integrated Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1522-MA), and the Krian-Sungei
Manik Project the existing Pasir Mas, Sungei Lemal, Tanjong Karang, Krian and
Sungei Manik schemes will be improved through the provision of tertiary canals
and drains to provide the higher standard of water control necessary to improve
padi yields and increase cropping intensity, along with the upgrading and
replacement of major structures. The Bank is also helping finance approx-
imately 200 small irrigation schemes under the National Small-Scale Irrigation
Project (Loan 1444-MA). In keeping with the new emphasis on higher standards
of water control, the recent projects have included strong agricultural
service components designed to assist the great majority of project area
farmers to make full use of infrastructure facilities to raise their yields,
production, and incomes.
1.06      The irrigation projects under implementation have gotten off to slow
starts, due primarily to staff shortages and delays in land acquisition. The
Government is well aware of these two problems and has taken action to create
new positions in both the implementing agencies and the district land offices,
and to recruit and train new staff. Since the Government is committed to an
expanding program of investment in rural areas, however, staff limitations are
likely to persist. The implementation schedule for the proposed project has
taken the recent experience with staffing and land acquisition into account.



-3-
Project Formulation
1.07      The engineering elements of the proposed project are similar in
nature to the irrigation components of the North Kelantan, Northwest Selangor,
and Krian-Sungei Manik projects, basically consisting of the construction of
new systems of tertiary canals, drains, and access roads. A small part of the
project works would consist of improvements in larger structures, particularly
major drains and coastal embankments, which would serve the larger project
area. Project works as a whole represent a natural follow-up to the original
project, which provided the storage facilities (the Muda and Pedu Dams and
connecting Saiong Tunnel) and main canal system required to transform an
impoverished single-cropping padi area into a relatively commercialized region
characterized by a high degree of double-cropping. While the original works
have justified themselves fully in fostering the agricultural revolution
associated with double-cropping, and have in addition permitted minor increases
in padi yields, they do not provide the intensity of canals, drains and access
roads required to enable the Muda area to achieve its full agricultural
potential, particularly in terms of higher yields.
1.08      Since 1970 the management of the engineering, agricultural extension,
cooperative, production credit, and monitoring aspects of the Muda irrigation
scheme has been vested in the semi-autonomous Muda Agricultural Development
Authority (MADA). MADA is under the jurisdiction of the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA), and was originally staffed by officers seconded from other
Federal agencies under MOA, in particular, agricultural officers from the
Department of Agriculture (DOA) and engineers from the Drainage and Irrigation
Department (DID). In addition to taking full responsibility for operating and
maintaining the irrigation system and dams, organizing 27 Farmers Associations
and numerous business subsidiaries, implementing agricultural credit and
extension programs, and promoting agricultural innovations such as mechaniza-
tion of land preparation and harvesting, MADA has for several years undertaken
a series of pilot development projects and studies. These pilot projects have
been aimed at developing plans for a system of on-farm development which
would be implemented over the entire Muda command area, and have resulted in
detailed analysis/l of civil works requirements, cropping schedules, water
management guidelines, water demand and availability, and project costs and
benefits. The proposals for improvement are based on MADA's accumulated
experience with the existing works and agricultural programs, and their
first-hand perceptions of the potentials of Muda's farmers and land.
1.09      Several Bank missions, comprising Messrs. J. Goldberg, E. Boerema
(Bank), and G. Thorsky (consultant) visited the Muda area in 1976, 1977
and 1978 to assist MADA in refining its overall 15-year program for tertiary
development, and to prepare the present project as the first phase in that
program. The project was appraised in October/November 1978 by a mission
composed of Messrs. R. Harris, S. Hong (Bank), Thorsky and P. Judd (consul-
tants), while the agricultural aspects were appraised separately by
Mr. Boerema in August 1978.
/1   See, in particular, References Bl and B2.



- 4 -
2. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01      The Muda Irrigation Scheme is located in the States of Kedah
and Perlis in northwestern Peninsular Malaysia, about 500 km north of
Kuala Lumpur (Map 13613R). The irrigation area occupies the flat alluvial
coastal plain about 20 km wide and 65 km long between the foothills of the
Central Range and the Straits of Malacca. Alor Setar, the capital of Kedah,
lies in the center of the project area, while Kangar, the capital of Perlis,
lies at its northern edge.
Climate
2.02      The climate is tropical and is influenced by the southwest monsoon
between May and October and by the northeast monsoon between November and
March. Three rainfall seasons can be distinguished (Table 2.1): the dry
season from early December to the end of March with an average of less than
100 mm precipitation per month; the moderate season from early April to late
July with an average of about 200 mm per month; and the wet season from August
through November with between 200 and 300 mm per month. The long term average
annual rainfall is 2220 mm. With the exception of the wet season, rainfall is
erratic, often occurring in high intensity storms of short duration. Dry
periods of up to 10 days in the wet season and 30 days in the dry season are
not uncommon. The coefficient of variation of rainfall for the drier months
(83% for December and 107% for January and February) is much greater than that
for the wetter months (31% for October). Rainfall patterns pose some problems
in managing the irrigation and drainage system, and grain harvested in August-
September must frequently be artificially dried. Temperatures vary little
around the mean value of 27o C, relative humidity ranges from 71% to 87%
and, situated at about 6o N, the day length variations are also slight. The
climate is well suited to rice production throughout the year.



Table 2.1: CLIMATIC DATA
Total/
Jan.   Feb.   March   April   May   June   July   Aug.   Sept.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Average
Average rainfall (mm)/a            48     57      121      219     229   179    195    228    286         319    225    106       2222
1930-1975
Average evaporation (mm)/b       6.8    7.6       7.4      6.6     5.6   4.6    5.3    5.6    5.1         4.8    4.3    4.8       68.5
1972-1975
Mean Temperature ( C)Ic         26.4   27.3    27.8    27.9    27.8  27.4   27.1   27.0   26.7    26.3   26.1   26.1              27.0
1959-1972
Mean Relative Humidity (%)/c  74.7   71.1    73.5    79.5    83.5  83.7   83.7   83.8   85.5    86.6   85.7   81.0                81.0
1963-1974
/a Kepala Batas Meteorological Station.
/b  MADA Division of Engineering (DID Standard Black Pan).
/c Meteorology Department.



Topography and Soils
2.03      The Muda irrigation scheme area slopes gently from about 4 m above
MSL near the main canal (some 10 to 16 km inland) to about 1.5 m above MSL
near the coast. The terrain is drained by numerous small river channels and
creeks, supplemented by excavated drains. An inadequate tertiary drainage
system results in frequent drainage problems during periods of intense
rainfall in the wet season. Salt water intrusion is prevented by tidal gates
on the drainage outlets and a system of coastal bunds, a portion of which is
undergoing wave erosion.
2.04      Although the plain is extremely flat on a macro-level, the micro-
topography is quite variable. There is a considerable amount of higher
ground surrounded by natural depressions, and complex systems of linked
settlements, which partly or entirely hinder the supply of irrigation water
to higher or more distant padi areas under the present system. This leads to
either water shortage or ponding in the problem areas, wastage of irrigation
water, and reduced yields. The irrigation blocks proposed for inclusion in
the present project were selected on the basis of the presence of large
sub-areas with major water control problems. These sub-areas total over
8,000 ha, or one-third of the proposed project area.
2.05      The soils are typical of many flood plains found in Southeast Asia.
Most of the Muda soils are heavy, poorly drained, slightly acidic silty
clays, ideal for rice production. There is a small area of coarser textured
free draining soils near the foothills on the eastern fringes of the project
area, which is suitable for rice but which can also be used for upland
crops. Heavy marine soils and soils derived from mangrove swamps are found
in a narrow bank along the coast. These are protected from sea water intru-
sion by coastal bunds and, with drainage and good water management, the
better portions of this area have proven suitable for rice production.
Organic and acid-sulfate soils occur in natural depressions with no free
drainage covering about 27% of the Muda area and about 30% of the proposed
project area. These are problem soils requiring careful management in terms
of water control and nutrient input. Although these areas are used for rice
production, yields and production potential are lower than for the rest of the
project area.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.06      Farm size:  The average size of the 60,000 farms in Muda is 1.6 ha
and 50% of the farms are smaller than 1.4 ha. The distribution of holdings
according to farm size is as follows:
Class       <0.5 ha    0.6-1.1 ha    1.2-1.7 ha   1.8-3.4 ha  >3.5 ha
Avg size     0.2 ha    0.8 ha          1.4 ha       2.5 ha        4.5 ha
% of farms    10         32             25           27            6
No. ha      1,240       15,980         21,830       42,110       16,840
% of area      2         16             22           43           17
Although Muslim inheritance laws decree subdivision of the land on death of
the owner, farms have mostly remained intact. Out-migration and renting



- 7 -
of family shares by active inheritors are mainly responsible for the stable
farm size in the project area. Absentee landlords and landlords with large
holdings are insignificant in number.
2.07      Land Tenure:  About 37% of farmers are owner-operators, 35% are
tenants and 28% are owner-tenants. Tenancy is largely between kin with 71%
of tenancy agreements between close relatives. About 80% of land rental
agreements are still verbal and negotiated downward in bad years. Tenants
have a high degree of security of tenure, due to the large incidence of kin-
based tenancies.
Existing Infrastructure
2.08      The Muda Irrigation Project was executed during the period 1965-
1970./i The principal project components were:
(a)  The construction of the Pedu Dam with a reservoir storage capacity
of 1,070 MCM, the Muda Dam with a reservoir capacity of 160 MCM, and
the 7 km long Saiong connecting tunnel with a maximum capacity of 70
cu m/sec;
(b)  a conveyance system comprising an existing river channel, a diversion
barrage, and 115 km of main canals;
(c)  an internal reticulation system with some 970 km of secondary canals
from 1,200-2,000 m apart (canal density 10 m/ha), 870 km of drains
(drain density 9 m/ha), some 2,000 structures, 24 pumping stations
and about 780 km of laterite surfaced farm roads; and
(d) some 100 km of coastal embankment with 25 tidal gates.
2.09      The aim of the original Muda Project was to introduce double-cropping
over an area of nearly 100,000 ha, previously devoted to a single rice crop.
The project was a notable success,/2 since it led to an increase in the crop-
ping intensity from about 95% to about 185% between 1969 and 1974.  The design
of the field distribution and drainage system, based on the standards prevailing
in Malaysia in the 1960s, involved widely spaced secondary canals and field-
to-field irrigation and drainage. At the time there was little experience in
the design and construction of more intensive systems of on-farm development,
recently introduced in Malaysia and other countries in the region. Also, the
short-statured high-yielding padi varieties which depend on precise water
/1 Some minor construction was carried out as late as 1975, but the project
was essentially completed in 1970.
/2 The Project Completion Report (No. 795-MA) of June 15, 1975 estimated the
economic rate of return of the project to be 18%. An updated analysis
based on experience through 1978, using lower actual cropping intensity
(para. 5.03) and yields (para. 5.12) and higher actual and projected world
market prices for rice (para. 6.03) than in the PCR, also gives an economic
rate of return of 18%.



4,
control at field level were still in the development stage when the Muda system
was being designed. Finally, the main concern of the desiRners was a series of
difficult, large-scale engineering problems, including the impoundment of Muda
river water in mountains 100 km east of the padi area, its transfer to a better
storage site in the Pedu river catchment, its conveyance to the padi area and
gross distribution over and drainage from the farmlands; and the protection of
the lower reaches of farmland from salt water intrusion. The system adopted
resolved these problems within a relatively short time, while allowing for
the future development of more intensive field distributioni, drainage and
road systems as now proposed.
2.10      The present Muda system relies on field-to-field flooding over
distances ranging from 1,200 to over 2,000 m, averaging about 1,600 m. Water
must be moved across numerous parcels of land, each of which is surrounded by
small field bunds required for water level control within the parcel. The
drainage system is equally crude, and difficulties in applying and removing
water on a field-to-field basis are compounded by the variations in micro-topo-
graphy. Only about 10% of the parcels have direct access to either a canal or
a drain, and associated roads. This situation results in lags of up to 40
days in cultivation activities within each block, which causes serious agri-
cultural problems because of varying water requirements over the stages oF the
padi crop. The maximum water demand is in the land preparation and early
growth stages, while excessive standing water during the late heading stage
depresses yields, and water in the fields during harvest makes mechanized
harvesting difficult, increases transportation costs, and results in loss of
grain, high moisture content, quicker deterioration and poor milling quality.
Thus early cessation of irrigation supply and initiation of drainage depresses
yields of the late planted crops within the large irrigation blocks, while
continuing irrigation and postponement of drainage damages the crops planted
earlier.  It is impossible for farmers to achieve their potential yields with
so little control over water levels in their parcels. Widely staggered
plantings in close proximity also facilitate the buildup and carry-over of
pests and diseases.
2.11      While the main road network in the Muda region is adequate, there
are no farm access roads within individual irrigation blocks. This lack of
access leads to delays and high costs in the supply of inputs, in the transport
of harvested padi, and in the use of tractors and harvesters. A farm road from
their homesteads to the paved roads leading to the region's towns, markets,
and factories is generally mentioned by the farmers and their families as the
most desired Government investment.
Agricultural Services
2.12      All major irrigation and drainage development is financed by Federal
Government with the Federal Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID) exercising
technical control over State DID offices. State offices are responsible for
the operation and maintenance of works and smaller development projects. The



- 9 -
State Department of Agriculture (DOA) is responsible for agricultural extension
and State development programs. The Federal DOA provides technical assistance,
supplementary staff and finance, and is responsible for formulating national
policies and rrograms. It is represented in each state by technical units
which support the state extension service. The Farmers' Organization Authority
(FOA) is responsible for amalgamating rural cooperatives into viable Farmers'
Organizations, based on an appropriate development area served by a Farmers'
Development Center (FDC). The long-term objective is for the FDC and Farmers'
Organization to effectively organize input supply, credit, processing, storage
and marketing operations for the majority of smallholders, and for the system
to eventually become self-financing. The Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM) is the
key government source of agricultural credit for production inputs, equipment
and land purchase. The Lembaga Padi dan Beras Negara (LPN), or the National
Padi Authority, is responsible for controlling the marketing and processing of
rice and maintaining a national stockpile. The Malaysian Agricultural Research
and Development Institute (MARDI) is responsible for all agricultural research
with the exception of rubber.
2.13      With the exception of LPN, all agencies report to the Ministry of
Agriculture and maintain state offices to serve the states of Kedah and
Perlis. MADA manages agricultural support services within the Muda project
area, with the cooperation of state offices which provide services outside
the Muda area. MADA maintains an Agricultural Division to supervise extension,
development, farm mechanization, farmer organization, cooperatives, agribusiness
and credit activities, and an Engineering Division to manage operation and
maintenance of irrigation and drainage works and to plan and evaluate future
improvements for water control and management within the project area (Chart
19775).
2.14      For servicing purposes the project area is divided into four irri-
gation districts. Each district is further subdivided into six to nine areas
served by an FDC which covers 3,000-5,000 ha, or 2,000-3,000 farm families, and
acts as the headquarters of the Farmers' Organization, or Farmers' Associa-
tion (FA). The FDCs are staffed by a General Manager and five Agricultural
Technicians (ATs) who take care of extension, organization and cooperatives,
credit, agribusiness and accounting. In each district a small cadre of agri-
cultural personnel supervise development, crop protection, demonstration and
extension activities. At MADA headquarters, small units have been established
to supervise extension, development, farm mechanization, input supplies, agri-
business and cooperative development. The Agricultural Division is supported
by the DOA State Crop Protection UJnit (which is primarily concerned with the
monitoring of insect populations and pest control), the DOA State Crop Produc-
tion Unit (which is mainly concerned with seed production and cooperating
with MADA on a seed exchange program for project farmers) and the State Soil
Survey and Analytical Unit (which carries out soil surveys and soil checks on
problem areas). MARDI operates the Bumbong Lima National Rice Research
Center just south of the project area. The center has about 20 research
scientists and 70 research assistants and carries out a comprehensive program
covering breeding, crop physiology, agronomy and crop protection. It also
maintains a unit within the project area for testing and adaptive research.
Research facilities are adequate and will be further improved under the
Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Loan 1115-MA).



- 10 -
2.15      Relative to other parts of Malaysia, Farmers' Organization activi-
ties in the Muda area have been successful. There were originally
289 agro-based cooperatives which are gradually being phased out and amalga-
mated with the 27 Farmers' Associations. As of September 1978, FA membership
was about 22,000, or about 36% of all farm families. The agribusiness unit
at MADA headquarters procures fertilizer and chemicals for all FDCs. In
1976, purchases included 8.500 tons of urea, 6,300 tons of mixed fertilizers
and 3,200 tons of insecticide, valued at US$28 million. The volume of
certified seed distributed has been small, but will be expanded under the
National Extension Project (Loan 1493-MA). The FDCs/FAs also act as local
credit centers for the BPM. Under this program, credit for fertilizer,
insecticides. tractor services and hired labor is extended to eligible
applicants at 4.25% interest for six months. In 1976, about 30% of farmers
received short-term credit with an average value of US$200 per farmer per
season, for a total of about US$2.4 million per season. Recovery rates
are 82% after the first season, rising to 98% after three seasons. The
main constraint to extending the credit program is that only FA members are
eligible, and only one credit officer is available at each FDC to process
applications and supervise credit transactions. Commercial banks also supply
short-term production loans, while BPM provides medium-term loans for tractors,
equipment and other needs through four branch offices in the Muda area.
2.16      In June 1975, MADA formed a joint trading company with the 27 FAs
with an approved capital of M$2.0 million. The FAs have a 49% shareholding.
The objective was to coordinate all FA business and mobilize farmers' capital
into agribusiness ventures. In its first 18 months of operation, the company
had a turnover of M$9.4 million and a profit, before tax, of M$160,000.
Operations consisted mainly of marketing agricultural inputs and machinery.
Through bulk purchases, the FAs can supply at competitive prices. Income
is derived from membership shares, 1.25% commission for handling BPM padi
production credit and markups on inputs sold to farmers- Relative to other
commercial ventures, padi marketing has not gained popularity. In 1976, only
680 tons were purchased from farmers, largely due to inflexible purchase
rules and noncompetitive prices.
2.17      The success of the Muda project in promoting substantial change in
the agricultural practices and attitudes of the majority of farmers is due
to a number of factors - the unification of services under one authority, the
allocation to MADA of a strong cadre of competent and committed staff, and a
pragmatic approach to achieving goals. However, routine extension at field
level is limited to one extension officer per FDC who must serve 2-3,000 farm
families, as well as assist his colleagues with credit administration, loan
recovery and other commercial activities. With this number of farmers to
handle, and the workload, it is not possible for the AT to provide effective



- 11 -
extension- Reliance was placed on a number of "saturation coverage" extension
campaigns with all MADA staff, local government administrators, politicians
and community leaders participating. These were an outstanding success in
promoting double-cropping and introducing production credit and inputs.
However at present levels of production, the campaign approach alone may not
be sufficient to impart the more detailed information required to achieve
continuous improvement in cultural technique, input usage, yield and income
over a prolonged period. With the planned improvements in infrastructure,
which will lay the foundation for the next major breakthrough in terms of
production and income. it is necessary to review and intensify field services.
Key requirements for success are, a more intensive extension system which
effectively reaches the majority of farmers at field level on a regular and
continuous basis; an improved credit system which brings institutional credit
within the reach of the majority of farmers; an effective input supply system
that can cope with expanded demand; and an improved operations and management
system which requires field staff of all disciplines to plan, implement and
evaluate their work programs as a team and deliver an effective "package" of
essential services to the majority of farmers.
3. THE PROJECT
Project Description
3.01      The proposed project would be the first phase of tertiary irrigation
and drainage development in the Muda irrigation area. It would provide
tertiary canals, drains and access roads to serve nearly 25000 ha of padi
land, representing about 25% of the total Muda command area. Tertiary works
would be constructed in 37 discrete irrigation blocks, averaging about 700 ha
each, selected from among the 110 blocks which comprise the Muda scheme (Map
13613R). The number of blocks to be included was determined on the basis of
DID's and MADA's capacity to implement work of this kind over a five-year
period. Other works and agricultural programs would benefit the entire
98,000 ha Muda padi area. The project would include:
(a)  construction of tertiary irrigation canals and drainage
channels, and associated structures;
(b)  construction of farm roads along tertiary canals and drainage
channels and separate farm roads, bridges, and culverts where
required;
(c)  construction and improvement of major drains and coastal bunds;
(d)  construction of miscellaneous structures on primary canals and
major drains, including escape structures, water level control
structures and tidal control gate structures;
(e) upgrading of the present water control communication system;
(f)  construction of a project headquarters office, and expansion of
existing IIADA engineering offices;
(g)  construction of district agricultural and operation and maintenance
offices, and quarters for staff;



- 12 -
(h) expansion of existing workshop facilities and procurement of workshop
equipment;
(i) construction of a seed store at each of the 27 FDCs in the Muda area;
(j) establishment of a system of staggered cropping schedules within
blocks and sub-blocks for agricultural and water conservation
purposes;
(k) introduction of a sound extension methodology, an increase in exten-
sion staff, and the use of continuous staff training and regular
farm visits;
(1) extension of farm credit and improvement of input supply
and marketing facilities;
(m) a training program;
(n) a monitoring and evaluation program;
(o) studies; and
(p) procurement of vehicles and equipment for construction, supervision,
operation and maintenance of irrigation works, agricultural support
services, and studies.
Project Works
3.02      Tertiary Canals, Drains and Access Roads.  Each of the 37 selected
irrigation blocks would be divided into four to six Irrigation Service Areas
(ISAs) which would each be served by one tertiary canal. Each ISA would be
further divided into Irrigation Service Units (ISUs) of 15 to 25 ha, each of
which would be enclosed by a 0.5 m high earth perimeter bund and would follow
a uniform cropping schedule. The tertiary system would be designed to meet
the maximum ISU demand of 4.6 1/sec/ha.
3.03      Tertiary canal alignments would follow lot lines to the extent
practicable. Upon completion of construction, 80% of farm lots would have
direct access to tertiary canals, drains, and access roads, and most of the
remainder would be only one lot removed, a considerable improvement over the
current situation. The irrigation run from a tertiary canal to a drain would
be 300-500 m with a canal density of about 20 m/ha. Most of the land would
be served by gravity, but areas where ground is too high (totalling about
1,200 ha) would be served by pumping. Turnouts from the existing secondary
canals to the tertiary canals, as well as all offtakes from tertiary canals
in excess of 0.85 cu m/sec, would be of the constant head orifice type.
Ancillary structures such as drops and checks with crossings, end control
structures and bridges would be provided. From detailed layouts for approxi-
mately 49500 ha, it is estimated that the tertiary system to be constructed
would include 390 km of concrete-lined canals, 23 km of pipelines, 45 km of
structural canalets, 45 km of earth canals, 384 constant head orifice turnouts,
530 checks and controls with crossings, 4,700 farm turnouts, 420 end controls,



- 13 -
54 pump-stations and 36 bridges. All tertiary canal embankments would carry
either a minimum 2 m wide laterite path or a 3 m wide farm road.
3.04      The construction of conventional earth tertiary canals presents
problems in the Muda area because of the lack of fill material for the embank-
ments. Either the fill has to be hauled in from a considerable distance, or
the canals have to be overexcavated to provide the required fill. In most
areas concrete-lined canals are the least-cost solution after taking into
account lower costs for land acquisition and maintenance. A typical lining
would be made of precast panels, 5 cm thick by 50 cm square. Joints would be
mortared, except that at 3 m intervals a 1 cm wide transverse joint would be
filled with an elastic compound. The inside slope would be 1:1 and the
outside slope of the banks would normally be 1-1/2:1. About 9% of the ter-
tiaries would be structural canalets, either the glass-reinforced polyester
(GRP) flume currently being installed under the North Kelantan Rural Develop-
ment Project,/1 or any other type of flume system which could meet the perfor-
mance specifications already achieved by the GRP system in terms of speed of
installation, lack of disruption of cropping activity, minimization of land
acquisition, ease of maintenance, and durability. Structural canalets
would be used where necessary to accommodate local topographic conditions,
thus avoiding large volumes of earthwork. Reinforced concrete or asbestos
cement pipelines with rubber gasketed joints would generally be used in
conjunction with pumped systems. The remaining tertiaries would consist of
compacted laterite earth canals.
3.05      The tertiary drainage system would be designed on the basis of
evacuating 0.35 cu m/sec per sq km. Farm drainage outlet pipes and control
structures would be provided to control and restrict flow, as needed, for
agricultural purposes and to prevent flooding in the lower reaches of the
Muda area.  All drains would have a 3 m wide farm road on one bank.  It is
estimated that there would be 490 km of drains, 234 end control structures,
635 intermediate controls with crossings, and 4,100 farm drainage inlets.
Also, an estimated 60 km of separate farm roads would be constructed, in
addition to those built along drains or tertiary canals.
3.06      Minor Works.  A series of small. scattered tertiary canal and
drainage systems and farm road improvements would be provided in high priority
locations throughout the Muda area, benefitting a total of about 1,200 ha.
3.07      Major Drainage Improvements.  In addition to tertiary drain con-
struction, the major outfall drains and natural channels would be improved
where experience has found them to be inadequate. Construction would generally
include widening, deepening and occasional straightening of rivers and drains
to increase their capacity.
3.08      Miscellaneous Works.  This category includes the construction of
three new 4 m wide tidal gates and associated outfall structures; two new
water control structures, with crossings, on the primary canal system; and
one escape structure on the southern main canal.
/1 GRP flumes are described in detail in Report No. 1137-MA, Appraisal of the
North Kelantan Rural Development Project - Malaysia, June 10, 1976.



- 14 -
3.09      Rehabilitation of Coastal Bunds.  The 18 km coastal bund between
Kuala Perlis and Kuala Sanglang has been undergoing wave erosion in a number
of places, totalling about 6 km in length. These eroded areas would be
rehabilitated and faced with rock, following a design concept successfully
used in the Western Johore Agricultural Development Project (Loan 973-MA).
3.10      Water Management and Control Communication System.  The functions
of the existing MADA computerized control system are to assess the irrigation
water requirements and available water storage capacity in the padi fields;
to estimate the available uncontrolled flow in the river above the diversion
dam and arrange reservoir releases only when required; to arrange distribution
of water to irrigation blocks; and to keep project authorities informed of the
water situation throughout the area. These functions would be retained in the
new system that would be built to enhance, and replace as necessary, the
existing system for the entire Muda command area. The existing land-line
system has proven to be unreliable, difficult and expensive to maintain, and
subject to frequent breakdowns. The new system would use a simpler, more
reliable VHF system as its primary means of communication. The system would
include more remotely monitored rainfall and river stage recording devices, an
enhancement of the existing data processing system and modifications to the
existing control building. More data would thus become available to manage
efficiently the limited water resources, including data on rainfall, stream
stages, flow into tertiaries, and depth of water stored in padi fields. MADA
and DID, with the assistance of the suppliers of the equipment, would provide
training and prepare a manual for staff use on how the system would be operated
and how the water would be managed. See Annex 2, Table 2 for a list of the
proposed equipment and costs.
Buildings
3.11      MADA's administrative staff are currently headquartered in small
temporary office buildings at Telok Chengai, while engineering staff are
located 12 km away in a separate small block. Under the project new head-
quarter buildings would be constructed, consisting of one four-storey and two
three-storey blocks with a total of 4,900 sq m which would provide adequate
space for all present and incremental MADA staff. DID engineering staff
associated with project implementation would be located in present MADA
engineering offices which would be enlarged under the project. In line with
MADA's plan to move both offices and quarters of operation and maintenance
staff closer to the field areas for which they are responsible, two District
offices of 560 sq m each, and 160 quarters for field staff would be constructed
under the project. Small seed stores (140 sq m each) would be constructed at
the 27 existing FDCs to facilitate expanded distribution of certified seed.
The existing workshop at Jitra would be enlarged and improved. Buildings to
be constructed under the project would serve the entire Muda irrigation scheme
area.
Equipment and Vehicles
3.12      Vehicles and equipment would be purchased under the project to
improve the capability of DID to supervise construction and MADA to operate
and maintain project works. The workshop to be enlarged and equipped under



- 15 -
the project would perform routine maintenance and minor repairs for this
equipment, while major repairs of heavy equipment, and fabrication of parts
would be undertaken by the DID Federal Workshop in Ipoh. Agricultural equip-
ment and vehicles would also be purchased to improve the mobility of MADA
agricultural extension staff and to enable the FDCs operated by MADA to
provide expanded transport and tractoring services to farmers on a fee basis.
A complete vehicle and equipment list is presented in Annex 2, Table 2.
Studies
3.13      Studies and Pilot Projects  n the Muda Area.  An important feature
of the Muda Project is the program of studies and investigations carried out
by project management to improve efficiency and provide a sound basis for
future development. To date these studies have been carried out on a part-time
basis, which has limited the scope and amount of data collected and the analytical
work that could be carried out. Nevertheless, many features of the proposed
project are based on experience gained from several pilot studies carried out
over the past few years which have been used to determine the engineering,
agricultural, economic, sociological and managerial approaches to intensifying
the irrigation and drainage network. In addition to providing a sound basis
for planning improvements in Muda, these studies may also provide useful
guidelines for upgrading other irrigation systems in Malaysia. It is important
that they be continued on a regular basis, and that additional staff and
operating budgets be made available. Staff requirements are presented in
Annex 2, Table 4.
3.14      The required activities may be divided into three broad categories -
engineering studies, management studies and pilot tertiary demonstration areas.
(a)  Engineering studies would be designed to determine the costs and
impact of alternatLve approaches to further intensification to
the physical system, such as construction of minor irrigation,
drainage, roads, quaternary systems, and land levelling by groups of
farmers under different degrees of public assistance. An important
objective of these studies would be to make a critical field evalua-
tion of the Muda IT system with a view to developing proposals for
subseque',t investmeznts both within and outside the Muda irrigation
area. The studies would also determine the effects of alternative
approaches to tertiary and on-farm irrigation and drainage on the
level of water control, water use efficiency, ease of management and
operation and maintenance costs.
(b) Management studies would be closely integrated with the engineering
studies to determine the agronomic and socioeconomic improvements
needed both for farmers to make the best use of the infrastructure
provided in the pilot areas, and to develop appropriate strategies
for tertiary unit operation and maintenance. Critical analyses would
be made of the project's irrigation operation and maintenance, farm
management oractices, credit, input supply and marketing systems,
to identify problems and devalop improved approaches to ensure that
improvements in management and support services keep pace with
infrastructure development. An important objective of these manage-
ment studies would be to determine the effectiveness of and problems



- 16 
associated with the proposed field organization of farmers, with a
view to developing improved approaches, as well as to explore the
extent and feasibility of farmer involvement in the operation and
maintenance of tertiary systems.
(c) Pilot tertiary demonstration areas would be established to show
Farmers the potential benefits of intensification and improved field
oz:genization. Project management regards the 14 pilot double-cropping
demonstration areas established under Muda I as having been an
important catalyst in the implementation of the project so far.
Under Muda II a similar extension role is envisaged for the pilot
project areas.
An assurance was obtained that MADA would prepare a detailed program for studies
and pilot projects, and submit the proposal to the Bank by December 31, 1979.
3.15      Grcundwater Studies.  Dry spells experienced in Malaysia during the
past two years and the experience gained in a number of other developing
countries in the conjunctive use of surface and groundwater have aroused
Government interest in the development of groundwater resources. This interest
has been reinforced by the Kelantan River Basin Study recently undertaken
under the auspices of the Colombo Plan to carry out a comprehensive hydrologi-
cal study of Kelantan which has indicated that the region is underlain by a
series of aquifers. According to a preliminary estimate these aquifers have
an ultimate potential of about 20 cu m/sec for groundwater irrigation. The
basin study has recommended that a continuing program of groundwater observa-
tion and irr4gation should be conducted. It has also identified five pilot
schemes for early implementation covering areas of up to 60 ha each. The
first of these pilot schemes, located in Pasir Mas District in Kelantan, has
been implemented and has demonstrated the viability of groundwater exploitation
in that particular area.
3.16      DID would establish a geohydrological unit within its hydrological
branch to undertake studies in areas with possible groundwater potential.
However, since DID's experience in groundwater development is limited, techni-
cal assistance would be required and DID plans to hire a number of experts in
this field. The unit would formulate the objectives of the groundwater studies,
detailed work program and terms of reference for specialists. The studies
would include the collection and collation of data from previous studies, if
any; a program of daily groundwater level measurements; and an extensive
drilling program leading to an estimation of the location, quantity and
quality of available groundwater and determination of exploitation techniques
and costs. Proposed extractions from fresh aquifers near the sea would have
to be carefully balanced to avoid salt water intrusion. Two sets of drilling
rigs and accessories would be required and the studies would take about two
years to complete. The total cost of consultants, equipment and materials
is estimated to be about US$1.5 million, including a foreign exchange component
of about US$1.2 million.
3.17      Pergau--Galas Integrated Rural Development Study.  An important element
of the Basin Development Plan identified by the Kelantan River Basin Study is
the Dabong Dam. It is proposed to be located on the lower Galas river about



- 17 -
5 km downstream from the confluence of the Pergau and Galas rivers (tributaries
of the Kelantan river). The proposed dam would provide flood mitigation, water
supplies and electric power for the development of the whole of the coastal
region of the State of Kelantan. At high water level the proposed dam would
flood an area of about 20,000 ha of which about 8,000 ha is currently being
cultivated. There are 37 villages that would be affected by the dam and most
of the inhabitants, numbering about 10,000 people, would have to be settled
elsewhere. Many of these villages are already subjected to periodic flooding
from the main rivers and the state government has been examining ways and
means of moving them to safer locations.
3.18      The valleys of the Pergau and Galas rivers, outside the reservoir
of the proposed Dabong Dam, have a potential for about 42,000 ha of agricul-
tural land, most of which is suitable for rubber. This land could be developed
to support a future population of about 25,000 (about two and one-half times
the existing population), thus creating a potential for absorption of an
additional 15,000 settlers from elsewhere. This development could precede the
construction of the dam, thus providing in advance new communities within the
valleys to which the population expected to be displaced by the reservoir
could be moved with minimal inconvenience.
3.19      The objective of the proposed study would be to prepare a phased
integrated rural development plan for the Pergau and Galas valleys within
the framework of Government's policy on regional development and poverty
eradication. The study would take into consideration alternatives both
with and without the dam, and before and after dam stages. The Government has
already prepared detailed terms of reference for the consultants. The State
Economic Planning Unit of Kelantan, jointly with the Federal Economic Planning
Unit would be responsible for monitoring the study. A steering committee
consisting of the concerned government agencies would guide and advise the
consultants on the conduct of the study, which is estimated to require about
100 man-months of professional time, at a cost of US$0.7 million (US$7,000 per
man-month).
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
3.20      The question of adequate water availability was the subject of
considerable study during project preparation and appraisal, due to the
relatively heavy reliance of the Muda irrigation scheme on direct rainfall and
uncontrolled streamflow, the wide year-to-year variations in reservoir
inflow and the occurrence in 1977/78 of the worst drought in the 48 years of
record. The water availability analysis summarized below (para. 3.22-3.26)
presents the situation which would prevail once the level of tertiary facili-
ties to be implemented under the present project is extended to the entire
Muda padi area. A second analysis was performed for the "without project"
case, to determine the net effect of the proposed tertiary development
program on water demands. The conclusion of the analysis is that the tertiary
development program would result in substantial water savings which would be
used to increase the overall long-run cropping intensity. The water saving
effects of tertiary development are due chiefly to the following factors:



(a) The present system of field-to-field flooding over long reaches
of up to 2 km entails considerable wastage of water as low-lying
land must be flooded to considerable depths, 25 cm or above, in
the various blocks in order to move water to more distant higher
land. The standing layer of water now provided is deeper than
required for agricultural purposes due to wide variations in
topography within the large irrigation blocks. By providing
separate tertiary supply systems to smaller blocks within which
topography varies less, tertiary development would enable the
application of water to unit areas to be reduced by an average of
5 cm per annum. This would save about 12.5 million cu m of water
per annum compared to the "without project" situation, and ultimately
nearly 50 million cu m when tertiary development is completed
throughout the Muda scheme.
(b)  The conveyance efficiency in a system which distributes water
through concrete lined and unlined channels, concrete pipes, and
fiberglass flumes is higher than one based on field-to-field
flooding, where much water eventually reaches natural or constructed
drains before reaching the lots intended for irrigation. Overall
conveyance efficiency is expected to increase from the current
75% to 80%.
(c) The subdivision of the current large irrigation blocks is expected
to facilitate the shift from scattered private nurseries to communal
nurseries located near irrigation outlets. This would eliminate
the need to irrigate the entire padi area during the nursery period
in order to serve each farmer's small nursery.
3.21      The water supply and demand analysis considers the supplies for,
and demands on, the entire Muda system at its projected ultimate stage of
development. The net irrigated area would be 96,000 ha. This includes 4,000 ha
of fringe padi areas (included in the National Small-Scale Irrigation Project)
which will derive water from the Muda main canals, and allows for land taken
out of production because of right-of-way requirements for tertiary construc-
tion. Also, the supply system would be required to supply 14.8 million cu m/
month of water for domestic, industrial and municipal use.
3.22      Water Supply.  The water supply would come from the following three
sources:
(a) Direct rainfall on the padi fields. This is a most valuable source
of water because it supplies the immediate demand, and in addition,
water can be stored in the fields and continue to be used for a
number of consecutive days. However, during heavy rainfall periods,
only a portion of the daily rainfall can be effectively utilized,
to a maximum storage depth of 15 cm. During the supplementary
irrigation period, vihich starts after presaturation and ends
before harvest, rainfall in excess of 5 mm and less than 40 mm per
day is assumed as effective. Effective rainfall on the padi fields
would supply 43% of total average water demand.
(b)  Useful streamflow (uncontrolled flow).  The flow from the Padang
Terap River is diverted into the existing Muda feeder canal at the
Pelubang barrage and then discharged into the Northern and Southern



- 19 -
main canals by the bifurcation headworks. Annex 1, Table 1 shows
the estimated monthly streamflow of the Padang Terap River at the
barrage. Uncontrolled flow would supply 19% of total average
water demand.
(c) Reservoir releases (controlled flow). The existing Pedu and Muda
dams are connected by the 7 km long Saiong Tunnel. They have
a combined catchment of 1,200 sq km and a combined reservoir storage
capacity of 1,230 MCM. Irrigation releases are made from the Pedu
Dam into the Pedu River, which joins the Padang Terap River above
the barrage. Annex 1, Table 2 shows the estimated monthly inflow
into the two reservoirs. Reservoir releases would supply 38% of
total average water demand.
3.23      The daily rainfall and daily available uncontrolled flow are allowed
to meet demand as much as possible. In the event the amount of available
water exceeds demand, the excess is stored on the padi field to the extent
that the depth in the field does not exceed 15 cm. If the depth exceeds 15 cm,
the remaining water is drained off. Conversely, if, as a result of low
rainfall and streamflow, the depth in the field falls below 5 cm, then water
is released from the reservoirs to provide the daily requirement.
3.24      Water Demand.  The present system of continuous flow irrigation
would be converted into a system of staggered continuous irrigation with
controlled water depth. The padi area would be divided into four irrigation
schedules, 15 days apart, resulting in a cropping pattern staggered over a
two-month period in each block. This allows for a reduction in peak water
requirements and is also desirable in order to obtain a spread in peak labor
and machinery requirements. Presaturation would be accomplished in seven to
eight days in each ISU, and presaturation for the first dry season cropping
schedule would start on February 1, the date selected to take the best advantage
of rainfall on the padi fields. The proposed cropping schedules are shown in
Chart 18927.
3.25      Annex 1, Table 3 shows the daily irrigation requirements for each
cropping schedule for each month. To develop this table, the following
assumptions were made:
(a) Evapotranspiration equals 0.7 of the pan evaporation during presat-
uration, nursery preparation and early growth; evapotranspiration
equals the pan evaporation during the middle plant growth; and
evapotranspiration equals 1.3 times the pan evaporation during late
growth. These coefficients were derived on the basis of experimental
work done in Muda.
(b) Field losses (percolation) would be 1.27 mm/day, based on percolation
measurements made on Muda's tight clay soils.
(c) Water required for saturation during presaturation is 15 cm
and water required to establish a standing layer during
presaturation is 10 cm, for a total of 25 cm.
(d) There would be a conveyance efficiency of 80%.



- 20 -
3.26      Water Demand and Availability Analysis.  A computerized analysis of
water demand and supply was performed by DID on the basis of 22 years of data.
The analysis shows that the availability of water is adequate, but that there
would be a shortage of water for the dry season crop in 6 years out of 22.
The results are shown in Annex 1, Table 4 and emphasize the need for good
water management. On an average annual basis, the direct supply would meet
90% of the dry season demand, and 100% of the main season demand. The water
demand and availability analysis does not consider the fact that there would
be some recirculation of drainage water in Muda's coastal areas, estimated to
cover 800 ha in Muda II blocks, which would increase sustainable cropping
intensity to 193%. An overall water use efficiency of 59% would be achieved.
3.27      Water Quality.  From samples of water collected at the diversion
barrage from 1972 through 1975, the water has been found to be of excellent
quality for agricultural, municipal and industrial use. The average concentra-
tion of chlorides was less than 4 ppm, the pH values ranged from 6.8 to 7.2
and the solids averaged 97 ppm.
Status of Design and Construction
3.28      As of October 1978, design plans and drawings had been completed for
project blocks totalling about 4,000 ha (16% of the project area). This area
is considered adequate as a basis for cost estimates in the light of the
regularity of the terrain and the uniformity of the works. Planning and
design procedures are well established with no major unresolved engineering
problems. The area has had maps prepared to a contour interval of 15 cm based
on aerial surveys. In addition, detailed surveys would be made along all
tertiary canal and drain alignments. Construction of the tertiaries and farm
roads in the first project block (Tanah Merah) is now about 65% complete.
Land Acquisition
3.29      The Kedah and Perlis State Departments of Lands and Mines are respon-
sible for land acquisition and property compensation. Their staffs have been
increased to handle the extra workload imposed by the project. A total of
930 ha would be acquired affecting some 12,000 farm owners. As of October 1978,
layouts had been prepared for 14 blocks representing about 375 ha which had
been submitted for acquisition. Right-of-way would be acquired before
construction contracts are awarded.
Implementation Schedule
3.30      Except for some work undertaken in 1978 (para. 3.32), the project
would be implemented over a five-year period ending December 31, 1983
(Chart 20077). The agricultural support components provide for a buildup of
staff and facilities phased over the implementation period.
Cost Estimates
3.31      Total project costs are estimated at US$69 million, of which
US$31 million (45%) would be foreign exchange. Cost estimates for irrigation
and drainage works, roads, and buildings are based on unit costs in recent



- 21 -
contracts for similar work in the Muda area, and on quantities derived from
detailed layouts and engineering studies for six complete blocks totalling
about 4,000 ha. The basis for estimated costs of vehicles and equipment are
recent quotati:ns from suppliers (Annex 2, Table 2). Because of the tax-exempt
status of Government departments, cost estimates exclude all known taxes and
duties. Base costs are expressed in 1979 prices. Physical contingencies of
10% were applied for all works and equipment. Project works would be relatively
simple and repetitive in nature, and experience with similar works in Malaysia
indicates that this allowance would be sufficient. Expected price increases
over the implementation period amount to 21% of base costs plus physical
contingencies and assume annual rates of price inflation for local and
foreign costs of 7% for civil works and services and 6% for equipment and
vehicles in 1979-83. Detailed project costs are presented in Annex 2, and
are summarized in Table 3.1.
Financing
3.32      The proposed Bank loan of US$31 million would finance the foreign
exchange requirements of the project. Retroactive financing has been included
for most Bank-assisted projects in Malaysia to maximize the Bank's participa-
tion from the beginning of project implementation, to ensure that satisfactory
procurement procedures are followed from an early stage and to facilitate
discussion of staffing requirements and agency responsibilities early in the
project cycle. In this case, basic issues concerning project scope, procure-
ment procedures, staffing requirements and interagency collaboration were
resolved in the course of preappraisal in November 1977 and follow-up discus-
sions in March 1978. Construction of sample areas began in early 1978
and all construction since April 1978 has been in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank. The loan would therefore finance retroactively
the foreign exchange component of expenditures incurred after March 31, 1978.
The estimated total cost of such works is US$2.8 million, of which US$1.4
million (50%) would be foreign exchange. This is a Federal project and
all local costs would be borne by the Government through annual budget
allocations. The Government would provide funds to MADA for carrying out its
part of the project as a grant.



- 22 -
Table 3.1: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATE
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  exchange
--- (M$ million )---    --- (US$ million) ---          (%)
On-Farm Irrigation Block Development
Tertiary canals and associated roads  21.9    20.2    42.1           9.9      9.2    19.1      48
Tertiary drains and associated roads   7.5         8.2    15.7       3.4      3.7      7.1      52
Other roads and bridges                    1.4     1.1      2.5      0.6      0.5      1.1      45
Pumphouses                                 1.1      1.6     2.7      0.5      0.7      1.2      58
Irrigation service unit perimeter
bunds                                    1.2     1.4      2.6      0.6      0.6      1.2     50
Minor dispersed works                      1.6      1.6     3.2      0.7      0.8      1.5      53
Land acquisition                           6.9        -     6.9      3.1        -      3.1       0
Engineering and supervision                5.5     0.3      5.8      2.5      0.1      2.6       4
Subtotal                           47.1    34.4    81.5    21.3    15.6    36.9          42
General Irrigation System Improvement
Major drainage improvements                1.8     2.2      4.0      0.8      1.0      1.8      55
Coastal protection                         2.1     1.8      3.9      1.0      0.8      1.8     44
Miscellaneous works                        0.6     0.7      1.3      0.3      0.3      0.6      50
Subtotal                            4.5      4.7     9.2      2.1      2.1      4.2      50
Buildings
MADA headquarters                          1.7     0.8      2.5      0.8      0.3      1.1      27
District O&M offices and quarters          3.1      1.3     4.4      1.4      0.6      2.0      30
Workshop                                   1.4     0.6      2.0      0.6      0.3      0.9      33
Seed stores                                1.0     0.4      1.4      0.4      0.2      0.6     33
DID offices                                0.4     0.2      0.6      0.2      0.1      0.3      33
Subtotal                            7.6      3.3    10.9      3.4      1.5      4.9      31
Equipment
construction & O&M equipment               0.2     1.5      1.7      0.1      0.7      0.8     88
Water control and management system    0.1          1.1      1.2     0.1      0.5      0.6      92
Agricultural equipment                     0.1     0.7      0.8        -      0.3      0.3      88
Extension and office equipment               -     0.7      0.7        -      0.3      0.3    100
Drilling rigs and accessories                -     2.2      2.2        -      1.0      1.0    100
Subtotal                            0.4      6.2     6.6      0.2      2.8      3.0      93
Studies
Studies and pilot projects in
the Muda area                           0.8      0.7      1.5      0.4      0.3     0.7      43
Groundwater studies                        0.4     0.7      1.1      0.2      0.3      0.5      60
Pergau-Galas study                         0.3      1.5     1.8      0.1      0.7      0.8      87
Subtotal                            1.5      2.9      4.4     0.7      1.3      2.0      65
Technical Services
Consulting architects, surveyors,
and engineers                            1.2     0.1      1.3      0.5      0.1      0.6       8
Training and study tours                     -     0.4      0.4       -       0.2      0.2    100
Monitoring and evaluation                  0.4      0.1     0.5      0.2        -      0.2      20
Subtotal                            1.6      0.6      2.2     0.7      0.3      1.0      30
Base cost estimate                          62.7    52.1   114.8    28.4    23.6    52.0          45
Physical contingencies                       6.6      5.1    11.7      3.0      2.2      5.2      42
Expected price increases                    14.6    11.3    25.9        6.6     5.2    11.8       44
Total Project Cost                83.9    68.5   152.4    38.0    31.0    69.0          45



- 23 -
Procurement
3.33      All tertiary works (canals, drains, and farm roads) within each
irrigation block would be tendered under a single contract, resulting in about
38 tertiary works contracts worth an average of US$1.1 million each./l To the
extent that progress on design and land acquistion permits, such works would
be grouped in appropriate bid packages and contractors would be allowed to bid
on one or more blocks. Major drainage works (US$2.4 million), coastal protec-
tion works (US$2.3 million), miscellaneous works (US$0.8 million) and buildings
(US$6.5 million) would also be designed and tendered in relatively small
packages of about US$2 million each. Because these contracts would be small
and scattered, and would require coordination with large numbers of small
farmers maintaining continuous cropping schedules, with operation and mainten-
ance and with local Government land acquisition teams, they would not be
suitable for international tender. They would thus be awarded after competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with Government procedures satisfactory
to the Bank. The local contracting industry is competitive and strong, and
local tendering is well-managed and publicized. Bids would be accepted from
foreign contractors who wished to participate. No preference margins, whether
domestic or international, would be utilized in the evaluation and award of
civil works contracts.
3.34      Force account work would be limited to the fabrication and supply of
gates and hoists for water control structures. DID has been fabricating its
own gates and hoists at its Federal Workshop in Ipoh for more than 15 years,
and has supplied all the gates and hoists for Muda I. Estimated costs are
reasonable for the quality of work required. Bank missions have visited the
Workshop and have found it to be efficiently operated and well-managed (Annex 6).
The total cost of force account work is estimated at US$0.9 million.
3.35      Agricultural, construction and operation and maintenance equipment
and vehicles, workshop equipment, water management and control equipment,
drilling rigs and accessories for groundwater investigations (totalling
US$3.8 million) would be procured under international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or the
prevailing customs duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers
of these items. Off-the-sheif items, costing less than US$35,000 each
and limited to a total of US$1.2 million, would be procured through normal
Govprr,ment procedures.
-/ All estimates of contract values in this section include base costs,
physical and price contingencies. The tertiary works contracts would
include one contract for each of the 37 blocks, plus one contract for a
series of small, scattered tertiary works (para. 3.06).



- 24 -
Disbursements
3.36      MADA, as coordinating agency, would collate all expenditures and
trasmit them to the Federal Treasury for loan reimbursement. Disbursements
would be made at the rate of 100% against foreign exchange expenditures on
directly imported equipment and vehicles, 100% of the ex-factory cost of such
items manufactured locally, and 80% of the total cost of locally procured
items. Disbursements for civil works executed by contract would equal 50% of
total costs. Disbursement for force account work would equal 50% of total
costs, and would be made against a certificate of expenditure, the documen-
tation for which would be retained by the borrower and be available for
inspection by the Bank during the course of project supervision. Bank missions
have reviewed DID's supporting documentation for certificates of expenditure
and have found such documentation to be complete and accurate (Annex 6).
For consulting services, disbursements would equal 100% of total expenditures.
For overseas fellowships and study tours, disbursements would equal 100% of
foreign expenditures. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by
December 31, 1984. Estimated expenditure and disbursement schedules for the
project and a proposed allocation of the proceeds of the loan are presented in
Annex 2, Tables 7-9.
Accounts and Audits
3.37      The agencies involved in the project are all subject to normal
Government control and audit procedures. Assurances were obtained that:
(a)  all agencies involved in project implementation would maintain
separate accounts for the project;
(b)  all project accounts would be collated by the Project Manager
(para. 4.01);
(c)  the Government's Auditor General or other auditors satisfactory
to the Bank would audit these accounts; and
(d)  the Project Manager would send the audited project accounts,
together with the auditors' comments, to the Bank within nine
months of the close of each financial year.
Environmental Effects
3.38      All project works would be implemented within a densely populated
area which has been relatively intensively cultivated, chiefly for padi
production, for generations. Chemical fertilizers and pesticides are already
widely used in the area and the extension service would continue to caution
farmers in the use of toxic chemicals. Effects on the existing environment
would thus be minimal.



- 25 -
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management
4.01      MADA is responsible for a wide range of administrative, agricultural
extension, engineering operation and maintenance, agribusiness, monitoring,
evaluation and planning functions pertaining to the general agricultural
development of the Muda command area (Chart 19775). The General Manager of
MADA would serve as Project Manager and would be responsible for coordinating
the implementation of the proposed project. He would be guided on policy
matters by a Steering Committee chaired by the Secretary General of the
Ministry of Agriculture and including other officials the chairman may nominate.
The General Manager would report semi-annually to the MADA Board of Directors
and the Steering Committee on the progress of the Project.
Engineering and Technical Services
4.02      Final design of drainage, irrigation and coastal protective
works and supervision of construction would be the responsibility of DID. To
accomplish this DID would establish a project office in Alor Setar headed by
a Project Director, with branches in the four MADA districts, and assign a
team of engineering staff with a peak complement of 26 professional engineers
and 109 technical assistants and technicians. The Project Director would
report to the Director General of DID and coordinate DID activities in the
Muda area with the Project Manager. DID would be responsible for procurement
and contract supervision for all works under its charge. Surveying, planning,
designing and tendering would normally be done in-house by DID staff. Licensed
surveyors and local consultants would be engaged as necessary to assist DID in
survey work and in preparing final designs and bid documents.
4.03      MADA would be responsible for the design, tendering and construction
of MADA offices, workshops, quarters and pilot projects, and would also be
responsible for upgrading the existing water control system. To achieve this
MADA would assign a team of seven professional officers and 27 subprofessional
and technical officers to implement its part of the project.
4.04      To ensure that design concepts, features, assumptions, and data
are transmitted effectively from the design staff to the MADA district-level
staff who will operate and maintain the systems, assurances were obtained
that upon completion of final design, DID would prepare a designer's operation
manual covering major project works. The commissioning of all completed
works would be the joint responsibility of DID and MADA. The Engineering
Division of MADA would assume responsibility for operation and maintenance
upon satisfactory commissioning of the works. Detailed estimates of engineer-
ing staff requirements for all phases of project implementation are presented
in Annex 2, Table 4. An assurance was obtained that all DID and MADA engineerin,
staff required to design, implement, operate and maintain the project would be
appointed.



- 26 -
Consulting Services
4.05      Services of local consulting engineers, surveyors and architects
are expected to total 200 man-months of professional staff, 100 man-months of
technical assistants and 150 man-months of technicians and draftsmen. Total
costs of this consultant input are expected to average US$1,300/month for
professionals, US$950/month for technical assistants and US$430/month for
technicians and draftsmen. Approximately 170 man-months of professional
consulting services at an estimated cost of US$7,000/month would be employed
to assist with the proposed groundwater and Pergau-Galas studies (para. 3.15-3.19).
Assurances were obtained that consultants employed for project implementation
and studies would be acceptable to the Bank and would be engaged, as required,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Agricultural Services
4.06      The agricultural service component would cover the entire Muda area,
or about 60,000 farmers and 100,000 ha of padi land. The proposed arrangements
for integrated agricultural services have evolved in the course of carrying
out the North Kelantan, Northwest Selangor and Krian-Sungei Manik projects
(para. 1.05) and follow the principles of the training and visit system being
implemented under the National Extension Project. To date they have been
applied on a pilot basis in each project area, starting with extension and
following with credit, input supply and irrigation O&M. Results so far are
encouraging and the programs are being expanded as staff and other resources
permit. For the proposed project the Agricultural Division of MADA would be
responsible for implementation, but would work closely with the State Directors
of Agriculture and the Federal technical units represented in the area, to
ensure efficient use of staff and facilities for the MADA and non-MADA areas
in the states of Kedah and Perlis. Programs would be implemented through the
four irrigation districts, 27 Farmers' Development Centers (FDCs) and groups
of farmers formed on the basis of Irrigation Service Areas (ISAs) and
Irrigation Service Units (ISUs) (para. 3.02). The objective is to achieve
group action at field level with regard to planting and irrigation schedules,
water management, pest control, etc. and to provide each group with an
effective integrated service package covering extension, water management,
plant protection, credit, input supply and marketing on a regular and continuous
basis.
4.07      The proposed organization of agricultural services in the MADA area
is presented in Chart 18920. The head of the Agricultural Division would be
responsible for implementation and day-to-day management. He would coordinate
his programs and maintain close liaison with DOA, MARDI, LPN and FOA through
the regular meetings of the State Agricultural Research and Development
Committee (SARDEC) and bi-weekly meetings convened by the General Manager.
He would be assisted by a Deputy for Extension, Training and Development and
a Deputy for Agribusiness and Credit. The Senior Agricultural Officer for
Extension and Training would coordinate extension programs and, with the
assistance of the Agricultural Officer for Training, organize bi-weekly
training sessions for field extension personnel and all other training programs
required for field staff and farm group leaders. Subject matter specialists
for rice agronomy, crop protection, extension, and farm family development
(home economics) would prepare and present training programs for the extension



- 27 -
field personnel, provide technical field support, and work with MARDI, techni-
cal units of the Federal DOA and other relevant institutions, to introduce new
technology and improve and update extension recommendations. The Development
and Statistics unit would coordinate seed and input supplies and subsidy
programs with extension and agribusiness activity in each FDC area on the
basis of seasonal farm management surveys, and assume responsibility for
maintaining basic statistical data. The Farm Mechanization Unit would continue
its role in assessing and introducing appropriate forms of farm mechanization
into the Muda area, running training courses for farmers and supporting the
tractor rental programs of the FDCs. The Deputy for Agribusiness and his
staff would supervise and monitor all business activities at the 27 FDCs and
continue the program to incorporate the remaining agro-based cooperatives into
the 27 main Farmer Associations.
4.08      In each district, an Agricultural Officer would coordinate and
supervise all extension activities at five to nine FDCs. He would be assisted
by an Assistant Agricultural Officer (AAO) and support staff to take care of
crop development, crop protection and related programs, and an administrative
assistant. He would spend most of his time in the field supervising the
FDCs. He would also coordinate the programs of field extension and irrigation
U&M personnel with regard to scheduling of water supplies, water management
and planting schedules. Each FDC would be managed by an Agricultural Assistant
(AA) assisted by an Agricultural Technician (AT) for Agribusiness, one for
Accounts and one for Organization and Cooperatives. One Extension AT and one
Credit AT would be assigned for every 10 ISAs in an FDC service area. With
about 600 ISAs, at least 60 Extension and 60 Credit ATs would be required,
giving a ratio of 1 Extension AT to about 1000 farmers.
4.09      Extension.  Effective extension would be the core of the improved
service system. The 12-18 farmers cultivating land within an ISU of 15-25
ha, having common water supply and drainage facilities and irrigation schedules,
would be formed into a field work group, with an elected group leader. The
six to eight ISUs within an ISA would form an ISA group of 70-140 farmers
on a contiguous block of 100-200 ha of padi land, and would elect one member
as ISA Group Leader. The ISA and ISU group leaders would be the main points
of contact between extension workers and farmers. They would be responsible
for attending regular field meetings with the extension workers; encouraging
group members to attend the meetings and follow extension advice; planning
and implementing irrigation, planting, and O&M schedules within the ISA; and
effective deployment of labor and machines. There would be one progressive
farmer for every six to eight ISU group members to help group leaders disse-
minate extension information.
4.10      The Extension ATs would visit each ISA group on a set day at a set
time at a fixed meeting place in their fields once every two weeks throughout
the year. A typical field meeting would consist of a practical training
session relevant to the farmers' immediate needs, a farm walk through the ISA
to inspect crops and give on-the-spot advice on the current topic of extension,
and a general discussion of current field problems. Group leaders, progressive
farmers, and as many members as they could encourage to attend, would join
the regular field meetings. Group leaders would ensure that all members not
attending the meeting were informed of the key points arising a, the meeting.



- 28 -
Where possible, the AT would establish a simple trial plot in cooperation with
group members, to compare three or four cultural techniques relevant to the
farmers' needs. On a fixed day every two weeks, the District AO would call
all field extension personnel and AAs for a program review and training session.
A typical session would be conducted by a subject matter specialist (SMS) and
consist of a training session covering the theory and practice of key field
operations which would be encountered by the extension AT in his next round of
group visits. This would be presented in a form which the AT could use to run
his own training session with his farmer groups; each AT would give a brief
verbal report on progress and problems for the past two weeks, based on a
simple daily diary in which he would record his main activities, problems
encountered and advice given. The District AO, area AAs and SMS, would
review the AT's work programs, answer questions raised, and refer questions
that they could not answer to project management, with a view to giving a
satisfactory answer at the next bi-weekly meeting.
4.11      On a fixed day each month, Area AAs and District AOs would meet
with senior staff at MADA Headquarters. Progress and problems of the past
month's work would be reviewed, and plans formulated to improve performance in
the following month. At the end of every cropping season, the Deputy for
Extension and Training would call all extension ATs, AAs and AOs together for
a program review and planning session. The objective would be to reach
conclusions and formulate recommendations for improving performance in subse-
quent seasons. Special attention would be given to selecting "impact points"/1
for the following season's extension program for each District. The most
appropriate extension techniques and methods would be determined and bi-weekly
AT training topics selected to support the program. Finally, technical
problems would be referred to participating SMS, Federal DOA or MARDI personnel
for advice, recommendations would be reviewed, and research priorities identi-
fied to meet the immediate needs of the extension service and farmers. MARDI,
SMS and Crop Development Units would follow up on these discussions by estab-
lishing standard replicated field trials at representative locations. The
Extension ATs, with the guidance of the SMS, would establish small unreplicated
plots with the same treatments and management procedures, in cooperation with
their ISA group leaders, to test key management variables over a wider range
of conditions. Successful plots would be used for demonstration purposes.
The cooperative adaptive trial program would be a powerful tool in rapidly
refining and improving area-specific extension recommendations and providing
valuable feedback to the research service.
4.12      Agribusiness and Credit.  The number of credit officers located at
the FDCs would be increased to match the number of Extension ATs. The two
ATs would work together to achieve a close link between extension advice and
credit. The Credit Officer would join the Extension AT on his regular
bi-weekly visits to ISA groups at strategic times of the year, to explain and
promote the FA credit program and to register farmers for the program.
/1   A few aspects of crop management, which the majority of farmers could
follow, and which have the best chance of increasing yield and profit.



- 29 -
4.13      Irrigation O&M.  Improved water control and management, and increased
water use efficiency, are key objectives of the project. Irrigation O&M field
staff would play a vital role in the improved servicing system. Irrigation
overseers would be assigned to work as a team with Extension ATs to form
farmer groups at ISU and ISA level. The visiting schedule of the Extension
ATs to each ISA group would be assigned to the irrigation overseers and
inspectors. The overseers would make joint visits with the Extension AT to
the ISA groups just prior to the irrigation season, to explain the new irriga-
tion and drainage system, to work out irrigation and planting schedules, advise
the farmers on maintenance of bunds and farm ditches, and assist them to plan
water distribution and management within the ISA and ISU. They would make
other visits with the Extension AT at strategic times during the season,
such as when the water supply regime was due to be changed, or when requested
by the Extension AT to assist in solving specific water contol and management
problems. The overseers would work on a continuing basis with ISA and ISU
group leaders, to follow the agreed irrigation program. They would note any
major infringements of regulations and report them to the District Office.
Irrigation inspectors would maintain a close working relationship with the
District AO and area AAs. They would attend the bi-weekly and monthly exten-
sion program reviews, as required, to deal with water control and management
problems. They would be responsible for establishing irrigation committees at
block and district level with members elected from among the ISA group leaders.
The committees would negotiate with the irrigation service on irrigation and
drainage schedules, and all matters related to the 0&M of the irrigation
system. They would also assist the irrigation service to enforce regulations
and encourage farmers in their area to follow the agreed irrigation and
planting schedules.
4.14      Seed Production.  Project seed requirements are estimated at 400 tons
per season. The DOA Crop Production Unit at Telok Chengai would be responsible
for supplying high quality rice seeds to the project. A regional seed assess-
ment committee, with representatives from MARDI, DOA, LPN., FOA, MADA and
millers operating in the region, would determine the varieties that should be
recommended and multiplied. MARDI would supply the required breeder seed to
the Telok Chengai Seed Production Center. Under the seed component of the
National Extension Project, the capacity of the Telok Chengai unit will be
increased to 500 tons per season, which is adequate to meet the needs of the
project and the expected demand from padi farmers in the remainder of Kedah
and Perlis. Seed will be multiplied on about 40 ha of Government land and
about 100 ha of private land operated by selected seed growers supervised by
the Seed Production Center. The National Extension Project provides for
buildings, processing facilities and additional staff, and should be operational
by 1981. The Government will establish and maintain a seed fund for DOA to
buy quality seed at a premium above the farmgate price from seed producers
for distribution to farmers. To operate the seed program on a self-financing
basis, the Government has agreed to review its seed pricing policy and
furnish the results to the Bank for comment by January 31, 1980. Seed will
be supplied to farmers in the project area through FAs operating at each FDC.
The proposed project would include a small seed store at each FDC to support
the seed distribution program.



30
4.15      Crop Protection.  Wider spread use of high-yielding varieties, and
higher rates of fertilizer application invariably lead to a more favorable
environment for pest and disease attack. The most serious threat in the Muda
area is the brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens) which has caused serious
losses in neighboring countries practicing intensive rice cultivation. Muda,
with a large contiguous area of intensive rice monoculture, is vulnerable to
attack. As it is the "rice bowl" of Malaysia, a widespread outbreak would
not only reduce project benefits, but would seriously affect the Government's
goal of reducing rice imports. Currently, the DOA Crop Protection Unit
serving Kedah and Perlis is responsible for monitoring and controlling pest
outbreaks in the project area. The staff consists of one AO, one AA, five
ATs and support staff. An interdepartmental pest surveillance program was
established in late 1977 following an outbreak of brown planthopper. Under
this program the Crop Protection Unit is responsible for monitoring pest
populations and providing chemicals and equipment for control, while MADA
extension personnel are responsible for educating farmers on the identifica-
tion of the pests and correct control measures. The concept is excellent,
but resources in terms of staff, equipment, and monitoring facilities are not
adequate to cover effectively the 128,000 ha of padi land in Kedah and
Perlis. No crop protection component was included in the proposed project
since a national program to strengthen crop protection services is currently
under review. However, an assurance was obtained that the Government would
submit to the Bank for review its proposal for strengthening the crop protec-
tion program in the Muda irrigation area by December 31, 1979, and would
implement an agreed program by June 30, 1980.
4.16      Research.  A continuous flow of new technology relevant to farmers'
needs and continuous refinement of extension recommendations are basic to
maintaining an effective extension system and improving yields and farm
incomes. MARDI, through the National Rice Research Center at Bumbong Lima
and its substation near Alor Setar, would continue to be responsible for
basic research. The DOA technical units and the project extension SMS and
field staff would work with MARDI on adaptive and simple field trials,
to refine extension recommendations on an area basis. These units already
cooperate formally through the SARDEC meetings. In addition, as part of the
program to strengthen services, a closer working relationship would be
established by forming a technical working group to plan and implement
adaptive field research. This group would become the main link between
extension and research to bring new technology to the field and ensure quick
feedback to the research service.
4.17      The need for the working group and field program is highlighted by
the fact that there is currently only one fertilizer recommendation for wet
and dry season for the entire Muda area, even though five soil classes
and 16 soil series have been identified. A soil fertility evaluation program
would be the group's first task. The DOA Soil Survey and Analytical Unit
would carry out a detailed soil survey on 5-10 representative irrigation
blocks, covering some 3,000-7,000 ha, to check the variability of the soils
and to determine to what extent soil series might be grouped in terms of soil
fertility for rice production. This work would be completed by June 1979.
The technical working group would review the data and select 40-50 repre-
sentative sites based on soils information and crop performance data. MARDI



- 31 -
would design replicated field experiments with levels of nitrogen as the main
variable, and treatments included to check response to basal applications of
phosphate and potash. The experiments would be conducted over two seasons.
Response to fertilizer would be correlated with appropriate soil parameters
measured in the 0-15 cm horizon at each experimental site. The results of the
first two seasons' experiments would be used to determine the type of soil
survey that should be extended to the rest of the Muda area, and further trial
programs needed to refine fertilizer recommendations.
4.18      Staffing.  Estimated incremental staff requirements to implement the
improved Agricultural Service program are presented in Annex 2, Table 4 and
summarized below:
Designation                    Number
Senior Agricultural Officer                    1
Agricultural Officers                          8
Agricultural Assistants                       19
Agricultural Technicians (special grade)    30
Agricultural Technicians                      84
Support Staff                                 25
Recruitment of agricultural staff would be from Agricultural Training Institutes
and Universities. An assurance was obtained that all staff needed to strengthen
the extension and agricultural service program would be appointed in a timely
manner. It was further agreed that MADA would prepare an operations manual
for extension and other supporting services, clearly setting out job descrip-
tions and operational procedures at each level of operation, to achieve the
objective of a fully integrated field service for farmers in the project area.
A draft manual would be prepared for review by December 1979.
4.19      Training.  Training requirements are set out in Annex 2, Table 3.
Local training would include project orientation training for all key staff
and farm group leaders, to familiarize them with the new methods of operation
and to provide basic training on the improved field service system; short 1-2
day field courses for ISA groups, covering the principles of improved water
control and management, and synchronized planting and harvesting in the irrigation
blocks; and program review/training sessions, to be held at the end of every
cropping season, for all field staff. Longer term in-service training courses
for agricultural personnel would be conducted at the Rural Extension Training
Center to be constructed at Telok Chengai under the National Extension Project.
Longer term water management training for irrigatin O&M field personnel would
be conducted at the Water Management Training Center now being established by
DID at Kota Bharu in Kelantan.
4.20      Overseas training would be provided for 18 technical staff.  Two-week
overseas training and study tours would be provided for farm group leaders and
field workers involved in extension, water management and agribusiness activi-
ties. A committee comprising area, district and headquarters personnel would
select a few outstanding farm group leaders and field workers in each district
who had achieved success in furthering the objectives of the project. The
group, headed by a senior officer, would be sent to a neighboring country for



- 32 -
a study tour of intensive irrigation areas, to observe farming practices and
management systems at the field level, with a view to bringing back innovations
for their own service area. This program would be implemented in years 3-5 of
the project when it would be clear which personnel were performing well and
would benefit most from observation overseas.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.21      Monitoring and evaluation of the project's cost, impact and
economic benefits would be carried out by the Planning and Evaluation Unit,
which has for several years undertaken periodic and special surveys and
studies of cost of production, yields, farm incomes, milling output, credit
flow, mechanization and other factors related to the agricultural development
of the Muda region. Monitoring and evaluation to date has provided valuable
feedback to project management and has been used extensively in developing
more effective delivery systems for agricultural services. These efforts would
continue under the proposed project. Special attention would be given to a
comparison of tertiary with nontertiary development areas, and to the results
of pilot investigations (para. 3.13-3.14).
5. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
5.01      Padi production would be increased primarily by providing farmers
with greatly improved water control on their holdings. Project works would
reduce the farmers' dependence on their neighbors for irrigation, drainage
and access and would allow the establishment of clearly defined cropping
patterns within ISUs, ISAs and irrigation blocks. Project area farmers have
already adopted high-yielding varieties (HYVs) with reasonably high rates of
inputs to optimize their yield under conditions of limited water control. To
encourage an accelerated shift to an even higher level of agricultural
technique, a greatly intensified extension program, covering the entire Muda
padi area would be introduced under the project. It is anticipated that
farmers would be able to achieve both a higher cropping intensity and higher
padi yields once tertiary canals and drains and access roads have been
completed. Because of land acquisition for project works, the total padi
area in project blocks would decline by about 1,000 ha from 25,200 ha at
present to about 24,200 ha in the future.
5.02      In the absence of the project there would be little change in
cropping intensity, cultural practices and yields, as lack of tertiary
development and access are the most serious constraints to further increases
in production. Most farmers are already growing high yielding varieties and
use fairly high levels of nutrients. The standard of crop husbandry,
with the exception of plant densities, is already high when compared with
other rice growing areas in the tropics. Thus, for purposes of economic
analysis the "before project" situation is considered equivalent to the
"without project" situation.



- 33 -
Cropping Intensity
5.03      Past estimates of the cropping intensity achieved as a result of
the first Muda Irrigation Project have been uniformly very high, typically
in the range between 193% and 197%./1 These estimates, based largely on
interview surveys of farmers, overestimated the long-run sustainable degree
of double-cropping, due chiefly to the fact that a severe drought did not
occur during the design, construction, and early implementation phases of the
project, and the possibilities of recurrent droughts and operational diffi-
culties in distributing water with the present irrigation system were not
fully apparent. The detailed hydrological study undertaken during the
preparation of this project indicates that the sustainable average cropping
intensity of the entire Muda Scheme area served by the present gravity
irrigation system, is 174%. This estimate takes into account the effect of
recurrent droughts on water supply and demand, land out of command, and
farmers' practices. Recirculation of drainage water through pumping, as
currently practiced by MADA, is estimated to raise the overall Muda cropping
intensity under present conditions to 185%. The introduction of tertiary
canals and drains, which would save water, increase the area under command by
gravity, and reduce areas ponded and flooded, coupled with an intensification
of agricultural support services, would raise the overall long-run cropping
intensity based on gravity irrigation to 190%, while maintenance of the more
efficient portions of the recycling program would further increase cropping
intensity to close to the sustainable maximum, or about 193%. The present
project area, consisting of blocks selected on the basis of difficulties in
water distribution, is estimated to improve from a present long-run cropping
intensity of 175% to the overall projected future Muda average of 193%.
Cropping Patterns
5.04      Under the project farmers would follow four distinct cropping
schedules, staggered at two-week intervals (Chart 18927), based on water
requirements for presaturation, growth characteristics of varieties with a
maturation period of 120-135 days, and the rainfall pattern. Water would
only be made available according to a set timetable. Extension and water
management staff would work together to encourage farmers to follow the
planting schedule for each ISU. Demonstration tertiary areas have already
been established, and have shown that with communal or commercial nurseries,
an ISU can be transplanted within a week with the cooperative effort of all
farmers. Enough tractors are available for land preparation. The limiting
factor would be labor for transplanting, but staggered transplanting within
an irrigation block would allow labor to follow the irrigation schedule for
ISUs so that the labor force could cover the whole area over an 8-9 week
period.
Crop Husbandry
5.05      Class I and II soils, covering nearly 70% of the area, are ideally
suited for padi, and their high clay and silt content and poor drainage
/1 The Project Completion Report (No. 795-MA) of June 15, 1975 estimates a
final cropping intensity of 197%.



- 34 -
characteristics would preclude any alternative crops. The small area of
lighter Class III soils on the eastern fringe would be suitable for crops such
as soybeans, mung bean, and maize, but have been traditionally planted to padi
due to the ready market for that crop and the farmers' own consumption prefer-
ences. The nitrogen and phosphate status of the slightly acidic soils is
relatively low and crops have shown marked yield response to nitrogen. The
response to phosphate is not as well documented, but positive responses have
been reported. Basic potash applications have not given economic responses.
No satisfactory relationship between soil type or soil class and fertilizer
response has been established. This subject would be studied under the soil
fertility program (para. 4.17).
5.06      Class IV soils are found in low-lying sections in the extreme
northern and southern portions of the Muda area. These soils generally
have an acid-sulfate horizon fairly close to the surface. If this horizon is
aVlow'ed to dry out, sulfates oxidize through aeration, thus creating extremely
acidic conditions, and toxic aluminum and iron compounds are formed which may
kill newly transplanted seedlings. Some of the sulfuric acid and toxic
compounds can be removed through flushing and flooding, and if reducing
conditions are maintained for about two months so that the pH increases to
about 4, a crop can be established. Present yields are some 20% lower than
those on Class I-III soils. Good yield responses have been reported with lime
applications of 2.5 ton/ha. A lime subsidy is available to farmers on acid-
sulfate soils, and with improved access roads under the project it is expected
that more farmers will take advantage of this subsidy.
5.07      Current fertilizer recommendations (kg/ha) for HYVs in the Muda
area, irrespective of soil type are:
Main season:  50 N:22 P:22 K  two weeks after transplanting,
and 50 N at panicle initiation.
Off-season:   40 N:22 P:22 K  two weeks after transplanting,
and 40 N at panicle initiation.
The lower N recommendation in the off-season is based on two studies in 1971
and 1976, which indicated that Muda soils have a lower natural supply of
nitrogen in the main season. Further detailed studies are required to
determine more precisely the effect of climate and soil on the N-release in
MAda soils and the optimum time of nitrogen applications. Incorporating N
and P before transplanting could prove beneficial, particularly with regard
to Nefficiency. Fertilizer recommendations would also be refined with
regard to K, in view of the uneconomic response obtained to basic potash
applications (paras. 4.17 and 5.05).
5.08      Land preparation is mostly mechanized.  In 1977 there were about
6000 two-wheel power tillers and about 1,200 four-wheel tractors operating
in the Muda scheme. The power tillers are mostly owned by individual farmers
with larger holdings and commercial contractors. The four-wheel tractors
are owned by contractors. In a few areas where soils are extremely soft,
land preparation is done by hand or by buffalo. Additional raking and
smoothing is usually done by hand or by animals following rotavating. The



- 35 -
DOA Farm Mechanization and Training Center in Alor Setar is studying mechan-
ical land preparation problems. Special attention would continue to be
given to protecting the hard-pan in the soil where this exists.
5.09      Nursery beds are generally prepared separately in a corner of the
field where irrigation water is available. The beds are first kept moist and
later shallow-flooded, and most farmers incorporate some ammonium phosphate
before seeding. Seedlings are transplanted manually when 4-5 weeks old. Due
to labor shortage, plant densities are usually too low, often 30 cm or more
apart in a random pattern. The traditional use of a forked stick for trans-
planting frequently results in the placement of seedlings too deep for
maximum tillering. Drainage is also inadequate to allow continuous shallow
water (7-10 cm) during tillering. With improved water management, higher
yields are possible when the correct plant density/fertilizer combination is
used.
5.10      Almost all Muda farmers grow HYVs.  The uncertified variety "Seribu
Gantang," which is susceptible to false smut (Ustilaginoidae virens) and
bacterial leaf blight (Xanthomonas oryzae) was planted on 72% of the area in
the 1977 off-season. In the future, the MARDI breeding and plant introduction
programs will give farmers access to HYVs with a growing period of 115-130
days and resistance to the major pests and diseases. A number of local
long-grain varieties occupied 13% of the area in 1977. Although these
varieties are generally lower yielding, they are better adapted to the
acid-sulfate soils. Muda farmers have shown remarkable initiative in
choosing varieties most beneficial to them, and they can be expected to
do so in the future. Integrated pest management, resistant varieties, timely
applications of preventive or curative insecticides, distinct cropping
schedules with a break between crops, and improved field hygiene would all
help reduce losses to vermin, insects and diseases.
5.11      Until 1973 virtually all harvesting in the Muda area was done
manually, requiring a high labor input for cutting, threshing, winnowing and
transport. In 1969, MADA and the DOA Farm Mechanization Center began a
demonstration program of large combine harvesters, followed in 1973 by a
separate line of experiments to develop small harvesters to cope with the soft
soils, poor access and small, fragmented fields of Muda. Commercial harvesting
also began in 1973 when agents and contractors introduced medium-scale combines.
Since then the trend has been towards larger tracked combines specialized for
padi, having good flotation characteristics coupled with high clearance to
cope with field bunds. By 1978 there were 88 large combines operating in Muda
and 14 more on order by contractors, plus 30 small combines operated by FAs.
About 35% of the 1977-78 main-season crop was harvested mechanically and this
proportion is expected to increase with synchronized ripening of crops within
ISUs. Ultimately, mechanical harvesting may cover 60% of the Muda area, but
poor access, soft soils and competition from gangs of manual laborers will
continue to be limiting factors.
Yields
5.12      Present yields were determined from adjusted crop cutting data for
the last three years (six crops). Main-season yields on Class I-III soils



- 36 -
averaged 3,470 kg/ha, while off-season yields were 3,770 kg/ha. Yields on
acid-sulfate (Class IV) soils averaged 2,870 kg/ha in both seasons. There
was no trend in yields or evidence that average yields in the 37 project
blocks were significantly different from the overall Muda average. With the
project, yields are expected to increase as shown in Table 5.1, with increases
in each block achieved over three to four years.
Table 5.1: PRESENT AND PROJECTED PADI YIELDS
Present & future        Future
without project      with project
---------- (ton/ha) ------------
Main season
Class I-III soils                      3.5               4.2
Class IV soils                         2.9               3.5
Dry season
Class I-III soils                      3.8               4.6
Class IV soils                         2.9               3.6
5.13      To achieve the estimated yield increases, farmers would have to
make full use of all available support services and use the required inputs.
Correct timing of operations would be essential and standards of field
preparation, crop husbandry and water management would have to be high.
Adequate and timely extension advice would be provided by MADA and inputs
and credit would be available when needed in sufficient quantities. To
alleviate labor shortages during transplanting, experiments with direct
seeding would continue. Broadcasting pregerminated seed onto mud or into
shallow water (7-10 cm) would contribute to a uniform crop in ISUs, but would
place heavy demands on organization within the ISUs and require strict water
control and land levelling. Improved drainage would enable timely evacuation
or lowering of water levels in the padi fields for land preparation, trans-
planting, topdressing fertilizers and harvesting. Access roads would also
allow farmers to get harvesting machinery in the field when grain moisture is
high enough to prevent excessive suncracking. This would lead to better mill
returns and improved grain quality which in turn should result in higher
farmgate prices for padi.
Production
5.14      As a result of the project, annual padi production in the project
irrigation blocks would increase by 29% from 150,300 tons at present to
193,300 tons at full development in 1988, five years after project completion
(Annex 4, Table 1). Additional benefits would result from providing improved
agricultural support services and access to credit and inputs in the remaining
72,000 ha of Muda, since all FDCs would be fully staffed and all farmer groups
would be regularly visited by well trained extension personnel. These benefits
are assessed in terms of yield increases of 100 kg/ha of padi (about 3% of
present production) per season.   Present and future cropped areas and padi
production are shown in Table 5.2.



-*37 -
Table 5.2: PRESENT AND FUTURE CROPPED AREA AND PADI PRODUCTION
Cropped Area                  Annual Production
Present & future      Future     Present & future    Future
without project   with project without project  with project
------------ (ha) ------------  ------------ (tons) ---------
Project Irrigation Blocks:
Main season
Class I-III soils         17,640             16,940         61,700           71,100
Class IV soils             7,560              7,260         21,900           25,400
Dry season
Class I-III soils         13,230             15,750         50,300           72,500
Class IV soils             5,670              6,750         16.400           24.300
Total project irrigation
blocks                                                150,300          193,300
Remaining Muda Area:
Main season               72,000             72,000         241,200         248,400
Dry season                63,600             63,600        228,300          234,700
Total                                                   619,800          676,400
Incremental production
from tertiary develop-
ment in project
irrigation blocks                                                            43,000
Incremental production
from agricultural
support services
outside project areas                                                        13,600
Total incremental production                                                   56,600
Milling Facilities
5.15      The total throughput capacity of rice mills in the Muda area is 317
tons of padi per hour, consisting of 39 large private rice mills (161 tons/
hour) licensed to engage in the commercial trade, 232 small private mills
(111 tons/hour) permitted to mill rice for farmers' own needs, and 9 large
milling complexes (45 tons/hour) operated by LPN. Padi production in Muda is
now estimated to average 325,000 tons in the main season, rising to 360,000
tons in good seasons. The proposed project would raise average main season
production to 345,000 tons, which would result in peak deliveries to mills of
about 3,000 tons/day./l As mills generally operate on extended shifts in peak
/1 In a typical season, 15% of the harvest is delivered to mills in the first
month of harvest, 25% in each of the three succeeding months, and 5% in
both the fifth and sixth months.



- 38 -
seasons, existing milling capacity is adequate to process the projected
increase in production. In fact, the LPN mills have frequently been plagued
by excess capacity, as they cannot show the same flexibility as private mills
in raising prices (or in granting credit) in line with market conditions.
Total mechanical padi drying capacity in Muda is 1,550 tons of padi per day,
concentrated in the LPN mills and in some of the larger private mills.
Because of this factor, the LPN mills obtained 22% of the entire 1977 dry
season crop, harvested in the early stages of the wet season, while they
milled only 7% of that year's wet season crop, harvested in dry conditions.
As padi is typically sun-dried on roads, mats in farmers' house compounds, and
padi drying floors except in the rainiest periods, and as several feasibility
studies of investments in additional drying capacity have proved negative,
existing drying capacity is considered adequate. Given the large number of
milling establishments in close proximity, there is active competition in Muda
for the farmers' produce, and farmgate padi prices are relatively high,
stable, and consistent across the region at any point in time. When required,
both private and publicly-owned capacity have expanded to cope with increased
production.
6. MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES, INCOMES AND PROJECT CHARGES
Market Prospects
6.01      The Government's long-term goal is approximate self-sufficiency
in rice. Despite its impressive efforts in support of that goal in
terms of investments in irrigation infrastructure and the upgrading of the
entire range of agricultural supporting services, Malaysia continues to be
dependent on imports to satisfy its rice requirements. Between 1964 and
1974 domestic production increased by over 70% to 1.3 million tons of
milled rice, chiefly due to the increases in cropping intensity achieved
by the Muda and Kemubu Irrigation Projects. During the same period there
was a corresponding decline in imports of 38%, and an increase in the
degree of self-sufficiency to 83%. Since 1974, production has stagnated, in
part due to recurrent droughts in the west coast rice areas, causing imports
to rise to 280,000 tons in 1977. Government projections of domestic rice
production, taking into account the effects of all ongoing and contemplated
irrigation projects, imply an increase in production of 3.4% per annum, to
2.1 million tons in 1990. Projections of demand are based purely on population
growth forecasts (2.7% per annum), with no increase in per capita consumption
(120 kg/annum). These projections imply that Malaysia will continue to
import over 90,000 tons of milled rice beyond 1990, and that all incremental
domestic rice production will continue to find a ready market in Malaysia.
The present project would result in an incremental production of 36,800 tons
of milled rice (56,600 tons of padi) by 1988, slightly less than 2% of the
total domestic supply.
Prices
6.02      In addition to operating a network of rice mills in the larger
padi-producing areas and maintaining the national rice stockpile, LPN is
responsible for setting official offer prices for a wide range of grades



- 39 -
and varieties of padi in the major producing areas at the beginning of
each season, which serve as guaranteed minimum prices for that season's
produce. LPN mills generally pay the offer prices, discounted for moisture
content in excess of 14% or for dirt, empty grains, straw, or ether foreign
matter. Private mills generally offer prices equal to or better than the
official prices. Although the official price historically has stood above
world market price levels, it has been reduced since 1974. The average padi
price received by Muda farmers during the harvest of the 1978 main season
crop was M$450/ton. This is roughly in line with the price of US$328/ton for
5% broken Thai rice (f.o.b. Bangkok) as derived in Table 6.1. The financial
farmgate padi price is projected to rise along with the projected world
market price throughout the period of analysis. Purchased inputs have
been valued at actual farmgate prices, which are closely linked to world
market prices.
6.03      Although the project output would substitute for the highest grades
of Chinese and Thai rice (which are the grades commonly imported), for pur-
poses of economic analysis it is assumed that the mixture of grades to be
produced under the project would equal in value the standard 15% broken Thai
grade. This grade is typically traded internationally at prices 10% below
those of the Thai 5% broken grade for which the Bank's Economic Analysis and
Projections Department makes long-term projections. Estimates of milling
costs and value of milling by-products are based on a financial analysis of a
proposed medium-sized rice mill prepared by MADA in 1977. Using an average
mill return of 65%, and assuming that incremental project output would go
primarily to satisfy the requirements of the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area,
the equivalent economic farmgate price for padi would rise from M$465/ton in
1979 to M$588/ton (US$267/ton) in 1990 and thereafter, in constant 1979
values.
Farm Incomes
6.04      Farm budgets have been prepared for five representative model farms.
The five models are 0.2 ha, the average size of farms smaller than 0.5 ha
(10% of farm holdings); 0.8 ha, the average size of farms between 0.5 and 1.1
ha (32% of farm holdings); 1.4 ha, the average size of farms between 1.2 and
1.7 ha (25% of farm holdings); 2.5 ha, the average size of farms between 1.8
and 3.4 ha (27% of farm holdings); and 4.5 ha, the average size of farms
larger than 3.5 ha (6% of farm holdings). Estimated economic and financial
crop production costs are derived for each of the five farm models in Annex 3,
Table 2 and summarized in Annex 3, Table 3. Annex 3, Tables 4-6 present
financial farm budgets for each of the farm models for the present, future
without project, and future with project cases.



- 40 -
Table 6.1: RICE PRICE STRUCTURE
Tin constant 1979 values)
1978   1979   1985   1990
Rice
Export price Thai 5% broken, f.o.b. Bangkok
(US$/ton)                                              328    358    437    453
Grade differential (less l0%)(US$/ton)                   295    322    393    408
Exchange rate conversion (US$1 = M$2.21)(M$/ton)         649    708    865    898
C.I.F. price of rice, Port Klang /a (M$/ton)            696    755    912    945
Port handling and road transport lb (M$/ton)            +23    +23    +23    +23
W'nolesale price of rice, Kuala Lumpur (M$/ton)          719    778    935    968
Transport cost from Muda to Kuala Lumpur /c
(M$/ton)                                               -32    -32    -32    -32
Ex-mill rice price, Muda (M$/ton)                        687    746    903    936
Padi equivalent price (65% mill return)                  447    485    587    608
Milling cost not covered by value of byproducts
(M$/ton)                                               -20    -20    -20    -20
Economic farmgate price, Muda (M$/ton)                   427    465    567    588
Financial farmgate price, Muda (M$/ton)                 422    460    562    583
/a  M$47/ton for ocean freight and insurance, Bangkok to Port Klang.
/b  M$29/ton for port handling; M$3/ton for road transport from Port Klang to
Kuala Lumpur (30 km x M$0.10/ton-km; group conversion factor of 0.72 and
0.66 is applied to port handling cost and road transportation cost,
respectively).
/c 480 km x M$0.10/ton-km; group conversion factor of 0.66 is applied.
6.05      Estimates of input usage and other parameters (Annex 3, Table 1)
were based on farm surveys and interviews with farmers during project prepa-
ration and appraisal. Projections of future input levels with the project
are based on actual results from the pilot areas developed in the course of
project preparation. Financial labor cost (M$7/day) and contract rates are
based on surveys in the project area. Estimates of hired labor incomes,
non-agricultural incomes and home produce values are also based on survey
results and are assumed to remain constant with the project. Household
subsistence rice consumption of 895 kg/year/family is also based on survey
data.



- 41 -
6.06      Muda farmers pay a wide variety of land-based taxes to the Kedah and
Perlis State Governments through the respective District Land Offices, including
irrigation rates, quit rents and education rates, averaging a total of M$59
per annum for a typical 1.4 ha farm. These tax payments are projected to
remain constant. The only production-related tax paid by padi farmers is
zakat, the Islamic padi production tithe, paid to the State Departments of
Religious Affairs, which use the receipts to finance the religious school
system, teachers' salaries, welfare expenses, and maintenance of mosques.
Zakat is paid by all Muslim padi farmers /1 in Peninsular Malaysia on produc-
tion in excess of "subsistence" requirements as determined by officials of the
Department. Payment rates vary from state to state, but in Kedah and Perlis,
the rate is 10% of the total padi crop net of 1,224 kg/crop/family. Because
of the allowance, zakat payments are progressive. Average annual payments are
valued at M$292 for a 1.4 ha farm at present, and are projected to rise to
M$438 at full project development.
6.07      At present the total annual family income generated by the typical
1.4 ha farm is M$3,000 (US$1,360) which includes hired labor incomes and
non-agricultural incomes. The family income is approximately equal to a per
capita income of US$250/annum. The range of per capita incomes derived from
the various sizes of farms is relatively narrow, from the equivalent of US$120
for the 0.2 ha farm to US$470 for the 4.5 ha farm (Table 6.2). Estimated
national average per capita income is US$1,030. Assuming that farm family
size remains constant, at full project development in 1988 the projected per
capita farm income would range between US$150 to US$970 while the projected
national per capita personal income would rise to US$1,530. Thus, unless
farmers in the project area can augment the incremental income which the
project would provide, their relative income position would deteriorate.
However, without the project the situation would be even worse.
Table 6.2: SUMMARY FARM BUDGETS
Farm    Size of                  Farm income/b                 Per capita income
model   family/a    Present  Future/c   Present  Future/c  Present  Future/c
(ha)     (no.)       ----(M$f000) ---__      ----- ---~ S$)--------------
0.2      4.8         1,240    1,580          560     720         120       150
0.8      4.8         2,300    3,560        1,050   1,620         220       340
1.4      5.5         3,100    5,180        1,400   2,350         250       430
2.5      6.0         4,160    7,900        1,890   3,590         320       600
4.5      6.2         6,440   13,240        2,910   6,020         470       970
/a   Source:  Farm Surveys.
/b   From Annex 3, Tables 4 and 6, rounded to nearest M$20 and US$10.  Includes
hired labor income and nonagricultural income.
/c   At full project maturity in 1988.
/1   Virtually 100% of the padi farmers in Muda are Malays, and hence legally
liable Muslims.



- 42 -
Regional Impact
6.08      A separate analysis has been carried out to measure the "downstream"
financial effects of the project./l   These indirect effects arise mainly
because the higher incomes flowing from the project would induce increased
demands for the outputs of other sectors, as well as investment and inter-
mediate goods. For this analysis, in addition to the farm households in the
project area, two other groups have been considered. The first group is
engaged in farming within the Muda region but outside the project area, mainly
the production of rubber and/or rainfed main season padi. They would receive
cash income in return for labor supplied to households in the project area
(which would be offset in part by foregone output from their own fields). All
farm households in the Muda region, whether inside or outside the project
area, would enjoy additional incomes from such non-padi activities as petty
trading, housing improvement and growing vegetables, the demands for which
would be increased due to the project. The second group is engaged in nonfarm
activities in the region. Nonfarm households account for 35% of the region's
population and, in general, enjoy higher per capita incomes than the farming
community, although there are wide variations in income and wealth within the
group. The incomes of the poor in this group would rise due to additional
wage earnings. Income would also flow to such sectors as milling and agricul-
tural machinery services. It turns out that for every additional dollar of
value added in padi production arising from the project at maturity, there
would be about 75 cents of value added generated in "downstream" effects,
mostly accruing to nonfarm households. Each dollar of "downstream" value
added associated with the project would require about a dollar of complementary
investment appropriately distributed over all non-padi sectors. For a
summary table refer to Annex 4, Table 8.
Project Charges
6.09      Given the low incomes of the padi farmers in the project area,
the general Malaysian Government policy would require no special taxation of
project beneficiaries to recover project costs. Zakat payments, however, are
an integral part of traditional Malay culture, and they can be expected to
continue regardless of general tax policy. Incremental zakat payments are
derived for each of the five farm models in Annex 4, Table 10, and are related
to both the project rent and annualized project cost. The rent recovery
indices vary from 0% to 14%, averaging 11% for the entire project. The cost
recovery indices vary from 0% to 32%, averaging 26%. Average zakat payments
would rise from a present level of about US$100/ha to about US$160/ha,
compared with incremental O&M costs of US$25/ha, and would make a substantial
contribution to capital cost recovery. It should be noted, however, that O&M
of irrigation facilities in Malaysia is totally divorced from collections of
either irrigation charges or zakat payments; that irrigation O&M is financed
out of general revenues supported by an efficient and generally progressive
/1  The "downstream" effects of Muda II were calculated using the model
developed for Muda I. See Reference B5.



- 43 -
tax system, and that the level of 0&M is not constrained by a shortage of
funds. In view of these factors and the level of farm incomes, the present
structure and level of charges are considered acceptable. Assurances were
obtained that the Kedah and Perlis State Governments would continue to
collect irrigation charges whose level would be determined taking into
account O&M and capital costs, incentives to farmers, farmers' capacity to
pay, and other taxes and charges imposed upon them, and that the Government
would exchange views with the Bank from time to time on the level of those
charges.
7. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Economic Analysis of Tertiary Block Development
7.01      Irrigation blocks to receive tertiary canals, drains and associated
roads represent about 25% of the Muda command area, while investment in
tertiary development represents 78% of project costs. By providing improved
water control, reliable irrigation supplies and intensified agricultural
support services, the proposed tertiary development would increase cropping
intensity, yields and production on 24,200 net ha. Some 16,000 families, or
85,000 people, would benefit. The incremental annual production of 43,000
tons of padi at full project development would result in net annual foreign
exchange savings of about US$11 million in 1979 currency values, and contribute
toward meeting the Government's goal of reducing dependence on rice imports to
satisfy food requirements.
7.02      Costs.  To estimate the economic cost of the project, 25% of general
project expenditures on buildings, equipment, coastal protection works and
miscellaneous works, 63% of expenditures on major drainage improvements,/1 25%
of incremental annual expenditures on improved agricultural services, and
incremental annual operation and maintenance expenditures were included in
addition to the full costs of investments within the tertiary blocks. All local
costs were multiplied by specific conversion factors to express them in terms
of border prices./2 Financial land acquisition costs were excluded from the
calculations, since the net padi area was reduced by the 930 ha required for
project works. Costs for studies, monitoring and evaluation were also excluded.
Using these assumptions, total investment cost (including physical contingencies,
but excluding price contingencies) expressed in 1979 prices is US$37.9 million.
This consists of civil works (US$35.4 million), equipment (US$0.4 million),
engineering and supervision (US$2.1 million). The estimated annual incremental
cost of 0&M and agricultural services is US$24/ha and US$5/ha, respectively.
A nominal salvage value equal to 25% of the original cost of all civil works
was assumed after 30 years.
/1   Major drainage improvements included in the project would serve about
40% of the total Muda area, concentrated on the 37 blocks.
/2 The common unit of account used in the economic analysis is uncommitted
public income at border prices, expressed in terms of local currency at
the official exchange rate of M$2.21 = US$1. Financial prices were
converted to economic prices using specific conversion factors (Annex 4,
Table 5). Techniques are developed in References B7 and B8; while parameter
estimates were taken from Reference B6.



- 44 -
7.03      Farm Labor.  The demand for labor in the region is highly seasonal.
During the transplanting and harvesting seasons there is virtually full employ-
ment. In peak periods local labor shortages may develop, and those are met by
migrant workers from Thailand and the state of Kelantan. Since the rural
labor force is relatively mobi'le, the labor market works fairly efficiently
ana therefore the observed mar:ket wage for hired labor provides a good estimate
of the efficiency price of farm labor, particularly during the peak seasons.
Thus all farm labor has been valued at the prevailing market wage of M$7/man-day.
All labor costs were converted to border prices by applying conversion factors.
7.04      Benefits.  All benefits were calculated in terms of increased padi
production. Expected future yields and production with and without the
project are discussed in Chapter 5. Chapter 6 discusses the economic and
financial farmgate prices for inputs and outputs, based on actual farmgate
prices and the Bank Economic Analysis and Projections Department's projec-
tions to 1990. Crop production costs are given in Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2.
Anneg 4, Table 2 summarizes the foregoing information and gives the expected
buildup of pro4ect benefits.
7.05      Development Period.  All project works were assumed to be completed
by the end of 1983, while the first crop to reach maximum potential cropping
intensity would be the 1984 dry season crop, planted in February/March.
Expenditures were phased separately for each of the 37 blocks to be developed,
as well as for dispersed minor works, and benefit phasing was related to
assumptions of physical development on an area basis. Yields and cropping
intensity without the project were assumed to remain constant,-as agricultural
practices of Viuda farmers are already quite advanced, and there has been no
upward trend in yields or cropping intensity over the past few years. With
the project, cropping intensity is assumed to reach its maximum potential the
first full season after completion of work in each block, as water availability
is clearly the constraint on this parameter. Yields are projected to reach
their full development with the harvest of the eighth complete crop after
work is completed in each block, i.e. over a span of 4-1/2 years. Thus, for
the entire project, full production would be reached with the 1988 main
season crop.
7.06      Economic Rate of Return.  Using the foregoing assumptions and
discounting costs and benefits over a 30-year evaluation period, the economic
rate of return on the 24,200 ha tertiary development area is 18% (Annex 4,
Table 3). The economic net present value (NPV), discounted at the accounting
rate of interest of 10%, is M$60.5 million.
7.07      Sensitivity of the Economic Rate of Return.  Sensitivity analysis
has been carried out to determine which variables would be most crucial to
the success of the project. As a measure, the crossover value was used,
defined as the value of the variable tested for which NPV discounted at 10%
is zero. The crossover value may be interpreted as the value of the variable
tested, beyond which the economic rate of return would be below 10%. The
results are presented in Annex 4, Table 9, and discussed below.



- 45 -
(a) Project Yields. The project is not sensitive with respect to
yields. The incremental padi yield at full development would have to
be about 50% (360 kg/ha) less than the expected value before the
proj'ct's economic rate of return falls to 10%. Farmers in the
project area already use close to the optimal mix of agricultural
inputs. With improved water control and extension services, it
would be highly unlikely that actual incremental yields would
be as much as 50% below the projection.
(b) Cropping Intensity. Even with no increase in cropping intensity,
the economic rate of return would still be 10%. Such an event
is considered unlikely, since one of the main goals of the project
is to increase the cropping intensity by providing better water
control, and water availability has been confirmed by a detailed
hydrological analysis (para. 3.20).
(c) Price of Rice. The crossover value represents a 35% drop from the
expected world market price, which seems unlikely. With the export
parity price of rice as a basis for the economic farmgate price of
padi, instead of the import parity price, the economic rate of
return is 16%.
(d) Construction Costs. The result is not sensitive to an increase in
construction costs, which would have to double before the economic
rate of return falls below 10%. Experience with other projects in
Malaysia has shown that cost overruns of this magnitude are highly
unlikely to occur.
(e) Development Period. All benefits would have to be delayed more than
five years before the rate of return falls below 10%. Although other
projects in Malaysia are experiencing delays of one to three years,
it is unlikely that implementation and the realization of benefits
would be delayed by five years in the case of the proposed project.
Construction is already underway and designs are completed about one
year in advance of construction. Based on experience with Muda I,
farmers in the project area respond rapidly once works are completed
and support services are activated.
(f) Conversion Factors. The specific conversion factors used in the
economic analysis all cluster around 0.8 (Annex 4, Table 5). Use
of a general conversion factor of 0.8 would not affect the economic
results. With a general conversion factor of 1.0, the economic rate
of return would be 14%, while the crossover value of the conversion
factor is 1.5. While a figure of 1.0 is plausible for Malaysia in
view of the tariff and export tax structure, a true value as high
as 1.5 is highly unlikely.



- 46 -
7.08      Sunk Cost Analysis.  An analysis of the combined Muda I and Muda II
projects was carried out to determine whether the initial decision to undertake
major investments in irrigation in the Muda region was correct. Construction
of Muda I began in 1965 and was completed in 1975 (para. 2.08). Total economic
cost in terms of 1979 prices was M$661.9 million (US$301.8 million). Production
in the 98,000 ha project area was transformed from a single rainfed padi crop
yielding 2.3 ton/ha, to intensive (185% sustainable cropping intensity) padi
cultivation yielding an average of 3.3 ton/ha in the wet season and 3.5 ton/ha
in the dry season. The proposed project would build upon this base of sunk
costs and realized benefits.
7.09      To make the cost and benefit streams for the two projects compatible,
all prices were expressed in terms of constant 1979 values and the same conver-
sion factors were applied to the local components of all costs and benefits as
in the foregoing analysis of Muda II. Also, the same actual and projected
yields, cropping intensity and labor costs were used. Finally, 25% of the
total cost and benefit streams for Muda I were used to estimate the costs and
benefits associated with the tertiary development blocks of Muda II, and added
to the costs and benefits of Muda II. Based on the above assumptions and dis-
counting over a 46-year evaluation period, the economic rate of return of Muda I
and Muda II taken together is 18% (Annex 4, Tables 11-13), showing that the
initial decision to build Muda I with the prospect of future intensification
was economically justified.
Social Analysis of Tertiary Block Development
7.10      The foregoing economic analysis is concerned with the size of the
net economic benefits of the project, not their distribution. Social cost-
benefit analysis, on the other hand, is intended to take explicit account of
the impact of the project on the distribution of income both between invest-
ment and consumption and between rich and poor. Computationally, the project's
net social benefits equal the net economic benefits plus a term representing
the net social value of increased private sector consumption resulting from
the project. This consumption distribution adjustment may be positive, when
the beneficiaries are predominantly poor as in the present case, or negative
when they are relatively well off.
7.11      Empirical studies have shown that the average level of consumption
in the project area compared to the national average seems more important
in determining the social rate of return than the income distribution within
the project area. /1 This would be particularly true in places like Muda where
/1 Reference B9.



- 47 -
the farm size and income distribution are relatively even (para. 2.06).
Although Muda farmers are relatively well off compared with padi farmers
in other parts of Malaysia, their incomes fall far below the national average
personal income of US$1,030(in 1979 prices). Approximately 50% of project
beneficiary families subsist on incomes below the absolute poverty line of
US$270, while 90% earn less than the critical consumption level (CCL) of
US$430./1 A median size farm (1.4 ha) makes at present about M$3,000 (US$1,360)
annually. By full project development, this typical farm would make about
M$5,200 (US$2,350) or a per capita income of US$430. Implementation of the
project would lift 80% of all beneficiaries out of absolute poverty, but would
still leave about half below the CCL. Furthermore, the gap would widen
between the incomes of the project beneficiaries and the national average at
project maturity, which is expected to reach US$1,530. Reflecting the circum-
stances described above, and the present Government policy of a moderate
emphasis on income distribution,/2 the social rate of return is 35%, signifi-
cantly higher than the economic rate of return. The social NPV discounted at
10% equals M$233.8 million. Subtracting the economic NPV of M$60.5 million
(para. 7.04) gives a positive NPV for the consumption distribution adjustment
(para. 7.10) of M$173.3 million. The analysis and assumptions are presented
in Annex 4, Tables 5-7.
7.12      Sensitivity of the Social Rate of Return.  Sensitivity analysis was
carried out with respect to different assumptions about Government policy
regarding income distribution and savings versus consumption (Annex 4, Table 14).
The assumption that distribution and saving do not matter is reflected in the
traditional economic rate of return of 18%. The more egalitarian the Govern-
ment's policy, the higher would be the social rate of return. Only in the case
of no preference about income distribution and a positive saving premium (which
does not reflect actual Government policy) would the social rate of return be
less than the economic rate of return. Even in that case, the social rate of
return would not fall below 14% within the relevant range of assumptions.
Finally, a social analysis was carried out on the assumption that national
average private consumption would not grow at all from its present level, so
that beneficiary incomes would increase in relative terms. In that case, the
social rate of return would still be 27%.
Investments Outside the Tertiary Development Area
7.13      A separate simplified analysis was performed (Annex 4, Table 4) to
compare the annualized costs of project works and agricultural programs
/1 The CCL is defined as the level at which the Government gives equal
weight to additional private consumption and additional public sector
investment. In this case it is estimated as the per capita income level
which is exempt from income tax, and is about 40% of average personal
income.
/2 Consumption of different income groups has been weighted proportionally.
For example, consumption at twice the average level has been given a
weight of 1/2, where average consumption has a weight of 1. A neutral
assumption has been made about Government preference for saving versus
consumption at the average level of consumption.



- 48 -
benefitting the remainder of the Muda area with their estimated benefits.
Costs of project civil works serving the entire Muda area, as well as agri-
cultural, extension and office equipment, and the water control and management
system were annualized by amortization over their respective economic lives
at a 10% discount rate. These costs (totalling M$25/ha), plus the estimated
annual cost of additional agricultural services (M$11/ha), result in a total
estimated annual cost of M$36/ha for project-related improvements outside the
irrigation blocks proposed for tertiary development. A total yield improvement
of only 40 kg/ha would be required to justify these expenditures. Such an
increase is well within the expected production response from the proposed
improvements to general infrastructure and agricultural services.
Risks
7.14      Project risks are no greater than can normally be expected with
operations of this type. The main problem encountered in similar projects in
Malaysia has been delays in implementation. This experience has been taken
into account in sizing and scheduling the project's civil works and in provi-
ding for sufficient staff. Furthermore, sensitivity analysis shows that the
economic rate of return is not sensitive to delays in benefits.
8. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government on
the following major points:
(a)  MADA would submit to the Bank for review a detailed proposal for
studies by December 31, 1979 (para. 3.14);
(b)  the implementing agencies would maintain separate accounts for the
project; these would be collated by the Project Manager, audited by
auditors satisfactory to the Bank, and forwarded to the Bank within
nine months of the close of each year (para. 3.37);
(c)  all DID and MADA engineeringland agricultural staff required to
support the project would be appointed (para. 4.04 and 4.18);
(d)  consultants acceptable to the Bank would be employed as required for
project implementation and studies, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.05);
(e)  DID would prepare on completion of final design a designer's
operation manual covering major project works (para. 4.04) and
MADA would prepare a draft agricultural services operation manual
as a guide for field extension staff by December 31, 1979
(para. 4.18);



- 49 -
(f)  the Government would submit to the Bank for review a proposal for
strengthening the crop protection program in the Muda irrigation
area by December 31, 1979 and would implement an agreed program
by J-'ne 30, 1980 (para. 4.15);
(g) the Kedah and Perlis State Governments would continue to collect
irrigation charges whose level would be determined taking into
account O&M and capital costs, incentives to farmers, farmers'
capacity to pay, and other taxes and charges imposed upon
them, and the Government would exchange views with the Bank on the
level of these charges (para. 6.09).
8.02      With the above assurances, the proposed project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$31 million, with a 17-year maturity and a grace period of
four years. The Borrower would be Malaysia.



-50-
ANNEX 1
Table 1
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Monthly Uncontrolled Flow /a
(In thousand- acre feet)
Year       July      Aug.    Sept.    Oct.        Nbv.       Dec.      Jan.      Feb.    March    April        May       June   Annual
1946/47        -         -    59.70   172.65   124.44    82.71    30.21          10.06    10.06    25.16    71.94    46.75   633.68
1947/48   52.51    58.98    51.79   137.40   113.64    94.23    24.45             8.63    12.93    40.99    30.92         7.91   634.47
1948/49   28.03    87.76    32.36   105.01    69.76    17.97            4.30    30.92    41.70    24.45    56.12    27.34   460.39
1949/50   64.03    38.12    76.95   153.22   142.44   104.29    25.16    11.49              6.81     18.69    52.51    23.73   717.18
1950/51   17.25    22.30    79.13    89.91   123.72    42.44    17.25    17.25              8.63    13.67    23.58    10.06   463.26
1951/52   33.08    22.30   112.20    80.56   187.75   103.58    12.93    10.78    16.54    29.49    44.60    17.97   671.87
1952/53   17.97    15.104   13.67    48.90   146.02    69.76    18.69    16.54              9.34    53.22    38.12    42.42   489.88
1953/54   38.84    15.82   102.14   157.54   163.99    24.45    24.45             5.73      7.19    10.06    43.88    18.69   612.89
1954/55   11.49    54.66    34.51   153.93    56.81    19.40            7.91      5.09      1.59    20.12    60.42    35.97   461.82
1955/56   12.93    89.19    74.80   128.05   184.14    33.08    14.39             4.02    13.67    28.06    64.74    59.70   707.12
1956/57   53.94    61.85    66.89   126.59   126.59    25.88    10.06             5.02      6.45    10.78    20.86    23.73   536.63
1957/58   58.08    25.16    36.68    67.61   103.58    18.69            6.96      9.93      3.81      1.87    22.30    14.39   362.55
1958/59    4.30    10.06    10.78   100.71    87.76    17.43            3.15      1.20      3.30      1.72    50.36    41.70   330.91
1959/60    9.34    21.58    64.74    44.60   115.10    68.33    10.06             3.15      3.30      7.91    35.97    19.40   403.56
1960/61   47.97    18.20    84.58    32.33   114.76    23.99            8.58      4.28      9.42    15.62    19.05    13.49   392.27
1961/62    4.71       4.51    12.41    56.52    41.11    26.98    19.48           4.28      5.15      6.86    34.05       7.91   223.97
1962/63   26.98    19.69    66.15   131.25    45.18           4.51      3.87      2.36      1.48      1.28      5.79      0.84   309.38
1963/64    3.00       1.48    15.41    73.45    74.93    12.41          0.84      0.44      1.08      1.72     11.34      6.22   201.88
1964/65    8.78       5.56    41.11    39.83    89.29    15.41          1.92      1.28      4.92      8.99    10.93       3.87   231.88
1965/66    6.66    31.26    56.93   106.85   124.19   142.59    21.20             8.99      8.14      7.50    18.00    28.26   560.36
1966/67    7.91       7.27    31.69   110.69    94.00    77.52    68.74           7.50      6.86    10.27    36.20    33.84   492.49
1967/68   35.53    25.47    38.96   145.59    88.42    55.68    17.92             7.68    33.28       7.68    58.88    15.36   530.46
1968/69   29.70    27.14    30.98    61.70    52.48    38.66    55.04    35.53    24.32    28.42    43.01    37.12   462.08
1969/70    0.26       0.26    20.48    71.68   104.96    56.32    33.28           7.68    12.80       2.56    46.00    28.16   384.51
1970/71   17.92    28.16    25.60    53.76    46.08    74.24    15.36    23.04    43.52    33.28    48.64    51.20   460.80
1971/72   74.24    28.16    30.72    51.20    15.36    20.48            7.68    28.16    17.92    48.64    17.92    10.24   350.72
1972/73   10.24       2.56    56.32    71.68    94.72    38.40   238.08   120.32    17.92    58.88    51.20    74.24   834.56
1973/74   48.64    76.80    20.48    58.88          7.68    23.04       0.26    25.60    20.48    20.48    35.84    43.52   407.30
1974/75   28.16    28.16    33.28    64.00    46.08    17.92    35.07    17.23    36.48    30.18    21.66    22.02   380.24
1975/76   51.61    21.45    44.85    64.33   114.66   188.90    33.92            16.59      0.49    20.63    68.02    30.46   655.92
/a Padang Terap River at the Pelubang barrage.
Source: DID.



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
MALAYSIA
MODA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Monthly Estimated Inflow Into Reservoirs (1947-75)
(In thousand acre feet)
Year     July    Aug.   Sept.   Oct.    Nov.        Dec.    Jan.    Feb.   March   April    May         June   Annual
1946/47      -       -        -   117.34   156.89   101.67   56.21    31.37    35.37    60.22    82.99    59.18       -
1947/48  69.41   60.96   68.63   159.96   157.66   148.58   54.96   30.32   29.D0   53.43    49.50    75.54    906.52
1948/49  41.89    77.19   44.58   103.89    83.64    37.96   20.64    29.05    28.27    35.50    75.81    50.10    602.99
1949/50   81.40    53.81    97.42   186.60   146.46   147.52    52.74    34.93    29.61    46.22    80.89   45.20  1,003.70
1950/51   38.18   36.15    81.31   108.97   123.18    61.49   36.18    30.19    22.71    26.30    44.36    33.37    642.04
1951/52   53.84    38.65   103.71    85.86   196.09   168.70   42.47    28.66    38.93    43.46    53.85    37.46    891.19
1952/53   39.95    29.85    32.29    78.90   172.31    85.63   41.23    30.41    27.10    55.72    50.82    52.00    695.35
1953/54  66.07   39.61   122.23  203.75  150.88    51.47   46.48   22.70   22.27    27.88   52.07   40.73    848.19
1954/55  40.42   75.24   42.92   181.89   78.08    45.50   28.54    21.45   12.10   29.82   74.99   46.98   677.90
1955/56  27.01   98.71   79.62   149.82  206.66    62.32   38.05   22.03   30.79   39.90    69.70   64.73    889.99
1956/57  56.00   72.56   89.50   166.71   172.20    61.00   36.36   23.42    22.48    31.65   60.54    49.19    843.35
1957/58  67.45   50.75   53.25   106.75  134.27    49.22   33.16   20.34    16.46    9.71    62.10   38.05    638.62
1958/59  16.65   30.87   29.16  143.13  143.56   52.08   17.69   10.95    11.77   12.65   85.54    65.19    619.26
1959/60  40.58   50.84   63.71   87.78  164.72   94.55   28.80    13.70   16.76   22.55   62.45   44.50    691.57
1960/61   82.50   52.34  131.07   65.83  151.02   65.55   31.64   22.39   21.D1   33.59   46.29   39.75    744.96
1961/62   26.94   22.28   27.96   91.61   87.59    49.19   39.89    15.82   20.94   24.00   88.50    33.97    504.69
1962/63   52.38    50.33    76.84   162.64    69.05    37.41    31.39    15.86    10.14    10.46    51.47    34.80    602.78
1963/64   38.83    41.62    79.94   169.35   174.32    74.98   24.44    12.52    11.18    13.82    48.46   39.49    728.78
1964/65   55.03    32.45    78.62    77.52   157.01    46.86   20.08    12.25    12.48    31.60    55.67    21.64    604.21
1965/66   21.13    55.84    76.43   156.10   171.64   194.57   58.09    38.57    27.B8   30.82    61.42    69.22   961.63
1966/67   36.96    28.94    64.38   163.78   170.80   135.28  168.70    41.58    24.60    24.93    65.74    60.64    986.33
1967/68  59.11    45.61    50.88   145.93    99.49    62.99   74.10    41.60    31.50    38.40    51.10    40.80    741.51
1968/69   50.85    48.85    37.80    89.94    77.48    53.76   63.32    63.32   37.70   34.20   53.96   43.66    654.14
1969/70  27.10   51.10   28.00   133.00  138.00   108.00   48.00   35.00   19.00   16.00   50.00   49.00    692.20
1970/71   45.00   50.00   63.00   108.00  137.00   117.00   87.00    51.00   74.00   39.00    39.00   44.00    854.00
1971/72  57.00   43.00   39.00   82.00   72.00   96.00   91.00   33.00    11.00   56.00   34.00   36.00    610.00
1972/73   28.00    21.00    66.00   112.00   183.00   146.00   143.00    63.00    17.00    56.00    75.00    61.00    971.00
1973/74   53.00    96.00   20.00   103.00   90.00   186.00   63.10    47.00    31.00    38.00    52.00   26.00    815.10
1974/75  46.00   23.00   66.00   64.00   74.00   73.00   61.00    31.00   37.00    26.00   56.00   28.00    592.00
Source: DID.



MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Field Water Requirement U, for Padi (Inches per Day)
(Based on S.H. Thavaraj and R.L. Stewart, "Evaporation Rates in the Muda Irrigation Project)
Mean                 Schedule No. 1           I          Schedule No. 2           I          Schedule No. 3           I          Schedule No. 4
daily pan              KC=    Field             I          KC=    Field             I          KC=    Field             I          KC=    Field
Month   evaporation    Days   Et/Ep  loss, P    U         I Days   Et/Ep  loss, P    U        I Days   Et/Ep  loss, P    U        I Days   Et/Ep  loss, P    U
(In/day)                              (In/day) I                          (In/day) I                          (In/day) I                          (In/day)
Feb.       0.30          15      0.7     0.05    0.87   1   15    0.0         -        -      I  28      0.0      -        -      I   20     0.0      -        -
13     0.7     0.05    0.26   1   13    0.7        0.05    0.87   1
31     0.7      0.05    0.25   1    2    0.7        0.05    0.87   1    2      0.0       -       -      I   17      0.0      -        -
Mar.       0.29                                           1  29    0.7       0.05    0.25   1   15       0.7      0.05    0.86   1   14      0.7      0.05    0.86
I                                   1   14     0.7      0.05    0.25   1
Apr.       0.26          12      0.7     0.05    0.23   1  27    0.7         0.05    0.23   1  30        0.7      0.05    0.23   I    1      0.7      0.05    0.86
18     1.0     0.05    0.31   1    3    1.0         0.05    0.31   1                                    I  29       0.7     0.05    0.23
May        0.22           2      1.0     0.05    0.27   i   17    1.0        0.05    0.27   1   12       0.7      0.05    0.20   1   27      0.7      0.05    0.20      '*
29     1.3      0.05    0.34   1   14    1.3        0.05    0.34   1   19       1.0     0.05    0.27   1    4       1.0     0.05    0.27
Jun.       0.18          23      1.3     0.05    0.28   1   30    1.3        0.05    0.28   1    1       1.0      0.05    0.23   1   16       1.0     0.05    0.23
7     0.0       -       -      I                                   1  29       1.3     0.05    0.28   1   14       1.3     0.05    0.28
Jul.       0.21          31      0.0      -        -      1   8    1.3       0.05    0.32   1   23       1.3      0.05    0.32   I   31       1.3     0.05    0.32
1   23    0.0       -        -      I    8     0.0       -       -      I
2     0.0       -       -      1   17    0.0        -       -      I   31      0.0      -        -     I    7      1.3     0.05    0.34
Aug.       0.22           7      0.7     0.05    1.04   1    7    0.7        0.05    1.04   1                                         24      0.0      -        -
22     0.7     0.05    0.20   1    7    0.7         0.05    0.20   1
30     0.7      0.05    0.19   1  30    0.7         0.05    0.19   I    1       0.0      -        -     1   16      0.0      -        -
Sept.      0.20                                           1                                   1    7     0.7      0.05    1.03   1    7      0.7      0.05    1.03
I                                   1  22      0.7      0.05    0.19   1    7      0.7      0.05    0.19
4     0.7     0.05    0.18   1   19    0.7         0.05    0.18   1  31        0.7     0.05    0.18   1  31        0.7     0.05    0.18
Oct.       0.19          20      1.0     0.05    0.24   1   12    1.0         0.05    0.24   1                                    1
7     1.3     0.05    0.30   1                                     1                                   1
30     1.3     0.05    0.28   1    8    1.0         0.05    0.22   1    3       0.7     0.05    0.17   1   18       0.7    .0.05    0.17
Nov.       0.17                                           1  22    1.3        0.05    0.28   1  20        1.0     0.05    0.22   1   12       1.0     0.05    0.22
I                                   1    7     1.3      0.05    0.27   1
Dec.       0.19          10      1.3     0.05    0.30   1  25    1.3          0.05    0.30   1  31        1.3     0.05    0.30   1    8       1.0     0.05    0.24       w
21     0.0       -       -      1    6    0.0        -        -     I                                    1  23      1.3      0.05    0.30
Jan.       0.27          31      0.0      -        -      I   31    0.0        -       -      I    9      1.3     0.05    0.40   1  24        1.3     0.05    0.40
I   22     0.0       -       -      I    7     0.0       -       -
Source: DID.



ANNEX 1
-53-                                                          Table 4
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Simulated Annual Demand and Supply of Water and Acreage Cropped in Muda Padi Area
Operating limit: 600,000 ac ft
Rainfall stn: 6204039 (Kepala Batas)
Reservoir
Net reservoir                                                                   releases      Total        Performance
storage at the                               Total                                 and         annual       with project
beginning of   Total area irrigated        annual   Effective        Useful    reservoir   reservoir  (% of dry season
Year    Ist crop        1st crop    2nd crop       demand    rainfall   streamflow   losses           inflow    demand satisfied)
(Ac. ft.)      ------ (Acres) -----       --------------------- (Ac. ft.) --------------------
1954    1,000,000        237,000      237,000   1,934,695    815,587    316,499         802,609    658,240    100%
1955      855,631        237,000      237,000   1,992,634    735,943    454,869         801,822    847,530    100%
1956      901,399        237,000      237,000   2,018,108    849,228    494,217         674,663    881,480    100%
1957    1,000,000        237,000      237,000   2,033,304    856,878    342,897         833,529    682,130    100%
1958      848,601        237,000      237,000   1,997,031    744,651    233,876   1,018,504    579,800    100%
1959      409,897        142,200      237,000   1,562,261      670,803    351,913       539,545    717,079    60% for 1st crop
1960      587,431        213,300      237,000   1,878,729    910,651    333,199         634,879    739,909    90% for lst crop
1961      692,461        237,000      237,000   1,964,696    972,976    211,271         780,449    508,470    100%
1962      420,482        165,900      237,000   1,564,695    608,693    274,292         681,710    663,270    70% for 1st crop
1963      402,042        142,200      237,000   1,468,440    558,698    145,616         764,126    726,210    60% for lst crop
1964      364,126        118,500      237,000   1,454,280    585,683    178,558         690,039    593,840    50% for lat crop
1965      267,927         94,800      237,000   1,250,843    470,374    375,326         405,143    867,440    40% for 1st crop
1966      730,224        237,000      237,000   2,008,403  1,057,361    373,684         577,358    996,749    100%
1967    1,000,000        237,000      237,000   2,035,100    797,220    405,334         832,546    755,600    100%
1968      923,054        237,000      237,000   2,037,234    901,601    395,307         740,326    625,100    100%
1969      807,828        237,000      237,000   1,981,486    856,122    377,786         747,578    766,040    100%
1970      826,290        237,000      237,000   1,994,074    974,437    330,485         689,152    766,000    100%
1971      903,138        237,000      237,000   2,009,942    979,422    379,955         650,565    687,000    100%
1972      939,573        237,000      237,000   2,084,456    799,551    460,892         824,013    870,000    100%
1973      985,560        237,000      237,000   2,016,087    894,160    473,751         648,176    883,000    100%
1974    1,000,000        237,000      237,000   1,989,066    919,147    370,333         699,586    602,000    100%
1975      902,414        237,000      237,000   2,009,246    892,859    498,371         618,016    761,700    100%
1976    1,000,000              -            -             -           -           -            -           -    100%
Mean                     212,223      237,000   1,876,582    811,457    353,365         711,561    735,354    90%
Source: DID.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates for Irrigation Works /a
Quantity   Unit    Unit cost   Cost
(M$)   (M$'000)
Tertiary Irrigation
(a)  Earth (laterite) canals                        441,000   cu yd            6    2,646
(b) Concrete-lined canals
(i) Imported laterite for embankments,
paths, and farmroads                   1,812,667   cu yd            6   10,876
(ii)  Concrete lining                        1,543,250   cu ft          8.5   13,118
(c) Pipeline canals
(i) Imported laterite for embankments,
paths and farmroads                       62,667   cu yd            6       376
(ii)  Pipe (supply and installation)              14.32   miles    110,500    1,583
(d)  Structural canalets                              28.64   miles      48,840    1,399
(e)  CHO offtakes for tertiary canals                   384   nos.        5,500    2,112
(f)  Irrigation check crossings                         528   nos.         5,000    2,640
(g)  Irrigation farm turnouts                         4,704   nos.           700    3,293
(h)  Irrigation end-controls                            423   nos.         2,000      846
(i)  Pumphouses                                          54   nos.       50,000    2,700
(j)  Mediun traffic bridges                              36   nos.       40,000    1,440
(k)  Intermediate control crossings
along secondary canals                           144   nos.       15,000    2,160
(l)  Improvements to existing primary &
secondary canals                                       LS                    1,000
Tertiary Drains and Farm Roads
(a) Tertiary drains
(i)  Excavation of drain sections           1,275,000   cu yd             1    1,275
(ii)  Imported laterite for farm roads    1,125,167   cu yd               6    6,751
(b)  Drainage end controls                              234   nos.         6,000    1,404
(c) Drainage intermediate controls/
crossings                                          635   nos.        5,000    3,175
(d)  Farm drainage outlets                            4,112   nos.           750    3,084
Separate Farm Roads                                 177,489   cu yd            6    1,065
Irrigation Service Unit Perimeter Bunds             287,667   cu yd            9    2,589
Minor Dispersed Works                                          LS                    3,225
Coastal Protection Works                                3.7   miles  1,060,000    3,922
Major Drainage Improvements                                    LS                    4,000
Miscellaneous Works
(a)  Southern canal escape                                     LS                      300
(b) Intermediate controls/ crossings
along primary canals                                 2   nos.      250,000       500
(c)  Tidal control gates                                       LS                      500
Total                                                                   77,979
/a  Financial land acquisition costs are estimated at M$6,918,000 for 2,306 acres
(M$3,000/ac).



- 55 -                                 ANNEX 2
Table 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equipment List /a
Unit     Total
No.  Item                                                  Quantity   cost       cost
(M$)   (M$'000)
Operation and Maintenance Equipment:
A.  Heavy Maintenance Equipment
1.  Hydraulic backhoe (long boom)                             1      70,000       70
2.  Motor grader with 6 ft blades                             1       45,000      45
3.  Hydraulic excavator (long boom)                           1      100,000     100
4.  Forklift (3 tons)                                         1      35,000       35
5.  Submersible pump (electric) c/w switch gears              1      26,000       26
6. Mechanized chemical spray equipment
(attached to tractors)                                  2      15,000       30
Subtotal                                                                306
B. Workshop Equipment
1.  Vehicle servicing jacks                                   1       15,000      15
2.  Greasing and lubrication equipment                        1        3,000       3
3.  Optical alignment equipment                               1        3,000       3
4.  Mobile vehicle jacks                                      2        2,000       4
5.  Tractor P.T.O. dynamometer                                1       25,000      25
6.  High pressure cleansing equipment                         1        5,000       5
7. Special tools set (hydraulic puller, midget
spanner, etc.)                                        1 set     5,000        5
8. Variable speed electric motor c/w switch gear
for pumps test bay                                    1 set    35,000       35
9.  Metal spray coating equipment                             1       12,000      12
10.  Spray painting equipment                                  1        2,000       2
11.  Electric air compressor for spray painting                1        4,000       4
12.  Distilled water production equipment                      1        1,000       1
13.  Lathe m/c 24" 0 x 6 ft length c/w grinder
attachment                                            1 set    20,000       20
14.  Vertical drilling machine                                 1       18,000      18
15.  Slotting and shearing machine                             1       25,000      25
16.  Electrical testing equipment                            1 set      5,000       5
Subtotal                                                                182
/a This list is for estimation purposes only and may be changed during project
implementation.



ANNEX 2
- 56-                                  Table 2
Page 2
Unit      Total
No.  Item                                                    Quantity   cost        cost
(M$)   (M$'000)
C. Transport (DID)
1.  Lorry (5 tons)                                              1       40,000       40
2.  4-wheel drive vehicle                                      17       30,000      510
3.  Personal carrier                                            1       30,000       30
4.  Staff car                                                   1       35,000       35
5.  Motorcycles                                                10        2,000       20
Subtotal                                                                  635
D. Transport (MADA)
1.  Low loader (25 tons)                                        1      150,000      150
2.  Lorry (5 tons)                                              3       40,000      120
3.  4-wheel drive vehicle                                      12       30,000      360
4.  Mini bus (20 passengers)                                    1       40,000       40
5.  Micro bus (12 passengers)                                   1       30,000       30
6.  Personal carrier                                            1       30,000       30
7.  Staff car                                                   1       35,000       35
8.  Motorcycles                                                 5        2,000       10
Subtotal                                                                  775
Total, operation and maintenance equipment                              1,898
Water Control and Management System:
1.  VHF base station c/w aerials, etc.                          1       10,000       10
2.  VHF mobile/stationery equipment                            30        3,000       90
3. Telemetry water level/rainfall stations c/w
masts, aerials, etc.                                      5       50,000      250
4.  Telemetry rainfall recorder                                20       20,000      400
5.  Telemetry base station                                      1       20,000       20
6. Hydrological equipment (e.g. current meters,
rainfall gauges and recorders, anemometer,
etc.)                                                    LS                    50
7.  Data processing equipment upgrading                        LS                   310
8.  Staging stations, etc.                                     LS                   130
Total, water control and mangement system                               1,260
Agricultural Equipment:
(Farm Machinery and Equipment for Trials
and Demonstrations)
1.  Tractors                                                    4       25,000      100
2.  Harvesters                                                  4       60,000      240
3.  Power tillers                                               4       10,000       40
4.  Transplanters                                               4       50,000      200
5.  Rotavators                                                  2        7,000       14
6.  Ridgers                                                     2        8,000       16
7.  Leveler                                                     1       20,000       20
8.  Spare parts                                                LS                   170
Total, agricultural equipment                                             800



ANNEX 2
Table 2
Page 3
Unit     Total
No.  Item                                                   Quantity   cost        cost
(M$)   (M$'000)
Extension and Office Equipment:
A. Audiovisual and Extension Equipment
1.  Mobile units                                               4       30,000      120
2.  Slide projectors                                           5        2,000       10
3.  Overhead projectors                                        5        2,000       10
4.  Film projectors                                             2       6,000       12
5.  Extension slides and films                                LS                   150
6. Electronic single screen presentation
unit & screen                                            1       10,000       10
7.  Video tape + TV (coloured) + Video camera                  1       25,000       25
8   Professional tape recorder                                 2        5,000       10
9.  Graphic artist equipment                                  LS                     2
10.  Calculators                                               20          100        2
11.  Cameras                                                     6         500        3
12.  Motorized sprayers                                        27          750       20
13.  Cynogas pumps                                             27          250        7
14.  Extension models                                          LS       10,000       10
15.  Extension charts and wall sheets                          LS        1,000        1
16.  Reference books and relevant literature                   LS        5,000        5
17.  Extension kits and visual aids                            80          500       40
18.  Miscellaneous equipment and tools                         LS                   263
Subtotal                                                                 700
B. Office, Surveying & Drafting Equipment (DID)
1. Miscellaneous office equipment (filing cabinets,
calculators, typewriters, furniture, etc.)              LS                    50
2.  Overhead projector, slide projector, cameras              LS                     5
3. Survey instruments (levels, staffs, prismatic
compass, etc.)                                          LS                    50
4.  Drawing office equipment                                  LS                    30
5.  Cube testing machine                                        1      30,000       30
Subtotal                                                                 165
C. Office, Surveying & Drafting Equipment (MADA)
1. Miscellaneous office equipment (filing cabinets,
calculators, typewriters, furniture, etc.)              LS                    20
2.  Video tape c/w tape recorder monitor                        1       9,000        9
3.  Overhead projector, slide projector, cameras              LS                     2
4.  Cutout sectional engine models, pump modes, gear
boxes                                                  1 set      5,000        5
5.  Drawing office equipment                                  LS                    15
Subtotal                                                                  51
Total, extension and office equipment                                    916
Studies
Drilling rigs and accessories                              2 sets 1,100,000   2,200



ANNEXC 2
-58-                              Table 3
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates for Training
Man-days        Cost (M$)
LOCAL TRAINING
Project Orientation Training
Farmer Group Training
200 ISA leaders                           400           2,000
1,400 ISU leaders                         4,200          21,000
15,000 farmers                            30,000          60,000
Subtotal                                              83,000
Field Staff Training
27 AAs                                    81             405
81 ATs                                 1,215           6,075
36 IOs                                   540           2,700
34 IIs                                   714           3,570
Subtotal                                              12,750
Total                                                 95,750
OVERSEAS TRAINING
Category                            No.    Man-months       Total M$
Rice agronomy                      2          6
Soil science                       1          3
Crop protection                    1          3
Ag. engineering                    1          3
Monitoring/evaluation              2          6
Design techniques                  3          9
Erosion protection                 1          3
Water management                   2          6
Agribusiness                       2          6
Extension methods                  2          6
Electronic data processing         1          3
Subtotal                      18          54           138,000
Short Duration Study Tours          No.    Man-days
Farm group leaders                37        370
Agricultural field staff          20        200
Irrigation field staff            30        300
Monitoring and evaluation
staff                            2         20
Management                         3         30
Subtotal                      92         920           230,000
Total                                                  368,000



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Table 4
Page 1
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Staff Requirements /a
Total Requirements
Current    1979  1980  1981  1982  1983
A. Project Implementation
I. DID Project Director's staff
(to plan, design, tender
and supervise construction)
1. Project director                      1            1     1    1      1      1
2. Deputy project director               1            1     1    1      1      1
3. Senior engineer                       3            3     3    3      3      3
4. Engineer                             20           14    23   23    23    23
5. Qiantity surveyor                     0            1     1    1      1      1
6. Senior technical asst.                0            4     6    4      4      4
7. Technical asst.                       0            7    15   18    18    18
8. Senior technician                     0           10    21   21    21    21
9. Technician                           40           33    63   66    66    66
10. Senior draftsman                      0            2     3    2      2      2
11. Dkaftsman/Jr. technician              8            6     9    6      6      6
12. EKecutive officer                     0            1     1    1      1      1
13. Senior clerk                          0            0     3    3      3      3
14. Clerk                                 4            7     8   10    10    10
15. Stenographer                          0            0     1    1      1      1
16. Storekeeper                           0            1     3    3      3      3
17. Typist                                4            5     9   10    10    10
18. Telephone operator                    0            1     1    1      1      1
19. Office boy                            0            8     9    9      9      9
20. Storeman                              0            2     2    2      2      2
21. Driver                                6            4    17   17    17    17
22. Watchman                              0            6     6    6      6      6
23. Laborer                              46           62   108  128   128   128
/a   This list is for estimation purposes only and may be changed during project
implementation.



-60-
ANNEX 2
Table 4
Page 2
Total
Current Incremental requirement
(1979 onwards)
II. MADA DLvision of Engineering
District Office
1.  Senior engineer                          4           0            4
2.  Technician                              12           0           12
3.  Survey laborer                          16          0            16
Planning Section
4.  Senior engineer                          1           0            1
5.  Engineer                                 2           0           2
6.  Technical assistant                      1           0            1
7.  Senior technician                        0           1            1
8.  Technician                               4           0            4
9.  Junior technician                        4           0            4
Construction Section
10.  Senior engineer                          1          0             1
11.  Technical assistant                      0           2            2
12.  Technician                               0          4            4
13.  Clerk                                    0           3           3
Workshop Section
14.  Mechanical engineer                      0           1            1
15.  Mechanical technician                    0           1            1
16.  Leading hand                            0            1            1
17.  Tradesman                                0           1            1
III.  MADA Administration & Finance Section
1.  Administrative officer                  0           1            1
2.  Financial officer                        0           1            1
3.  Executive officer                        0           1            1
4.  Assistant librarian                      0           1            1
5.  Clerk                                    0          4            4
6.  Junior clerk                             0           2           2
IV. MADA Planning & Evaluation Section
1.  Agricultural economist                   1          1            2
2.  Field supervisor                         0           1            1
3.  Field assistant                          0           9           9
4.  Clerk                                    0           2           2
5.  Typist                                   0           1            1



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
Table 4
Page 3
Total
Current Incremental requirement
V. Kedah State Department of Lands & Mines
1. Acquisition officer                        0           2            2
2.  Settlenent officer                        0           4            4
3.  Clerk                                     0           6            6
4.  Typist                                    0           2            2
5.  Notice server                             0           4            4
6.  Laborer                                   0           4           4
B.  Operation and Maintenance (MADA Division of
Engineering)
1.  Head, Ehgineering Division                1           0            1
2.  Deputy Head, Ehgineering Division         1           0            1
3.  Senior engineer                           2           0           2
4.  Engineer                                  8           0           8
5.  Senior mechanical engineer                1           0            1
6.  Mechanical engineer                       1           0            1
7.  Senior mechanical technical assistant   1             0            1
8. Mechanical technical assistant             1           0            1
9.  Technical assistant                       4           0            4
10.  Executive officer                         1           0            1
11.  Programmer                                2           0           2
12.  Chief irrigation inspector                2           0           2
13.  Senior irrigation inspector               5           0           5
14.  Senior technician                         6           0            6
15.  Senior clerk                              3           0           3
16.  Senior storekeeper                        1           0            1
17.  Irrigation inspector                     27           0          27
18.  Technician                               41           0          41
19.  Clerk                                    18           0          18
20.  Storekeeper                               6           0            6
21.  Stenographer                              1           0            1
22.  Computer console operator                 1           0            1
23.  Senior irrigation overseer               15           0           15
24.  Irrigation overseer                      89           0           89
25.  Junior technician                        15           0           15
26.  Junior clerk                              2           0            2
27.  Punch card operator                       4           0            4
28.  Teleprinter typist                        5           0            5
29.  Typist                                    8           0            8
30.  Telephone operator                        1           0            1
31.  Radio telephone operator                  1           0            1
32.  Office boy                                8           0            8
33. IMG group (including punp operators,
line operators, etc.)                 840           /a          /a
/a Incremental requirements will depend on project implementation progress,
operational requirements and PSD approval.



ANNEX 2
Table 4
Page 4
Total
Current Incremental requirement
C. Training
1.  Senior agriculture officer                0           1            1
2.  Agriculture officer                        1          0            1
3.  Assistant agricultural officer            0           1            1
4.  Agricultural assistant                    3           0            3
5.  Senior irrigation inspector               0           1            1
6.  Senior agricultural technician             1          0            1
7.  Agricultural technician                   6           0            6
D.  Agricultural Services (MADA Division of Agriculture)
1.  Head, Agriculture Division                1           0            1
2.  Deputy head, Agriculture Division          1          0            1
3.  Senior agricultural officer               0           1            1
4.  Agricultural officer                      5           8           13
5.  Agricultural engineer                      1          0            1
6.  Assistant agricultural officer            6           0            6
7.  Agricultural assistant                   35          19           54
8.  Examiner of accounts                      4           2            6
9.  Senior agricultural technician            7          30           37
10.  Agriculture technician                  160          84          244
11.  Executive officer                         0           1            1
12.  Senior clerk                               1          0            1
13.  Stenographer                               1          0            1
14.  Clerk                                    10           4           14
15.  Storekeeper                               2           1            3
16.  Typist                                    2           4            6
17.  Junior clerk                              0           1            1
18.  Chargeman                                  1          0            1
19.  Mechanic                                  5           2            7
20.  Apprentice                                 1          2            3
21.  Plant operator                             1          1            2
22.  Office boy                                 6          0            6
23.  Lorry driver                               4          1            5
24.  Land rover driver                          3          1            4
25.  Laborer                                   17          3           20
E. Pilot Projects and Development Studies
1.  Engineer                                  0           1            1
2.  Irrigation agronomist                     0           1            1
3.  Agricultural officer                      0           1            1
4.  Agricultural assistant                    0           1            1
5.  Technicians                               0           2            2
6.  Senior agricultural technician            0           1            1
7.  Agricultural technician                   0           1            1
8.  Senior irrigation inspector               0           1            1
9.  Senior irrigation overseer                0           2            2



ANNEX 2
- 63-                             Table 5
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Incremental Agricultural and Administrative Staff Operating Costs
No.      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983     Total
--~~~~~~~~~~~~------- (M$'000) ------------------------
A. Agricultural Staff
SAO 1                      1      28        29        29        29        29        144
SAO 2                      1       0        22        23        24        25         94
AO                         8      27        42        78        86       107        340
AAO                         1     17        18        18        19        19         91
AA                        19      41        85       130       154       174        584
Examiner of accounts       2      15        16        17        18        19         85
EO                         1       0         6         6         7         7         26
Senior AT                 30      46       164       287       298       310      1,105
AT                        84      50       117       188       262       324        941
Clerk                      4       7        15        23        32        38        115
Storekeeper                1       4         4         4         4         5         21
Typist                     4       0        11        12        13        13         49
Junior clerk               1       3         3         3         3         4         16
Mechanic                   2       4         8         8         8         9         37
Apprentice                 2       3         5         5         6         6         25
Plant operator             1       0         3         3         3         3         12
Lorry driver                1      0         3         3         3         3         12
Land rover driver           1      3         2         3         3         3         14
Laborer                    8       5         9        15        20        20         69
Subtotal             172    253       562       855       992    1,118       3,780
B. Administrative and
Finance Section
Administrative officer   1         9        10        10        12        13         54
Financial officer          1       9        10        10        12        13         54
Executive officer          1       8         8         9         9        10         44
Assistant librarian        1       4         4         4         4         5         21
Clerk                      4      14        15        17        18        19         83
Junior clerk               2       6         6         6         7         7         32
Subtotal              10      50       53        56        62        67        288
C. Information Services
Section
Agricultural technician  2         7         8         8         9        10         42
Draftsman                   1      4         4         4         4         5         21
Driver/mobile unit
operator                 1       5         5         5         5         5         25
Laborer                     1      2         2         3         3         3         13
Subtotal               5      18        19       20        21        23         101
D. Kedah State Department
of Lands and Mines
Acquisition officer        2      18        19        21        24        25        107
Settlement officer         4      14        15        17        18        19         83
Clerk                      6      21        23        24        27        28        123
Typist                     2       6         6         6         7         7         32
Notice server              4      11        11        12        13        13         60
Laborer                    4       9        10        10        10        11          50
Subtotal              22      79        84        90        99       103        455
Total                209    400        718    1,021    1,174    1,311         4,624



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
Table 6
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Expected Price Increase
(US$ million)
Total    1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Civil works and services              53.7      4.6    9.4   16.9   14.7    8.1
Equipment and vehicles                  3.5       -    1.1    1.2    0.6    0.6
Total (incl. physical
contingencies)                  57.2     4.6   10.5   18.1   15.3    8.7
Expected price increases
Civil works and services            11.2      0.2    1.0    3.1    4.0    2.9
Equipment and vehicles               0.6        -    0.1    0.2    0.1    0.2
Total                             11.8      0.2    1.1    3.3    4.1    3.1
Total project cost                69.0      4.8   11.6   21.4   19.4   11.8
Annual inflation rates (%)
Civil works and services                      7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0
Equipment and vehicles                        6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Table 7
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
(US$ million)
Total    1979/a  1980   1981   1982   1983
Civil Works
On-farm irrigation block development    31.2         2.6     4.7   10.4    9.1    4.4
General irrigation system improvement    4.2         0.4     0.6    1.2    1.2    0.8
Subtotal                             35.4      3.0      5.3   11.6   10.3    5.2
Buildings                                     4.9      0.1      1.0    1.2    1.4    1.2
Equipment                                     3.0      0.2      0.9    0.9    0.5    0.5
Land acquisition                              3.1      0.7      1.0    0.9    0.5       -
Engineering and supervision                   2.6      0.2      0.4    0.8    0.7    0.5
Pilot projects and studies                    2.0        -     0.7    0.9    0.2    0.2
Technical services, training,                 1.0        -     0.2    0.2    0.3    0.3
monitoring and evaluation
Base cost estimate                  52.0      4.2      9.5   16.5   13.9    7.9
Physical contingencies                        5.2      0.4      1.0    1.6    1.4    0.8
Expected price increases                     11.8      0.2      1.1    3.3    4.1    3.1
Total project costs                 69.0      4.8    11.6   21.4   19.4   11.8
/a   Includes expenditures since April 1, 1978.



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Table 8
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD
fiscal year                 Accumulated disbursement
and semester                US$ million equivalent
FY80
2nd                                  1.5
FY81
1st                                 3.5
2nd                                 6.0
FY82
1st                                 9.2
2nd                                13.2
FY83
1st                                17.4
2nd                                21.8
FY84
1st                                26.4
2nd                                29.8
FY85
Is t                               31.0



- 67-                                     ANNEX 2
Table 9
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan
Estimated
Estimated         F.E.       Proposed
Category                        total cost    component    allocation       Disbursement
--------- (US$ million) -----------                ()
1. Civil Works
Irrigation, drainage,
and roads                  35.4         17.6
Buildings and facilities      4.9          1.5
Pilot projects and studies   0.7           0.3
Subtotal              41.0         19.4
Price contingencies (part)   8.0           3.7
Subtotal              49.0         23.1           24.5            50%
2.  Equipment and Vehicles           3.0          2.8                    100% of foreign
Price contingencies (part)   0.2           0.2                     expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
Subtotal               3.2          3.0            3.0     ex-factory, or 80%
of locally procured
items
3.  Consultants                                                          100%
Engineers, surveyors and
architects                  0.6          0.1
Studies                       1.3          1.0
Subtotal               1.9          1.1            1.3
4.  Overseas Fellowships &                                               100% of foreign
Training                       0.2         0.2            0.2      expenditures
5. Unallocated
Engineering &                  2.6         0.1
supervision /a
Land acquisition /a            3.1         0.0
Monitoring & evaluation /a   0.2           0.0
Physical contingencies        5.2          2.2
Remaining price
contingencies               3.6          1.3
Subtotal              14.7          3.6            2.0
Total                 69.0         31.0           31.0           (45%)
/a  No disbursement would be made against these items.



-68-                            ANNEX 3
Table 1
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop Production Costs: Physical Inputs and Financial Prices
Future   Future
Present    without    with
project   project
Labor Inputs (man-days/ha)
Land preparation              13.3      13.3       14.6
Transplanting                17.3       17.3       17.9
Crop maintenance              9.5        9.5       10.7
Transport                     8.6        8.6        6.8
Harvest                      19.9       15.3       12.2
Total labor inputs        68.6       64.0       62.2
Agricultural Inputs (Kg/ha)
Ammonium phosphate              12         12        15
Compound (NPK)                110        110        120
Urea                           125       125        200
Insecticide I /a                6          5          5
Insecticide II /b               2          5         15
Seed                           35         35         35
Contract Inputs (M$/ha) /d
Plowing                        121       121        121
Harvest /c                     63         90        108
Prices (M$/kg)
Ammonium phosphate              0.88
Compound (NPK)                 0.38
Urea                           0.43
Insecticide I                   1.20
Insecticide II                  1.40
Seed                           0.50
Contract Rates (M$/ha) /d
Plowing (twice)                  121
Harvest (combine)                180
Wages /d      M$ 7/day
/a  Granular non-systemic.
/b  Granular systemic.
/c Combine harvest assumed as 35% at present, 50% in the future
without project and 60% in the future with project.
/d Present and future prices assumed to be equal.



MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop Production Costs Per Hectare
(M$/ha)
0.2 ha Farm            0.8 ha Farm           1.4 ha Farm            2.5 ha Farm           4.5 ha Farm
Financial/a Economic/b Financial Economic  Financial Economic  Financial Economic  Financial Economic
P /c      192         389         192       389        269        389        288         385         336        382
Labor inputs/d FW           160         363        160       363        237         363        256        359          305        357
FW         147         352         147       352        224        352        244         350         293        347
p         135         119         135       119        135        119        135         119         135        119
Agricultural   FW           139         120        139       120         139        120        139        120         .139        120
inputs        FW         189          163        189       163        189         163        189        163         189         163
P         184         132         184       132        184        132        184         132         184        132
Contract        FW         211          152        211       152        211         152        211        152          211        152
inputs        FW         229          165        229       165        229         165        229        165         229         165
P         511         640         511       640        588        640        607         636         655        633
Total           FW         510          635        510       635        587         635        606        631          655        629
FW         565         680         565       680        642        680         662        678         711        675
/a  Financial prices are based on Annex 3, Table 1, and include hired labor only.
/b  Economic prices. were derived by applying specific conversion factors from Annex 4, Table 5.
/c P = Present; FW = Future without project; FW = Future with project
/d Hired labor in each farm size group as a propo+tion of total labor required is assumed as .4, .4, .56, .60, and .70,
respectively at present, based on References B3 and B4. It is further assumed that any reduction in the labor
requirement in the future with and without the project would be accompanied by equal reduction in hired labor.
-31
(DZ
z 



- 70 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop Production Cost Per Farm /a
Future                Future
Present           Without Project         With Project
Farm size     Financial  Economic   Financial  Economic   Financial  Economic
---------------------------- (M$) - ---   ---- ---------------
0.2 ha         179       224         179        222          218       262
0.8 ha         715       896         714        889          872     1,050
1.4 ha       1,441     1,568       1,438      1,553       1,735      1,837
2.5 ha       2,656     2,783       2,651      2,761       3,194      3,271
4.5 ha       5,158     4,985       5,158      4,953       6,175      5,862
/a  Based on Annex 3, Table 2.  Cropping intensity assumed as 175% at
present and in the future without project and 193% in the future with
project for all farm sizes.



- 71 -
ANNEX 3
Table 4
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Annual Farm Budgets - Present
Farm size        0.2 ha          0.8 ha          1.4 ha            2.5 ha          4.5 ha
Season /a      MS      DS       MS      DS     MS      DS        MS      DS      MS       DS
Cropping intensity (Z)           100       75      100     75    100       75      100       75      100     75
Yield (ton/ha)                   3.3      3.5      3.3    3.5    3.3    3.5        3.3      3.5      3.3    3.5
Production (kg/year)                1,185            4,740           8,295          14,813             26,663
Domestic consumption (kg/year)/b   895                 895             895              895               895
Annual Farm Sales (kg)            290             3,845           7,400          13,918             25,768
--------------------------------- (M$) -----------------------
Cash Inflows
Padi sales /c                      133             1,769           3,404           6,402              11,853
Hired labor income                 269               323             231                -                 -
Nonagricultural income             526               560             593             632                548
Total cash inflow               928            2,652            4,228           7,034              12,401
Cash Outflows
Annual crop production costs
(Annex 3, Table 3)              179              715            1,441           2,656             5,158
Annual Taxes and Water Charges /d
Irrigation rate                       7               30              52              93                167
Quit rent                             1                4               7               12                22
Zakat                                -               115             292             618              1,210
Education rate                        -                -               -                9                17
Subtotal                         8               149             351             732              1,416
Total cash outflow             187               864           1,792           3,388              6,574
Net Farm Cash Flow                    741            1,788           2,436            3,646             5,827
Total home produce                     85              100             156               94               200
Value of domestic padi                412              412             514              412               412
Net family income                   1,238            2,300           3,106            4,152             6,439
/a MS = main season; DS = dry season.
/b From farm surveys.
/c Farmgate price of M$460/ton (1979).
/d Irrigation rate, M$15/acre; quit rent, M$2/acre; Zakat, 10% of gross production of padi net of
1,224 kg/family/crop; education rate, M$1.50/acre for those who hold 5 acres or more.



- 72
ANNEX 3
Table 5
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Annual Farm Budgets - Future without Project
Farm size        0.2 ha          0.8 ha          1.4 ha            2.5 ha           4.5 ha
season /a      MS      DS       MS      DS     MS      DS        MS       DS     MS       DS
Cropping intensity (%)           100       75      100      75    100      75       100      75      100      75
Yield (ton/ha)                   3.3      3.5      3.3    3.5    3.3    3.5         3.3     3.5      3.3    3.5
Production (kg/year)                1,185            4,740           8,295           14,813            26,663
Domestic consumption (kg/year)/b   895                 895              895             895                895
Annual farm sales (kg)             290            3,845           7,400           13,918            25,768
-------------------(Ms) ---------------
Cash inflows
Padi sales /c                       166            2,207           4,248            7,989             14,791
Hired labor income                  269              323             231                -                  -
Nonagricultural income              526              560             593              632               548
Total cash inflow               961             3,090           5,072           8,621              15,339
Cash outflows
Annual crop production costs
(Annex 3, Table 3)              179               714           1,438           2,651              5,158
Annual taxes and water charges /d
Irrigation rate                       7               30              52               93               167
Quit rent                             1                4                7              12                22
Zakat                                 -              125             318              674             1,319
Education rate                        -                -               -                9                 17
Subtotal                         8               159             377             788              1,525
Total cash outflow             187               873           1,815           3 439-             6,683
Net farm cash flow                    774            2,217           3,257            5,182             8,656
Total home produce                     85              100              156              94                200
Value of domestic padi                514              514              514             514                514
Net family income                   1,373            2,831           3,927            5,790             9,370
/a MS = main season; DS = dry season.
/b From Farm Surveys.
/c  Farm-gate price of M$574/ton (1988).
/d Irrigation rate, M$15/acre; quit rent, M$2/acre; Zakat, 10Z of gross production of padi net of
1,224 kg/family/crop; education rate, M$1.50/acre for 4:hose who hold 5 acres or more.



- 73 -
ANNEX 3
Table 6
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Annual Farm Budgets - Future with Project
Farm size        0.2 ha           0.8 ha         1.4 ha             2.5 ha           4.5 ha
Season /a      MS       DS       MS     DS      MS      DS        MS      DS      MS       DS
Cropping intensity (x)            100       93      100     93    100       93       100      93      100      93
Yield (ton/ha)                    4.0      4.3      4.0    4.3    4.0    4.3         4.0     4.3      4.0    4.3
Production (kg/year)                1,600             6,400          11,200           20,000            36,000
Domestic consumption (kg/year)/b   895                  895             895              895                895
Annual farm sales (kg)             705            5,505           10,305          19,105             35,105
----__------------------------- (M$) -------------------------------
Cash inflows
Padi sales /c                       405            3,160            5,915          10,966             20,150
Hired labor income                  269               323             231                -                  -
Nonagricultural income              526               560             593              632                548
Total cash inflow              1,200            4,0436,739                      11,598              20,698
Cash outflows
Annual crop production costs /d
(Annex 3, Table 3)              218               872            1,735           3,194              6,175
Annual taxes and water charges
Irrigation rate                       7                30              52               93                167
Quit rent                             1                 4               9               12                 22
Zakat                                 -               198             438           1,000              1,800
Education rate                        -                 -               -                9                 17
Subtotal                          8              232              499           1,114              2,006
Total cash outflow              226            1,104            2,234           4,308              8,181
Net farm cash flow                    974             2,939           4,505            7,290             12,517
Total home produce                     85               100              156              94                200
Value of domestic padi                514               514              514             514                514
Net family income                   1,573             3,553           5,175            7,898             13,231
/a  MS = main season; DS = dry season.
/b From Farm Surveys.
/c Farm-gate price of M$574/ton (1988).
/d Irrigation rate, M$15/acre; quit rent, M$2/acre; Zakat, 10% of gross production of padi net of
1,224 kg/family/crop; education rate, M$1.50/acre for those who hold 5 acres or more.



MALAYSIA
MIDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Padi Production Buildup
Main Season                                                      Dry Season
Benefited                                                  Benefited                                               Annual
area   Average  Unbenefited    Average   Seasonal          area     Average  Unbenefited    Average   Seasonal    pro-
Year        cropped    yield   area cropped    yield   production       cropped    yield   area cropped    yield   production  duction
(ha)  (tons/ha)     (ha)      (tons/ha)   (tons)           (ha)   (tons/ha)      (ha)      (tons/ha)   (tons)   (tons)
1979             -       -       25,230         3.3      83,259              -        -        18,900       3.5      66,150     149,409
1980             -       -       25,230         3.3      83,259              -        -        18,900       3.5      66,150     149,409
1981             -       -       25,230         3.3      83,259            570      3.8        18,570       3.5      67,161    150,420
1982         4,050     3.5       21,100         3.3      83,805          8,940      3.8        11,250       3.5      73,347     157,152
1983        15,100     3.5        9,700         3.3      84,860          18,250     3.8         3,450       3.5      81,425     166,285
1984        23,640     3.6          760         3.3      87,612          22,500     3.9             -         -      87,750     175,362
1985        24,200     3.7            -           -      89,540          22,500     4.0             -         -      90,000     179,540
1986        24,200     3.8            -           -      91,960         22,500      4.1             -         -      92,250     184,210
1987        24,200     3.9            -           -      94,380          22,500     4.2             -         -      94,500     188,880
1988-2011    24,200    4.0            -           -      96,800          22,500     4.3             -         -      96,750     193,550
Note: Minor discrepancies with Table 5.2 are due to rounding of average yields.
-1 .



ANNEX 4
- 75                             Table 2
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Incremental Padi Production, Values and Costs /a
(1)       (2)          (3)              (4)             (5)
Incremental    Incremental    Incremental
Incremental   Padi    gross value    production           project
Year    production   price  of production /c   cost /d            benefits /e
(tons)/b   (M$/ton)  (M$ million)   (M$ million)   (M$ million)
1979           -       465              -
1980          -        495             -                -
1981      1,011        508          0.51             0.16            0.35
1982      7,843        530          4.15             0.93            3.22
1983     16,987        542          9.15             2.13            7.02
1984     25,953        554         14.37             2.86           11.51
1985     30,131        567         17.08             2.98           14.10
1986     34,801        571         19.87             3.21           16.66
1987     39,471        575         22.70             3.49           19.21
1988     44,141        579         25.56             3.77           21.79
1989     44,141        584         25.78             3.77           22.01
1990-2011   44,141        588         25.95             3.77           22.18
/a  In terms of economic prices.
/b Derived from Annex 4, Table 1.
/c Equals column (1) times column (2).
/d Derived from Annex 3, Table 2.
/e Equals column (3) minus column (4).



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
(M$ million)
Project Costs                    Incremental
Year                               Incremental O&M                 Project Benefits/c
& agricultural
Capital/a   services /b           Total
1     (1979)              3.33           .09              3.42           _
2     (1980)             12.12           .18             12.30           -
3     (1981)             27.17           .26             27.43            .35
4     (1982)             24.88           .34             25.22          3.22
5     (1983)             10.42           .77             11.19          7.02
6     (1984)                 0          1.23              1.23         11.51
7     (1985)                 0          1.52              1.52         14.10
8     (1986)                 0          1.52              1.52         16.66
9     (1987)                 0          1.52              1.52         19.21
10    (1988)                 0          1.52              1.52         21.79
11    (1989)                 0          1.52              1.52         22.01
12-32 (1990-2010)            0          1.52              1.52         22.18
33    (2011)           -19.44/d         1.52            -17.92         22.18
Economic Rate of Return = 18%
/a  Equals 100% of all cost items listed under "On-Farm Irrigation Block
Development" in text Table 3.1, minus financial land acquisition costs
plus 25% of costs of coastal protection works, miscellaneous works,
buildings, and equipment, and 63% of costs of major drainage improvements,
including physical contingencies on these items. Conversion factor for
construction (0.77) has been applied to the domestic components of the
cost.
/b  Equals M$ 54 per completed ha for incremental O&M plus 25% of incremental
staff costs listed in Annex 2, Table 5, plus 20% for operating expenses.
Conversion factor for Government and other social services (0.8) has been
applied to the domestic components of the cost.
/c The last column of Annex 4, Table 2.
/d Salvage value equals 25% of original cost of all civil works.



-77-                                  ANNEX 4
Table 4
MALAYSIA
MUDA 11 IRRIGATION PROJECT
Costs and Benefits of Improvements in Agricultural Services
and General Infrastructure /a
Total     Economic    Amortization per
cost/b      life        ha per year /c
(M$ million)  (years)            (M$)
Annualized Costs
Major drainage improvement works           9.8/d        30              10.10
Coastal protection works                   3.8          30               3.92
Miscellaneous works                        1.3          30               1.34
MADA headquarters building                 1.5          30               2.58
Seed stores                                1.4          30               1.44
Water control and management system        1.2          10               1.85
Agricultural equipment                     0.8           5               1.98
Extension and office equipment             0.7           5               1.73
Subtotal                                                            24.94
Incremental agriculture services                                        11.38
Total Annualized Costs                                               36.32
Annualized Benefits
Main season: 40 kg/ha x 100%
cropping intensity x M$0.494/kg /e                                    19.76
Dry season: 40 kg/ha x 85%
cropping intensity x M$0.494/kg                                       16.80
Total Annualized Benefits                                            36.56
/a In terms of economic prices.
/b Includes physical contingencies.
/c All capital costs amortized at 10% discount rate over economic life, divided
by 98,000 ha of padi.
/d Major drainage improvement works for the entire Muda area are estimated by
MADA to cost M$9.8 million. Only M$3.9 million of these works would be imple-
mented under the present project.
/e From Annex 4, Table 2, an incremental net value of padi production in 1988 of
M$494/ton is derived by dividing column 5 by column 1.



ANNEX 4
Table 5
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Values of National Parameters /a
Conversion factor for consumption (0c)
0.2, 0.8, 1.4 ha farm                                             0.81
2.5 ha farm                                                       0.79
4.5 ha farm                                                       0.76
Conversion factor for Government & other social services            0.80
Conversion factor for construction                                  0.77
Conversion factor for agricultural inputs                           0.86
Conversion factor for contract inputs                               0.72
Conversion factor for port handling                                 0.72
Conversion factor for transportation                                0.66
General conversion factor                                           0.80
Accounting rate of interest (ARI)                                   0.10
Critical consumption level,/b estimated 1988                    M$  946
Average private per capita consumption, estimated 1988          M$2,380
/a See Reference B6.
/b The maximum income level for a family of five which is exempt from
income taxation, converted to a per capita figure.



- 79 -
ANNEX 4
Table 6
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Derivation of Distribution Weights
(n - 1) /a
Farm size                   0.2 ha Farm      0.8 ha farm   1.4 ha farm   2.5 ha farm   4.5 ha farm
C  (M$)                         2380           2380             2380           2380           2380
C1 (M$)                          230            472              571            772          1,209
C2 (M$)                          262            592              753          1,053          1,707
AC - C2 - C1 (M$)                32            120              182            281            498
C2/C1                         1.139          1.254            1.319          1.364          1.412
d - C loge C2/C1                9.68           4.48             3.62           2.63           1.65
AC
Weight lb                       0.01           0.18             0.23           0.40           0.18
Weighted average d       <--------------------------- 3.09 -----------------------_____>
/a For proportional weighting, i.e., an income twice as high receives half the weight.
/b Share of project benefits accruing to each farm size group.
Note: C - Projected national average private consumption per capita in 1988.
C1 - Projected average private consumption per capita for various income groups in 1988
without project.
C2 - Projected average private consumption per capita for various income groups in 1988
with project.



MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Benefits at Social Prices
(M$ million)
(1)       (2)              (3)              (4)                 (5)                (6)
Project           Incremental        Incremental    Distribution    Net social cost           Incremental
year        project benefits       consumption /a  adjustment /b   from incremental   project benefits
Economic  Financial           AC               Oc-d/v        consumption /c   at social prices /d
(1) 1979       -          -                              - 1.68
(2) 1980       -          -                -             - 1.68               -                     -
(3) 1981      0.35       0.37             0.30           - 1.68            - 0.50                  0.85
(4) 1982      3.22       3.20             2.56           - 1.68            - 4.31                  7.53                     X
(5) 1983      7.02       6.86             5.49           - 1.68            - 9.23                 16.25                     0
(6) 1984     11.51      11.19             8.94           - 1.68            -15.04                 26.55
(7) 1985     14.10      13.74            10.99           - 1.68            -18.49                 32.59
(8) 1986     16.66      16.01            12.81           - 1.68            -21.55                 38.21
(9) 1987     19.21      18.58            14.86           - 1.68            -24.99                 44.20
(10) 1988     21.79      21.18            16.94           - 1.68            -28.49                 50.28
(11) 1989     22.01      21.40            17.12           - 1.68            -28.80                 50.91
(12- 1990-    22.18      21.57            17.26           - 1.68            -29.00                 51.18
33) 2011
/a  Equals column (2) times the marginal propensity to consume (0.8).
/b     e   = conversion factor for consumption, weighted average for five income groups:  0.79
d  = weighted average distribution weight:  3.09, derived in Annex 4, Table 6.
v  = investment premium at the average level of consumption:  1.25.
/c  Equals column (3) times column (4).
/d  Equals column (1) minus column (5).
o z



- 81 -
ANNEX 4
Table 8
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Direct and Indirect Income Change by Group /a
(M$'000) /b
H1      H2        H3      H4       H5      Total
Direct income gains        390    2,817    9,131       170    1,109    13,617
Indirect income gains       54       382      956      702    7,721      9,815
Total                   444    3,199   10,087       872    8.830    23,432
/a  H1  =  Landless paddy w,rkers, 1,300 households with less than 0.3 ha/farm.
H2  =  Labor abundant paddy farms, 5,100 households with less than
1.0 ha/farm.
H3  =  Land abundant paddy farms, 9,600 households.
H4  =  Other agricultural households, 25,300 households.
H5  =  Nonfarm households, 44,000 households.
The groups Hi, H2, and H3 correspond to the five farm households in the
farm budget analysis.
/b In terms of 1979 constant prices at the 1972 terms of trade.



- 82 -
ANNEX 4
Table 9
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Sensitivity Analysis
Appraisal         Crossover            %
Variable                              value             value /a         change
Incremental yields at full
development
Main season                     700 kg/ha         350 kg/ha           -50
Dry season                      800 kg/ha         400 kg/ha           -50
Incremental cropping intensity
(dry season)                         18%                 0%             -100
World market price of rice
(5% brokens, f.o.b. Bangkok,
1990)                             US$453/ton        US$294/ton           -35
Construction costs                  US$35.4 m.       US$71.0 m.           100
Development period:                  9 years         14 years              55
General conversion factor               0.8              1.5               88
/a   Value of variable tested for which the net present value (discounted
at 10%) is zero.



MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery Analysis /a
(M $)
Gross value        Value of        Farm cash   Family    Management    Project    Zakat             Rent         Annualized         Gost
Farm model   of production   - purchased    =   income  -  labor  -   & risk/b  =   rent    payments  recovery/c  project cost/d   recovery/e
inputs                                                                          (%)                              (Z)
(1)              (2)              (3)         (4)           (5)          (6)         (7)        (8)            (9)             (10)
0.2 ha               242                11              231         0             46           185         0           0              84               0
0.8 ha               956                44              912         0            182           730        74          10             335             22
1.4 ha            2,277                 76           2,201          0            440        1,761        122           7            587              20
2.5 ha             3,024               138           2,886          0            577        2,309        333          14           1,048             32                a
4.5 ha            5,443                252           5,191          0          1,038        4,153        481          12           1,886             26
/a  All figures are incremental at full development in 1988.
/b Calculated at 20% of incremental farm cash income.
/c Equals column 7 divided by column 6. It is assumed that farm incomes, project rent, and Zakat payments build up to full development levels
with proportional time streams. Consequently, discounting the flows will not affect the rent recovery ratios.
/d  The average total investment cost (in constant 1979 values) is M$ 3,784/ha or M$ 365/ha p.a. amortized over 30 years at a discount rate
of 10%.
/e  Equals column 7 divided by column 9.
I _J:



ANNEX 4
Table 11
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Padi Production Buildup for Muda I /a
Planted        Average              Paddy
Year             area            yield           production
(ha)          (ton/ha)           (tons)
1966           89,280            3.18             283,520
1967           91,240            3.23             295,120
1968           91,630           3.33              305,410
1969           91,630            3.26             299,020
1970           127,890           3.06             391,800
1971           143,000           3.26             465,530
1972           165,200           3.27             540,060
1973          184,200           3.33             613,050
1974-2000     181,300/b          3.39/c          614,607
/a  Based on the Muda I completion report (Reference B10), the
actual figures are reported up to 1973.
/b 98,000 ha x 185%.
/c 3.3 ton/ha for the main season;
3.5 ton/ha for the dry season.



- 85 -
ANNEX 4
Table 12
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Incremental Padi Production, Values and Costs for Muda I /a
(1)       (2)            (3)             (4)            (5)
Incremental    Incremental   Incremental
Year        Incremental   Padi       gross value    production         project
production   price/b  of production         cost           benefits
(tons)    (M$/ton)  ------            (M$ million) -------------
1966
1967              -           -          -               -                -
1968          8,860         791         7.01             1.68            5.33
1969          2,320         726         1.68            4.04            -2.36
1970         90,810         503        45.68           33.57            12.11
1971        163,890         416        68.18           43.25            24.93
1972        234,940         429       100.79           60.63            40.16
1973        305,840         848       259.31           70.32           188.99
1974        308,155       1,049       323.21           74.17           249.04
1975        311,644         609       189.73           74.74           114.99
1976        313,018         428       133.95           74.95            59.00
1977        316,179         406       128.35           75.15            53.20
1978       319,625          436       139.33           75.28            64.05
1979        322,680         465       150.03           75.73            74.30
1980       331,220          495       163.93           78.67            85.26
1981        331,220         508       168.24           78.67            89.59
1982       331,220          530       175.53           78.67            96.86
1983        331,220         542       179.50           78.67           100.83
1984        331,220         554       183.47           78.67           104.80
1985       331,220          567       187.78           78.68           109.10
1986       331,220          571       189.11           78.57           110.54
1987        331,220         575       190.43           78.57           111.86
1988       331,220          579       191.75           78.57           113.18
1989        331,220         584       193.41           78.57           114.84
1990-2000  331,220          588       194.73           78.57           116.16
/a  The same set of conversion factors as for MUDA II (Annex 4, Table 5)
have been applied.
/b  Actual and projected economic price of padi.



00
ANNEX 4
Table 13
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits of Muda I and II Combined /a
(M$ million)
P r o j e c t   C o s t s               Incremental
Incremental O&M &               project benefits
Year        Capital   agricultural services   Total
1   (1966)    10.13               1.51             11.64
2   (1967)    17.52               0.77             18.29            -
3   (1968)    22.39               0.89             23.28           1.33
4   (1969)    17.95               0.93             18.88         -0.59
5   (1970)     8.41               1.00              9.41           3.03
6   (1971)     5.65               1.16              6.81           6.23
7   (1972)     3.97               2.24              6.21          10.04
8   (1973)      1.53              1.99              3.52          47.25
9   (1974)     0.42               2.27              2.69          62.26
10   (1975)     0.14               2.53              2.67          28.75
11   (1976)     0                  2.53              2.53          14.75
12   (1977)     0                  2.53              2.53          13.30
13   (1978)     0                  2.53              2.53          16.01
14   (1979)     3.33               2.62              5.95          18.57
15   (1980)    12.12               2.71             14.83          21.31
16   (1981)    27.17               2.79             29.96          22.74
17   (1982)    24.88               2.87             27.75          27.43
18   (1983)    10.42               3.30             13.72          32.23
19   (1984)     0                  3.76              3.76          37.71
20   (1985)     0                  4.05              4.05          41.38
21   (1986)     0                  4.05              4.05          44-30
22   (1987)     0                  4.05              4.05          47.18
23   (1988)      0                 4.05              4.05          50.09
24   (1989)      0                 4.05              4.05          50.72
25   (1990)      0                 4.05              4.05          51.22
26-  (1991-      0                 4.05              4.05          51.19
34    1999)
35   (2000)   -28.15               4.05            -24.10          51.19
36-  (2001-      0                 1.52              1.52          22.18
45    2010)
46   (2011)   -19.44               1.52            -17.92          22.18
Economic Rate of Return = 18%
/a All project costs and benefits include 25% of Muda I and the Muda II
tertiary development components.



- 87 -
ANNEX 4
Table 14
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis of Social Parameters
Social Rate of Return (%)
v/n            0         0.5          1.0        1.5          2.0
1.25           18/a         24          35/b        51           96
1.50           16           22           31         45           68
2.50           14           19           26         38           56
where n is the elasticity of the marginal utility of consumption.
v is the investment premium at the average level of consumption.
/a Traditional economic analysis giving equal weight to all benefits,
with n = 0 and v = 1/ 8
Ab Moderate emphasis on income distribution (proportional weighting of
consumption) and neutral policy on investment versus consumption at
the average level of consumption.



- 88 -
ANNEX 5
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Schedule of Critical Events
Activity                                    Responsibility        Target date
1. General
(a) Submit proposal for pilot projects
& development studies                     MADA                 12/79
(b) Prepare draft agricultural services
operation manual                          MADA                 12/79
(c) Submit proposal for the crop pro-
tection program                           DOA                  12/79
(d) Implement agreed crop protection
program                                   DOA                   6/80
2. Civil Works
(a) Call tenders for irrigation blocks /a
(i) Block 3 (ALBD.7)                        DID                   6/79
(ii) Block 7 (ALBD.8)                        DID                   1/80
(iii) Blocks 8, 9, 11 (CCRBD.1, ALBD.9,
ARBD.1)                               DID                   3/80
(iv) Block 10 (LBLBD.7)                      DID                   4/80
(v) Blocks 6, 12, 13, 14 (ALBD.6,
LBRBD.3, ACLBD.8b, CCRBD.3e1)         DID                   6/80
(b) Begin construction of MADA
headquarters                               MADA                  9/79
(c) Begin expansion and equipment of Jitra    MADA                    9/79
(d) Call tenders for water management
control system                            MADA                  6/79
/a Construction to begin three months later.



ANNEX 6
- 89 -                              Page 1
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Procedures for Statement of Expenditure
1.        The only component of the Project that would be undertaken through
force account is the fabrication and supply of gates and hoists for water
control structures. This is estimated to cost about US$0.9 million which is
about 1.3% of the total Project cost.
2.        The decision to carry out this work through force account is based
on the following considerations:
(a)  Over the last two decades the Drainage and Irrigation Department
(DID) has developed in-house capability to carry out this type of
work efficiently and at reasonable cost in its Federal Workshop in
Ipoh, which started functioning about 25 years ago.
(b) Gates and hoists would need occasional repairs during operation of
the project. These repairs are usually minor and can be carried
out more expeditiously and economically through force account as
these are not likely to generate enough interest from contractors
to have meaningful competitive bidding. Since such in-house
capability is in any case required for repairs, it is appropriate
to develop the capability for fabrication as well. This practice
is followed in many developing countries to great advantage.
(c) In-house capability facilitates standardization.
3.        Bank missions have visited the Workshop and examined the relevant
engineering and accounting procedures. The Workshop is appropriately
equipped with machinery and facilities to fabricate and supply gates and
hoists. It is headed by a Chief Mechanical Engineer with considerable
professional experience. He has under him four sections to carry out the
functions of the Workshop - an Engineering Section, a Stores Section, a
General Administration Section and a Finance Section. The Engineering
Section has a staff of 9 engineers, 10 technicians and, on the average, about
160 skilled laborers, 30 semi-skilled laborers and 60 unskilled laborers.
The stores section is headed by a Senior Superintendent of Stores who is
assisted by 21 storekeepers of different ranks and 4 store laborers. The
General Administration Section is headed by an executive officer and has a
support staff of five. The Finance Section consists of an executive officer
(finance) with a support staff of five.



Uq A.j,A. 6
-90 -                                 Page 2
4.        The Workshop has a Revolving Trust Fund of M$1 million allocated by
the Federal Government.  In addition, it has an Imprest Account of M$25,000
for day-to-day running expenses. The total value of job orders carried out
by the Workshop averages about M$3 million per year.
5.        The Workshop prepares an annual program for the fabrication of
gates and hoists well in advance after ascertaining the planned requirements
from all the State Directors of DID for different types of gates (aluminum,
mild steel or hardwood), their designs and the target dates by which they
are required to be delivered. After the annual requirements of different
materials are estimated, these are procured in bulk through open competitive
bidding advertised locally. Thereafter, the indenting agencies have to place
firm orders on the Workshop for specific requirements through Departmental
Allocation Warrants confirming inter alia the availability of the required
funds based on the prices quoted by the Workshop. The fabrication work is
taken up only after the receipt of such orders. A debit is raised by the
Workshop against the indentor on the basis of actual cost after completing
the job. The indentor verifies the debit in token of acknowledgement and
submits it for audit and, after check, forwards copies to the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) and the Treasury Accountant for adjustment through the
Inter-Administration (Federal-State) Accounts.
6.        The operations of the Workshop are carried out and regulated on the
lines of comparable commercial enterprises. The requisition, issue and
pricing of materials and stores are properly organized. Accounts are
maintained and audited in accordance with appropriate procedures laid down by
Government. Accounts Statements are prepared by the Workshop every quarter
and final account is prepared at the end of every year. These Statements are
submitted to the Auditor appointed by the Federal Government in the Treasury
of the State of Perak as well as to the Federal MOA. The former carries out
a complete audit as the representative of the Auditor General. This is
supplemented by spot audit/verification by auditors of the MOA who visit the
Workshop about three times a year. Surprise checks are also carried out by
the auditors of the MOA and the State Treasury.
7.        The fabrication of gates and hoists through force account and the
withdrawals therefor from the Loan Account on the basis of certificates
of expenditure would be in order. DID would maintain separate accounts for
such expenditure which would be available for inspection by supervision
missions. Further, DID would retain, until one year after the Closing Date
of the Loan, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing this expenditure and would enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to examine such records.



- 91 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
MALAYSIA
MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A - General Reports and Studies on the Agriculture Sector
A 1 - S. Selvadurai, "Agriculture in Peninsular Malaysia," Ministry of
Agriculture, April 1977.
B - General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B 1 - Muda Agricultural Development Authority (MADA)
"Proposals for On-Farm Improvement in the Muda Scheme - The Tanah-
Merah Project," Alor Setar, Kedah, December 1975.
B 2 - MADA, "Feasibility Report on Tertiary Irrigation Facilities
for Intensive Agricultural Development in the Muda Irrigation
Scheme, Malaysia," (Two Parts, Three Volumes), Alor Setar, Kedah,
January 1977.
B 3 - Goldman, R.H. and L. Squire, "Technical Change, Labor Use, and
Income Distribution in the Muda Irrigation Project," Harvard
Institute for International Development (HIID), January 1978.
B 4 - MADA, "Agro-Economic Studies in the Muda Region," Alor Setar,
Kedah, August 1976.
B 5 - Bell, C. and P. Hazell, "Measuring the Indirect Effects of an
Agricultural Investment Project on its Surrounding Region,"
World Bank, mimeo, 1978.
B 6 - Veitch, M.D. "National Parameters for Project Appraisal in
Malaysia," Vol. 1. Economic Planning Unit (EPU), Kuala Lumpur,
1976.
B 7 - Squire, L. and H.G. van der Tak, Economic Analysis of Projects,
Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1975.
B 8 - Bruce, C. "Social Cost-Benefit Analysis: A Guide for Country and
Project Economists to the Derivation and Application of Economic and
Social Accounting Prices." World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 239,
August 1976.
B 9 - Golan, A., R. Harris and P. Whitford, "The Use of Social
Cost-Benefit Analysis for Irrigation Projects," Tenth Congress on
Irrigation and Drainage, Athens, 1978, Question 33, R.30. Inter-
national Commission on Irrigation and Drainage, New Delhi (1978).



- 92 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
B 10 - IBRD. MALAYSIA, Loan 434-MA: Muda Irrigation Project Completion
Report, June 15, 1975.
B 11 - IBRD. Appraisal of the Muda River Irrigation Project, Malaysia,
October 14, 1965.
B 12 - IBRD. Project Performance Audit Report, Malaysia - Muda and Kemubu
Irrigation Projects (Loans 434-MA and 800-MA), September 24, 1976.



-93-
MALAYSIA
MUDA 11 IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROPOSED PADI CROPPING CALENDAR
Feb.  March  April   May   June  July   Aug.  Sept.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.  Jan.   Feb.
I      I      I                I    I      I      I       I      I      I   .  I
m~~~c
N                                          N
CROPPING SCHEDULE I
M                                      M
H                            ~~~~~~~~H
_C~                                   ~~~ _C
N                                          N
CROPPING SCHEDULE II                          T                                           T
M                                      M
-  H                                    H
C
_N                                             N
CROPPING SCHEDULE IlIl                            TT
M                                       M
H                                       H
m~~~~c                                                C
N                                          N
CROPPING SCHEDULE IV                                                                           T
M                                       M
'   H                        H
MM
Notation              400
C = Cultivation
N = Nursery
T = Transplanting
M =Management         300
H =  Harvest
200
Average Rainfall (MM)
-Muda
Feb.  March  April   May   June   July   Aug.  Sept.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.  Jan.   Feb.
World Bank - 18927



MALAYSIA
MUDA 11 IRRIGATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1978     1979        980       1981      1982       1983                                     1978      1979       1980      1981        1982      (983                                    1978      1979       1990        98       1982       1. 983
BLOCK 10                                                                                      BLOCK 30
BLOCK ,080 ha                _                               =540 h.)                                                                                                                      (2780 h                                        r    =        )
BLOCK  1.777                                                                                                                                                                                AO  DANG
(580 ha_                                                                                   BLOCK 16                                                                                      BLOCK 31
BLOCK  2                                                                                      (530 h.)                                                                                    W (600 h.)
BLOCK h.)FLOCK 17                                                                                                                         BLOCK 25332D MADA HEADQUARTI .RS                                             mlir          _         =          =B 3
B(800ChK)12 C J = B(LB070CKha26 _ > i = EQUIPMEN310 ha(I(5L0 ha)
BLOCK 3                                                                                       3 0 h.) _510hT 
1930 h.)
8 LOCK 18                                                                                    BLOCK 33
BLOCK  4                    2m(1,380 h.)                                                                                          c___                         -(680 h.)
(680 h.)            _            C         1111?    _      D              _                BLOCK 19                                                                                      BLOCK 34
BLOCK  8                                                                                     (1,210 h-)                                                                                     (550h.h)
(830 h.)
BLOCK 20                                                                                     BLOCK 35
BLOCK 6                                                                                       (2  .                                                                                         I6  .
(820 h.)                                                                                    BLOCK 31                                                                                     BLOCK 38
BLOCK 7        2                                                      J~~~~~~~            ~~~~~~~~~~~410 h.)1                                                       (480 h.)
(248 h.)                                           -IBLOCK232                                                                                                                            BLOCK 37
BLOCK 8  P7n= M                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(288 h.)                                                                        (888 h.)
(1,020 h.)o(-1                                                 1                            BLOCK 23                                                                                      MINOR                           ___          -
BLOCK 9  r,-,=,                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(838 h.)                                                                       WORKS
BLOCK h.                                                                                                                                                                                  MAJOR DRAINAGE                 ___                 
(810Gh ND                                                                         BLOCK24                                                                                       IMPROVEMENT
SLOCKI 0                                                             ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~(288)                                                                       COASTAL PROTECTION____
BLOCK 10)                                                                                                                                                                                 WORKS (5.98n,(
BLOCK 25                                                                                      DISTRICTOFFICES                          ______
(810)                                                                                      AND QUARTERS I
BLOCK 1 1                        C=MA0A HEADQUARTERS
(80 ho)                            C-r -   3BLOCK 28                                                                                                                                     EQUIPMENT
BLOCK 12                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(970 h.)
BLOCK 12)                                                                                                                                                                                 WORKSHOP&                         
(810IhT)                                                                    BLOCK 27                                                                                      EQUIPMENTn
(810 h.)                                                                                     WATER MANAGEMENT
BLOCK 13                                                                                                                                                                                   CONTRO_L SYSTEM
(1,220h.)                                                                                   BLOCK28                                                                                       STUDIES
BLOCK 14                                                                                      40h)L
(798 h.)                                                                                    BLOCK 29
(798 h.)
LEOGEND0
C= Land AnqujoljO
Planing and D.,iBn
n S.Pply                                                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wodd Bank - 28077



MUDA 11 IRRIGATION PROJECT
MUDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (MADA)
ORGANIZATION CHART
MADA
|BOARD                 
DID
OFFICE OF                                                               DIRECTOR
GENERAL MANAGER                                                               GENERAL
Planning           ~~Adllinit-ra                    P blic                    A,                                                                                         Dieeetae
Ejon                       Relations                  lntiornauion                                                     0                         Genenal
.....................  ......................  .........    .......
0%. 
Division-of l                                                                                 Division of                     Prjleet Diwecter
Engin wring      |                                                                                Industry                          Mu.a 11
Water                       |       Planning
System                        Pilot Projects
Director                                                                                  9M
Workshop  l                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Divisior of
Agriculture
JDStaH   y 2   Operation  |  (See Chart World Bank - 1 920)
Senio  Resident                                           S-n,o  Ra.en
Enginenr                                                 Eg                           PI.e
Nort                                                     Sousth
Stor-|   Dev/elopment                                                  I1
~~~~~~~~~I                                                                             I .11|,|,  ,f 
MADA               I        MADA               RI MADA                               MADA
District I          I                                     ititIlDsrc  VEnginerEgn-rEgne
I  Distrit 11                                                                              Distict IDititIDsrctI                                                                 D t  V
- i W -_ _ _ -_-_-_                               -  -  _-n
Control
_         Cvordirutiov
Wtrd  Bk - 19775



MUDA II IRRIGATION PROJECT
MADA -DIVISION OF AGRICULTURE
DOA - Cmp Production                                                                                        ORGANIZATION CHART
- Crop Protection
-Soils and An.lytiVil
MARDI                                                           r-      -     1
LPN                                                             I              I                                            e
FOA  _                            -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - I   SARDEC   I-                  A-nic-rC -ioi-ioD
FAMA                                                            L
Fidran;Y
Depoectyon                                                                                                                                                                                    Dot tr
SAO ~ ~ ~~SD                                                                                  
A AI 
Tronin                                                                                                                 r------ii
2  AA
7 A 
Admin&  Sam,  Danalopntena      Eotrneion        Faont Fannilo          Cnoo               niro~~~                                                                                                                                         ~ AD      AAl
Finance  Meohnloation   andSaetietioa       ad Triig             eeomet             Posoin             Arooy               DBnc                Doiti              ico II           0S    B                                           "Ad C_a~
2AAT                I2AAT                AdA                2AVi T             2AT                                        FC 3                                FDC                                                       2AT                                  4AT
2AT                 2AT                                                                                                                                                          8Ad
4 AT                FCnP B-dg.t.
S.b.idi.,           rod RecoadsmA
3 AT                2AT                                                                         aiw
Specia P.olect
2AT                                                                         tAT                     1AA
Farm Fnmtily    -    2 AT
Develnastent   '    _Daoelopment
1AT                     IAA
2AT
SAO  Senior AgBiOolt,ral Officer             ' AT Sotensio- and 1 AT Credit
AG  e Ai9lultunDl Ottint                      Will be in htarge of 10 ISA. There -
AE   A',iroltoal Engin.er                     will be b60 ISA and thentora
AAD OAssi-n AgrhultoI Officer                 BOAT Eension and BOAT C-di.                                                              FC                FDC                FDC                FDC                FDC               FDC
AA  = ApnioAtor.Al Pia-aat2                                                                                                                                                                       
AT  =Agriculturl Tt -niOia3
FDC = Farmer Development Canter                                                                                                                                                2 A
SMS = Sobjact MAttr Speci.liet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   n Control
_2AT E... ttnion                                                                                 Li-e C-drp
2 AT Cradit-                                                                   ----     Stal Coodi-ito
I AT An-oons_
I AT Org. & Coops.
_ AT Atriboainaaa
World Bank - 18920



I BRD 13613,R
}QZ   0 \    e1        :  !    {    i    t lo Knga \}>e   102 2'   /                                  ALA SIA                                                  oR   O'  , w     ;; : ;z S;:!,':    75 7MALAYSIA727
T-fl$AI D j              '                                                                                            MUDA 11 IRRlGATION  PROJECT                                                      5~      d;i           <t     '     r;   
XI+~   R n          r                                                 S                                              id _ (t / ~~~ '  L_:Ir, - gorion blocrd robe mpred                                              I i
\~~~~ asP   Wmi 
__~~                                                                 ~ ~~~~ ~ Aro /\ '-corbudr '\ 3            jvi  .             y ;                                                                                    .      \X Jr
MlLe  < w f                      -!'fD'               100-2O'     \          <            \             l  ITO   lpeE         sc  ep:nceor  chA    16=wS                             5  5  N  jRuc: K fiV snlt oisrigeecondos_coca's  1  
D.-a~oso  r ,ooratnns n  oto  oe                                                             TH-AILAND
A6d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
b-d.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
Too  raarnr'enacn ooo oanosa~~~~o ,,OOroo,0o~~oc To, j0'a'-o,- ~
b ...onOoO d.c,-oOnnpOo oa  coocorn,                 e
5TI'll   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)F   IIAIAC ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      n,i,,0ronO,oo5A~O
ncr                                           orO0Or on~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ oOon.n5 on c,.OeO, nioo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  anOn   0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ '
K..I.  S.,ig                                                                                                                    ..I.  N ....o 000000  ''                     ,,EDU  0



