Document af
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
g v V 35_ 7/f
Repwitfe. P-3932-TH
REPORT AN: RECOMMENDATION
'IF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
iN AN AFOUNT EOUIVALENT TO US$33 MILLION
TO THE
PETROLEUM AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
STRIKIT PETROL.EUM PROJECT
November 8, 1985
This dcmist h  a reidctu AM~u  a  may be wed by redpieuts ody In the peifwance of
thdir UfdI dotles Ilb ammfets my me: herwise be didseimd wirssou Worl Bank auda.datma.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of October 1985)
1 Baht             US$O.037
27 Baht       =     US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
Government and PTT - October 1 to September 30
Thai Shell Joint Venture - January I co December 31
Weights and Measures
bbl       -    Barrels (aproximately 6.6 barrels per ton fuel cil)
bpd       -    Barrels per day
Bcf       -    Billion cubic feet (109)
Btu       -    British Thermal Unit - a unit of heat equal ro 0.25 k calories
MM        -    Million
MMBBL     -    Million Barrels
MW        -    Megawacts
MMCFD     -    Million cubic feet per day
tcf       -    Trillion cubic feet (1012)
toe       -    Tons oil equivalent (10.415 x 106 kcals)
km        -    Kilometers
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BMTA      -    Bangkok Mass Transit Authority
DED       -    Defense Energy Department
DMR       -    Department of Mineral Resources
ECAT      -    Electricity Generating Auchority of Thailand
E & P     -    Exploration and Production
rCB       -    International Competitive Bidding
rocs      -    International Oil Companies
LPG       -    Liquified Petroleum Gas
NEA       -    National Energy Administration
NESDB     -    National Economic and Social Development Board
NPPC      -    National Petroleum Policy Committee
PTT       -    Petroleum Authority of Thailand
RTG       -    Royal Thai Government
SAL       -    Structural Adjustment Loan
ScV       -    Sycip, Gorres, Velayo and Company
SRT       -    State Railways of Thailand



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
;ILAND
SIRIKIT PETROLUM PROJECT
Loan and Project Suary
Borrower:      Petroleum Authority of Ihailand (PTT)
Guarantor:     Kingdom of Thailand
Loan Amount:  US$33 million equivalent
Terms:         15 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard variable
interest race.
Project
Description:   The project would enable Thailand to participate jointly with
Thai Shell in exploring for and developing oiL and gas reserves
in Northern Thailand. The Government's objective is to streng-
then PT? with a view to enabling it to become an effective
joint venture partner. PTT's participation in this venture is
important as it is the first significant exploration!production
joint venture for Thailand. The firsthand experience gained
will help Thailand ensure that its overall Eramework for hydro-
carbon exploration and development is appropriate, and is
supportive of its policy of encouraging private sector involve-
vent in oil/gas expLoration. The project would comprive the
establishment of the joint venture and its investment program
up to 1988; in addition the project would include a technical
assistance and training prograr. which is directed both at
enhancing PTT's partnership vith Thai Shell and at strengthen-
ing PTT's role in relation to other joint venture options. The
major benefits of the project, therefore, are strengthening
Thailand's hydrocarbon exploration and development strategy,
enhancing the role of the private sector, strengthening the
institutional capability of PTT and resource mobilization. It
will also provide an established framework for other such
ventures including the basis for expeditious negotiations.
While the project involves geologic risks which are comon in
petroleum operations, the success to date and the production
experience suggest that such risks are moderate and acceptable
fcr the joint venture.
This documeat has a restited distnbution and may be used by recieats only in th performance of
their off ici duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dclosed without World Bank atthouizaton.



Project Cost and                                      Foreign    Local    Total
Financing Requirements:                                  m(us  ollion)
A. Establishment and Investment
Program of Joint Venture /a
Establishment Cost (buy-in)                         40.0       =       40.0
Investment Program - Exploration                    68.0      17.0     85.0
Investment Program - DeveLopment                   169.6      42.4    212.0
Sub-Total                                   237.6      59.4    297.0
Physical Contingency                                23.4       5.8     29.2
Price Contingency                                   35.8       9.0     44.8
Total Establishment Cost and Investment          336.8      74.2    411.0
S. PIT
Technical Assistance and Consultancy                 4.9       0.3       5.2
Training                                             0.2       0.0       0.2
Computer Hardvare and Software                       1.5       0.0      1.5
Sub-Total                                  6.6       0.3      6.9
Price Contingency                                    1.1       0.0       1.1
Total TA and Training                            7.7       0.3      8.0
Interest on Joint Venture buy-in                    13.0       -        13.0
Total direct PTT requirements                20.7       0.3     21.0
Total Financing Requirements                       357.5      74.5    432.0
Financing Plan:
A.  Thai Shell                                         219.6      54.9    274.5
B. PTr:
-  Commercial Banks                                 53.0       -        53.0
-  IBRD                                             28.0       5.0      33.0
-  Internal Cash Generation                         56.9      14.6      71.5
Sub-TotaL                                137.9      19.6    157.5
Total Funding                                     357.5      74.5    432.0
/a The joint venture is exempted from customs duties and tazes



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements                    FY   1986      1987     1988      198!
of IBRD Loan:                                           (US$ milLion)
Annual                                       15        11        1       - 6
Cumtlative                                   15        26       27        33
Economic Rate of Return: 152
Staff Appraisal Report: None
lips: IBED No. 19061
18741



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
TOE PETROLEUM AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
FOR THE SIRIKIT PETROLEUM PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Petroleum Authority of Thailand, with the Guarantee of the Kingdom of
Thailand, for the equivalent of $33.0 million to help finance the Sirikit
Petroleum Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 5 years
of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART r - THE ECONOM Y
2.        An economic report entitLed "Managing Public Resources for
Structural Adjustment" (Report No. 4366-TH) was issued on August 31, 1983. It
reviewed progress in the implementation of structural adjustment policies and
proposed directions for further action. An economic mission visited Thailand
in July 1985, and an economic report is currently being prepared. It will
focus on medium-term issues of resource mobilization, institutional devel-
opment and employment, as Thailand approaches its Sixth Five-Year Development
Plan (October 1986-September 1991). The report will be discussed with the
Government in January 1986.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Since the early 1970s, the political process in Thailand has broad-
ened and matured significantly. Initially, this was accompanied by frequent
and sometimes abrupt changes in government leadership. Since the l977 general
elections, however, ThaiLand has enjoyed a period of greater political stabil-
ity and continuity of policy. Cabinet shuffles have continued to take place,
reflecting shifts in the makeup of the coalitions of political parties, miLi-
tary and business leaders, and technocrats, which have governed the country
for the past five years. However, only one change in Prime Minister has
occurred during this period. General Prem Tinsulanonda was appointed as Prime
Minister in March L980 and has been successful in mobilizing support for a
major program of economic structural adjustment, embodied in the Fifth Five-
Year Plan, 1982-86. Senior civil servants supporting this program were given
key positions in the pubLic sector. Although there are continuing internaL
debates on the details and speed of policy implementation, overall, a broad
public consensus on national policy priorities has been maintained.
4.        National elections were held again on April 18, 1983, in which can-
didates from cen parties were elected to Parliament. No party secured an out-
right majority, but Prime Minister Prem succeeded in forming a new four-party
coalition which includes two of the three leading parties and has the backing
of approximately two-thirds of the elected representatives. As part of a
gradual constitutional reform aiming at increasecz representative government,
transitional arrangements had been in place to permit serving military,



- 2 -
civilian and other non-elected officials to continue to play a stabilizing
role in both the legislative and executive branches of government through
their appointment to the Senate and to Cabinet posts. These transitional
arrangements have lapsed, curtaiiing the Senate's powers and prohibiting
military and civilian officials from participating in the Cabinet. These
changes, when combined with the current coalition's diversity and the Prime
Minister's lack of an independent political power base, have made it necessary
to take time to achieve and maintain consensus on difficult economic issues.
This approach may in part have helped the Government to withstand two attempt-
ed coups. The Governmenc has recently endorsed a set of broad objectives for
Thailand's Sixth Five-Year Plan (1987-91). The main themes for the plan con-
cern continuation and compLetiun of investment programs included in the Fifth
Plan and measures to improve economic efficiency and institutionaL
administration.
Past Economic Trends
5.        Thailand's economy grew rapidly over the past two decades and devel-
oped successfully by most standards of international comparison. The 7% per
annum GDP growth combined with a population growth of about 21 per annum
allowed per capita incomes to grow at almost 51 per annum during 1960-80,
among the highest sustained rates for developing countries. The reduction of
poverty was substantial for a country still among the lowest third of middle-
income developing countries, as the overall incidence of poverty dropped from
about 57% in the early 1960s to about 31% in the mid-1970s. Despite its con-
tinuing reliance on agriculture, Thailand experienced a far-reaching transfor-
mation of its economic and social structure during the past two decades, with
a high growth in modern industrial and service sector activities, extension of
transport and communications infrastructure throughout the country, rapid
modernization, and a significant increase in the openness of the economy to
trade and capital flows, tourism and international labor migration. The rapid
growth in Thailand's exports played a particularly important role in stimulat-
ing aggregate demand and providing the necessary means to finance imports.
Moreover, because of this rapid export growth, the Thai debt service burden
remained moderate.
6.        However, because of its increased openness, its heavy dependence on
imported oil, and an expansionary fiscal stance in the late 1970s, the Thai
economy was substantially affected by the two oil price shocks and by the
ensuing international economic upheaval. A relatively high rate of overall
growth was maintained initially, but this was accompanied by accelerating
inflation, large fiscal and external deficits and growing dependence on for-
eign borrowing. Consumer prices increased by 10% in 1979, by 20% in 1980, and
by 13% in 1981. The Central Government deficit on average exceeded 4% of GDP
in the period 1979-82. Notwithstanding continued rapid export growth, the
current account deficit amounted to 7.7Z of GDP in 1979, 6.2Z in 1980, and
6.9Z in 1981; consequently, there has been a rapid accumulation of Thailand's
traditionally low external debt.
7.        Initially, the Government was slow in responding to the changing
external conditions, but, beginning in 1980, policy adjustments were under-
taken at a gradually accelerating pace through 1982. They included sharp



-3-
increases in prices for most petroleum products, electricity and other public
services, measures to increase government revenues, a substantial increase in
real interest rates, and the changes in regulations to increase financial
stabiLity and monetary restraint. In October 1981, the Government inaugurated
its Fifth Five-Year PLan (1982-86) which made structural adjustment one of its
major priorities. In March 1982, the first SAL for Thailand was approved,
followed by SAL II in March 1983. Under these loans the Government committed
it-teLf to taking steps toward adjustments in the structure of the economy
through reductions in domestic price controls, export taxes and controls over
agricultural exports, developing a program for improved land tenure, taking
steps toward rationalization of the structure of incentives for irdustrial
production, exports, and investment, promoting energy conservation and
efficient development of domestic energy resources, and improving the Govern-
ment's tax structure and administration, public investment planning, and other
areas of public administration. Progress under both SALs was satisfactory,
although implementation of SAL II was at a somewhat slower pace than original-
ly expected, especialLy in the area of public resource management and institu-
tional development.
8.        Macroeconomic developments in Thailand during the last three years
(1982-85) have been strongly influenced by a number of external factors. The
most important of these were the worldwide recession in 1982, gradual recovery
in 1983 and 1984, continuing high interest rates and increasing strength of
the dollar to which the baht was linked until November 1984, and increasing
protectionism in OECD countries. The average growth rate of GDP for 1922-84
was about 5% per annum, and for 1985, growth of 4.8% is expected. This lower-
than-historical growth performance has been due to the external factors cited
above. Agricultural production which had increased slowly in 1982 and i983
because of poor weather and low commodity prices, rebounded in 1984 and 1985
as weather improved permitting paddy rice, maize, and cassava production to
reach record levels. As a result of weak domestic demand, lower international
prices, and an appreciating exchange rate, domestic inflation dropped from 13%
in 1981 to less than 7Z in 1983 and 1% in 1984. Following devaluation, it has
risen to 5Z in 1985.
9.        Thailand's current account deficit has remained stubbornly high
throughout the early 1980s, averaging 7% of GDP in 1979-81, reaching a high of
7.5Z in 1983, and falling to 5.0Z in 1984 and an expected 4.5% in 1985. These
persistent and unsustainable deficits have had two primary causes. First,
between 1981 and 1984, Thailand's exports lost competitiveness as the baht
appreciated in relation to the currencies of most of its trading partners. By
mid-1984, it was cLear that the real appreciation of the baht which was pegged
to the US dollar was undermining the stabilization and restructuring mea-
sures. In November 1984, therefore, the baht was devalued by 14.8% and de-
linked from the doLlar. This has already had a beneficial impact on manufac-
tured exports, which are expected to rise by 13% in real terms in 1985, and in
curbing consumer imports. The devaluation has had relatively little impact on
inflation. Second, the external imbalance has been also due to an excessive
public sctor investment savings-gap, which averaged 5% of GDP in FY1982 and
FY1983 and 4.2% in FY1984 and FY1985. Reducing this deficit through taxation
and cost recovery measures and through careful expenditure management is a



high priority for the Government. This priority is being supported by an rHF
standby (signed in May 1985).
Development Constraints and Prospects
10.       During the 1980s, many of the positive factors which contributed to
Thailand's rapid economic growth and reduction in poverty over the preceding
two decades will continue to do so, including the relatively equitable distri-
bution of agricultural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved tech-
nology, a good network of public infrastructure, and a dynamic private sector
in industry, agricuLture and services. Substantial reductions in the rate of
population growth between the mid-1960s and late 1970s and discovery of domes-
tic gas and oil supplies are further positive factors which will support the
continued rapid development of Thailand.
11.       Against these favorable factors, however, a number of important con-
straints must be recognized and addressed: (a) the rapid growth of Thailand's
public sector over the last decade, particularly of major state enterprises,
without commensurate growth in public resource mobilization, has posed a
serious challenge to improvements in institutional and fiscal management;
(b) for the longer term, the exhaustion of agriculturaL land reserves could
severely limit employment growth and exports of the agricultural sector,
unless input-intensive agricultural development proceeds; (c) further indus-
trial development, exports and employment growth may similarly be limited
unless the international competitiveness and diversification of Thai industry
are strengthened through correct incentives and support for marketing, finance
and technological developments; (d) despite the promising outlook for domestic
energy resources, their development is costly and will take time, and thus
continued efforts in energy conservation are required; (e) the decline in the
population growth rate appears to have slowed in recent years; further reduc-
tions will require innovative policies; (f) continued long-term development
and poverty alleviation will also depend on continued efforts in human
resource development, including education, technical skill development, and
improvements in health and nutrition; and (g) finally, the pace of development
will increasingly be hampered by inefficient metropoLitan growth in Bangkok
unless steps are taken to rationalize the city's land use and transport, water
drainage and sanitation systems; Thailand's secondary cities, too, require
strengthening of their infrastructure and administrative capabilities to
prepare them for the expected future growth in urban population.
12.       These long-term economic development concerns have been compounded
by mediumrterm adjustment problems as a result of the two oil price shocks and
the subsequent world recession accompanied by poor export prospects, high real
interest rates and increasing barriers in OECD countries to Thailand exports.
Economic projections indicate that even if the structural adjustment program
is fully implemented, economic growth for the remainder of the decade will be
lower than Thailand has enjoyed in the past (5.0Z per annum for the remainder
of the 1980s compared with 7.4Z in the late 1970s). Although this growth is
better than that of most other developing countries, this wiLl make it more
difficult to reduce the incidence of poverty and heightens the need for
policies which raise labor absorption and for continued efforts in the areas
of human capital development and rural development.



13.       To help address these constraints, the Government has sought the
assistance of the IMF and the Bank. During the past four years, Thailand made
purchases from the IMF under two compensatory financing facilities (SDR 186
million), a buffer stock financing facility (SDR 58 million), and three stand-
by arrangements (totalling SDR 667 million). The Third Standby became effec-
tive in June 1985 and will run for two years during which Thailand will be
eligible to purchase SDR 400 milLion. Thailand sought assistance from the
Bank in implementing its structural adjustment program through two structural
adjustment loans and sector work, and loans to priority sectors. The Bank is
also helping the Government with the deveLopment of selected parts of the
Sixth Five-Year Plan, including the structural adjustment program. To support
this, a third SAL is being proposed.
Financing Requirements
14.       While the Covernment is making considerable efforts to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of its spending, the implementation of policies
needed for a satisfactory rate of economic and social progress will require
continued growth in the absolute Level of public-expenditures, t:iough they
will need to decline somewhat in relation to GDP because of fiscal con-
straints. The Government has reduced expenditures as a short-term step and
has increased taxes as the basis for longer term increases in revenue gen-
eration. While t.he Government has taken steps to revise the tax structure and
to improve tax administration and collections, further measures are needed.
In addition, the financial situation of state enterprises, which has improved
following tariff increases over the last four years, and cutbacks in overly
ambitious investment programs, will need further improvement. The Government
is currently reviewing appropriate policies to achieve a more efficient and
financially viable state enterprise sector.
15.       Despite these policy measures, the demand for external resources
will remain substantial. Macroeconomic projections indicate that, even with
structural adjustment program in place, the current account deficit may amount
to about 2% of GDP through the remainder of the 1980s. This will require
large amounts of exterr.al borrowing, with new cofmitments totalling about
$10.5 billion over the period 1986-90, of which more than half is expected to
be in the form of public and publicly guaranteed debt. Total debt service
payments (including interest on short-term debt) as a percentage of exports of
goods and nonfactor services rose from 19% in 1981 to an estimated 25Z in 1985
and is not expected to fall to below 20% until 1990. Even this expectation is
based on the assumption of continued availability of significant levels of
concessional assistance and continued improvements in Thailand's debt manage-
ment strategy.
16.       However, because the level of public debt continues to concern
Government, it has established the National Loan Policy Committee to coordi-
nate and approve all borrowing by the public sector. External borrowing
ceilings of $2.1 billion in FY84, $1.6 billion in FY85, and $1.0 billion in
FY86 have been set. In addition, the Bank of Thailand is improving its proce-
dures for recording private boriowing abroad to keep track of total foreign
debt. In this constrained environment, official donors, particularLy the
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan, meet a significant part of



- 6 -
Thailand's public external resource requirements, and the balance is being
financed mainly through syndicated loan and bond issues that have been
competitively priced. In recent years, external agencies, including the Bank,
have supported project Lending in some sectors that have high social benefit
but low foreign exchange savings or earnings. To continue participating in
these sectors in Thailand, it is necessary to finance some Local currency
expenditures in selected projects with low foreign exchange component.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
17.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and as of September 30, 1985, had received 82 IBRD loans (including 2
third-window loans) and 6 IDA credits, totaling (net of cancellations)
$3,438 million in loans and $125 million in credits. As of that date,
$900 million remained undisbursed on effective loans and credits. No IDA
credits have been extended to Thailand since FY79. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments. Bank loans
and IDA credits to ThaiLand, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$2,191 million as of September 30, 1985 and accounted for 17.6% of Thailand's
total debt (disbursed and outstanding). The Bank Group's share of Thailand's
total debt service payments amounted to 11.7% in 1985. As of September 30,
1985, IFC had made 20 counitments totalling $227 million in 14 projects in
Thailand. IFC's investments have been primarily in industry and in the deve-
lopment of financial institutions. Prospects for increased IFC operations in
Thailand have been enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity
and by increased potential for developing indigenous resources.
18.       The sectoral distribution of Bank loans and IDA credits, in percent-
age, has been as follows: 30Z for energy; 25% for agriculture and rural
development; 16% for transportation; 8% for telecommunications; 4Z for urban
development; 5% for education; 2% for industry; 1Z for population/health/
nutrition; and 9% for structural adjustment lending. Overall implementation
of Bank projects in Thailand has improved stEadily during the past five years.
Thailand's disbursement ratio increased from 17.7% in 1977 to 27.1X in 1985.
19.       The main objective of Bank Group activities in Thailand is to
promote the country's economic growth and development through structural
adjustment, productive investments in the key sectors of the economy, and
poverty alleviation m.aasures. The economic and sector work program is
designed to achieve this objective by assisting the Government to improve its
public resource management, enhance the efficiency and competitiveness of
productive sectors, and rationalize the policies and investments for infra-
structure development. The Government has valued the analytical input and
technical assistance provided by the Bank in these areas, and this is reflec-
ted in the work done on structural adjustment, including the preparation for
SAL III. However, the level of the Bank's future lending to Thailand is
likely to continue to be affected by ceilings on public foreign borrowing,
reductions in public investment programs, and the availability of foreign
commercial and concessional sources of finance. The Government has also
indicated its preference to seek highly concessional aid or to use its own



- 7 -
resources for education-, health- and population-related investments. As a
result, the levels of Bank lending are Likely to be at or even below the
historical average of the last ten years.  In cofinancing, the Bank's primary
concern wiLI be to identify appropriate sources of concessional funding for
technical assistance associated with Bank operations. The above factors are
being taken into account in determining the level and composition of the
Bank's operations program in the following areas.
20.       Energy.  Energy has been a significant sector for Bank assistance to
Thailand. The Bank has helped finance projects for power generation and
distribution, for lignite mining, and for the development and processing of
hydrocarbon resources. Bank assistance through these projects has served to
strengthen the institutions involved in the sector. Policy analyses and
dialogue through CESW and SALs have addressed issues in energy management,
planning and the incentive structure. More recently, the Bank collaborated
with NESDB through the Energy Assessment Program to help prepare energy
policies for the Sixth Plan. The sector's needs and investment programs are
likely to remain large, and a number of planning and pricing issues continue
to deserve government actention. The Bank's future assistance through energy
and power projects combined with a CESW program involving sector work and
public investment programming would help the Government to address these
issues and to meet the resource requirements for the relatively large
investments planned in the sector.
21.       Agriculture/Rural Development.  The importance of the agricuLture
sector to the economy and the potential for intensive farming and crop diver-
sification suggest that it should ncrmally continue to be a major focus of
Bank operations. Past Bank assistance through projects has emphasized devel-
opment of the irrigation infrastructure, uplifting of backward areas, improve-
ments in land tenure, programs for rubber replanting, and strengthening of the
delivery systems for extension, research and credit. A number of policy
reforms in the areas of institutional coordination, poverty alleviation, land
reclassification, and reduced export taxation have been implemented with sup-
port from the Bank's CESW program and via SALs. Future operations are
expected to continue these efforts. However, weaknesses in the provision of
support services by Government departments and some outstanding issues in
rural credit and mobilization of savings may limit future Bank assistance in
these areas.
22.       Urban and Water Supply. The Government intends to devote increasing
attention to the continued expansion and pressures of urban areas in the
country, especially Bangkok. Urban and water supply sectors provide consider-
able investment opportunities, but they also involve institutional and cost
sharing issues. Ongoing sector work for Bangkok, as well as the preparatory
work for urban projects financed or under consideration by the Bank, are pro-
viding a good basis for assistance in this sector. Future Bank assistance is
likely to concentrate on providing essential urban infrastructure and shelter
for low-income families in Bangkok and in regional cities.
23.       Transport.  Thailand's transport sector, dominated by road trans-
portation, is generally well developed. The Bank has contributed to develop-
ing transport infrastructure through project lending for roads, railways,



- 8-
inland waterways and ports. Future Bank role would focus on investments in
infrastructure maintenance, operational efficiencv, and selected construction,
as well as on issues in institutional development, investment planning, and
state enterprise finances.
24.       Telecommunications.  The 3ank has been closely associated with the
development of the domestic telephone network, and the Bank's first B loan was
made in connection with the third and fourth telecommunications projects.
However, the Government's plan for rapid network expansion is straining the
institutional/managerial capacity and finances of the implementing agency, the
Telephone Organization of Thailand (TOT). It wiLl be necessary for TOT to
consolidate its operations before the Bank would be able to participate in the
next phase of system expansion. Meanwhile, Bank involvement would continue
through supervision of the ongoing project and as part of our economic
dialogue.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Background
25_       The efficient development of Thailand's indigenous energy resources
is of primary importance to reducing the country's import dependence and pro-
moting its industrial development. Over the last two decades, commercial
energy consumption increased at an average rate of 10Z p.a. from 1.6 million
tons of oil equivalent (toe) in 1960 to 14.3 million toe in 1983. The rapid
increase in energy consumption was mainly due to growth and structural change
in the economy that expanded industrial and service sectors as well as ccer-
cialized agriculture. Comiercial energy consumption in Thailand has been
dominated by petroleum, either imported petroleum products or products refined
locally from imported crude. In 1983, imported petroleum accounted for about
76% of the country's total commercial energy requirements, hydroelectricity
provided 8Z, coal/lignite 3%, and indigenous oil and natural gas 12Z. Commer-
cial fuels contributed 54% of total fuel suppLies in 1983, traditional fuels,
the remaining 46% (fuelwood 40Z, bagasse 5%, and residues 1%). The import
bill for petroleum in that year amounted to $2.5 billion, representing 23% of
total imports and absorbing 39% of the economy's export earnings.
26.       In response co the rapidly escalating oil prices in the 1970s, the
Government's Fifth Five-Year National Economic and Social Development Plan
(1982-1986) accorded the energy sector high priority addressing four inter-
related basic energy sector issues: (i) development of indigenous energy
resources, such as oil and natural gas, lignite and hydro; (ii) establishment
of rational energy pricing policies; (iii) promotion of energy conservation
programs; and (iv) improvement of energy sector management, coordination of
policies and investments. These, developed into detailed policies, plans and
programs, will be an important part of the Sixth Five-Year Plan, on which the
Bank is giving substantial assistance through the energy assessment program.
27.       Prospects for meeting the Plan's energy sector objectives in the
1980s are good. The growth of total energy consumption has been sharply



- 9 -
reduced from an average 8.8% p.a. in the 1970s to about 2.8X p.a. since 1979,
in response to the global recession which slowed ThaiLand's economic growth,
and to energy prices. Thailand's energy consumption will undergo a structural
shift in composition as a result of the development of indigenous oil, naturaL
gas and lignite resources and the continued expansion of hydro capacity, as
well as conservation and curtailed energy demand. The share of imports in its
overalL energy consumption could be reduced from some 80% in 1982 to 5O0 by
1990. The share of petroLeum products in commercial energy consumption is
expected to decrease from 78% in 1983 to 57% in 1990 (Annex IV). By the end
of this decade, indigenous naturaL gas is projected to accounc for 24X of the
commercial energy requirements, with hydroelectricity and lignite providing
some 7% and 11%, respectively.
28.       However, notwithstanding the encouraging prognosis over the medium
term, the level of energy imports will nevertheless remain high. In addition,
further sustained economic growth and transformation in Thailand will continue
to inzcrease the demand for energy, and by-the mid-1990s, import dependence
could again increase, even alloving for continual successful development of
indigenous resources, with an important effect on the balance of payments. It
should be noted that while recent discoveries of oil and gas in Thailand have
been significant, the fields are expected to be relatively short-lived as
indicated by the production experience. In the absence of significant fucure
discoveries and the timely conclusion of supply contracts after commercial
discovery, the production of oil and gas could decline rapidly in the 1990s,
thereby aggravating the problem of rising energy consumption and leading to
curtailment of gas-based industries. As a result, it is of high priority for
the country to maintain the momentum for petroleum exploration and development
and rationalize refining operations.
Energy Resources
29.       Proven and probable economically recoverable natural gas reserves in
Thailand are currently indicated to be about 5.5 trillion cubic feet (tcf), of
which about 3 tcf are proven and under development. These estimates have been
revised downward from those made previously, as field performance now indi-
cates that the recoverable fraction of in-place reserves will be far lower
than originally expected, and, in fact, lover than that for most gas fields in
other countries. Latest data suggests th.-r the ultimate economically recover-
able reserves (including those yet to be iiscovered) could be in the range of
12-24 tcf. By the end of this decade, natural gas production is expected to
reach some 550 million cubic fret per day (MCFD), equivalent to some 6 million
toe per annum. About 40% of the projected total power generation couLd be
thermal stations using natural gas, thereby reducing substantially fuel oil
demand.
30.       Exploration in Thailand has recently led to expectations of domestic
production of oil and natural gas liquids beyond what was thought possible
when the Fifth Plan was prepared. Proven economically recoverable reserves of
petroleum liquids (oil and gas condensate) are presently estimated at about
140 million barrels (MMBBL). Current production is about 30,000 barrels per
day (bpd). Subject to continued exploration efforts and timely development of
future discoveries, production in 1990 is expected to range betweez±



- 10 -
30,000-45,000 bpd. The ultimate liquid resource, including that yet to be
discovered, could be in the range of 0.7-1.5 billion barrels based on present
information. Oil is also present in oil shale deposits in Tak province, and
these are under feasibility study by the Department of Mineral Resources
(DMR), with the assistance of the Federal Republic of Germany. However,
deveLopment is unlikely to be economically viable without substantial price
increases.
31.       Substantial increases in Thailand's lignite deposits have been indi-
cated by recent drilling. Known reserves are 865 million tons, of which
802 million tons are at Mae Moh. Mae Moh's reserves are sufficient to sustain
1,725 KW in power generating capacity for at least 30 years; it is expected
that by 1990 about 25% of total power generation by the Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand (EGAT) could be from lignite-fired thermal stations.
32.       The total hydro potential of Thailand's rivers is estimated at about
9,300 NW, not including the potential of 25,000 MW from the international
rivers (Mekong and Salween), whose development is at present unlikely due to
major political, environmental and social obstacles. About 1,809 NW of hydro-
power capacity are now in operation, 430 KW are under construction, and about
2,500 NW in 25 projects are in various stages of identification or feasibiLity
study. Mini-hydro potential, estimated at about 3,290 MW, exists at over 100
sites. According to current plAns, hydropower production will increase at an
average annuaL rate of about 7% from 1985 onwards and is expected to supply
about 35% of electricity generation in 1990.
33.       Thailand's other energy resources include fuelwood and possibly
geothermal energy. Fuelwood resources, once plentiful, are rapidly depleting
as a consequence of the expansion of agriculture. Geothermal exploration is
being carried out by EGAT in the northern part of Thailand near Chiangmai.
Public Sector Investment and Coordination
34.       Energy is now the single most important sector of public spending.
For the Fifth Plan period, the National Economic and Social Development Board
(NESDB) projected that the energy sector will account for about 26% of total
governmental spending, up from the average of 181 during the Fourth Plan
period. The energy sector is expected to continue to account for more than
50% of state enterprise investment throughout the Fifth Plan period. EGAT is
expected to retain its large share (55-75%) in energy spending for the Fifth
Plan period, with the Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) becoming the
second largest as it increases its involvement in gas and oil development and
utilization projects.
35.       Energy sector policy and planning functions involve the Cabinet,
NESDB and the National Energy Administration (NEA). In principle, NEA, which
is under the Ministry of Science, Technology and Energy, is responsible for
sector planning and coordination. In practice, energy sector decisions are
often taken ad hoc by various Cabinet committees and subcommittees. As part
of the Coveromentrs continuing structural adjustment program, an energy sector
strategy study has been initiated to provide the basis for determining an
appropriate approach to energy sector planning, particularly addressing ways



- 11 -
of taking account of the particuLar uncertainty in Thailand's energy picture
(e.g., the wide range of gas reserve estimates).
Energy Pricing Policy
36.       Until 1978, Thailand's domestic energy price adjustments were
restrained in order to encourage economic development. Since then, however,
the Government has increased domestic energy prices (by 160-180% between
1978-82) to reflect international price developments. Electricity tariffs
have also been raised and broadly reflect the marginal cost of power gen-
eration, being set at Levels thac generate a financial rate of return of about
8Z on revalued assets.
37.       Thailand has established the price levels for its commercial fuel on
an individual basis, and the pricing system is not fully coordinated across
the energy sector. The introduction of natural gas on a Large scale, the
development of a major lignite mine and changes in petroLeum product prices
are leading to substantial changes in energy consumption and investment
patterns. The Government, with the assistance of consultants, has recently
completed two closely coordinated energy pricing studies to rationalize the
pricing policies across the whole energy sector and to provide for the
efficient utilization of the energy resources. The Government has discussed
the final reports and policy implications with the Bank and is reviewing ways
in which it might adopt the recommeudations.
Bank Participation in the Energy Sector
38.       The Bank has taken an active role in support of the Government's
development objectives and policy reform in the energy sector through loans
for development of indigenous energy resources and structural adjustment. The
first loan to the oiL and gas subsector (S-10-TH) was made in July 1978 for
the preparation and engineering of a gas pipeline project. This was followed
by a $107 million loan (1773-TH) in December 1979 for the pipeline construc-
tion, a project successfully completed on time and within budget. A subse-
quent loan of $90 million (2184-TB) was approved in June 1982 to help finance
the construction of a gas separation plant and associated facililties for the
m.arketing and distribution of LPG. The LPG pLant is now operating at near
capacity, and the physical aspects of the remainder of the project (LPG
distribution) will be completed in early 1986. The project also included a
large technical assistance component covering training for PTT's staff,
strengthening PTT's institutional capabilities, and various studies for PTT's
investment programs and energy policy formuLation. In addition, a loan of $85
million for the rehabiLitation and financiaL restructuring of the Bangehak
Refinery (2548 TH) was approved in May 1985.
-*a.      In the power and lignite subsector, the Bank has made 11 loans to
XAT and its predecessor totaling $542 million to help finance power plants
and transmission facilities and 3 loans totalling $130 million to the
Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) to finance Accelerated Rural
Electrification projects and a provincial power distribution project. The
first seven ECAT projects have been completed satis.actorily. Good progress
is being made with the other EGAT and PEA loans. A first loan to EGAT



- 12 -
(1852-TH) for lignite production was approved in May 1980. The Bank approved
a further loan of $59 million (2407-TH) for a second lignite project in April
1984. In relation to overall policy reform in the energy sector, the Bank has
supported various technical assistance programs, including an extensive energy
pricing study and energy conservation measures through two ;tructural adjust-
ment loans. A broad range of energy issues is being addressed, particularly
in relation to pricing, conservation, strategy options, planning and assess-
ment of several proposed energy investments. A number of these issues need
further work, and ongoing discussions are being held on pricing and strategy
through the structural adjustment process. In addition, the Bank is working
cLosely with NESDB and NEA on energy pricing and strategy formulation and has
recently collaborated with NESDB to carry cut an energy assessment of Thailand
and at developing a comprehensive and coherent energy strategy for Thailand.
These tasks are intended to contribute to the preparation of the energy
component of the Sixth Five-Year Plan.
Oil and Gas Subsector
40.       Prior to 1981, hydrocarbon production in Thailand consisted of
small-scale production from several small fields in the Fang Basin in
northwestern Thailand adjacent to the Burmese border. Production has ranged
from 400-1000 bpd over the last 20 years, although substantial enhancement is
possible if modern technology is applied. Oil and gas production in other
parts of Thailand has risen from nil in 1980 to 30,000 bpd of oil and gas
liquids and 420 MHCFD of gas, a remarkable achievement in such a short period,
mainly due to the efforts of international oil companies, principally Union
Oil and Thai Shell. Domestically produced oil and the major part of the gas
liquids are processed in Thai refineries. Most of the natural gas is
separated into its constituents in the Rayong LPG plant.
41.       However, notwithstanding the recent success, exploration for oil and
gas in Thailand is in a relatively early phase (Annex V). A substantial
number of prospects remain to be defined and tested; only about 20% of the oil
ard gas potential is estimated to have been discovered so far. Nevertheless,
based on currently available data, a pattern has been established: the
country is gas prone; more g&s than oil has been and will be found; the
geology is complex, and due to reservoir lenticularity and faulting, the
fields will have relatively low recovery of reserves; production is likely to
be profitable and in the national interest, but will be expensive to produce,
and reserves are expected to decline rapidly and require higher producer
prices than otherwise in order to allow for the conercial recovery of
additional reserves.
42.       The implications of the above are that Thailand will be obliged to
manage a high degree of uncertainty in production leveLs and costs. In view
of the short-lived nature of the fields, the momentum for petroleum explora-
tion and development would need to be continued in order to maintain produc-
tion and to provide for a steady growth in supply. This will require, in
particular, incentives for the international oil companies to participate in
the upstream operations. In addition, in view of the relatively high produc-
tion cost of gas, careful monitoring is needed to ensure its economic cost is



- 13 -
not higher than that of lignite or imported coal, the alternative fuels for
new power generation over the medium and longer term.
Natural Gas Supply and Demand
43.       The projections for gas supply and demand are set out in Annex IV.
The major part of the current gas demand is for power plants in the Bangkok
area. Sirikit gas is used for power generation in gas turbines located at the
field. There is, however, considerable uncertainty relating to the supply of
gas, both in terms of producing capacity and total recoverable reserves. As a
result, there is the need for a large safety margin in terms of reliability of
supply.
44.       Gas production capacity is expected to reach some 420 MMCFD in mid-
1985 and plateau at about 550 MMCFD in 1987-90, assuming additional probable
reserves are proven and developed, and should increase further in che 1990s.
Gas aemand is expected to increase after 1987, both from currentLy known
investment such as fertiLizer and petrochemical industries, as well as new
investment currently being planned (e.g., a second LPG plant).
Exploration and Production Strategy
45.       The Government's strategy is to rely predominantly on the interna-
tional oil companies (IOCs) to undertake exploration and production activi-
ties, with PTT playing a minority role in joint venture operations. Provision
for Thai participation has been incorporated in several of the concession
agreements with rocs (and will likely become standard in future agreements).
Participation in the joint venture will help PTT gain a better practical expe-
rience in oil and gas operations which would in turn help the Government in
formulating better sectoral policies, including an improved legislative and
contractual framework and accelerated negotiation of agreements. PTT's staff
will be given theoretical and practical training so that PTT can be a compe-
tent partner and can efficiently provide input to the Government's strategy in
the sector, and the country will gain by increased Government revenues from
petroleum operations by sharing in the risks and profits.
46.       The Government is conscious of the need to maintain Thailand's
competitiveness compared with other countries in attracting foreign
investment, and its strategy is to provide a climate which would encourage
IOCs to undertake risk investment in Thailand. Greater incentives are needed
principally in pricing and taxation. The main parts of the legislation
governing exploration and production were enacted in the early 1970s and are
now in need of an update. Furthermore, provisions introduced since 1982 to
enhance Government revenues from tax and royalty have turned out to be a
disincentive, given the geology of the discovered fields and expected future
discoveries. The problem areas have been discussed and agreed, and the
Government has a number of working parties preparing proposals for reform both
of the exploration and production legislation and the petroleum tax law.
Through agreements with Thai Shell and Union Oil, the Government has recently
set benchmark prices for crude oil and gas that are closely related to inter-
national parameters, and the Government proposes to reflect these aspects in
the legislation. The Government is aLso looking closely at taxation to ensure



- 14 -
satisfactory profitability for the companies (relative to other countries) and
to provide a system to share unexpectedly high profits. Specific provisions
to deal with joint ventures are expected to be adopted, in recognition of
their importance in Thailand's strategy as well as to simplify the negotiating
process for future joint ventures.
47.       In addition to measures dealing with the petroleum framework, i.e.,
taxation, pricing, and contract terms, the Bank has encouraged the Government
to take other steps to encourage IOC interest. Specifically, the Department
of Mineral Resources (DMR) is considering undertaking a comprehensive
petroleum evaluation of Thailand. As a first step, Petro Canada International
Assistance Corporation is currently assisting the DMR in data sorting,
storage, and retrieval. The next stage, in which Petro Canada may assist, is
for DMR to utilize, with the assistance of foreign consultants specializing in
this type of activity, the vast amount of existing data provided by foreign
operators and those developed internally to plan and manage the development of
potential indigenous hydrocarbon resources. Forecasts, contractual
adjustments, negotiations, and promotion to interested IOCs could all be
enhanced by this exercise which, in itself, is a valuable learning experience.
Petroleum Product Pricing
48.       Petroleum product prices are fixed by the Goverment at the
er-refinery level through the Ministry of Industry and at the retail level
through the National Petroleum Policy Committee (NPPC). Ex-refinery prices
are set on the basis of Singapore posted prices adjusted for freight.
Singapore prices are converted into baht and are reviewed monthly. No
material distortions or problems are arising in respect of ex-refinery prices
other than those faced by refiners worldwide. Excise and municipal taxes are
levied on retail petroleum products. These are determined by legislation. A
flexible instrument is the Oil Stabilization Fund (Oil Fund) which was
established by the Government in 1974 as a mechanism to stablilize retail
petroleum product prices in the face of fluctuating international prices. Oil
Fund levies act as an additional (positive or negative) tax; the fund is used
to equalize the retail price of Thai refined products and imports, as well as
acting as a stabilizing mechanism. However, there are no formal limits on the
extent of Oil Fund surpluses and dejicits, and there is no established mecha-
nism for dealing with these balances.
49.       When the baht was devalued by 14.8% in November 1984, the dis-
tributors' margins and retail prices of petroleum products in Thailand were
left unchanged (Annex IV). While most retail petroleum product prices
continue to exceed border prices, the Oil Fund has been running a deficit
since the baht devaluation. Understandings have been reached with the
Covernment that measures would be undertaker to prevent the Oil Fund from
suffering sustained deficits.
50.       Domestic retail prices of the principal petroleum products are, on
average, higher than international prices. However, significant distortions
still exist in the relative price structures, particularly between gasoline
and diesel. Progress has been made in narrowing the difference in prices.
Nevertheless, the domestic price ratio for regular gasoline and diesel is 1.6,



- 15 -
while the international price ratio is about 1.0. Distortions also exist
between gasoline and LPG and between diesel and kerosene. Relative price
distortions may, over time, encourage uneconomic decisions for energy invest-
ments (e.g., in refineries) and inter-fuel substitution. Under SALs I and II,
petroleum product prices were reviewed, and adjustments were recommended to
reflect more accurateLy the structure of international prices and domestic
refining cnsts. Discussions with the Government on this issue are continuing
and are likely to result in steps being taken in the near future to reduce or
remove remaining price distortions and subsidies.
Role of the Bank in the Oil and Gas Subsector
51.       The Bank has been closely associated with the introduction in 1981
of natural gas to the domestic market since the first discussions in the mid-
1970s. In particular, the Bank has assisted in building up PTT's capability
as a gas transmission and processing institution from its inception. The Bank
is also assisting PTT to organize itself for its future responsibilities in
working jointly with private operators in petroleum development as a minority
partner. Further, the Bank continues to assist the Government in the form-
ulation of a coherent strategy directed at encouraging an efficient develop-
ment of indigenous resources. However, a number of issues in che gas
subsector remain to be resolved. These include finding ways to bring on
stream the Texas Pacific and Esso gas discoveries which will need assured
markets as well as mutually satisfactory gas sales agreements. These issues
are difficult and will take time to resolve. Nevertheless, the Government and
PTT are conscious of the importance of reaching agreements in a timely fashion
and have secured and will continue to utilize consultancy services to facil-
itate their solution, in part to be financed under the proposed project. At
the sectoral level, the Bank has focused the attention of the Government on
the need for an improved exploration strategy which would include revision and
modernization of the present petroleum legislation and framework. SubstantiaL
progress has been made on the principles to be achieved, and the Government
now has a number or working parties preparing proposals for reform. In
parallel, the Bank has encouraged the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) to
reconsider its approach to promotion, including making better use of the wide
range of data supplied by the oil companies.
52.       While the Thai Shell concession ptovides for the 2ption of Thai par-
ticipation of 25% or more in the S-1 block (Sirikit field et al.), all details
were left for negotiation.  The role of the Bank in the proposed project has
been primarily to advise Government/PTT and work with Thai Shell in helping
the joint venture parties to define a framework which would allow for gov-
ernment participation (with benefits to Thailand) with Thai Shell retaining
its rights and obligations under the concession. The main issues addressed
for the joint venture agreement were the role of the operator and the opera-
tor's prerogatives, and the role of the minority partner in relation to the
operator. Minority participant safeguards include overall control through the
unanimous decisions of the Management Committee, including decisions on
programs and expenditures, rights in respect of audit, and PTT participation
in detailed decision-making through various operating committees. The overall
framework has been designed to permit Thai Shell sufficient management and
operating freedom while ensuring the PTT safeguards. These issues have now



- 16 -
been resolved, and both Shell and Covernment/PTT have indicated that the Bank
pLayed a useful role and that the continued Bank presence in the project is
desirable. In Large part, the framework for PTT participation as formulated
under the project will be a model for future joint ventures in exploration and
development. In sum, the Bank contributions towards the PTT joint venture
with Thai Shell include (i) facilitating delicate negotiations while ensuring
that negotiations would not delay development of the Sirikit field or the
exploration of the remainder of the S-1 block; (ii) ensuring that PTT was
getting and will continue to get the necessary technical assistance in rela-
tion to their role in this and subsequent projects; (iii) assisting PTT to
play a full minority partner role throughout the joint venture, in exploration
and production decisions, in investment and operating decisions; (iv) ensuring
that potentially profitable investments such as LPG recovery from the rich
associated gas at Sirikit would be considered; and (v) facilitating the
financing of the project by requiring full reservoir studies and audit and
assisting in the formulation of a joint venture agreement which would make it
possible for PTT to attract private funds.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
53.       The first significant oil discovery in Thailand, the Sirikit field,
was made by Thai Shell in December 1981 on their S-1 license. The Sirikit
field is located in the Sukhotai Basin, some 325 km north of Bangkok. An
additional commercial discovery, Sirikit West field, was made in 1983. Thai
Shell utilized an early production scheme to bring the Sirikit field into
production in January 1983. During the extensive preparation work for the
project, the Bank has assisted PTT/RTG in the formulation of a joint venture
framework and facilitated the negotiations with Thai Shell.
54.       The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission to Thailand in
June 1982 and appraised in October 1984. Loan negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C., in May 1985 with a Thai delegation led by Khun Nibhat
Bhukkanasut (Deputy Director-General, Fiscal Policy Office, Ministry of
Finance) for the Guarantor, and by Dr. Tongchat Hongladaromp (Governor, PTT)
for the Borrower. Taking account of the dynamic nature of the exploration and
development program and the fact that much of the detailed technical infor-
mation on the joint venture operations is confidential, no Staff Appraisal
Report has been prepared. Nevertheless, the Bank's technical staff, including
a geologist and a reservoir engineer, have reviewed relevant information
available on the project and are satisfied that the design of the project is
technically sound. Detailed background information on the project, excluding
that which is confidential to the operator, is set out in the attached
annexes.



- 17 -
Project Objectives and Rationale
55.       The proposed project has three major objectives.  The first objec-
tive is to give PTT practical experience in oil and gas operations. The
Government has decided to strengthen PTT so that it is able to participate
with IOCs in oil and gas exploration and production. This will eventually
enable PTT to produce from discoveries too marginal for IOCs. The experience
gained will ensure a substantial commonality of interest between Thai Shell
and PTT. It will also develop in-house understanding of petroleum issues and
the needs of the private sector which, in turn, will help development of
better petroleum legislation. The second objective is resource
mobilization. PTT will gain financially from a profitable association with
Thai ShelL in Sirikit and other parts of Block S-? -incession. PTT
Exploration and Production Co. Ltd. (PTT ExpLoratiun), PTT's wholly owned
subsidiary (para. 64), will pay to the Government royalties and taxes in the
same way as Thai Shell so that its net profits represent additional
benefits. The third objective is technical assistance in relation to other
petroleum concessions, to put PTT and the Government in a positicn where they
can speed up negotiations with two oil companies which have undeveloped
discoveries, and to help PTT promote an offshore block so that it can obtain a
competent partner and hence ensure exploration and development of a small
discovery.
Production Prospects
56.       To date, six oil discoveries have been made in Thai Shell's Block
S-1 Concession with production Licenses issued for two commercial fields,
Sirikit and Sirikit West. The remaining four discoveries appear marginally
economic at this stage. Several attractive prospects in the vicinity of
Sirikit have been mapped in detail but remain to be drilled. There are, in
addition, a number of smaller prospects. Field extension and enhanced
recovery are likely to add to existing reserves. On the basis of existing
discoveries, PTT recently commissioned McCord-Lewis Engineering Company (USA)
to make an independent reserve study and development plan which is financed
under the LPG project. McCord-Lewis estimates total proven recoverable oil
reserves at 44 MMBBLs, (13 MMBBLs produced and 31 MMBBLs remaining) in line
with Thai Shell unofficial estimates and represent an average recovery of 20%
of in-place reserves.
57.       According to the Bank appraisal/PTT's estimates, the mean
expectation for future reserve additions is an additional 36 MMBBLs, thereby
resulting in an expectation of 80 MMBBLs of recoverable oil reserves. Plateau
production is estimated to continue at 20,000 bpd over the period 1985-90.
Recoverable associated gas based on current development is likely to be in the
150 billion cubic feet (Bcf) range, sufficient to maintain production of about
30 MHCFD. An additional 150 Bcf is expected to be associated with future
discoveries. Gas production, not currently significant, is expected to become
increasingly important in the later life of the fields, i.e., "blow down"
stage. Of the 36 MMBBLs oil and 150 Bcf gas anticipated beyond that currently
considered proven, about 80X is expected from new discoveries (and the 4
marginal discoveries made to date), and 202 is expected from enlargement of
the two commercial fields, both in extension and enhanced recovery.



- 18 -
Project Description
58.       The proposed project consists of the development of two oil fields
in Northern Thailand (Sirikit and Sirikit West), further exploration in the
same concession area, and technical assistance and training. The fields are
currently producing about 20,000 bpd of oil and 30 MCFD associated gas. The
aim of the project is to discover further reserves and to maintain production
from currently proven areas so that the production levels can be held at
present levels into the mid-1990s. Field characteristics require extensive
workovers and a large capital investment simply to maintain production, and
further exploration is needed to extend the production period and make best
use of the infrastructure developed in connection with the project. The
proposed project would consist of the following components;
(a) Establishment and Investment Program of Joint Venture
To create the joint venture, PTT, through PTT exploration, will
acquire a 25% undivided interest in the Thai Shell Sirikit
concession. In return, PTT Exploration is required to contribute
25% of Thai Shell's agreed past expenditures, from the date of
declaration of commerciality (1/1/82), net of sales proceeds from
operations, plus interest. This includes geologicaL and geophysical
surveys, exploratory and development wells, and production
facilities at the field. The expenditure also included the
transport system to take the oil to Bangchak refinery, i.e., road
tankers and rail cars, gas gathering lines taking the gas to nearby
power pLants, together with oil storage systems. There is no
premium on the buy-in. The investments at the Sirikit Concession
(including sole risk investments, if any) would cover further
geological and geophysical surveys, exploratory and development
wells and production facilities at the fields. A small LPG plant
may be included for extracting liquids from the associated gas
stream. The outline program includes 17 exploratory wells and 54
development wells over the period 1986-88. In addition, a 3-D
seismic survey would be undertaken to help evaluate the past
marginal discoveries and possible new fields.
(b)  Technical Assistance and Training
The technical assistance is aimed both at enhancing PTT Explora-
tion's partnershioD with Shell and at strengthening its and PTT's
role in relation to other joint venture options. The technical
assistance would include (i) General strengthening of PTT through
on-site consultancy services for a two-year period consisting of
both an exploration and an engineering manager to advise PTT on day-
to-day operations and related financial matters, through supply and
implementation of a geological data storage system including
computer hardware and software, through provision of training not
covered by the joint venture such as short courses, seminars, etc.;
(ii) In relation to Thai Shell joint venture, reservoir engineeri.g
services plus annual reservoir study updates (1985-88) and provision
of consultancy for financial audits; (iii) In relation to other



- 19 -
joint venture options, financing a 3-D seismic interpretation
together with geologic and reservoir study and economic analysis of
Texas Pacific Block, financing a geological/geophysical and reser-
voir study and economic analysis of Esso Khorat block and assistance
with exploration promotion of PTT's offshore Block 5/27 in seeking
an operating partner, where a 3-D seismic survey funded by a
Canadian grant is being completed. Total consultatncy services are
forecast to require 400 man-months, and training 14 man-months, over
a period of 4 years.
Project Implementation
59.       The implementation of the investment program for Block S-i is the
responsibility of Thai Shell, the joinc venture operator, with PTT Exploration
participating in the management comnittee and a number of operating and
technical committees. PTT will be responsible ror the other components of the
proposed project. Thai Shell's competency has been demonstrated by past
experience in Thailand as well as the worldwide experience and reputation of
its parent company, Royal Dutch Shell. In accordance with the Joint Venture
Agreement, the operator submits all key decisions on the project (incLuding
investment programs and individual expenditures above 20 million baht) for
unanimous approval by the Management Committee which will consist of three
members each from Thai Shell and PTT Exploration. PTT's Governor will take an
active role in the managemen. of the joint venture, and PTT's Exploration and
Production (E & P) management also have much relevant experience. Thus, PTT,
although not directly executing the project, is in a position to monitor and
influence its execution. Day-to-day execution is the responsibility of the
operator. As is standard with Joint venture agreements of this type, sole
risk provisions prevent either partner from blocking the progress of the joint
venture operations. The Bank has reviewed with PTT and Thai Shell the broad
strategy for the investment program including the updated strategy and invest-
ment program for 1985. PTT will keep the Bank informed of progress at regular
stages. Assurances have been obtained from PTT that it would: (a) review
annually with the Bank, by September 30, the proposed investment program for
the next year and related budget of the joint venture, and consult with the
Bank on significant changes to the investment program; (b) consult with the
Bank on all sole risk proposals, with any sole risk wells to be financed out
of the Bank loan requiring Bank approval; (c) review annually with the Bank,
by March 31, actual experience with, and future strategy for, the investment
program of the joint venture; (d) with regard to the other joint venture
ortions, PTT will complete each study by December 31, 1986 and furnish to the
Bank the findings of each study and the consequent action plan by December 31,
1986; and (e) by April 30 of each year, review with the Bank the annual
reservoir study. The Project Implementation schedule is set out in Annex V.
PTT - The Borrower
60.       PTT was established in December 1978 by the Petroleum Authority of
Thailand Act and became operational in July 1979. PTT's objective is to
engage in and promote petroleum and petrochemical activities. It operates as
a state enterprise under the control of the Ministry of Industry. The core of
PTT's activities has been and will continue to be focused on gas transmission



- 20 -
and petroleum products marketing. PTT's role is being expanded in conjunction
with this project to include a minority participation in upstream opera-
tions. Insofar as downstream operations are concerned, PTT has entered into
joint venture agreements for holding shares in the Thai Oil Refinery Company
(49Z), the National Petrochemical Corporation (48:), the National Fertilizer
Corporation (21Z). Thai LNG Co. (10%), Bangkok Aviation Fuel Services (10%)
and Bangchak Petroleum Company, Ltd (302).
61.       At present, PTT has about 3,000 employees.  Its Board of Directors
is appointed by the Council of Ministers. The Board comprises a chairman and
11 other directors. The Governor of PTT, who is its chief executive officer,
is a Director and Secretary of the Board. The Directors include rep-
resentatives from the Ministries of Defense, Finance, Commerce, Industry,
Transport and Communications and the Juridical Council. PTT aLso has an
executive committee, comprising the Chairman of the Board and five Direc-
tors. The executive committee meets frequently and is empowered to take
decisions on certain investments, contracts, staffing and other operational
matters. The organization chart is set out in Annex VII.
62.       PTT has operated since its inception as a single legal entity with
no subsidiaries. However, to facilitate PTT's participation in joint ventures
in exploration and production, a wholly-owned subsidiary company, PTT
Exploration, has been established for these activities. PTT's two major
operating arms, the Natural Gas Operations and Oil Marketing Operations, were
formed by the transfer of operations from two state enterprises, the Natural
Gas Organization of Thailand and Oil Fuel Organization in 1979. As PTT is
expanding rapidly in both the scale and scope of its operations, there is the
need to streamline as well as develop its staff. With the view towards the
promotion of efficient operation, PTT has recently comissioned a consultancy
study (Arthur D. Little, U.S.) on organization and development planning. This
would be followed by the design and implementation of a management information
system as provided under the Bank-financed LPG project (Loan 2184-TH).
63.       PTT's top management is experienced in business and management but
has relatively limited experience in the petroleum industry. The middle
management is generally young, keen and well educated but in many cases with
relatively little experience. Under the Naturai Gas Pipeline Project, concep-
tual and on-the-job training has been provided to PTT for the natural gas
operations and in accounting and finance. In addition, training is in
progress for the operation of the gas separation plant and LPG distribution,
as provided under the LPG project.
PTT's Exploration and Production Arrangements
64.       PTT itself is a statutory body which cannot co-venture with Thai
Shell because of a technicality in the Thai petroleum law, although it can be
awarded a concession on its own, as in the case of Block 5/27 offshore. For
the purposes of this (and possibly future joint ventures), PTT has established
a wholly-owned subsidiary, PTT Exploration and Production Co. Ltd. (PTT
Exploration), which, as a limited company, can legally be the co-venturer.
However, PTT Exploration will be fully integrated with PTT. PTT Exploration
has entered into the Joint Venture Agreement with Thai Shell and obtained a



- 21 -
supplementary concession from DMR. Effectiveness of the Joint Venture
Agreement is a condition of effectiveness of the Bank Loan. PTT Exploration
is to be managed, staffed and operated by PTT's E & P Department. The
positions of Chairman, Vice Chairman and Acting Managing Director of PTT
Exploration are to be assumed respectively by the Covernor, Deputy Governor
and Director of E & P Department of PTT. Subsidiary company and project
accounts will be kept to ensure proper identification of exploration and
production expenditures. However, to cover the possibility that PTT Explora-
tion will be more fully developed during project implementation, assurances
have been obtained to ensure that its management, control, staffing, operation
and funding are properly arranged and subject to the overall direction of
PTT. PTT and PTT Exploration would enter into (as a condition of Loan effec-
tiveness) and thereafter implement a subsidiary agreement on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Bank. Bank concurrence would be required for any
changes in the Subsidiary Agreement, the Joint Venture Agreement or the opera-
torship for the Joint Venture. Assurances have also been obtained that PTT
would not dilute its ownership of PTT Exploration without Bank concurrence.
65.       PTT's E & P Department is thinly staffed and has limited experience
beyond its management. A focus of the project is to remedy this. The Bank
has assisted PTT in the formulation of an organization plan to strengthen the
E & P Department, and such a pLan is under implementation. This calls for the
recruitment of qualified technical staff, both experienced and at the entry
level. Under the Joint Venture Agreement, Thai Shell will provide training to
PTT's professional staff. In addition, PTT will have the opportunity to gain
experience through its participation in the Management Committee and various
subcommittees concerning technical and financial matters. Technical assist-
ance and training would also be provided under the proposed project to further
the objective of strengthening PTT's E & P capability. The technical studies
would be undertaken in accordance with terms of reference and a time schedule
satisfactory to the Bank and would be reviewed with the Bank upon
completion. In addition, training would be carried out in accordance with a
program acceptable to the Bank. Upstream petroleum operations may require
speedy decision making if costly rig downtime is to be avoided. Bank staff
believe that PTT's current internal arrangements are too centralized to be
effective in this environment, and special authorities are needed for E & P
activities. With the view towards promoting operational efficiency for the
joint venture with Thai Shell, the spending authority would need to be
adjusted in order to allow PTT Exploration and the E & P Department management
to make timely decisions in a constantly changing environment as exploration
and development proceeds. PIT has agreed to monitor the operation of its
present system of delegation of authority and to make adjustments should these
be necessary. A formal review is being undertaken as part of the organization
study.
Training
66.       At present, only a few of PTT's staff are given formal training in
petroleum engineering on a limited basis at Thai universities. The Thai
universities have also begun to provide undergraduate courses in petroleum
engineering, and it is expected that much of the growth of PTT's E & P
Department staff will be from this source. Under the Joint Venture Agreenent,



- 22 -
during the first three years. Thai Shell will provide PTT staff with up to 30
man-years of on-the-job training in field operations including exploration,
production, procurement, as well as iavestment programming, casting and
budgeting. In addition, the Canadian International Development Association
(CIDA) will provide short (one-week) general in-house survey cou as in
various phases of petroleum activities.  The aforementioned training would be
supplemented by the proposed Bank-financed training program which would
include short (one- to two-week) advanced technical courses in production
geology, petroleum reservoir engineering, production engineering, etc., as
well as training in related disciplines, e.g., finance and economics. In
addition, the training component wouLd include industry seminars and
conferences generally held outside Thailand.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
67.       The total financing requirements are estimated at $432 million, of
which $358 million (83Z) wouLd be in foreign exchange. The Thai Shell joint
venture is exempted from import duties. The cost estimate from the start of
the joint venture is based on end-1985 prices. A physical contingency of 10%
has been applied to the investment program (1986-88). Price contingencies for
foreign costs have been assumed at 7.5% fol 1986 and 8% per annum for 1987-88,
and 6% per annum for local costs.
68.       Thai Shell has financed all exploration and production costs through
advances from its parent company and from internal cash generation. From the
date of effectiveness of the Joint Venture Agreement, PIT Exploration wilL pay
25% of all costs and receive 25% of oil and gas produced, while Thai Shell
will pay the remaining 75Z in return for its part of production. PIT
Exploration's payment of past costs (net of income) wilL be in installments at
120 and 240 days after effectiveness of the Joint Venture Agreement. Each
party is responsible for financing its own part of joint venture costs.
Detailed projections of PTT Exploration's cash flow are in Annex VIII.
69.       PTT Exploration's 25Z of future costs of the investment program as
well as working capital requirements are expected to be largely financed by
internal cash generation from the joint venture, meeting some 50% of PTT's
financing requirements. PIT intends to finance the past expenditures, esti-
mated at $53 million (net of income but including interest), with loans from
commercial banks.  Ic is proposed that the Bank loan would cover the fi-ancing
gap for future cash calls, estimated at $13 million, and $8 million of techni-
cal assistance and studies. In sum, it is proposed that the Bank extend a
loan of $33 million, which will represent 21% of PTT Exploration's total
financing requirements and 24% of its foreign currency requirements. This is
consistent with the Bank policy of holding its financial participation to the
minimum necessary to achieve the effective implementation of the Bank's insti-
tution-building and policy development objectives and to mobilize the neces-
sary external financing. The split between equity and debt (50/50) has been
designed to provide an adequate risk coverage from the anticipated cash flow
of the venture. In most years, the debt service coverage over the life of the
loans is expected to be no less than two times, which is in line with the
industry practice.  The financing plan is summarized as follows:



- 23 -
Project Cost and                                      Foreg      Local    Total
Financing Requirements:               ~OTUS$ million)
A. Establishment and Investment
Program of Joint Venture
Establishment Cost (buy-in)                         40.0        -       40.0
Investment Program - Exploration                    68.0       17.0     85.0
Investment Progr:m - Development                   169.6       42.4    212.0
Sub-Total                                   237.6      59.4    297.0
Physical Contingency                                23.4        5.8     29.2
Price Contingency                                   35.8        9.0     44.8
Total Establishment Cost and Investment          336.8       74.2    411.0
B. PTT
Technical Assistance and Consultaucy                 4.9        0.3      5.2
Training                                             0.2        0.0      0.2
Computer Hardware and Software                       1.5        0.0      1.5
6.6       0.3      6.9
Price Contingency                                    1.1        0.0      1.1
Total TA and Training                            7.7        0.3      8.0
Interest on Joint Venture bry-in                    13.0         -      13.i
Total direct PTT requirements                20.7        0.3     21.0
Total Financing Requirements                       357.5       74.5    432.0
Financing Plan:
A.  Thai Shell                                         219.6       54.9    274.5
B. PTT:
-  Comercial Banks                                  53.0        -       53.0
-  IBRD                                             28.0        5.0     33.0
-  Internal Cash Generation                         56.9       14.6     71.5
Sub-Total                                137.9      19.6    157.5
Total Funding                                     357.5       74.5    432.0



- 24 -
70.       The Bank loan would be set at the standard variable interest rate
for 15 years, including 5 years of grace period, as compared against the
normal country terms of 17 years including 4 years of grace. The five-year
grace period has been included for this project, based on the estimated
payback period which is about five years. Taking account of the exploration
component included in the cash calls, the majority (58%) of the Rank loan is
for exploration and technical assistance; accordingly, a guarantre fee has not
been required.
PTT's Finances
71.       Detailed discussions on PTT's finances are found in Annex VIII.
Over the past three years, PTTst financial performance shoved a marked
improvement over that of its initial years of operations. In particular, with
the increase in gas sales, it turned around from a net loss of $41 million in
FY81 to become increasingly profitable with net inceme amounting to $154 mil-
lion in FY84. In addition, as a resuLt of the comprehensive program of reme-
dial measures provided under the previous Bank loan (2184 TH), there has been
substantial progress in alleviating PTT's severe liquidity problem and direct-
ing the company towards a sound financial footing. However, PTT's liquidity
position has recently been weakened by the substantial delay in payment by two
of its public sector customers, the Bangkok Mass Transit Authority (BMTA) and
State Railways of Thailand (SRT). Under the Bangchak Oil Refinery Restructur-
ing Project (Loan 2548-TH), the Government has agreed to provide shortly to
the Bank proposals for improving the payment practices of state departments,
agencies and enterprises for petroleum product purchases from PTT and imple-
menting such proposals, taking into account the Bank's comments. Provided
that its sizeable accounts receivable referred to above can be controlled at
an acceptabLe level, PTT's finances are forecast to remain satisfactory over
the foreseeable future. As a safeguard, PTT has secured substantial lines of
credit from commercial banks to finance unforeseen liquidity needs. PTT's
core operating arm, the ONG, will continue to dominate the company's overall
profitability, while the OMO will continue to have a significant impact on the
turnover and cash flow position.
72.       PTT Exploration would derive most of its revenues from the sale of
crude to local refineries.  Based on the agreement between Thailand and Tsai
Shell, the price of crude would be based on an 8.5% discount from the cif
international price of comparable crude. Crude production which is estimated
to stabilize at some 20,000 bbl/d during the the forecast period would allow
PTT's share of net income to increase from some $8 million in FY86 to $17 mil-
lion in FY88. On a discounted cash flow basis, the after-tax financial rate
of return of the proposed project is estimated at 152 in real terms.
73.       Financial covenants which are substantially comparable to those
under the LPG project (Loan 2184-TH) would be provided under this project.
Assurances were obtained from PTT that it would: (a) maintain a current ratio
of at least 1:1; (b) maintain total liabilities/equity ratio at a maximum
level of 85/15 for FY86 and 70/30 thereafter; (c) not incur long-term debt
without prior agreement by the Bank unless consolidated future debt service
coverage based on reasonable forecast is at least 1.5 times; (d) apply surplus



- 25 -
funds from each operation for other purposes only after ensuring sufficient
funds for that unit; (e) maintain a self-financing ratio of at leAst 302 in
FY86 and 35Z thereafter; (f) revalue fixed assets annualLy for all of its
operations; and (g) observe and impLement sound corporate and financial
policies for each of its activities. In addition, assurances were obtained
from the Government that it would undertake, from time to time, reviews of the
equity base and capital structure required to ensure a sound finAncial basis
for PTT's operations and that it would set the level of state revenue to be
paid by PTT on a flexible basis, allowing first for PTT to comply with its
financial covenants and obligations in lieu of a maximum 1OZ net income
remittance included in the previous Loan Agreement (2184-TH). The Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Loan 2184-TH are being amended accordingly.
Accounts and Audit
74.       PTT maintains separate accounts for each of ics major activities.
The natural gas financial accounts are modelled on US gas utility principles,
and accounts have been satisfactorily prepared for all aspects of PTT's opera-
tions.  Over the past few years, tne accounting system h-s been strengthened
considerably with the assistance of financial consultants: SGV (Thailand)
financed under the Second Gas Pipeline Project (Loan 1773-TH). Further, the
consultants undertook internal auditing of PTT as an interim step before the
company can build up its own staff for internal control. However, the
services of the consultants were discontinued in 1983. While an internal
auditing department has recently been set up, it is still thinly staffed and
lacking in experience. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained from
PIT that it will submit to the Bank by July 1, 1986, a proposal to strengthen
the internal auditing department and thereafter implement such a proposal
taking into account the Bank's comments.
75.       In accordance with the standard practice in Thailand for state
enterprises, external audit of PTT is undertaken by the Auditor General of
Thailand. Ezternal auditing of Thai Shell joint venture is undertaken by an
international accounting firm, Price Waterhouse (UK). In addition, in line
with normal practice, consultancy would be provided under the proposed project
to assist PTT in auditing the accounts of the Thai Shell joint venture.
Coopers & Lybrand (UK) has undertaken the initial audit for Pm. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from PTT that separate accounts will be
set up for the proposed project, and the audited financial statements of the
project accounts as welL as those of ConsoLidated PTT, PTT Exploration and
each of PTT's major activities would be submitted to the Bank within six
months after the end of each fiscal year.
Procurement Procedure
76.       Joint venture procurement will be undertaken by Royal Dutch Shell
and Thai Shell (as operator) under their normal procurement procedures and
will be subject to the approval procedures built into the joint venture. The
Shell procedures are efficient and non-discriminatory among qualified bidders,
are comparable to those of other oil companies, and are satisfactory to the
Bank, as they are comparable to procedures under Bank guidelines. Thai Shell
follows general ICB procedures in tendering, evaluation, and selection of



- 26 -
suppliers of all major goods and services, the larger contracts being
supervised by the parent company. Global tenders are issned, bids are
thoroughly evaluated, and the lowest evaluated bidder is selected. Financing
terms are not taken into account since Thai Shell funds its operation with
internal cash generation. Thai Shell has not had to date, and does not
foresee having, contracts with companies in non-Bank member countries. In
accordance with accepted industry practice, limited international tendering is
used when it is more appropriate to the specialized nature of the services and
equipment, and in case of emergency, contracts are made directly with the most
expeditious supplier.
77.       Bank-financed procurement under the joint venture would thus be made
in accordance with the operator's procedures which are in line with industry
practice and comparable to the Bank's procurement guidelines. Joint Venture
expenditures (including for soLe risk wells of either party) are expected to
be evenly spread out over 50 or more contracts each year for goods and
services so that no major contract is expected to be suitable for special Bank
financing outside of the operator's procedures. The Bank can monitor, through
PTT's participation, the operator's procurement practices. PTT Exploration,
through the management committee, has to approve all joint venture contracts
over 20 million baht ($0.7 million), and the Joint Venture Agreement requires
all contracts for over 5 million baht ($0.2 million) to be bid com-
petitively. All procurement documentation will be available for Bank staff
review, which will be made twice yearly. The Bank will reserve the right to
withhold financing of any item which has been misprocured, and to cancel, in
such cases, a corresponding amount of the loan. Insofar as the PTT direct
expenditure is concerned: consultants/specialists will be selected pursuant to
the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the Bank's Borrowers. The
computer hardware and software for geological data storage will be procured
under international competitive bidding; the Bank will review prequalification
(where necessary) and procurement procedures and documents in advance. As
contracts for 1985 have already been let, and in light of the above, advance
contracting would be acceptable for up to the full amount of the cash caLl
provision ($20 million) under the proposed Bank loan. In addition, retro-
active financing for expenditures incurred in respect of cash calls between
the date of effectiveness of the Joint Venture Agreement and the date of loan
signing has been included for up to $5 million (15Z of the proposed Bank
loan).
Disbursements
78.       Joint venture investment requirements would be dealt with on the
cash call system, under which the operator estimates the next month's cash
needs and is paid in advance. The cash calls would be subsequently verified
by the statements of actual expenses prepared by the operator at the end of
each month. With the view towards assisting PTT in meeting expenditures in a
timely manner, it is proposed that a Special Account (Revolving Fund) be set
up with an initial deposit of $8 million, i.e., 4 months' net cash cails. PTT
will use the Revolving Fund for meeting cash calls, training and technical
assistance requirements, and the Bank will replenish on the basis of the
monthly statements of actual expenses and accompanying documentation which
will be forwarded to the Bank as soon as they are available. In no event



- 27 -
would the Bank make a further disbursement or replenishment against cash caLls
if these monthly statements have not been received and approved for more than
three previous cash call disbursements. The size of the revolving fund is
based on the timing for documentation contained in the Joint Venture
Agreement. PTT has also agreed to submit to the Bank the annual audit report
on the operator's disbursements required under the Joint Venture Agreement
within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
79.       Bank funds would finance the first $25 million of cash calls
(including sole risk investments approved by the Bank, if any) on PTT
Exploration. The remaining $8 million of the Bank's loan for technical
assistance would be disbursed over the entire project period. A detailed
estimate of the Bank loan disbursement is set out in Annex VI. The loan is
expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1989, and the Closing Date would be
June 30, 1990. Disbursement of the Bank loan would be made against 100% of
PTT Exploration's obligations for cash calls for investment, 100% of expen-
ditures for consultants' studies and overseas training, and for computer
hardware and software, 100% of foreign expenditures, 100Z of local expen-
ditures (ex-factory) and 70% of local expenditures for other items procured
locali7. Funds for training and technical assistance will be disbursed
against statements of expenditure; all other disbursements will be fully
documented.
Ecology and Safety
80.       No major environmental risks are likely to be associated with the
project. So far, Thai Shell has had an excellent safety record. Its pollu-
tion control, fire prevention and medical facilities on site are in accordance
with the highest petroleum industry standards. No high pressure formations
have been encountered during drilling to date and none are expected. Drainage
and skimmers are installed to control the removal of any oil spill in the well
site area. All the oil skimmed from the water is collected and returned to
the gathering tanks. The same practice is followed at the central gathering
station and the oil loading terminals. The associated gas has a low sulphur
content and is not noxious. The water produced with the oil is of low sali-
nity, and any water produced from the wells is injected down disposal wells.
The flowing wells are equipped with downhoLe safety valves to prevent oil
flows should the surface facilities at the well be dAmaged. An intensive and
carefully controlled safety program is enforced at all work sites.
Project Benefits and Risks
81.       Detailed economic analysis is set out in Annex IX. The overall Thai
Shell project is profitable. Based on the expected benefits of substituting
imported energy with domestic oil and gas, the overall economic rate of return
from the Thai participation in Block S-1 is estimated at about 33%. Since
Thailand is expected to benefit from the import substitution effect with or
without participating in the Thai Shell S-1 operations, the incremental
benefit from the Thai participation in the joint venture is increased Govern-
ment take which arises from PTT's share of the profits in Block S-1 opera-
tions, to the extent that these exceed royalties and income taxes Thai Shell
would otherwise pay to the Government. Based on the reserve estimate of



- 28 -
80 million bbl and crude oil price at $25.6/bbl, the project is estimated to
yield an economic rate of return of 15% in real terms. In the unlikely event
that there would be no further discoveries arising from future exploration
efforts, and the total recoverable reserves are only 40 MMBBL, the economic
rate of return would be lower but still at a satisfactory 12X. This is
because the reduction of reserves and benefits would be largely offset by the
curtailmcnt of investment in exploration and development should the explora-
tory results be found less favorable than expected. As a result, the economic
risk arising from reserve uncertainty is considered low. In addition, the
results of sensitivity analysis indicate that the project economics would
remain satisfactory with a 10% reduction in crude price ($23/bbl) or a l0X
increase in capital cost. More severe price cuts wouLd lead to a phasing over
time of the exploration program and a more selective development and operating
program but, depending on the price cut, would leave the project economically
and financially viable.
82.       However, the project carries the risks which are inherent in petro-
leum operations. In so far as geological risks are concerned, there may be no
additional discoveries in Block S-1. Nevertheless, because of the past disco-
veries and other indications established during drilling to date, a satisfac-
tory success ratio thus far, and the relatively high quality of remaining
prospects, the probability of total exploratory failure is low. With respect
to presently estimated recoverable reserves, there is a risk that these may be
revised downward. Proven reserves are estimated on the basis of tests and
geological analysis, but because the reservoir cannot be fully tested during
the early stages, there exists some uncertainty in the quantity of recoverable
oil. In particular, there hab been insufficient production history to provide
for an accurate estimate of the rate of depletion and recovery factor. Early
indications are that depletion is variable among the individual reservoirs and
some may be quite rapid. On the other hand, production decline could be
arrested, at least temporarily, through such measures as field extension,
infill drilling, pressure maintenance, secondary recovery, etc. There is
therefore reLatively low risk that in the final outcome, present reserve esti-
mates will be reduced by any significant amount.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 8, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 29 -                                                Page  1 of 6
DDFINIIONS OF SOCIAL NODICATONS
NoAlthothddaareda n nd _  sf m   umabjudud thema utboriaueand iabkit shboulalbe noed tha they nmy not bei      aaly
amp_abh bA              f thcb o t da ddhaeio   a con    by dier   c shin coecuing th data. Tbh data c nonethl mefult o
deih cedot.agiudeindicae enia, ndW crctericerni imaor dif;mbetween couter
The r      rom  a e(I) thsee  itty  o  of the ect co_ry ad 2) a couy gqo  wsoewhat biher a-age oincme thecountry
wupW(thesubjeac ountry (opt for        ncme Oil Exposta op whbemMidd Inom NorthAfncas ad Midde EE    cbaen bem- of stn
sodolia affini . bi tke    e  group dat the    a m popion weited arithmetic mana for each inda  and shown only -ben mnaonty
ofctheaunu inin a goup l_ dsu for thit indaor. Sine thecoveaw ofcountries amnog the indicadepqndson th availability add and is not unif,mn.
csion mus be e       ineang avegp or one iradior loanothe. The averes  only t*duld in comparn the nle of one sdicator at a time amon
d. cu sd ra eeren  group.
AREA (thousnd sq.ki.)                                           Crd hik Rate (per rt)-umad)-Number of live births in the year
Teeni-Total suface ars comprsnmg lan area and inlad wraters    per thousand of mtid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 datm
1960.1970 and 1983 data.                                       Cmr  Dek Rate (per thmu'nd)-Number of deaths in the yer
rE sad-Est           orate   or  tul au    uwd apomazy or       per thousand ormid-year populaon; 1960.1970. and 19S3 data.
pemanetly for crops. ptastrs market and kcitche gardens or to   Gerow Rapedwdtieu Rage-Average number of daughters a .oman
ie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                            will br in her normal rproductive period if she experiencs
prent age-pcific fertlit rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPffA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market pris calculated by sme conversion method as VerlWorld     antiy  mAXml (rh_madsJ-Annual nun-
Bank Ades (198143 basis). 1933 dL                               betoracceptars of birth-control devices under auspices orriational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PMR CAPIA-Annual apparent    fiamiy planning progrm.
consumpto   of comral prima   energ  (cal and lgnite,           Fimuly PAUn%.4     m (peet q(Aid m             e pern-
petrolum, naual gas and hydro-. nudest and geothermtal dec     tae of mared nomn ofdrild-beaing age who are paticing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 190. 1970. and  whos husbands are practieig any form of cotmaception- Wlomen
1982 data                                                       of cld-bearing age are generaly wome aged 15-49. altbough for
some countries contraceptive usage is measred for other age
POPUILATION AND VITAL STAIsTICS                                 grOUPS
Tu_,JYtalpuiiie. Mid-FY  (eshwumau)-As of July 1;1960.1970.    FOODANDNUTRITION
and 1963 data.
UWkm  opmkm (pecew  f sw)-Rato ofurbanto ttal   IvAex ffFo.dProAhedii.uhrf Ca*&t (1969-71 = 199)-Index of per
propb     u t (er-nt  of ud Rio of tban to total                capita annual production of all food commodities. Ptodon
ation diffeengt defnitions of urban a61 s may afdfect cxpr-s 5rtim. feed and seed rot agricultue Food comnmdities
ability of atau among  untnres 1960. 1970. and 1983 t            dinclude prnzary commodities (e°g. sugarca   inad of sugar)
A.slaieu Prjciss                                                which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popuato an ywe  2    -The projection of population for 2000,    exluded); they compnise cereals. root c , pulse  oil seds.
made for ach economy separately. Stuaig with information on     vegtbls. fruitLs nuts, surcane and sugar beets, lvtck and
total population by age and sea, fetility rates mortality ras  and  hvesock products Aggpate production ofeach conmtry is based
international migration in the base year 198Q these pames       on national aver   producer price weghts; 1961 -65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 datz.
assnptions umtl the population became stationary.               Pr CMp& Sapply . Calmier (pwentfeqm&meanets)-C-,mput-
Stinry popdaeil-Is one in waich ag- and sex-specific mor-       ed from caorie equivalent of net food supplies avaiable in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic prod uc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement levd  ion, imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate -1). In such a population the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age stucture is also  food procesing and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary populaion  estmted by FAO based on physiolgical needs for normal activity
size was estmated on the basis of the projected charactistis of  and health consdering environmental tenperaturc, body weights.
the popaultion in the year 2000, and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distnbution of population, and allowing 10 perscent for
rate to repbacment lcvd.                                        waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1962 data.
Population Monae_kn-Js the tendenc for population growth to     Per Glcp  Supply ef Peel (grows per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replcment-level fertility bas been  per catpita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achived: that is. en after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in dhe year t is measured as  provide for minimnura allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultirnate stationary popuation to the population in  day and 20 grais of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replacL-  should be aninal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment lvel from year  onward. 1985 data.                         75 grms of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
-            D*smti                                             average for the nrld. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sg.km-Mid-year population per square lometer (100 hec-      Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total ae; 1960.1970. and 1983 data.                   Per Capita Pteiwv Spl Frrw Axbniual. i Palse-Protein supply
Pr sqkm. agrxiualv  And-Computed as above for agricultural      offood derived from animals and pulses in grams per dav: 1961-65.
Isld only, 1960.1970, and 1932 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
A    tiW        5 Age Sarctre (percea)-Children (0-14 yes). work-  CAild (cges 1-4) Det Rate (per thousandj-Number of deaths of
ing a8e (I 5.4 years). and retired (65 yea and over) as pecentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of rid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data               group in a ljven year. For most developing countries data derived
PSupI. Growth Rate (pmeat)-tote&-Annual growth rates of         from life tables; 1960.1970 and 1983 data.
total mil-year population for 1950-60,1960.70. and 1970-83.     HEALTH
PApulatiar Grea'k Race (&-ce)--_ a.-Annual growth rates         Life Expetancy at birth (years)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950.60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 30 -                                              ANNEX I
~~ 30 -                                 ~~~~~Page 2 of 6
at the time of of its birth were o stay the same throughout its life;  Puptl-readzr Ratio - prin,,. and secondarji-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
lfmft Mort   Roe (per trhunmd)-Numnber of infants who di      teachers in the cornDing levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year, 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                               CONSUMPIlON
Ace, to Soft Wowr (p      t of pupatin.r-e.taL whn  id        Asoqe Cdts (per tJes_d pepulntiou)-Passenger cars com-
rwal-Number of people (total urbn and rund) with reasonable   prise motor cars seating less than eight persons. exldudes ambul-
acess to safe water supply (includes tra    surface water' or  anecs. hear  and military vehles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Rajo Ream  (               p     )-A       types of receirs
boreholes. spnnp and sanitary weg) 5.s percntages of their resp-  for radio broadcasts to eneral public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban area X nblic fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meers from a house may be considered
as being within reasonablie aess of that bouse. In nual aras  restration of radio sets was n effct; data for rsent years may
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or mcnbers of the  not be comparable since most countres abolished lnsing.
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionae part of the day  TVRecEi W(per tTxmdpepufae)--V   rceivers for broadcast
in retc hing the family's water needs                         to geneal public per thousand population; excludes unlcesed TV
inAfetching the faEilyt s water ned_._                        receivers nm countres and in years wben registration of TV sets wa
Acces to Fzereta Disposa (perent .1 Popularimn)-tas1l64 when.  in-f"
and rarum-Number of pei.plc 'totaL urban, and rural) served by  m c
excreta disposal as percentages  f their respetive populations.  Aocsper  Cm "' (Pi  ' the_ ^a Fp   miu,Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may indude the callection and disposal with or  age rculation of -daily general interst newspape.- defined as a
without treatment. of human exereta and waste-water by water-  penodacal publicaon devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations  It is considered to be -daily if it appears at least four times a weik.
Populniji pr PhPsion-Pbpulation divided by number of prac-    GCuI  Amal AnMUce pr CqitO per Yw-Based on the
tising physcians qualifid from a medicl school at univrsity levl.  number or tickets sold during the year. induding admissions to
Fbepulai  per Nurin hrsons-Population divided by number of    drive-in cinemnas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nursesO
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaies.                      LAR FORCE
ftpeletina per Hae*d Rtd-eaa, whn. nd rd-POIpua tzo                Lo   wee (t       r)-Eoocnumcay active per    in-
(totaL urban, and rnral) divided by their respective number of  duding arned forces and unemployed but exduding housewives.
hospit beds available n public and privates generl and speiaGied  students etc.. covering population of all ags Definitions in
hospits and rehabtlitation cente   Hospitbls arm establishments  various countries are not comparb    1960.1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physician Establishments prov-  eJ (pere)-Female labor force as percentag of total labor
idiung principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals  force.
however, include health and medical centers not permanendy staffed  Atichwe (perew-Labor foe in farming. fostry. huntig
by a physician (but by a nmdical assistant. nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                 *iduty (percent)-Labor force in mining. construcion. manu-
Adndsim  per Hospital B&-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and elecricity. water and gas as pecntage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data
HOUSIiffRa (pc,) andfiessok-ctitcipation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as totaL male. and female labor force
Aerae Si:e of Hosehod (pers   pr hmisehed)--toral. swham      as pecen tages of totaL male and femalce populaion of al ages
endrufa-A household consists ora group of individuals who share  respectively. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main nmals. A boarder or lodger may or  partiapation rates reflectig age-sn strucur ofthe population and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time tend. A fcw esinmates are from national sourns.
Averane  Mnber of Peau per Room-tota, when. and rur-          Ecouenie Dependency RAtio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIDUTION
Peetage of Dwrelings wit Elecrit6tiy--t*tl, wh. and ndr -     Pecage of Toa Dupoable  wome (hatd in cash _d kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in livingquartcrsas percen-  Accruing to percentilegroups of households anked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively.       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adued Emihent  Ratis                                          The following estimates are very approximate neasures of poverty
Primary schol - toraf malk and female-Gross totaL male and    levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrolmnent of aU ages at the primary level as percntages or  Estmaed Absofite Povrty  cenwow Level (1US per cpieapf-when
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and riva--Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequatc diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimated Relative lRer,, Income Level (115 per capita)-wban
education, gross enrollment may exceed 1O0 percent since some  and rnal-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are beow or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban lvel is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total, mak anud femae-Computed as above:   living in urban areas
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimted Pop,lton Below Absolt Poverty lwerw  Levd (per-
mary instruction provides general. vocational. or teacher training  cret)-wran adw riva- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usuaDy of 12 to 17 years of age. correspond-  who are absolute poor."
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocarional Exroimei (percent of seconav)-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technial. industrial. or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Departnent
independently or as deparments of sccondary institutions                              June 1985



ANNEX I
-31 -                                                    Page 3 of 6
11I& D                - SOCIAL SIIOU  SA   P
TuAIIAND                            unimhmimWuIUJFU wo cHiC    IVIRAU)  La.
WI                      CD SW21 IISTMUS2) .Lk
aggoLk.    i,boLA. 3 UISiLE IN=                       3100 111 IU
isGoLb-    it?d-b Z&TNa            "aI & PACIFIc         LAT. ait2cA & CA
=A cuA i          *l.                            -      
TOTAL                             514.0      514.0      514.0
ASWCOC LU.                        123.1      141.2       112.6
m   r aiC   (u                         ..         ..       U20.0            101.1                    1575.9
_        _    Gem
Cwoaiin  o.t 01 IvALuWT)          46.0       150.0      285.0             58b.6                    993.6
IULm    AND VITL UtIfCS
POPIIATIOI.NI-TAI. (THOISAS)  26667.0    36370.0    49169.0
O31 POMILATIO   C OF TOTAL)        12.5       13.2        17.9             35.9                     67.l
POPULATION 1303CTI065
S101AT D 1 O1 2000   LL.                              6*5.1                 .
STATCOA   FoPULATOF CRILL)                             100.0
POPULATION 3h121W                                        1.0
PS SQ. Km.                       52.3       70.6       956.6            3t*.9                     48.0
Pr So.  Cl. IGI. LAD            201.8      257.7       250.2            1591.2                    11.1
POULTONM  STUICTOP (I;
0-14 US                         4.         46.2        36.1              38.2                    38.5
15.64 135                        '2.5       50.7      5".1               57.7                     57.1
65 AM A301                        2.7        3.0         3.2               3.5                     4.2
MP0112      C 6101 tAT  (X)
TOTAL                             2.8        3.0         2.3               2.3                     2.4
Una                               4.A        3.6         4.0               4.1                     3.6
C3R5 Km  Ran CPr 130S)             43.9       35.5       27.0              30.1                     30.9
'-UOR DUI 435   CPU TOIS)          14.7       10.5        r.0               9.4                      8.0
=OSS    UOWcTioU LaTg               3.2        Z.7         1.8               1.9                     2.A
TANILX PLAMNIW
APt05. ANWIL (CTWIl)              ..       202.9 Ic  1063.3
s3s CZ or ma        111)          ..        15.0        59.0              56.5                    45.3
MU OF 00 M pnawsoo.   capTA
(1969-71-100)                      92.0      100.0       138.0            124.4                    101.6
Pu CAPTA SILY Of
CALORIS (ZUOF Q   PSWTS)         91.0       96.0      105.0              IL5.7                   11.2
FROTE   (GRAMS PI DAY)           40.0       47.0       47.0              60.3                     69.4
OP VRXCR ANIMAL AND  UZLSC     I1.0        15.0        15.0 Id           14.1                    34.2
Cam CAM  1-4) DCKA  3am            12.9        9.1        4.0               7.2                      4.8
LIVE  WXSC. At U1lR (TEARS)        52.3       58.2       63.1               60.6                    64.
3*WANT MM. RAT (P  ETWS)          103.0       74.5       50.0              64.9                     59.7
ACCBS M0 SAFE. HAMM (2801)
TOTAL                             -         17.0        63.0 /e          46.0                     65.3
U                                 ..        60.0        65.0              5 57.6                  76.5
UL.                               ..        10.0        63.0 77           37.1                    44.2
ACCESS TO EXCAT  DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPULATIOI)
TOTAL                             *-        17.0        46.0 /.           50.1                    56.3
UrI                               ..        65.0        64.0 le           52.9                    73.4
RMlUL                             ..         8.0        41.0 T           44.7                     25.5
POPULATIW PM P1111C1AN           7900.0     6430.0      7100.0 f          7751.7                  1909.7
POP. PSit S1INC P3501            4830.u  ~  7030.0      2400.01           2464.0                   N0.2
POP. PEE NSPI?  53
TGZAL                          1330.0      890.0       820.0 oh         1112.1                   362.0
U03JI                           260.0 ,    180.0       530.0 7E          651.4                   422.0
RURAL                         21420.0 j  13860.0      12d0.0 7i;        2596.9                  271b.7
ADIIISSWIal PM HSPITAL              ..        31.0       44.8 lh           41.1                     27.5
AVERME SZZ OF HOUSCHOLD
TOTAL                             5.5 jg     5.8         5.5 lb
UU^II                             S.3        5.8         5.5 lb            ..
Ib71LL                            5.61E      5.S        5.5 W...
AVERMIC 30. OF PERSONIS/ROO
TOTAL                             *'         *-          2.4 lb
UR                                ..         ..          2.27..
RURAL                             ..         ..          2.4/b
PUU:Tgr  or DIELLiIS  r1 ELrxCr.
TOTAL                             ..        16.9
UR                                ..        86.1
RUL                               ..         9.0



ANNEX I
- 32 -                                              Page 4 of 6
THRILAND               - SOCIAL INDICATo  DATA SHEET
TMAlAND                               rRENCE GrOS (IdEIGED AVERAGES) /a
N0ST                     (MOST REENT ESTIMTE) /b
RECENT           MIDDOL  INCONL          NIDDLE TNCow
196Ob      197Ilb  EST tATV/b       ASIA & PACIFIC          LAT. AlMICA41 CAR
ADBIISTID ENROLUIN  RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                   83.0        83.0        96.0              100.7                    106.7
HALE                   88.0        86.0        98.0              104.4                     108.5
s1MUZ                 n79.0        79.0        94.0               97.2                    104.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  13.0        17.0        29.0              47.8                      44.2
PALZ                    16.0       20.0        30.0               50.6                      42.7
PENIZU                 10.0        15.0        27.0               44.8                     44.9
VOCATIONAL (2 oF SECODRT)           19.1        22.3        20.9               18.4                     13.3
UPIL-TEACER. RATIO
PRMTA                             36.0        35.0        25.0 a             30.4                     29.9
SECONDARY                         20.0        16.0        23.0 L            22.2                      16.7
colmm xc
PASSENCER CARS/rAUSAND POP           1.8         5.1         6.3 /h           10.1                      4.O
RADIO RECEIVERS/TUOUSAND POP         6.1        76.3       149.Z              172.9                    328.3
TV REGEIVERS/THOUSA  POP             2.2         6.6        17.2               58.5                    112.4
NEUSPAPEL ("-AILY GENERAL
LNTERBST-) CIRCULATION
PE IHDUSAND POPULATION             10.6        23.3        53.5               65.3                     81.1
CNDA ANNIAL ATTZDANCA/CAPTA          ..          0.4 It      ..                 3.4                      2.4
TOrAL lAO  FORCE (TODMl)         13772.0    16958.0    24618.0
muJ*2  (PERCENT)                  48.4        46.8        45.4              33.6                      23.6
AGEICIJLTURE (PECNT)              84.0        80.0        76.0 la            52.2                     31.4
I lUSRY (CPUtClNT)                 4.0         6.0         9.0 7            17.9                      24.3
PARICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TTaml.                            5l.3        46.6        49.8               38.9                     33.5
WALE                              52.7        49.3        53.7               50.8                      51.3
PDIALZ                            49.8        43.9        45.3               26.8                     15.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCr RATIO            0.9         1.1         0.8                1.1                      1.3
1fIX6 DISTRIINUTD
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RFECIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 OF IIOUSODS             21.8 /      2 23.8      23.0 h'
NICIEST 202 OF NOUSECOLDS         50.9 I      49.7 7      *9.8 7            468.0
LOlEST 20TOF 0 HOUSEOS             6.2 j       6.1 1       5.6               6.4
OUiVS? 402 0F HOUSEHOLDS          14.9        15.9        IS.2              15.5                       .
POVET  TARG  C051P
r-S ILATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UR8AN                              ..          ..        159.0 Ik            ..                      288.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        106.0 7F           151.9                    185.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CQ.-TA)
URMN                               ..          ..        115.0 /k           177.9                    519.8
RURAL                              ..          ..        110.0 7i           164.7                    359.7
ESTIMTED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URB                                ..          ..         15.0 /k           23.5
RURAL                              ..          ..         34.0 7W           37.8
,OT AVAILABLE
N¶)T APPLICABLE
NSO T E S
la  rne group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmette mans.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depend. on Availability of dat- And 1. not unIforo.
/b  Unless otbervise noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; *'t- for 1970" between
1969 And 1971; and data for "Moat Recent Eatimate' between 1981 and 1983.
/c   Covernmet progras only; Id 1977; /a 1980; /f 1979; ^, 1962; /h 1976; A1 1972; /1  1968; /k 1978.
JUNE, 198S



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
- 33 -
Populia    I 49o.000 (.ld-1132. thouidsi)
G  per capItag eUeo0 (3982)
TN*LA  - *C_ItC rSSICANU
_et
CM  11L|li  at                                                                     Sha  or CDP
cerat lpies)                                                                               (ts a i mnaw..  k) (t eftu   9 m  at ma    -rcee {) Ct c rV )
tnudictor                        1964        I"        £170-VS  1-0   1        Ntf      9O f 19 0          91"0     17"      190       £
NATIONAL AC0WUU
Cref  &emtlc pcut               2.023         9.4       4.3      7.4       3.3        1.3      100.0    10.o    100.0    500.0    100.
4.u.tcLtmt                    9.4390         S.       3.3      3.2       1.4        2.9       29.3      29.3     31.5     2t2       22.0
IG&Dt&7                      10.9 as        11.9      1.6     11.4      5.4         4.4       13.7      25.)     24.0     27.3      24.2
sarvtce.                     21.47          9.0       7.1      7.9       4.3        4.'       41.5      46.4     43.7     44.2      S1i.
am_mptiu                       32.504         1.2       1.0      7.3      4.1         4.1       *S.7     18.7      18.3     73.3     79.2
Grose Ivestmet                 9*692          33.       3.3      3.2      0.          4.7       153.7    24.2    23.4       21.9      22.3
gapere. of COP                 9.353          10.5      2.4     53.4      113.        7.9       11.4      14.7     19.1     23.0      24.4
Zcorte of GNT                  11.239         12.9      3.7     10.3      3.0 o.2                 .9     21.3 5    2.7      31.1     24.4
Grose umliml aa't_u             7.602         12.7      4.1   S .3   * .1            10.9       14.1      21.3     20.7      0.7      13.9
maltim  of
Merchandise                     ,340          3.5       9.0     14.4      4.4         6.2     3O00.   300.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0
Prtory                       4.923          4.2       6.4      0.6      0.3         2.7       7.3 a 0 0.3   17.2   60.2   62.3    39.0
lanutct.ru                    2.402         29.2     20.9     11.3       3.9        9.2       2.2   19.5   22.7   39.5   37.7    41.0
Ibrcbm"He Imotsa              10.305          1.5       2.3     10.6       1.2        4.4     100.0  I00.0  100.0  10.0  100.0   100.0
Fed                           1.32          4.3      -2.2     11.9       3.6        6.5       9.4    5.4    4.4    3.4    3.3       3.5
P.trolem                      2407          11.3      3.0      3.7     -4.1         1.4      10.9    3.3   22.1   31.4   21.9    19.4
NaehiaLw    4quiet 3*38s                    14.1      5.9      1.4       3.4        3.2      25.2   24.1   23.3   23.3   29.1    32.7
Others                         973          10.1      3.0      9.3      4.7         4.9      34.1   49.7   31.7   41.7   44.9    44.2
S973       u97n       19         im         395         12         193        t934 1983
7W  Cdeflgtor                               423        70.e       63.9       100.0      300.0      £11.4       113.2      114.4      119.0
ucha. cats *0.4                                        20.4       20.3       20.3       21.3        23.0       22.0       23.4       27.0
caoat pric tl.                             67.23        34.9                100.0       99.3        91.1       93.7       95.I       37.4
I0ort prtce tndex                          s0.2       45.9        £1.2      100.0       313.1      11s.3      1124       113.9      112.9
Ter, of trade ltne                         IlS.1      503.4      104.5      100.0       34.3        77.0       33.2       32.0       77.4
F ,6           tw O1975                      [g_"                          11E
PUBLIC nVAN1 IS
Wrest ream...                                   132.          15.6            13.2           14.0            13.4          13.7
G rrat epitunta                                 10.4           124            11.3           521             13.1          16.2
surplue (4.) or idtlSt C-)                      n3.0            1. 2          *1.4          4*0.              0.3          -0.4
Capital eup..dttue                               4.3            5.3            3.4            3.9             3.4           3.3
Foreig flneautu                                  0.2            0.3            0.3            0.2             0.5           0.4
14-o            1970-73           t*75-40           193041ya            199S-9b
ongR rUDclm^e
A growthl rate (C)                               3.4               4.2               h.9                3.0                3.3
GNP per capita gout?, rate (Z)                   3.2               2.4               4.4                2.1                3.1
ECOt                                            12.1               4.0               2.4               4.2                 4.30
rkrgina1 _aviagt rate                            0.29              0.23              0.21              0.16                0.25
Reort ela.tie1ty                                 1.7               0.4               1.3               0.4                 o.90
la  Preliminary.
Ib Projected.
et C"tral aeermt oul7.
Umesebr 4. 1993



ANNEX I
- 34 -                                         ~~~~~~Page 6 of 6
cui psr capital UsUO (391123
ledleeter                    Iwo~197     iw6    ml,    His ~T        Ing    3aw1       tua       liii    wu In.    A lt    ,.to      0PhSLw11
mwwersa                            I.=0   3.490   *.00M   4.174   6.456   0.191   6.971    9.167   9310191        9     957 1.07 1.3 2.6
of toight  lbftMise  fo.b..          GM   2.9W1  3.4541  4.045   %.2314  6.49    6.14   1.835   4.305    7.344'   7.35    8.302    9,75    16.919
Zisets of seeds mao memfetec
eer,iese                          -1.430 -35912  -3.016  -53.69  69.123  -9.9910  -10.713  -9.249  -11.117  -11.234  -11.199  -113.30  -13,673  -29.717
at suebic    *,ebsdie  fe.b.      -1.149  -3.14s -4.247  -4,913 -4.75  -4.352   -6.930  -6.406 -10.187  -10.305  -10.152  -11.178 -12.523  -18,733
btt taste? loest Ees ebceed             23      .3      99   -266   -450 10 460         96   -1.017  -1.033       -394    -53       -?15    40   -1.34
bt tremfe3m                             49    2n        40      40      6      3In      132      13       277      1ot      IG      1in       3I"     3G6
Cahm,e occmin belA.                   -250    -440  -1.g97  -1,133 -2.M6  -2.223  -2,M6   -1.006  -2.073   -2,103  -1.710  -1.313  -1.627   -1.322
Prlvate dist Investment                 43      79    306       so      51    137       292      159      349      407      326     29       393       313
0.T loom. Cnst)                          32   2VA      344    670   1.415   3.66      1.631    1.327    1.238   .3517    1.306    1.490    .539   1.1,251
OFfILCUI                              21    100    1e1       29      453    549       Gal      69       541      634     654      a53      697      634
Nivase L                              10    139    136    in         93o  1.094    1.010       567      417      363     631      932      663      469
ftbar capital.                          93    239    740    752   1.160         .4     .36       268      6491     397      129     2VD      2        229
C- iadieats  increase)                U       9       95    .349    .34      36      .403     .138      519    -213      -25       06     4535     4641
Kasevutetlea gwage                     96    1.310   1.637   2.35    3.147   3.045    2,176    2.652    ism5    2.966    2.911    3.115    3.373    4o270
kfmeru e          ON .seera              I       3       4       5       5       4        3        5        3      3.1      3.1     3.0      2.9      2.4
G%Caesioa1 Looem                      II      32      73     153    242    230        223      214      250      253      33      455      316      401
sic                                 1t      43      s0      54     175    174      1i9       113      206      210      333     422      3so      399
126L                                 -       7       9       5       4       5       U        1o       17       11      I0        6        5         a
Otbst                                -       -      19      62      60      49       13       44       27       32       40      27       1.3        a
bscesceAmLealoanse                  1in      467     35s   1133   1.336   2.154    2.036    1.910    2.033    2.G63    l.e95    26757   2.30    3.3)4
Offcle   e3ge creatge               7       -      32       -       -       S       U        95      216      I"9      133      its     110      137
tm                         it~1    43      63     103    135    143        -        370     423      30       254      274      31       329
otbec  ltiLatetal                   2a      4       33      44      34      53       U       102      106      134      132     270      215      311
Priwais plic3l paGWaseam             17    101    306    411    562    690          60       455      32       30       255     I35       179     362
Private asemeeseei                 143    277    349    373        799   1.027      79       639      966    1.417  1.411.1   2.069    2.135  2,015.6
Thatl 3weee diabuaemses              19"    519    6613  1.326   29053   2.314    2.251    2.125    2.233    2.309    2.579    3.241   3.438    3.736
kiteeml Whi (time asrm)
Tamn;i;W emitetumo aed
dImbered                            32      i2n   1.119   1.129   2.532   6.1211   5.169    4.1!9    7.0001    7.539   4.13    5.695    9.257   11.629
official                           291    672    393   t.25    1.671   2.313    2.943    3.450    4.2116    4,765    5.422    6.0      sInM    3.712
private                             37    151    224       S66   1.161   1,613    2.326    29017   2.733    2.794   2.737    2.6505   2.463    2.916
Pitvate uSsepareaatd dali
outstaIndi   s.d diabstSe          32      73      we0   931   1.263   1.703    2.099    2.296    2.453    5.363    4,053   5.017    6.016   7.63
Tatel debt euotsmdtad me
#Labslr."                          710   1.6011  1.999   2.751   4.075   5.931    7.266    8.434    9.457   10.927   12.321   13.302   15.291   19.492
badtabened debt                      I1N    54    1.364   1.3390  2.361   3.004    3.061    3.592    3.449    3.003    21352    2,1643    2.810    3.2315
W    no1vlce papseate               162    371    4462    312    362   1.224    1.323    1.495    1.753    2.235    2.225    2.302   3.531    6,169
interet                             14    107    124       156    322    505        669     6"7       743      943     931    1.051    1.173    1.536
PapmwAmete I seti  at uged
med contractor oacvice             14.6   1064   13.0   16.3   14.9   15.4    15.6    15.9    19.2              21       29       23      22        19
c Z;NA                       6~~~~.5    7.6    7.0   4.6    7.46    9.3    10.2        9.2      8.2      8.7     3.5       3.0      5.0     3.0
Ofcial                             4.      7.9    5.1      5.6    5.4    6.5        7.4      5.7      6.1      7.9       -        -        -        -
Ptilate                              4.0    7.3    6.3    3.9   10.5   13.9    13.3    10.4             3.9      9.6       -        -        -        -
5)                       WA~~~~~3.    17.2   14.3   17.1    17.0   16.A    14.    19.3    20.3    17.2    37.0    16.0    13.0    13.0
ort: 11                             19.4   20.6   19.4   21.1.   22.4   21.1t    22.4    21.4    22.5    21.0              -        -        -
Ptilate                             11.2    7.3    1.9    9.4   10.0    6.6           9.2     11.3    10.7    10.!         -        -        -        -
%W WR!w   11011        *       226    15.4   11.  1.3   13. 4 M       11.4    12.9    13.1t    17.1    17.0    14.3    14.1    13.4    14.1
1nu diebwreinutelet&tisTm
d Leboedemet                        9.5    3.3    10.      9.4    7.0    6.1    13.0    17.4         1.3.    30.3    10.2        5.5      5.2      9.3
13 debt sesciasltstAl debt
macvIne                           11.1    9.4   10.0    .4.        6.9    6.5       LI        .3      4.9      3.2     5.2      4.5      5.0      4.4
Iah ulitatel 00                        -     0.7    1.0    0.9    0.7    0.4          0.7      0.5      0.9      0.9     0.9      0.3      0.3      0.6
126 &Idiubureeestslitl growe
dLebacamte                           -      1.2    1.3    0.4    0.2    0.2         0.?      0.9      0.9    0.37      0.30    0.19      0.13    0.02
126 debt "Io icettaw debt
marvice                              -    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0        0.2      0.0      0.0    0.04     0.05     0.04     0.00     0.05
Ae 2 sf debLt eetsteadlu  at ea O   1995m
situctip etraciuc Pe deft e.eaaudle
Frmelpel dea withia S peeae                                                                   4.0
PrIncipa dee wItLi  10 pest                                                                  57.9
Isteveat stiweitta of deobt eswteftmlg
intereet dae vitkia first pmee                                                                7.9
oftk to cheag Ia1 classification. pesiected date for pctvste OL.T leen Llacla . o the tetegecy eotbe capItauL
"kIevt c*pital" Ieeldaa st we of IN f.mfe and set fLee of sawt-t.c. eapttaL
I materca at a. de sot IladE. sessataated priv&at debt.
kaweru 4. 1911



ANNEX II
P ge -    of 3
- 35 -
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
(As of September 30, 1985)
Amount ($ uillion)
Loan or                                                              less cancellations
credit                                                                              Undli-
number   Year           Borrower                Purpose            Bank      IDA    bureed
Fifty-two loans and four credits fully disbursed                 1,708.23   61.85
1149     1975  Kingdom of Thailand     Irrigation                   95.00     -        8.11
1630     1978  Kingdom of Thailand     Irrigation                   17.50     -        3.22
1638     1979  Kingdom of Thailand     Urban transportation          8.11     -        1.37
1690     1979  Electricity Generating  Power                        69.00     -        3.20
Authority of Thailand
913     1979  Kingdom of Thailand     Education                      -     35.00      6.13
929     1979  KLngdom of Thailand     Agriculture                    -     25.00     10.51
1752     1979  Klngdom of Thailand     Agriculture extension        40.00     -       12.84
1787     1980  Kingdom of Thailand     Irrigation                   80.00     -       49.40
1852     1980  Electricity Generating  Power                        72.00     -        6.53
Authority of Thailand
1863     1980  Provincial Waterworks   Water Supply                 40.00     -       27.32
Authority
1870     1980  Kingdom of Thailand     Housing                      29.00     -        8.78
1871     1980  Provincial Electricity  Rural electriflcation        75.00     -       1'1.46
Authority
1889     1980  Kingdom of Thailand     Inland waterways             53.00     -       31.13
1918     1980  Kingdom of Thailand     Ports                        47.00     -       44.90
1922     1980  Kingdom of Thailand     Agriculture research        30.00      -       24.73
2000     1981  Electricity Generating  Power                       100.00     -       46.87
Authority of Thailand
2022     1981  Klngdom of Thailand     Irrigation                   57.00     -       45.76
2035     1981  Kingdom of Thailand     Provincial roads             35.00     -        9.92
2078     1982  Kingdom of Thailand     Tree crops                  142.00     -       43.06
2143     1982  Telephone Organization  Telecouminications          125.10     -       41.66
of Thailand
2178     1982  Kingdom of Thailand     Education                    52.70     -       36.10
2184     1982  Petroleum Authority of  Liquified petroleum gas      80.00     -       39.88
Thailand
2198     1982  Kingdom of Thailand     Agriculture                  17.00     -       15.45



AXNEM II
Page 2 of 3
-           - ~~~36 -
Amount (S million)
Loan or                                                            less cancellations
credit                                                                            Undis-
number   Year           Borrower               Purpose            Bank     IDA    bursed
2310     1983  Bonk for Agriculture & Agriculture                 70.00    -         3.96
Cooperatives
2311     1983 Kingdom of Tha.land     provincial roads           100.00    -        86.84
2312     1983 Provinclial Electricity Rural electrification       30.60    -        21.61
Authority
B-O01    1983 Telepbome Organization
of Thailand           Telecoionicat4.ons           8.5C    -         0.23
2402     1984 Kingdom of Thailand     Rural development           o0.00     -       44.83
2407     1984 Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand MinIng                       59.10    -        58.95
2440     1984 KLngdom of Thailand    Agriculture                  35.00    -        34.91
2520     1985 Kingdom of ThaIland    Urban development            27.50    -        27.50
2548     1985  Bangebak Petroleum Co. Refinery                    85.00    -        85.00
Total                                               3,438.34  121.85    900.16
of which has been repaid                           - 465.79    3.82
Total Now Outstanding                               2,972.55  118.03
Amount sold lc                     68.63
of which has been repaid         62.16                6.47
Total Now Held by Bank and  ML                      2,966.08  118.03
Total Undisbursed                                     883.52   16.64    900.16
la  7he status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
lb Of which $3.1 million is Norwegian grant participation.
/c Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailad.



Ann" II
Paxe 3 of 3
- 37 -
B. STATPEENT OF IPC INVEST?ENT
(As of September 30, 14R5)
Aounts (S milion)
Year     Company                       Type of business              Loan  Equity  Total
1959     Concrete Products and        Cement and construction         0.3      -      0.3
Aggregate Co., Ltd.          materials
196411971   Industrial Finance Corpora- Development finance               -      0.4     0.4
tion of Thailand (IPCT)      company
1969/19761  Siam Cement Group             Cement and construction       23.3    4.4    32.7
1978/19801                                  materials
1985
1977     Hatual PFnd Compmay Ltd.     Money and capital market         -      0.3     0.3
1977     United Sugar Terminal Ltd.  Food and food processing         2.5    0.2      2.7
197R     Siam Commercial Bank         Smsll- and medium-scale         2.0      -      2.0
Industries
1979/19801  Bangkok Glass Industry Co.   Glass containers                9.q    0.4    10.3
1983       Ltd.
1979/1981/  Siam City Cement Co. Ltd.    Cement and construction       111.5    4.7   116.2
1985                                    *aterlals
1979     Thai Orient Leasing Co.      Capital market                   -     0.1      n.1
Ltd.
19R3     Sea Minerals lmited          Mining                           -      0.6     0.6
1983     National Petrochemical       Chemicals & petrochemicals       -      0.4     n.4
Corporation
19R3     Thailand Tantalum             Mining                        53.5    3.4    56.9
1984     World Aquaculture            Food and food processing        2.5    0.6      3.1
1984     Southeast Asia Venture       Money & capital market           -      1.0     I.n
Investment (Seavi)
Total Gross Commitments                                  21n.5   16.5   227.0
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                            153.3    4.1   157.4
Net held by the corporation                               57.2   12.4    6Q.6
Total Undisbursed                                         35.0    4.5    39.5



ANNTEX III
- 38 -                     Page I of 2
TEAILAND
Sirikit Petroleum Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)      Time taken by the country to prepare the project:  3 years
(b)     Agency which prepared the project:  Petroleum Authority of Thailand
(c)      First presentation to the Bank: June 1982
(d)      Date of Departure of Appraisal Mission: October 20, 1984
(e)      Completion of Negotiations:  May 20, 1985
(f)      PLanned Date of Effectiveness:  March 15, 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan are that PTT and PTT
Exploration will enter into a Subsidiary Agreement to ensure proper execution
and control of the project and that the Joint Venture Agreement will have
become effective (para. 64).
The Guarantor has agreed to review the capital structure needed by
PTT to ensure a sound financial basis for present and platnned operations, and
to set the level of remittance of state revenue by PTT on a flexible basis,
allowing first for PTT to comply with its financial covenants and obligations
(para. 73).
The Borrower has agreed to:
(1) review with the Bank, in advance, the work program and related
budget of joint venture and any sole risk expenditures, and
consult with the DAnk on significant cha-nges to the work program
(para. 65);
(2)  ensure that the training and technical assistance under this
project will be carried out in accordance with a program
acceptable to the Bank (para. 65);
(3) undertake the following:
(a) maintain a current ratio of at least 1:1;
(b) maintain liability/equity ratio at a maximum level of 85/15
for FY86 and at 70/30 thereafter;
(c) not incur long term debt (of consolidated PTT) without
prior agreement by the Dank, unless future debt service



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
-39-
coverage based on reasonable forecast is at Least
1.5 times;
(d) apply surplus funds from each operation for other purposes
only after ensuring sufficient funds for that unit;
(e) maintain a self-financing ratio of not less than 30Z for
FY86 and 35Z thereafter;
(f)  revalue fixed assets annually for alL of its operation; and
(g) observe and implement sound corporate and financial
policies (para. 73);
(3) submit to the Bank by July 1, 1986 a proposal to strengthen the
internal auditing department, and implement such proposal,
taking into account the Bank's comments (para. 74); and
(4) submit to the Bank at regular intervals documents verifying
operator's expenditure, and each year submit the annual audit
report on the operator's (Thai Shell) disbursements required
under the Joint Venture Agreement (paras. 75 and 78).



THAILAND
SIRtKIT PETROLEUM PROJECT
PROJECTED COMNERCIAL ENERGY BALANCE
(Thousand toe)
1983          X       198S         %       1990          X       1995          X       1998          Z
(Actual)
Consumption                14300         100     15993        100      20817        100      28933        100      31175        100
Oil                      110OO         78      10313                 114 9=27      57      13233         46      15374        4-9
Hydroelectricity          1100          8       1317          8       1487          7       2149          7       2250          7
Lignite                    700          3        878          6       2294         11       3211         11       3211         10 t
Natural Gas               1400         10       3382         21       5006         24      10237         35      10237         33    .
Coal                       103           1       103           1       103          1        103          1        103          1    0
Domestic Production         3300          23      6500         41      10264         49      17559         60      16971         54
011                        30l          2        987                  15IS41        7       2027          7       1337          4
Iydroolectricity           900          7       1253          8       1423          7       2084          7       2186          7
Llgnlte                    700          3        8'8          5       2294         11       3211         11       3211         10
Natural Gas               1400          10      3382         21       5006         35      10237         35      10237         33
Net Imports                11000          77      9493          59     10553          51     11374         40      14204         46
OLI                      10800         76       9326         3W-     10386         50      11206         3       14037         45
HydroelectricLty           200           1        64        0.4         64        0.4         65        0.2         64        0.2
Coal                        -            1       103        0.6        103        0.6        103        0.4        103        0.4
import as 2
of Conaumption            76.9                  59.4                  50.7                  39.3                  45.6
104
.   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



06e          M          cc         0t          0g          it           co 00    1        0      %0 O  Ott          Olt           09t        Olt     t   off        Ot           --ont
M,           Mt         at         et          ut          ct            Oil         CiG        09     ecs          Olt           Ogg        octte il                             --1       6661
0*          ttl         o          0t                        Ot tGe                             0o1    OOt          0Ot           0tt       o0C          Og         0o1           --        fast
096         fit         CZ         0t          ot          to            oil 011     O@9               00            EOt          cot        Otc         Os?        Olt          --161
016      ,    i         cc 09 eOt                          t9           oil          016 cot   Ott                  Ott           oor        01i         co         off          --         *66
Sts         399         02         0lt 01                   9 Ist11 t                           out   Oct           Si9 oo0                  19          @          fIlt   1t             S 1661
o           Its         c          0@          Ot          £              01 oEl                0c    OGs           all           00c        olt         o          o0r          11        *966
0Go          ll.       0I         0c           01          to            oil         09£        06    01           Ott           00t        Ott         0          cot          ot        t661
Ott         got         0          @t          Ot          £9            oi   011   OCI         011 0oS                           oor        09          0 o0oot                 n9        ZA6T
Oil         *9          at         co          @1          to Otil                   Oil       09      06           091           002        091t        0          001          o         16b3
tt          362         of         0t          0E          £t           oil          16        Of    sG             o6t           -          CAt         0          oot          0o        £66?'
Ot9         gOt         01          9          @L          t£            o0i        01         it     oR           Sit                      g o1t       o          not           it?      633
O           l9t         --         Ot          Ot          t9           O            Ogg        Ca     @            sit           *          slip        0           0ot         11        3W
OIS          00         --         ot          --          -            01           OIS        or     I            c9t           -           19        0o          not          £91        Ml3
its        699          --         O           --          --           O            fit       0a      0            S11           -           1t9        0          oil          Sol 303T
Oct          g          --        Co           --          --           o              1tt      11     0            off           -          Ott         0          Otl          061       COLT
.3g.6   (eamutmg)   SJSSA    10.330           Iso;!       .s;ImsNA       Odi        tinSeL     I-S     033       (iuso:qmU)  a35?Sd          3*0n   w9a1*3e3   1;.ISU.t  1,312
JBRSd ~   ~      ~      ,a& lump*                                                                                                  Uslofi      0001         MinIM FA Fte@ "@w  *
a@Z@^  11@"                                                                                                                 Xotun        "l"17       "@wwn~~~01  1-
o l t       0   9o  i                                            1 a   * n s
aiorold mali101" &ISIST
a"t11b"



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
- 42 -
THATLAND
SIRIKIT PETROLEUN flCOJECT
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PRICING STRUCTUREa/
(In USS /gallon)
Gasoline   Kerosene   Diesel  Fuel Oil
Ex-refinery Prices                      0.78      0.80       0.76       0.63
Excise and Municipal Taxes              0.64       0.13      0.14       -
Contribution to/from oil fund           0.02      (0.13)    (0.02)     (0.08)
Marketing Margin                        0.07      0.06       0.06       0.02
Retail Price                            1.51      0.86       0.94       0.57
Net Govt. Subsidy                      (0.66)     0.00      (0.12)      0.08
a/   Effective September 18, 1985



ANNX V
Page 1 of 4
- 43 -
THAILAND
Sirikit Petroleum ProJect
Exploration History and Geology
The first oil discovery in Thailand was made in the early 1950's in
the Fang area. The exploration and development of the several small fields in
Fang have been undertaken by the Defense Energy Department (DED). The first
exploratory drilling outside of the operation in Fang was conducted by Union
Oil in 1964 in the eastern lhorat Basin but the results were discouraging.
Interest by the foreign oil companies remained low until early 1970's mainlv
due to the abundant worldwide supply and attendant depressed oil prices as
well as the disappointing results by Union's earlier well. The year 1971 was
the turning point in Thailand's petroleum development* The outmoded petroleum
legislation was overhauled; a new Petroleum Act and Petroleum Income Tax Act
were enacted; the first gas discovery was made in the Gulf of Thailand. Since
1971, out of 138 exploratory/appraisal wells drilled to date, some 73 have
produced gas and/or oil. The success ration of 53Z Is remarkable. However,
only eight fields are classified as commercial at this time, six offshore gas
fields and two onshore oil fields.
Companies currently active in Thakland include:  (a) Union, Gulf of
Thailand, two production license areas currently producing or under develop-
ment plus retained exploration area; (b) Texas Pacific, Gulf of Thailand, one
production license area not yet under development, and retained exploration
area; (c) PTT, Gulf of Thailand, one exploration license area currently being
evaluated; (d) Amoco, Sun, Union, Texas Pacific, and Triton, Gulf of Thailand,
exploration license areas retained in boundary disputed zone; (e) Placid,
Andaman Sea, exploration license with initial work just commencing; (f) Thai
Shell, onshore, two production licenses currently producing or under develop-
ment, plus retained exploration area; (g) Esso Khorat, onshore, retained ex-
ploration area with discovery (production license pending); (h) Esso Udon,
onshore, retained exploration area; (i) Phillips/Esso Sakon, onshore, retained
exploration area; (j) North Central, onshore two exploration licenses; and (k)
Terra Marine, onshore, exploration license. In addition four new exploration
licenses are in process of being negotiated: (1) Thai Shell, offshore, Gulf
of Thailand; (2) British Petroleum, onshore; (3) Britoil, onshore; and
(4) Forman Petroleum, onshore. DED still holds three sizeable blocks in the
northern Thailand inter-montane basins with small production in the Fang Basin
adjacent to the Burma border. The DED is in process of offering these areas
to foreign explorers (see map attached).
Hydrocarbons have been discovered in two basic geologic provenances
of Thailand. In the first, both oil and gas have been found in Oligo-Miocene
age sandstone reservoirs in Tertiary Basins in the western portion of the
country. These basins appear to have been formed during the extensional phase
of N-S regional lateral faults. The sedimentary section is basically non-
marine with fluvial and lacustrine sedimentary facies; source rocks being
lacustrine to shallow marine shales and reservoirs are both fluvial and/or
lacustrine sands. Structures are initially low relief compressional folds,
often followed by extensional collapse. This sequence of structural develop-
ment has resulted in a high density of associated faulting. The erratic and
lenticular nature of reservoirs in this environment over a vertical interval



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 4
- 44 -
of one thousand or more meters coupled with fault density has resulted in
fields with 2 large number of compartmentalized reservoirs of relatively small
size. The result of this geologic setting is fields and prospects that are:
(a) gas prone; (b) petroleum liquids are paraffinic with high pour tempera-
tures; (c) optimum development is complex; (d) recovery of in-place reserves
is low unless economics justify high well density; and (e) maintenance of
production requires frequent workover and re-completion of wells. The second
geologic provenance in which hydrocarbons have been found is in the Khorat
Plateau Basins of eastern Thailand in which gas has been tested from Permo-
Triassic limestones beneath a Cretaceous-Triassic unconformity. The sedimen-
tary facies of the limestone is that of a broad shelf. The limestone reser-
voir has low matrix porosity but significant fracture porosity. The structure
is basically pre-unconformity horst and graben blocks (high and low fault
blocks) subject to some compressive forces typified by high angle reverse
faults associated with the horst blocks. The source rock is either Lower
Triassic marine shales or the upper Paleozoic carbonates. The producing hori-
zons are deep, somewhat overpressured and gas prone. No production history is
available from the Khorat Plateau Basin but given the geologic parameters it
is expected that both reserves and producing rates will vary widely between
wells and fields.
Hydrocarbons discovered or indicated to date are as follows:
BED               Fang Basin                5 WMBLs      Gas unknown
Shell             Sukhotai Basin           40 MNBBLs       150 Bcf
Esso              Khorat Basin              1 MNMBLs     1,500 Bef
Amoco             N. Gulf of Thailand       4 NMBBLs     Gas unknown
Unimon            Pattani Trough           90 MWBBLs     2,800 Bcf
Texas Pacific      Pattani Trough/Jalay   10 MMBBLs        800 Bef
Total discovered or indicated:            150 MMBILs     5,250 Bef
Future oil and gas potential for Thailand is estimated as follows,
based on data obtained by exploratory activity thus far:
Basin(s)       Disc. to Date         Mean Undisc.            Total Expected
Liq.      Gas         Liq.      Gas           Liq.       Gas
(Mmbbl)   (Bcf)      (Mmbbl)   (Bcf)          (Hmbbl)    (Bcf)
Northern            5        -          145      250            150       250
Central           40       150         460      1350           500       1500
Khorat              1     1500           4      6000              5      7500
N. Gulf            4         -          46       200             50       200
W. culf            -         -         100       600            100       600
So. Gulf          100     3600          80      2400            180      6000
Total             150     5250         835    10800             985     16050
(ex Andaman)
Andaman            -         -          165     3200            165      3200
TOTAL       150      5250        1000    14000           1150      19250
Of the undiscovered potential excluding Andaman Sea, which itself is
highly speculative, consisting of 835 Mmbbl liquids and 10,800 Bef gas, some
65 Mmbbl and 2500 Bcf is indicated in unevaluated discoveries made thus far
(in other words 7.5% of the undiscovered liquids and 20% of the undiscovered



ANNEX V
Page 3 of 4
- 45 -
gas may have already been found). The analysis of undiscovered potential
liquids and gas were not the subject of rigorous analysis but rather represent
the following estimates of exploration maturity:
Basin                Discovered to Date as a X of Potential
Gas                     Oil
Northern                                           3%
Central                   102                      8%
Khorat                    20%                     20%
N. Gulf                                            8Z
W. Gulf                    - 
So. Gulf                  60%                     552
Andaman
Exploration History and Geology - Block S-1
In March 1979 Shell Oil acquired two license areas for petroleum
exploration in north central Thailand Blocks S-1 and S-2 each covering
10,000 km2. At the time of acquisition no subsurface geological information
was available from either geophysics or drilling. A seismic survey was
initiated on both blocks. Block S-2 was subsequently relinquished without
drilling because of unfavorable information gathered by the seisndc survey.
Block S-1, however, appeared more favorable and exploratory drilling commenced
after a subsequent seismic survey was conducted to define prospects indicated
by the initial survey. The first exploratory well, designated PTO-Al, tested
oil at a low production rate. The second exploratory well, Lan Krabu-l, dis-
covered the Sirikit field in December 1981. Since then 28 additional explo-
ratory wells have been drilled which include also the West Sirikit field dis-
covery. Eight of the exploratory wells tested oil which include four marginal
discoveries in addition to the two commercial finds, i.e. Sirikit and West
Sirikit. The results to date are six discoveries out of 30 attempts. Six of
the 24 failures had good oil shows and therefore may be in proximity to poten-
tial discoveries. In March 1984, 50% of the S-1 Block was relinquished (see
attached map) which included 10 of the dry holes. In addition to the leads
provided by the marginal discoveries and the wells with good shows several
attractive prospects remain to be drilled and others may turn up with the
integration of additional seismic surveys planned and the well data.
A production license of some 50 km2 has been issued for the Sirikit
field and another of some 3 km2 for the West Sirikit field. These are located
in the west central portion of Block S-1. To date some 19 development wells
have been drilled at Sirikit including two dry holes. Only three wells have
been drilled at West Sirikit, two capable of production and one dry hole. The
Sirikit field is on an irregular shaped north-south trending feature approxi-
mately 10 km long and 5 km wide. Production has been obtained from three
groups of Miocene sandstone intervals occturring between approximately 19OG-
2500 m. drilled depth (depends on structural position). The reservoirs
exhibit some of the characteristics of Erawan in that there is significant
faulting, the reservoir sands are lenticular, and consequently the reserves
producible from each zone are limited. However, most successful wells have
tapped several zones and recent 3D seismic is enabling greater success with



ANNEX V
Page 4 of 4
- 46 -
new wells in the main Sirikit field. Secondary recovery through water
injection is being tested. The oil is good quality, about 39.40 API, and
paraffinic with a pour point at about 330C. It is transported by tanker truck
to a rail depot a few km south of Phitsanulok where it is shipped by rail
about 400 km for refining in the Bangkok area. The waxy nature of the crude
when taken with the high pour point makes a pipeline a technically complex and
difficult option. A pipeline is unlikely unless supplies are assured for more
than ten years at the full production rate. The West Sirikit field is located
on a smaller adjacent structure from similar reservoirs and depths.
Productive capacity at Sirikit now exceeds 20,000 bpd and West Sirikit is just
starting development. Initial recoverable reserves at Sirikit and West
Sirikit combined are presently estimated at 44 MMBBLs by McCord-Lewis but must
be considered tentative since development drilling is still in progress and
production history is insufficient to accurately predict reservoir
performance.
Recoverable associated gas reserves not rigorously analyzed at this
time are thought to be in the order of 150 Bcf. Gas production is currently
about 30 MMCFD and is expected to increase over time as the balance between
oil and gas production changes. The gas is separated from the oil in
separators located at the well-head and is gathered into a 12- diameter
pipeline which takes it to the EGAT facilities about 3 km away. EGAT has a
number of small gas turbines at Lan Krabu brought from other parts of Thailand
and is able to make use of most of the gas. As the gas is rich in liquids PTT
and Thai Shell are actively considering a small gas separation plant to
extract LPG and natural gasoline from the gas stream.



THAILAND
SIRIKIT PETROLEUM PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
YEAR             '1985                           1986 .1987                                                   1988
QUARTER    _       2       3       4      -       2       3      4       _       2       3      4       1       2      3       4
i. EXPLORATION
- Seismic Surveys
- Dala Processing/Interpretation
- Drilling of Exploratory Wells
2. PRODUCTION
-Drilling of Development Wells
Surface Facilities                                        _       -              - _                    -              -       -              - __
3. TECHNICAL ASSIS ANCE
- on-sfe Consultancy Seruices fox PTT                       _
Joint Venture
- Annual Slrikit Reservoir Study Update
- Geophyslcol/Geologlc/Reservoir
Studies of IP/Esso Blocks
- PrT Block 5/27 Promotion Study
- Financial Audit
- Data Storage Facilitles
4. TRAINING                                                            _       -       -      --                                     -              -       -
Word Bank -2 7063     OH



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 2
- 48 -
THAILAND
PETROLEUM AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
SIRIKIT PETROLEUM PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan
(In US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year &
Quarter                   Amount Disbursed               Cumulative
FY 1986
September 30, 1985                       0.0                          0.0
December 31, 1985                        0.0                          0.0
March 31, 1986                          10.0                          10.0
June 30, 1986                            5.0                          15.0
FY 1987
September 30, 1986                       3.0                          18.0
December 31. 1986                        3.0                         21.0
March 31, 1987                           3.0                          24.0
June 30, 1987                            2.0                         26.0
FY 1988
September 30, 1987                       0.3                         26.3
December 31, 1987                        0.3                         26.6
Mlarch 31, 1988                          0.2                         26.8
June 30, 1988                            0.2                         27.0
FY 1989
September 30, 1988                       0.5                         27.5
December 31, 1988                        0.1                         27.6
March 31, 1989                           0.4                         28.0
June 30, 1989                            5.0                         33.0



THAILAND
SIRIKIT PETROLEUM PROJECT
Petroleum Author  of Thailand
Organization Chart
| Bood of Dkoctas
Data &  Rerniln. .x_l.otlon
TGoinaASat   Gicn   s
.. _c.~uact.  Dep. tdai
IDePutY Gom          s vept         11m   Dptv e GO           DoptvGawmo                                         De" Iawo Iic .GIas~X
Affairs _ w0atics a Re&ft   ToChIcat & l rrfh        l Fkxrco                                        MMWNVMO)                     Op 2d on (G)  |
_omft Prpetrfient _dmindl(ation CPctin                                                                    .             >e"Wg
D & Contft       _DDqantd
Depadment                                                                       D  Bormint00 



- SO -                      ANNEU VilI
Page 1 of 15
THAILAND
SIRIRIT PETEOLEKU PROJECT
FINANCIAL ASPECrS
Lotroduction
PTT was established in end-1978 to engage in and promote a full range
of petroleum and petrochemical activities. Over the past three years, PT?'
financial performance shoved a marked improvement over that of its Initial
years of operations. In particular, it turned around from a net loss in FY81
to become increasingly profitable. In addition, as a result of the
comprehensive program of remedial measures provided under the previous Bank
loan C2184-TH), there has been significant progress in alleviating PTT's
severe liquidity problem and directing the company tovards a sound financial
footing. Hcvever, PTT's liquidity position has recently been weakened by the
delay in payment by two of its public sector customers. Provided that Its
sizeable accounts receivable can be controlled at an acceptable level, PTT'.
finances are forecast to remain satisfactory over the foreseeable future.
PTT's core operating arm, the Natural Gas Operations (ONG), will continue to
dominate the company's overall profitability, while the Oil Marketing
Operations (OMO) will continue to have a significant impact on the turnover
and cash flow position.
Past and Present Finances
PTT's consolidated finances for the last four years are summarized
below and shown in detail in Attachments 1 and 2.
FISCAL YEAR    1981       1982        1983       1984
-AODITh-U-IE
tn MMCFD
Natural Gas Sales                                 120        140         200
In Zllio' USS
Revenues                                1,197      1,363      1,559       1,658
Net Income:
ONG3J                                    -         20         18         103
ONO                                    (41)        21         28          51
Total                            (41)        41         46        154
Current Assets                            664        595        542        605
Total Assets                            1,108      1,048      1,042       1,288
Current Liabilities                       782        440        426         563
Long-Term Liabilities                     299        545        513         487
Total Equity                               27         63        103         238
Operating Ratio                         0.99        0.93       0.95        0.90
Current Ratio                           0.85        1.35       1.27        1.07
Average Collection Period                 95          77         45          59
Debt/Equity Ratio                       92/8       90/10      83/17      67/33
Total Liabilities/Equity Ratio          98/2        9416      90/10       82/18
a/  Includes foreign exchange gain of $12 million in FY82, foreign exchange
loss of $8 million in FY83, and foreign exchange gain of $5 million in
FY84.



ANNEX VIII
- 51 -                       Page 2 of 15
Through FY81, PTT's income was derived solely from OMO which suffered
a net loss of $41 million in that year. This was mainly the result of a
foreign exchange loss on oil trading and high interest expenses. Substantial
short-term debt was incurred by PTT in order to meet the liquidity needs
arising from delayed payments by the Oil Stabilization Fund. PTT's liquiditv
position was further weakened by the financing requirements of the Bangchak
refinery. In addition, PTT was under-capitalized, as indicated by the
extremely high debt/equity ratio of 92/8, and reflecting short-term borrowing,
a total liabilities/equity ratio of 98/2 by end-1981.
With the view towards strengthening the financial position of PTT,
the Bank reviewed and agreed with the Government and PTT a comprehensive set
of measures which were provided under the Bank Loan 2184-TE. In order to
alleviate PTT's liquidity problem, the Oil Fund's indebtedness to the companv
was settled by the Governmen.. Further, PTT was allowed to consolidate the
inventory of 00 and Bangehak refinery which resulted in a lower level of
required inventory for overall PTT. These measures were effective in
improving PrT's short-term liquidity position, as reflected by the improvement
of the current ratio from 0.85 in FY81 to about 1.3 in F"83. However, PTT's
liquidity position was weakened again in FY84, as indicated by the decrease in
the current ratio to 1.1. This was mainly because of the delayed payment by
two of its customers, the BMTA and SRT. In addition to the provisions for
liquidity, the aforementioned Bank loan also provided for measures which are
directed at building up PTT's equity base and limits were set for controlling
the incurrence of both long and short-term debt.
Over the past three years, PTT's income improved considerably,
turning around from a net loss in FY81 to a net income amounting to
$154 million in FY84. This was primarily due to the commencement and growth
of the Natural Gas Operations (ONG), and to a lesser extent, improved
profitability of OO as a result of significant reduction of its short-term
debt and related interest expenses. As the average volume of natural gas
sales increased from 120 to 200 MKCFD during FYs 82 to 84, the ONG share of
PTT's net income increased from some 50Z to 67% during the same p riod. PTT's
equity base was being built up steadily by increased retained earnings.
Increased operating profits also allowed PTT to retire a significant portion
of its short-term debt. *s a result, the company's highly leveraged position
has been steadily improved, as reflected by the reduction of total
liabilities/equity ratio to 82/18 by end-1984.
Future Finances
PTT's finances are projected to be satisfactory throughout the fore-
cast period. Financial projections over the period FYs 1985-88 are shown in
Attachments 3 - 9. PTT Exploration has been consolidated on a line-by-line
basis.



ANNEX VIII
- 52 -                       Page 3 of15
Revenue Position
Consolidated PTT's projected operating results are summarized as
follows:
FY1985    FY1986    FY1987    FY1988
Sales - Volume al
Natural Gas (M7CFD)               252        365       415       435
LPG (000 tons) b                  332       464        468       467
Natural Gasoline (000 tons)        62        82         82        82
Revenues (million USS)                   1,498      1.704     1,979      2,411
Net Income (million USS)
Gas and LPG Extraction             82        143       178       208
Petroleum Products Marketing       28         32        43        58
Thai Shell Joint Venture            -          8        17         17
Total         110        183       238        283
Operating ratio                  0.89      0.85       0.85      0.86
(a) Natural Gas Operations (ONG)
ONG's revenue position is particularly sensitive to the volume of gas
supply as well as the margins between the cost and selling price of
natural gas. EGAT has been and will continue to be the major
customer. The gas sales contract with EGAT called for the selling
price of gas to be renegotiated in FY84. Negotiations between the
two state enterprises have recently been concluded with a new gas
sales price set at W 87/MMBTU (53.2IMWNBU) Which approximates
imported coal parity. The PTT/EGAT gas sales contract passes on to
EGAT most of the terms of the Union Oil/PTT contract, including take
or pay, price escalation etc. Transport margin is determined
separately based on estimated costs.
The aforementioned gas price has been assumed to escalate by the same
rate (5% p.a.) as that anticipated for Union's gas price. This
represents a significant reduction in the gas price (12X) and, as a
result, ONG is expected to report a substantial decrease in profit in
FY85 when compared with that of a year ago. Nevertheless, the
anticipated increase in gas sales volume would allow ONG to expect
rising operating income throughout the forecast period. The
operating ratio of ONG is projected to be satisfactory at about 0.7
throughout the forecast period. Its annual return on revalued net
fixed assets is expected to be about 20X-31Z throughout the forecast
period.
a/ Excluding Thai Shell joint venture.
b/ Includes LPG bulk and retail sales.



ANNEX VIII
- 53 -                       Page 4 of 15
(b)  Oil Marketing Operations (OHO)
The major factors affecting the profitability of OMO are the
stipulated marketing margin on petroleum products sales, product mix
and interest expenses. Allowing for a six-month lead time for
adjustment in domestic prices, it has been assumed in the financial
forecast that the products margin would be adjusted by FY 86 to
restore it to the same US dollar equivalent level before the recent
baht devaluation. During the interim, and before price adjustment,
substantial payments (estimated at $40 million) would need to be
received from the Oil Fund to allow PTT to maintain the same products
margin. Understandings have been reached with the Government that
measures would be undertaken to prevent the Oil Fund from suffering
sustained deficits. Reflecting the country's structural shift in
energy consumption with increased natural gas coming on stream, OO's
products sales are expected to have a significant change in the
products mix. In particular, fuel oil sales to EGAT are expected to
fall significantly during the next few years and the surplus fuel oil
will be exported. On the other hand, along with the commencement of
the LPG plant operation, OO's activity would be expanded to cover
bulk LPG sales. Based on the assumption that there would be an
adequate margin for bulk LPG sales, which are expected to be more
profitable than fuel oil sales, 010 is forecast to enjoy a steady
increase in operating profits. However, interest expenses are also
forecast to increase substantially, reflecting the drawdown of long-
term loan to finance LPG developments. Further, short-term debt and
related interest expenses would need to be incurred in case of undue
delay in payment receipts, Provided that the accounts receivable is
maintained at an acceptable level to prevent an excessive incurrence
of short-term debt, OMO's finances are forecast to remain
satisfactory.
(c) PTT Exploration
The Thai Shell joint venture would derive most of its revenues from
the sale of crude to local refineries. Based on the agreement
between Thailand and Thai Shell, the price of crude would be based on
international price less 8 1/2% plus transport cost. Crude pro-
duction which is estimated to stabilize at some 20,000 bbild during
the forecast period would allow PTT's share of net income to increase
from $8 million in FY86 to $17 million in FY88. On a discounted cash
flow basis, the after-tax financial rate of return of the Sirikit
project is estimated at 15% (in real terms).



ANNEX VIII
- 54 -                        Page 5 of 15
Liquidity Position
Liquidity will continue to be a major concern for mTT. To ensure the
financial soundness of the company, it is imperative that the turnover of its
sizeable receivables be monitored closely and maintained at an acceptable
level. However, because of the delayed payment of two of its customers,
Bangkok Mass Transit Authority (BNTA) and State Railways of Thailand (SRT),
PTT's average receivable turnover has been slowing down from some 50 days to
about 60 days in FY84. The delayed pavments from BMTA and SRT, wbich together
account for some 9% of PTT's sales, have reached a high level of some
$70 million by end-FY84. Under the Bangchak Refinery Project, the Government
agreed to submit to the Bank shortly proposals to improve the payment
practices for petroleum product purchases of state agencies and enterprises
and implement such proposals taking into account the Bank's comments. As an
interim measure, some $55 million of BMTA's and SRT's indebtedness to PTT were
settled by the Government and the outstanding receivables from these two state
enterprises were reduced to $37 million by end-FY85.
Funds Flow
PTT's total investment program is projected to have reached some $670
million by FY88. The investment program is sensible and will enhance the
company's profitability. However, in addition to profitability, PTT's
liquidity position is also dependent on the payment period of its customers
and the Oil Fund. On condition that its sizeable receivables are maintained
at an acceptable level, PTT is forecast to generate substantial surplus cash
which can meet at least 30Z of the financing requirements of its investments
in FY86 and 35% thereafter. It is envisaged that PTT will continue to get
access to suppliers' and buyers' credits, and financing from commercial banks
and development institutions to fill its financing gap, especially in meeting
foreign currency requirements. Its debt service coverage is projected to be
satisfactory and remain above 1.5 times throughout the forecast period.
Capital Structure
PTT's presently highly leveraged position is expected to be improved
despite increased borrowings for future investment. This is mainly because
PTT's equity is projected to be gradually built-up with increased retained
earnings. Further, in accordance with the provisions of previous Bank loans,
the interest-free loan of $75 mi,lion from the Government would be converted
into equity starting from FY85.A( In addition, PTT is no longer responsible
for the funding of Bangchak refinery as the latter became an autonomous and
commercial company in early 1985. PTT's total liabilities/equity ratio is
expected to improve from the presently high level of 82/18 to 54/46 by end
a/ Of the $200 million of commercial financing secured by PTT in FY82,
$75 million were initially an interest free loan from the Government and would
be converted into equity when the Government starts to repay the principal in
FY85. Further equity is to be provided under Bank loan 1773-TH and 2184-TB
totalling about $82 million to cover taxes and duties on the pipeline and LPG
projects. PTT is currently in the process of making such an arrangement with
the Budget Bureau.



ANNEX VIII
- 55 -                        Page 6 of 15
FY88. Similarly, its debt/equity ratio is forecast to decrease steadily from
67/33 to about 43/57. It should, however, be noted that as PTT's role is
expanded from gas transmission and petroleum products marketing to include
exploration and production of oil/gas, it has also moved into activities of
considerably higher risks which needs to be reflected in the target
debt/equity ratio. In this respect, it is sound strategy for the Government
to limit PTT's involvement in upstream operations to a minority share in joint
ventures with foreign concessionaires.



ANNEX VIII
Page 7 of 15
- 56 -
Attachment 1
THAILAND
Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PT)
Consolidated Income Statement a
For the Year Ended September 30
(In US$ Million)
FY81       FY82          FY83       FY84
-AUDITED
Revenues
Sales                           1,177       1,344        1,539       1,639
Other Income                       20          19           20          19
Total Revenues               1,197       1,363        1,559       1,658
Expenses
Cost of Sale                    1,147       1,222        1,411       1,421
Depreciation                        2          20           20          21
Other Expenses                     38          32           44          44
Total Expenses               1.187       1,274        1,475       1.486
Income Before Interest &
Foreign Exchange Gain (Loss)       10          89           84         172
Foreign Exchange Gain (Loss)         (21)         12           (10)         2
Interest                              30          60           28          20
Net Income                     (41)         41           46         154
Operating Ratio                     0.99        0.93         0.95        0.90
a/ At exchange rate of $1 - B 23.05.



ANNEX VIII
- 57 -                       Page 8 of 15
Attachment 2
THAILAND
Petroleum Authority of Thailand LPTT)
Consolldated Balance Sheet-'
As of September 30
(In US Milllon)
FY81       FY82          FY83       FY84
'   =       ~~AUDITEI     ------
ASSETS
Fixed Assets (Net)                 17        409           403        382
Construction Work in Progress    395           10           74        270
Total Net Fixed Assets          412        419           477        652
Long-term Investment               19         19            19         21
Other Assets                       13          15            4         10
Current Assets
Inventories            ,          134         89            81         78
Receivable - Bangchakk'           183        162           144        i83
Accounts Receivable               144         159          192         265
Receivables From Oil Fund         126        129             1          3
Cash                               27          6            59         34
Other Current Assets               50         50            65         42
Total Current Assets            664        595           542        605
Total Assets               1.108      1.048         1 042      1.288
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Equity
Capital                             D           7            7          8
Retained Earnings                  20         56            96        230
Total Equity                     27         63           103        238
Liabilities
Long-term LiabilitiesS/           299        545           513        487
Current Liabilities
Short-term Debt                   596        2 S9          198        234
Accounts Payable                  195         78            41         57
Other Current Liabilities         191         123          187        272
Total Current Liabilities       782        440           426        563
Total Liabilitles          1,081        985           939      1,050
Total Liabilities
& Equity                1.108      1,048         1,042      1,'88
a/ At exchange rate of $1 - B23.05
h/  OMO indebtedness to Bangehak refinery has been netted out.
c/  Includes Long-term liabilities to Ministry of Finance pending the
payment from the Oil Fund and progressive conversion of interest-free
Loan into equity amounting to $200 million in FY82 and S78 million in
FYs 83 and 84.



ANNEX VIII
- 58 -              Page 9 of 15
Attachment 3
PEtROLEUM AUTHORITY OF THAILANDCPTT)
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
(IN US MILLION DOLLARS)
1985   1986   1987   1988
REVENUES
NATURAL GAS                         322    483    575    634
LPG/PROPANE                         166    247    290    346
NATURAL GASOLINE                     16      23     25     27
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS DISTRIBUTION    994    921  1,056  1,367
DISTRIBUTION FROM THAI SHELL          -      30     33     37
TOTAL REVENUES                  1,498  1,704  l,V79  2,U11
EXPENSES
COST OF GOODS SOLD                1,234  1,316  1,533  1,909
OPERATING COST                       60      70     75     79
DEPRECIATION                         41      70     70     79
TOTAL EXPENSES                    1,335  1,456  1,678  2,067
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST              163    248    301    344
INTEREST                           53     65      63     61
NET INCOME                          110    183    238    283
OPERATING RATIO                    0.89   0.85   0.85   0.86



AN1  VIII
Page 10 of 15
- 59 -
Attachment 4
PETROLEUM AUTHORITY OF THAILAND(PTT)
CONSOLIDATED SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(IN US MILLION DOLLARS)
1985  1986  1987  1988
SOURCES
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST              163   248   301   344
DEPRECIATION                         41    70    70    79
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION       204   318   371   423
LESS:NET INCOME TO GaVERNMENT        33    88   111   133
NET INTERNAL CASH RETAINED   171   230   260   290
LONG-TERN LOAN                      1167   172    95    68
GOVT CONTRIBUTIONS                    -    82      -     -
INCREASE IN ACCOUNTS PAYABLE         25    (1)   33    38
TOTAL SOURCES                  363   483   388   396
APPL ICATI ONS
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE                 227   177   171   115
INTEREST ON BORROWINGS               59    67    74    77
LOAN REPAYMENT                       37    49    52    55
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE              96   116   126   132
INCREASES IN CASH                    (5)  120    66    49
INCREASES rN ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE    27    (8)   31    68
INCREASES IN INVENTORIES             18    (4)   14    32
DECREASE IN OTHER C. LIAB.            -    82      -     -
TOTAL APPLICATIONS             363   483   388   396
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE              1.78  1.98  2.06  2.20



ANNM VIII
Page 11 of 15
- 60 -
Attachment 5
PETROLEU AUTHORITY OF THAILAND(PTT)
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(IN US MILLION DOLLARS)
19Q5  1986   1987   1989
ASSETS
REVALUED GROSS FIXED ASSETS            865  1,074  1,190  1,324
LESS ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION         (100)  (169)  (209)  (302)
NET REVALUED FIXED ASSETS            765    905    962  1,022
PROJECTS IN PROGRESS                     2      19     59     90
TOTAL NET REVALUED FIXED ASSETS    767    924  1,041  1,112
OTHE.' ASSETS                           40     59    139    184
CURRENT ASSFTS
,INVENTORIES                             96     91    107    139
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                    29     29      29     29
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                    253    245    276    344
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE-BANGCHAK            22     31      36     40
CASH                                    31    151    217    266
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                 431    547    665    819
TOTAL ASSETS                   19239  1,530  1,944  2114
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
CAPITAL                                 15    105    113    121
RETAINED EARNINGS                      240    335    462    612
RFVALUATION RESERVE                    167    247    405    525
TOTAL EQUITY                          422    697    980  1,258
LONG TERM DEBT                         522    595    565    505
OThER LIABILITIES                       38     38      39     38
TOTAL LONG-TERN LIABILITIES          560    623    603    543
CURRENT LIABILITIES
CURRENT PORTION,LONG-TERN DEBT          49     52      55     6S
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                        25     24      57     95
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE-BANOCHAK               22     31      36     40
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES              160    113    113    113
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES            256    220    261    313
TOTAL LIABILITIES                  816    943    864    956
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY   1,238  1,530  1,944  2,114
DEBT EQUITY RATIO                     0.69   0.59   0.51   0.43
TOTAL LIABILITIES/EQUITY              0.76   0.66   0.60   0.54
CURRENT RATIO                         1.68   2.49   2.55   2.61



ANNEX VIII
Page 12 of 15
- 61-
Attachment 6
PETROLEUM AUTHORITY OF THA1LAND(PTT)
NATURAL GAS OPERATION(ONG)
INCOME STATEMENT
(IN US MILLION DOLLARS)
1995    1986    1987    1988
SALES (000 TONS)
______________
NATURAL GAS (MMCFD)        252     365     415      435
LPG/PROPANE                177     247     247      246
NATURAL GASOLINE            62      82      92       82
SELLING PRICE (WSTON)
NATURAL GAS ($/MMBTU)     3.20    3.36    3.53    3.71
LPG/PROPANE             307.00  330.04  356.44  384.95
NATURAL GASOLINE        262.50  282.20  304.78  329.15
REVENUES
NATURAL GAS                322     483     575     634
LPG/PROPANE                102     153     167      190
NATURAL GASOLINE            16      23      25       27
TOTAL REVENUES             440     659     767     841
EXPENSES
COST OF GAS                262     398     464      505
OPERATING COST              22      30       33      34
DEPRECIATION                32      40      45       49
TOTAL EXPENSES             316     468     542     588
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST     124     191     225     253
INTEREST                    42      48      47      45
______  ------  ------   -----
NET INCOME                  82     143      178     208
=:s===  ===W==  =3====  =C====
OPERATING RATIO           0.72    0.71    0.71    0.70



ANNX VIII
Page 13 of 15
- 62 -
Attacbuent 7
PETROLEUM AUTHORITY OF THAILAND(PTT)
OIL MARKETING OPERATIONS(OMO)
INCOME STATEMENT
(IN MILLION US DOLLARS)
1985   1986   1987   1988
REVENUES
__________
LPG
RETAIL LPG                  51     75    102    143
BULK LPG MARGIN             13      19     21     23
TOTAL LPG                 64     94    123    166
OTHER PETROLEUM PRODUCTS      976    903  1,038  1,349
OTHER REVENUES                 19      18     19     18
TOTAL REVENUES         1,058  1,015  1,179  1.533
EXPENSES
COST OF GOODS SOLD         972    918  1.069  1,404
SELLING Z ADM. COST         38     40      42     45
DEPRECIATION                 9      15     17     19
TOTAL EXPENSES         1,019    973  1,128  1,468
NET INCOME BEFORE INTEREST     39      42     51     65
INTEREST                       11     10       8      7
NET INCOME                28     32      43     58
===5= RC== ===_   ====_
OPERATING RATIO              0.96   0.96   0.96   0.96



ANN1X VIII
Page 14 of 15
- 63 -
Attachment 8
THAILAND
FPTT
THAI SHELL JOINT VENTURE
INCOME STATEMENT
(IN MILLION US$)
1986  1987  1988
REVENUES
CRUDE                            190   201   213
GAS                               18    21    19
TOTAL REVENUES                   208   222   232
LESS:ROYALTYt12*52)               26    28    29
NET REVENUES                   182   194   203
EXPENSES
OPERATING COST                    61    61    55
J.V.INCOME FOR DISTRIBUTION   121   133   148
PTT SHARE-25%                     30    33    37
LESS:DEPRECIATION                 15      8    11
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST          15    25    26
INTEREST                           7      8     9
NET INCOME                       8    17    17
=C__; C _ - -___



THAILAND
PTT HARE-THAI SHGELL JOINT VENTURE (25%)
PROJECTED CANFLOU
(IN CURRNT HILLION us9i
1965  1986  1987  198l  1969  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1996  1999  2000  2001  2002
PRODUCTION !/
___________
CRUDE(WO IlL)            1.2   7.6   7:6   7.6   7.4   7.2   7.0   6.2   4.9   1,6   2.0   1.9   1,2   0.7            -      -     -      -
04114WCF)                1.5  10,3  10.9   9.7  10.1  10.4  11.2  11.4  IS5,   17.5  17.3  14.4  10.9   7.6   5o0   4.3   3.2   2.4
PRICE
CRUDE(OS/Ll.)           25.6  25.0  26.5  28.0  29.7  31,4  14.4  37s4  41.0  44.8  48.9  51Ot   '!-  5O.d   59.4  62.4  65.$  48.6
BAIS01CF)                1,6   1.7   1.9   2.0   2.2   2.3   2.5   2.4   2.7   2.8   3.0   3.1   3.3   3.5   3.6   3.o   4.o   4.2
PTT UN1RE(25X)
REVENUES
CRUDE                      I    46    50    53    55    57    60    50    50    43    34    24    16    10             -     -      -     -
GAl                        1     5      a     5      A      A     7      a    is    12    13    11       9      7     5      4     3      3
TOTAL EvENUge              9    53    15   5S    61    63    67    66    61    55    47    35    25    17             5      4     3      3      I
LEIIIROVALTV(12.5Z1        I     7      7      7     a      a     a      a     a      7     6      4     3      2      1     a      -     -      0
NETr RENUES                   46    46    51    u       5S    59    5       53 , 46    41    31    22    15         4      3     3      3
EXPENGEO
WYK-IN    W                -    53      -      -     -      -     -      -     a      '     -      -     -      -      -     -      -     -
EXPLORATION                2    11      6      7     5      -     -      -     -      -     -      -      -     -      -     -      -     -
DEVELOPHENT                3    26    19    24    20        1     -      -     -      1     3      3      -            I     I      -     -
OPERTINU COST              2    la    16    14    16    17    14    12    11          9     9      7      5     3      2     2      a     2
TMX                        -     -      -      -     -      9    1V    19    17    16    12        9      7     5      -     -      a     1
TOTAL CAIH OUTFLOW       7   105    41    45    41       7    33    3l    26    26    24    19    12          U     3      3     3      1
MET CASH INWLOL (          I   (59)    7       6    12    23    26    27    25    22    17    12    10          7      1     -      -     -
mai.uw  Mmmm  .a ..  u u 14.,  ,,,,, t m N ma  . memo   ,, ma  seem  noun m.-e *mam   aa&a  JdmO  again  mum1  on":
!/ 1iss I lud" two moths oR oprateIn4al reatte (Nov.bur Sd Dumbc ,) lfter *ffeetsienes of joinu -t
/  tIalLint. paymts of buy-to o expectud to be lcurred In "arfl 1116,
j/  ker. wu1kias capital r.qulr_t.s ad  stewat ospe. .h.



ANNEX IX
- 65 -                      Page I of 3
THAILAND
SIRIKIT PETROLEUM PROJECT
ECONOIC ANALYSIS
Background
Up to the date ot effectiveness of the joint venture, the operation
at Block S-1 is 100% owned by Thai Shell, the foreign concessionaire. All the
oil and gas produced is sold domestically. The crude price paid to Thai Shell
is based on a 8 1/2% discount from the international price of crude, plus
transport cost, while the price of associated gas is considerably below
imported fuel oil parity. The Government take from Block S-1 operation
includes royalties and income taxes paid by Thai Shell. Thailand benefits
through the substitution of oil imports by indigenous oil and gas. As the net
payment to Thai Shell (net of royalties and taxes) is considerably bel-ov the
economic value of oil and gas, the development of Block S-1 has resulced in
substantial foreign exchange savings being accrued to the country ahruugh
avoidance of oil imports, and helps to improve its balance of payments
position.
The proposed project is directed at assisting Thailand to participate
jointly with Thai Shell in exploring for and developing oil and gas reserves
at Block S-1. As the savings from substitution of oil iwports remaln the same
with or without Thai participation, the incremental quantifiable benefit from
the Thai participation is increased Government/PTT take. This can be
calculated as total PTT profits from the joint venture less an appropriate
share of royalties and taxes payable by Shell if the joint venture did not
exist. In addition to increased resource mobilization, the project also
allows for the reduction of potential profit remittance abroad, thereby
furthering the objective of improving the country's balance of payments
position.
Economic Benefits and Costs
The economic benefits and costs have been estimated in end-1935 price
terms. In calculating the benefits of import subsrirution, the economic value
of oil was escimated at CIF price of crude of about S27/bbl in 1985, a re-
duction of 9% in real terms in 1986, thereafter a reduction of about 2X p.a.
in real terms for 1987-90 and an escalation of 4Z p.a. for 1?91-95-  Tho 4 otal
recoverable reserves from Block S-1 have been assumed ro be 0 million Wh .
The value of gas has been estimated at imported fuel oil partLv for the period
19%5-90, thereafter at imported coal parity.  Imported fuel c,tl drd coal
prices in 1985 have been assumed to be $3.5/MMBTU and $2.8/MMBTU, respectively
and escalated by a real growth rate similar to that of crude for fuel oil but
insofar as coal prices are concerned, they are assumed to remain essentially
the same until 1990, thereafter escalated by a real growth rate of 1%.
In calculating the incremental benefit of Thai partlripation-r tie
gross savings which the country would otherwise have to pay to Tha; SFell are
derived from the reduction of payment from 100 to 75% cf the ohi .;nc ga4s
production at Block S-I. The estimated prices charged by Thai Shell h"e been
based on the present prices of about S25,.6/bbl for crude cnd Sl.25/MMBTU for
associated gas in 1985, thereafter escalated by the same growth rate assumed
for imported crude and, in the case of gas, growth rate for imported coal
price has been assumed after 1990.



ANNEX IX
- 66 -                      Page Z of 3
The economic cost relating to the Thai participation in Block S-l
includes PTT 's share of capital and operating costs of the Block S-i
operation. In addition, an opportunity cost has been estimated to include
royalties and income taxes which Thai Shell would otherwise have to pay to the
Government for 25% of the production.
Economic Rate of Return
Based on the estimated gross savings from import substitution, net of
the economic cost noted above, the overall economic rate of return from the
Thai participation in Block S-l is estimated at about 332. On an incremental
basis, that is comparing the cases with and without Thai participation, the
gross savings from reduction of paymaent to Shell are netted against the
economic cost. The resultant net savings from the prcject are estimated to
yield an economic rate of return of about 15Z. The results of sensitivity
analysis are s-mmArized as follows:
ERR
Base Case                                                  15Z
1.   Prices down by 10% (crude at $Z3/bbl)                8Z
2.  Investment cost up by 10                             9%
3.  Crude reserves down by 502 (40 million bbl)           12%
The results of sensitivity analysis indicate that the project
economic rate of return is sensitive to both crude prices and investment
costs. A 10% reduction in crude prices and a 10% increase in investment costs
would yield a significantly lower but still acceptable return of 8% and 9X
respectively. International crude price remains the highest economic risk of
the project. Should crude prices fall materially, the exploration and
development program would be slowed down and continuing work would be focused
on the most profitable areas, with the lower priority areas deferred. In the
unlikely event that there would be no further discoveries arising from future
exploration efforts, and the total recoverable reserves are onlv 40 million
bbl, the economic rate of return would remain satisfactory at 12%. This is
because the reduction of reserves and benefits would be largely offset by the
curtailment of investment in exploration and development should the
exploratory results be found less favorable than expected. As a result, the
economic risk arising from reserve uncertainty is considered low.
Foreign Exchange Savings and Other Benefits
Based on the aforementioned benefits of import substitution, net of
foreign exchange capital and operating costs, debt service on foreign
borrowings and foreign remittances, the proposed project is expected to result
in foreign exchange savings estimated at $64 million in end-1985 price terms
over the project life. In addition to the quantifiable benefits, the project
is an ideal vehicle for institution building and technical assistance in view
of the cooperation that Thai Shell is willing to extend to PTT, the relatively
low project risk and the limited financing requirements.



THAILAND
SIRIKIT PETROLEUN PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(IN END 1965 MILLION UUS
19S5  1966  1967  1988  1909  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1996  1V9f  2000 2001 2002
PRODUCTION
CAUDE(MN &at)           1.2   7.6  7.6  7.6  7.4  7.2  7.0  6.2  4.9  at6  2,6  1.9  1.2  0.7                -    -    -    -
GASu(CfV               1.   10,3  10.9  9.7  10.1  10.4  11,2  11.4  15.6  17.5  17.5  14.4  10.9  7.6   .0  4.3  3.2   2.4
PRICE
CRIUDEO/3L)            25.6  23.3 22.6  2293  21.9 21.5  22.4  21.3  24.2  25.2  26.2  26.2  26.2  264.2  26,2  24.2  26.2  26.2
OAISN"CF)               I.&    1,6  1.6  1,6  l.6   1.4   .6   1.4  l.6  I.6  1.6   1.6   led  1.6   le.  1.6  1.6  1.4
P.E'JNU(S
CRUOE                   7.7  44.3  43.3  42.4  40.5 36.7  3942  36.1  294.7  24.0  18.4  12.5  7.9  4.6      -    -    -       -
SA9                    O.    4.1  4.4  3.9  4.1  4.2   4.5  4.6  463   7.0  7.0  5.6  494  3.l  2.0  1.7  1.3   1.0
TOTAL REENUES           8.3  46.4  47.7  44 3  44.6  42,9  43,7 40,7  16.0  3140  25.4  163  12.3  7.7  290  1.7  1.3  1.0
LESSIOPPORTUNITY COST
ROVALTY(25X)       1.0   6.1  6,0  5.6  5.6  5.4  5.S  5.1  4.5  319  3.2   2.3  1,5  1.0  0.3  0.2  0.2  0.1
TAX(25X)             -      -    -    -    -  6.0  12.0  12.0  10.0  9.0    0   SO  J.O   2.0           -    -    -    -
TOTAL OPPORTUNITY COST   1.0   4.1  4.0  5.6  5,4  11,4 17,5  17.1  14.5  12.9  9.2  743  4.5  3.0  0.3  0.2  0.2  0.1
EXPENSES
SUY-IN COST               - 53.O    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
EXPLORATION             1.6   9,o   .5  S.2  3.6        -    -    -    -    -    -    -    _    -    _    _    _    _
DEVELOPIENT             2.7  24.2  16,2  19.1  14.9  0.6      -    -    -  0.6   1.4  1.4        -    -  0.6  0.4        -     -
OAMITRANSPS COah        1.9  14,0  14,0  11.3  11.5  11.5  se.  7.5  6*3  5.0  5.0  1.6  2.5  s.J   1.0  0.6  0.6  0.0
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOW    6.2  100,6  35.7  35.6  30.0  12.1  6.6  7.e  *.3  S.   4.4  5.2  2.5  1.J  1A6   1.4   0.6  0.6
NET CASH INFLOWI        11  (56.5) 6.0  4.9  9.0  19*4 174 16.1  15,2  12.5  9.6  s5.  5G3 a .4  O,  0G1   0,3  0o.
mass 01"8681  meama 464.. mass mans  Wma&ma  mm  Noamaama        mean mass uama  Mang mono was" mama
RETURN ON INMESTHENT * 14.561X
0 5



ANNEX X
Page 1 of 2
- 68 -
THAILAND
SIRIKIT PETROLEUM PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Given the lack of experience of PTT's exploration and production
management, consultancy services are necessary for a smooth phase-in of joint
venture operations with Thai Shell, even with PTT as a non-operator partner.
The loan will finance the services of both an exploration and an engineering
manager for the initial two-year period of the joint venture. The exploration
consultant responsibilities would be to advise PTT management on all issues in
exploration, including seismic acquisition, processing, and interpretation;
selection of exploratory well locations and depth, evaluation and testing;
field and reservoir mapping and exploration input to reserve adjustments. The
engineering consultant responsibilities would be advise PTT management on all
issues involving development and production including: well and reservoir
spacing; drilling and testing; monitoring production performance, i.e. rates,
pressures, shut-in pressure surveys; gas/oil ratios, and water influx; work-
over program and implementation; and engineering input to reserve adjust-
ments. Both consultants would assist in assembling data for annual reservoir
engineering update by independent firm.
The volume of geological, well, engineering, and production data
emanating from the Thai Shell/PTT operations on Block S-1 will be extremelY
voluminous for PTT to properly catalogue, store, retrieve, integrate and
analyze. Thus the loan will finance th purchase of suitable data processing
hardware and associated software program to efficiently maintain and utilize
this data. A mini-computer capable of handling the several appropriate soft-
ware packages is anticipated. The supplier will supervise installation, main-
tenance, for a period of 12 months, and training in its use.
The loan will finance an independent annual reserve and reservoir
study update for all fields discovered on Block S-1 and an independent
financial audit of joint venture operations.  Both of these services will
continue over the four-year period of the loan. Any differences of con-
sequence between these studies and those made by the operator will be fully
discussed and resolved.
Outside the purview of the joint venture operations with Thai Shell
on Block S-1, the loan will finance three other technical assistance
studies. The first would involve an independent study of the geology and
geophysics (principally conventional and 3-D seismic) of PTT's offshore Gulf
of Thailand Block 21 where marginal oil discoveries have been made pre-
viously. This would be followed by a promotion program (data package and
presentation) seeking an industry operator partner to conduct an appropriate
exploration and evaluation program and Block 21 including development rights
in proportion to be negotiated in the event of a discovery. It is expected
that the industry operator partner would conduct an agreed upon program to
earn its rights in Block 21 following which all further activities, where
further exploration or development, on a proportional basis with PTT paying
its share. The study plus promotion would be conducted by a reputable firm of
exploration consultants.
The second technical assistance study would involve an independent
geologic/geophysics (conventional and 3-D seismic)/reservoir engineering study



ANNEX X
Page 2 of 2
- 69 -
covering the TP licence in the southern portion of the Gulf of Thailand. The
study would be conducted by a reputable reservoir engineering firm with
substantial exploration back-up. The purpose of this study is to expedite the
resolution of outstanding issues with TP in order that the gas field (or
fields) may be developed in a timely fashion, as forecast esttmates indicate
this development will be required for maintenance and growth of gas supply
from the Gulf required in the early 1990's.
The third technical assistance study involves the gas discoveries
made by Esso in the Khorat Basin. In many respects the data is similar to
that for TP and would be conducted by a similar firm. The Esso discovery at
Namphong requires some long duration testing to determine reservoir perfor-
mance and estimate of recoverable reserves. Thus while it is a smaller effort
in terms of data available it will be extended over a period of 1-1 /2 years
utilizing the test data as it is received. The purpose of this study is to
assist the resolution of outstanding issues with Esso and to quantify and
expedite the development of the reserves. This gas supply is forecast to be
needed for balancing requirements in the early 1990's and for full production
from mid-1990's onward. Since these are onshore, Esso gas development
investments can be better tailored to supply requirements as they develop.
The latter two of these studies are designed to identify options for Thailand
in their gas development program to provide for orderly development of the
market, avoid to the extent possible wide short term swings in gas availa-
bility, and to ensure a moderate level of excess producing capacity, i.e.
enough to provide country flexibility without undue penalization to the
foreign investors in long term shut-in capacity.



rlvs                   T H A ILAN 
SURMA                                O- AM GAS SE_TOR
BURMA                                        oIL FIELDS 
!~~~%~~~~'j :~~~~I  I        _~~4  GAS FIVIMS
PEOPLES ~  i FEFME
DEM REP
[ESSOLUDON
NORTH           TERR ARi                  A
ALNTRHAI
cOSUATD L) i  K.
i X ~~CEMP                MAR iNE
L~~jyKHORATjW
S ri L ,LJ^L...]EtX
w rj ~~~~CONSOLlDATEDM[
::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 _, , <
0~~~~~~~~~~~
':,':-'~~~~ul o.     f  it_
#t I , ~~.s _  _
-r
)g 2m    3wA            a           ;     9
_               r   '    bt ~~~~~ALtAY S I A.



IBRD 18741
TH A I L A N D
THAILAD SHELL BLOCK S-I1
I   |; PRODUCTION LICENSES
*   OIL WELL
+   OIL SHOW
o   DRY HOLE
KHOW. - 10                                PRESENT BLOCK
KKA - 10                         ii ORIGINAL BLOCK
3SUKHOTHAI
PTO  AT                                  0      10    20    30    40    50
*OPTO  ¶A2         -30                           KILOMETERS
TM     1   KMG - I   ITSANULOK
O KKN-  1 
BBN- 10
k~~~~~ 0
BBN -n  1    PTP -1
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~J                     Tfl _.   ftf   .. PlV N t    i..   Ja  -.  ,9.    .
.   .--   "~\CHINA
LA   NBA - 1  A       .               BURMA      [AO
' PtOPLE S-
iDEM REP.i-
__ _ _t  -,  APEA OF   -
OCSG - 1                              THAILAND
4% 414      DEMOCRATIC
Gt2Of Of
I.              VIET NAM
*  -'      -    ~~~~SOUT'H
CHIN 4
SEA
___________________________________________________  NDO~SIA\MALAYSIA
FEBRUARY 1985



