*                                                                              e
Document of            For Reference
The World Bank    No: to be taken from this room
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7065-CD
STAFF APPnAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
March 21, 1988
Africa Region, Sahelian Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the perfonnance ol
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withoui Worid Ban authorization.



CURRUNCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        -          CFA Franc
US$1                 -          CFAF 280
CFAF 1               -          US$0.003
CFAF 1 million       -          US$3,571
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SYSTEN OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURMS: MET_IC
1 meter (m)               -          3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =          0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (kmZ) =           0.39 square mile (mg)
1 metric ton (t)          =          2.205 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFDB      -    African Development Bank
CTT       -    Coopérative des Transporteurs Tchai*ns
DTP       -    Directorate of Public Works
EDF       -    European Development Fund
ENTP      -    Ecole Nationale des Travaux Public
FAC       -    French Aid Agency
LNBT?     -    National Laboratory of Public Worbmrad
Housing
LBF       -    Live Aid/Band Aid Foundation
MTCA      -    Ministry of Transport and Civil Av5mion
MTPHU     -    Ministry of Public Works, Housing mi Urbar.
Development
OFNAR     -    Office National des Routes
UNDP      -    Urited Nations Development Prograu
USAID     -    U. S. Agency for International Dewffisent



FOR OF1ICLAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC 0F CEAD
ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
STAPF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Palk No.
DOCMHNTS IN TEZ PROJICT FILS ......            ..........................   (i)
C!.EDIT AND PROJECT SOE*ARY .............................    (ii)
I.   IINTRODUCTION .      ..................... ....                    1
A.   Background ..................                                 1
B.   The Economy ........               ............              1
Il.   TES TRANSPORT SECTOR ........... ..........                        3
A.  Transport System ............                                  3
B.  The Institutional Framework                ..                 3
C.   The Road Rehabilitation Progra          .      .              4
D.  Experience with past lending .                 .              5
E.  Rationale for IDA Involvement .                .              6
III. TEE PR,.JECT.                                                          7
A. Project Objective. ..                                           7
B. Project Description .                     .                    7
C.  Engineering and Construction .                 .              8
D.   Project Costs and Financing ...................              9
E.  Implementation.....                                          10
F. Procurement....                                               10
G. Disbursements   1 1.                     ..
H.   Institution Building                        .               12
I.   Reporting and Auditing.                                     12
J.   Enviromental Implications .. ..................             13
This report vas prepared by M. Amadou Cissé (Task Manager azid Senior
Highway Engineer), Mrs. Diane Reedy (Economist), with the contribution of
Mr. Harold Young (Consultant), on the basis of an appraLsal mission
in July 1987. Mrs. Cynthia Cook vas the Economist of the Project at the
time of the appraisal mission and contributed to the report. Typing and
secretarial work were done by Miss R. Chiniah, Mrs. C. Eliopoulos and Mrs.
C. Adm.
|  This document has a restricted distribution and mya be used by recipients only in the performatice
of their officiel duties. Its contents may not othtrwise be discbosed without Worid Buki authorition.



IV.     SCOIQN tC  EVALATION   ............. , ..........  .     13
A.   Project lenefii^  ........ . ....                    13
S.   Traffic Grovth.................          . .         13
C.   Economic Returne        .     .13
D.   Sensitivity Analysis          ..14
E.   Project Risks ............... .... . . . . ....      14
V.     AG TSE R.EACUD  AMD RECOMMENEDTIONS.........              15
2-1       Chad Transport Sector Strategy Summary
3-1       Implementation Schedule
3-2       Chad Road Construction Design Norms
3-3       Standards of Construction of N'Djamena-Djermaya and
N'Djamena-Guelengdeng roade.
CARTS
Chart 1  Organigramme du Ministère des Travaux'Publics, de l'Habitat et de
l'Urbanisme
Chart 2   Organigramme de la Direction des Travaux Publics
Chart 3   Organigramme de la Direction de 1'OFNAR
NAP       IBRD 21013R



(i)
REPUELIC OP CEAD
ROAD RECONSTR1TIOMN PROJECT
DOCINSS in TEE PROJECT  ILE
?rojsct File Codai
Rsf. No.                  Document Titl                 Lmk DoCewM t o0.
I.            Proilct Procesmina
1-1 Appraisal Mission Aide-Mémoire
1-2 Consultant Report on Appropriate
Road Design Standards                    D 08556
1-3  Detailed Engineuring Deuign
and Prequalificution documenta           D 00557
1-4  Economic Calculations                    D 00558
II.            Sector Dackground
2-1  Chad Economic Situation and Priorities  6784-CD
2-2  Chad Country Economic Memorandum         1340-CD
2-3  Transport Sector Strategy Note and
Investment Program for 1988-1993         D 08559



Cii)
EIPJ LIC OF CmA»
1OD UICOWISTRUCYION PROJECT
CDEDIT AND PROJECT SUM<AlY
Iorro.r:                  Government of the Republic of Chad
Jeneficiarys              Min±stry of Public Works, Housing and
Urban Development
Credit Aounts             SDR  34.4 million (US$47.0 million equivalent)
Termes                    Standard, vith 40 years maturity
Onlondina Termes          Not applicable
Prolect Oblectivas        The objective of the proposed project is to ensure
the timely completion of the ongoing high priority
road rehabilitation program by reconstructing two
of the most heavily-travelled roads which are
critical to north-south transportation in Chad.
It vould complement IDA's ongoing Highway
Maintenance Project (Credit 1728-CD) and wouId
complete rehabilitation of the 2000 km of high
priority roads identified by Govermnent and the
Donor Community as essential for the resumption of
normal economic activity.
Pro!eict Description:     The project vould include: (a) reconstruction to
paved standards of the N'Djamena-Djermaya and
N'Djamena-Guelengdeng roads (176 kmj, and
(b) consulting services to supervise construztion.
Lrsect Eeu.fits           Economic benefits under the proposed project are
expected froms (a) reductions in road user costs;
(b) reductions in operating costs resulting from
the rerouting of the traffic between N'Djamena and
the southern part of the country which currently
detours through Cameroon at considerable extra
cost and inconvenience; and (c) the traffic growth
generated by the improved quality of the roads.
Estimated rates of return are about 482 for the
N'Djamena-Djermaya road and 362 for the
N'Djamena-Guelengdeng road. The overall ERR is
about 421. Non quantifiable benefits are the
resumption of irrigated agriculture and
reforestation activities in the regions served by
the roads.



(iit)
Prols It U kd             There is some risk that traffic may not grow as
expected, but the economy is showing signs of
recovery and traffic growth has been substantially
higher than expected over the last two years. The
levols of traffic assumed in the ERR calculations
are consistent vith recent traffic counts and
comparable to those existing before the war. The
risk that the roads vould not be adequately
maintained vill be minimized by the ongoing IDA
and USAID projecta which vere specifically
designed to develop maintenance capacity. There
is also a *light risk of a renewed outbreak of
hostilities in the north or at the borders in the
country, which vould not mrke it impossible to
complete the project. Another drought would not
affect the viability of the proposed investments,
as the transport cost savings associated with the
d.livery of external emergency assistance would
exceed the transport costs savings associated with
domestic trade flows.
.



Ci)
Eut Jted Conte and Financina Pl»a
(Mot of Taxes and Duties)
Eatim ted Cotte                            Local   Forelsn   Total
--(US$ million)----
A.   Civil Vorkm
Lot Is N'Djamena-Djermaya (30 km)                 2.4       7.2      9.6
Lot 2s N'Djamena-Guel.ngdeng (146 km)             7.7      24.5     32.2
a.   Consultins Services for Civil
Works Supervision                                 0.2       1.8      2.0
Total Base Comte                                      10.3      33.5      43.8
Physical Contingencies                            1.0       3.0      4.0
Price Contingencies                               0.3       1.4      1.7
Total Proiect Coste                                   11.6      37.9     49.5
Financing Plan
Government:    US$ 2.5 million
IDA:           USS47.0 million
Total          US$49.5 million
Estimated IDA Disbursements
TDA Fiscal Year:                1988     1989       1990      1991
Annual                     8.3      28.4       8.6      1.7
Cumulative                 8.3      36.7      45.3     47.C
Economic Rate of Return:  N'Djamena-Djermaya Roads 48Z
N'Djamena-Guelengdeng Road: 36S
IBRD 21013R



REPUBLIC oP CHAD
ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
A.   Background
1.01      The Goveriment of Chad has reque3ted the Association's assistance
in financing the reconstruction of two roads which are critical to north-
south transportation in Chad, namely the N'Djamena-Djermaya and
N'Djamena-Guelengdeng roads (176 km). The proposed Road Reconstruction
Project includes (a) the civil works for the reconstruction to paved
standards of the above two roads and (b) consulting services for civil
vorks supervision.
1.02      The proposed project would complement IDA's ongoing Highway
Maintenance Project (Cr. 1728-CD) and would complete the rehabilitation of
a first phase of 2000 km of the 3800 km high priority roads identified by
the Government and the Donor Community as essential for the resumption of
normal economic activity. The restoration of these two heavily-travelled
roads also avoid 1engèhy and costly detours through neighboring Cancroon of
agricultural and industrial supplies vital to Chad's fragile economy.
E.   The Economy
1.03      The last Country Economic Memorandum (No. 1340-CD) vas
distributed to the Board on June 30, 1977. A new report entitled "Chad:
Economic Situation and Priorities" (No. 6784-CD) was distributed in
November 1987.
1.04      Chad is a landlocked Sahelian country with an area of 1,284,000
km2 covering three climatic zones.  The population of about five million
peonle is dispersed throughout the country. With a per capita income of
about US$140 in 1986, Chad is one of the poorest and least developed
countries in the world. Its economic development has been held back by its
landlocked location, political conflict, and harsh and variable climatic
conditions. At Independence in 1960, the new nation found itself poorly
prepared, even in comparison with other African countries, in terms of
physical and social infrastructure, the level of education and health and
the participation of nationals in the management of economic activity. As
a result, the Chadian economy expanded at an annual rate of only 22 in the
1960s. Climatic conditions were about normal for most of that period, and
Chad vas self-sufficient in cereals throughotut the decade.
1.05      The first half of the 1970s witnessed a prolonged drought which
caused GDP growth to fall to less than 12 a year. The internal and
external conflicts of 1979-82 further severely disrupted the economy,
causing real GDP to shrink by about 30Z. Until 1983, when President Hissen
Habre gained effective control of the territory south of the 16th parallel,
economic activity was seriously disrupted, political administration at all
levels ceased to function and public utilities and government services were
abandoned. Most of the country's infrastructure and physical capital was



- 2 -
*ither destroyed, damaged or collapsed from negloct.  The road network, in
particular, deteriorated severely, crippling internal trade end
productivity.
1.06      After the *stablishment of the current Government and with the.
progressive restoration of *tability, the *conomy began to recover.
Esrgency external assistance resumed on an ad hoc basis to alleviate the
effectu of the drought and the var. The firet attempt to coordinate donor
efforts occurred when a long-term dev.lopment plan vas presented to the
donors at a United Nations Development Program (UNDP) sponsored Round Table
Conference held in December 1985. The Government identified the following
broad objectives
(a)  achieve national food self-sufficiency on a regional basis;
(b) resettle the population displaced by the drough..;
(c) reconstitute the livestock herd;
td) improve rural vater supply and combat desertification;
(e)  rebuild the industrial sector and exploit the country's petroleum
resources;
(f)  intensify and diversify export production;
(g)  rehabilitate the commercial and financial markets;
(h) provide basic health care; and
(i) rehabilitate the transport system.
In pursuing these objectives, the Government indicated its intention to
limit its public sector involvement and encourage private, mostly
small-scaia, and traditionally-rooted initiatives.
1.07      To achieve the above objectives, the Government and the Donor
Counity assigned top priority to the transport sector because its
restoration vas esgentia' to the recovery of other sectors. IDA provided
assistance for a Highway Maintenance Project (Credit 1728-CD) which vas
co-financed by the African Development Bank (AFDF) and the Live Aid/Band
Aid Foundation (LBF). The project provided for a first emergency program
to develop maintenance capacity on 2000 km of high priority roads. The
project complements the ongoing USAID-financed project also designed to
assist the Government in building road maintenance capacity, with specific
focus on equipment maintenance and training for road maintenance laborers.
Other highways-related assistance includes financing from the French Aid
Agency (FAC) and the European Development Fund (EDF).



-~~~~~~~~s
XI. TEU TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Transport Syste
2.01      Chad's transport system comprises about 7,300 km of classified
roand and tracks and 24,000 km of unclassified tracks serving rural are«.
Thosr is one international airport at N'Djamena, the capital, and three
fiunctioning local airportu *erving domestic traffic. The country has no
railway, and river and lake transport is very limited. Air Tchad, the
national airline is a majority government-owned enterprise. Road transport
is operated under a legal monopoly held by a private cooperative
association of truckers, Coopérative des Transporteurs Tchadiens (CTT),
which has been given the administrative functions of road freight
allocation and the collection of taxes and duties on freight.
'.   The Institutional Framework
2.02      The Department of Land Transport in the Ministry of Transport and
Civil Aviation (HTCA) is iesponsible for overall transport sector planning
and policy fnrouJat±rrn. in consultation with the Ministry of Planning. The
Department presently has very limited staff and resources with which to
carry out it8 functions. Technical assistance provided under the Highway
Maintenance Project is establishing basic information systeme to enable the
Department to play a more active role in the sector planning and project
evaluation process.
2.03      The Ministry of Public Works, Housing and Urban Development
(MTPHU-Chart 1) oversees the planning and execution of road works and is
also responsible for the field organization of traffic counts and analysis
of traffic flows. Its Directorate of Public Works (DTP-Chart 2) has a
Division of Studies and Hydraulics which includes a subdivision of Road
Studies and Highway Design.  Technical assistance provided under the IDA
Righvay Maintenance Project and by FAC is helping to develop its capacity
for road planning, design and development, evaluation of nre-investment
studies for highways, technical preparation of road plans, and supervision
of workW, performed by contracts. Facilities for soils and materials
testing at the Ecole Nationale des Travaux Publics (ENTP) laboratory in
N'Djamena have been rehabilitated under FAC and EDF financing. IDA is
providing technical assistance under the ongoing Highway Maintenance
Project to operate the National Laboratory of Public Works and Housing
(LNBTP) which has recently been expanded to take over the laboratory
facilities of ENTP and organized as an entity separate from the ENTP.
2.04      The Office National des Routes (OFNAR-Chart 3), an autonomous
public ente.prise under the supervision of MTPHU, was created in 1984 to
take over the maintenance of the national road network. OFNAR has
Headquarters in N'Djamena and four regional subdivisions at N'Djamena,
Moundou, Sarh and Abéché. Road maintenance is being carried out by these
subdivisions, which are also responsible for minor equipment maintenarce in
the small regional workshops ir. N'Djamena and Sarh.



r4-
2.05      The central management of OFNAR as well as the regional offices
and vorkshops are recelving extensive assistance from USAID, particularly
for *quipment repairs and workshop organization. The ongoing IDA Highway
Maintenance Project complements the USAID project by providing financing
for road rehabilitation and maintenance, rehabilitation of offices and
vorkihops in the regional divisions, and equipment supply. The IDA project
is also providing technical assistanc, to OFNAR's headquarters and regional
offices totalling about 200 man/months. A study is being carried out as a
batis for reaorganizing OFNAR to increase its efficiency.
C.   The Road Rehabilitation Proaram
2.06      Chad's future development as a land-locked country almost 2,000
km from the sea is heavily dependent on external trade routes through
Cameroon, the Central African Republic, the Congo and Nigeria. Also, vast
distances exist between urban centers, which require an adequate
transportation capacity and 'ow transport costs. Most of Chad's domestic
and international transport is provided by roads, although air services are
important for some isolated regions. To encourage national economic
integration, the country must restore its road transportation system and
prumote a competitive road transport industry.  Improved internal
transportation links will also enhance political integration and stability
and facilitate commodity distribution. Thus, rehabilitation of the
transport sector is a top priority in Chad's postwar reconstruction effort.
2.07      As a result of the 1978-82 war, most of Chad's modest classified
road network suffered severe deterioration through lack of maintenance. At
present, of the 300 km of paved roads that existed before the conflict only
abotut 30 km in urban areas are still in fair condition. The deterioration
of the road network has resulted in the complete isolation of economically
important regions during the wet season and has raised transport costs
during the dry season when road access is possible. As political stability
was restored and economic activity began to resume, the lack of good roads
became a serious obstacle to the redevelopment of agricultural and
commercial activity coantrywide. Rapid rehabilitation of the most
essential parts of the road network is, therefore, a compelling necessity
and among the highest priorities of the Government.
2.08      At a t'NDP-sponsored donorst conference in 1985, the donor
community pledged support for the implementation of a first coordinated
program of rehabilitation works on about 2000 km of Chad's 3800 km priority
road network. According to initial schedules, the emergency program on
this 2000 km high priority network was expected to be completed by the end
of 1988. The furds available from the donors were sufficient to permit all
roads included in the program to be rehabilitated to gravel road standard.
Kovever, as work progressed, it became evident that the preparatory studies
had underestimated both the cost of rehabilitation and the level and
composition of traffic using the roads (heavy trucks nov comprise about 50Z
of the traffic). In addition, a subsequent detailed soils study revealed
that gravel surfacing vas not suitable in part of the country due to the
poor soil conditions. The result was excessively high maintenance costs on



some of the roads that had been rehabilitated early in the program, and a
cutback in the high priority program to about 1800 kms.   Because of some
failures of gravel surfaces, design standards have had to be raised on some
roads.
2.09      The N'Djamena-Djermaya road is a key link in the country's
northern road system. It vas originally paved in 1969. and vas among the
first sections to be rehabilitated to gravel road standards wvth FAC
financing in 1985. However, it has deteriorated rapidly again, due mainly
to the heavier than expected trafflc combined vith very poor soil
conditions.
2.10      The N'Djamena-Guelengdeng road, which is the first leg of the
N'Djamena-Guelengdeng-Sarh axis (535 km), connects the capital with the
centers of industrial and agricultural production in the southern Sudanian
zone. Initially paved in 1970, this section vas scheduled to be
reconstructed to gravel road standards as part of the N'Djamena-
Guelengdeng-Sarh project funded (8.8 million ECUs) by the European
Development Fund (EDF). Higher than anticipated reconstruction costs have
limited the vorks to the Guelengdeng-Sarh section, leaving the most heavily
trafficked portion of the road in such an advanced state of deterioration,
that intensive maintenance efforts ensure at best difficult travel
conditions only in the dry season.
2.11      The above factors prevented the effective rehabilitation of two
key roads linking N'Djamena, the capital, with the rest of the country. In
the rainy season, these roads are impassable. In the dry season, they are
so broken up that it is frequently necessary for traffic to leave the
roadway and drive on the shoulders or in the ditches. Both roads have
deteriorated so much that only the base course remains in some places. As
a result, most of the traffic has to detour through Cameroon at
considerable cost and inconvenience.
D.   Eperience vith Past Lendina
2.12      Bank Group assistance to Chad's transport sector thus far has
been confined to three highway projects and transport components in two
other credits: (a) the Rural Fund Project (Credit 664-CD, US$12 million,
December 1976) included maintenance operations on selected feeder roads
sections, and (b) the Sahelian Zone Project (Credit 730-CD, US$1.9 million,
October 1977) included rehabilitation of six airstrips. The First Highway
Project <Credit 125-CD, US$4.1 million, August 1968) was geared to
±mproving road maintenance but vas only partially successful due to severe
budgetary constraints.  The Second Highway Project (Credit 490-CD, US$3.5
million, June 1974) included: (a) a five-year program of improvement and
maintenance of cotton feeder roads; (b) a three-year interim maintenance
program for ferries; (c) a training program; (d) a program of traffic
counts; and (e) preinvestment and road transport industry studies. The
project vas not fully implemented due to the severe economic and political
difficulties with initial delays in starting the project, although the
Government's general performance under the project was regarded as



satisfactory at least until the end of 1978 i.e. until the beginning of the
civil var.
2.13      The Third Highway Project (Credit 840-CD, US$7.6 million,
September 1978) supported a maintenance program covering approximately
5,300 km of unpaved roads and tracks; regravelling of about 400 km of main
roads by a production brigade, which vas to serve as a vehicle for
on-the-job training; a training program for staff of the Directorate of
Public Works; (b) transport planning in the Directorate of Transport; and
(c) operations of the trucking industry; a study to prepare a rural roads
project and completion of the improvement program for cotton feeder roads,
started under the Second Highvay Project. Because of the political
situation, the credit, signed in September 1978, never became effective.
Credit 840-CD lapsed in October 1980 when the limit date for effectiveness
vas not further extended.
2.14      The ongoing Highway Maintenance Project (Credit 1728-CD, December
1986) vas designed to help Government to: (i) strengthen the Ministries of
Public Works and Transport; (ii) rehabilitate and maintain the country's
high priority road network; (iii) address important institution building
objectives in the transport sector; and (iv) resolve constraints on the
efficiency and competitiveness of the road transport industry. The
implementation of the project, nov about 65Z complete, is proceeding
satisfactorily and it is scheduled for completion in December 1988.
S.   Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.15      The rehabilitation of the overall transport system is needed to
lay a foundation for economic recovery and to create the conditions for
long-term economic development, which are the main objectives of IDA
assistance. Failure to achieve balanced development in this critical
sector - i.e., to complete the reconstruction of these two key links in the
priority road network - would create major constraints on development in
other sectors. None of the other donors involved in financing the
rehabilitation of the priority road network are able to extend their
funding to cover the proposed project wc-ks.
2.16      In addition, the proposed operation vould support Governnent's
*trategy for the transport sector as a whole. With IDA's assistance,
Government recently prepared a Sector Strategy including a six-year
investment program which was presented to the Donor Community in February
1988. A summary of this sector strategy is ittached as Annex 2-1. The
main elements of strategy focuses on:
pa)  completion of the rehabilitation and maintenance of the high
priority road network;
(b) improvement of air transport infrastructure and security
services;



(c)  improvement of planning and management capacity of both public
and private sector institutions dealing with transport
infrastructure and services, spbcifically OFNAR and Air Tchad;
(d)  improvement of road maintenance financing and cost recovery
through more efficient tax collection and the possible
introduction ôf specific user charges; and
(e)  liberalization of transport tariffs and promotion of (i) private
participation in road maintenance and quarry operations and
(ii) increased competition in the trucking industry.
2.17      Adoption of the Strategy Paper established the policy framework
for the transport sector. The ongoing IDA Highway Maintenance Project is
strengthening weak sector institutions, particularly those dealing with
road maintenance, through selected technical assistance and studies
concerning the reorganization of OFNAR, road maintenance funding, the
development of air transport and the trucking industry. On the basis of
these studies, the Government would establish a detailed action plan and
implementation program for the policy reforms agreed in principle under the
Sector Strategy and would support the execution of the program. It was
aareed at neaotiations that the Action Plan with an implementation schedule
to carry out the policy reforms and the investment program set out in the
sector strategy would be submitted to the Association for approval by
December 31, 1988.
III. TEE PROJECT
A.   Prolect Obiective
3.01      The specLfic objectives of the proposed project are:
(a)  to ensure timely completion of the agreed high priority program
by reconstructing two formerly paved roads to re-establish
urgently needed all-weather access and unimpeded flow of goods
and passengers on the main North-South corridor of the country's
road network; and
(b) to reduce substantially future maintenance and transport costs.
I.   Proiect Description
3.02      The project would provide financial assistance for:
(a) the reconstruction to paved standards of the
N'Djamena-Djermaya road (30 km) and the
N'Djamena-Guelengdeng road (3.46 km); and
(b) consultant services to supervise the civil works.



C.   Ensineerinm and Construction
3.03      Chad's relief and geology meke selection of basic standards foL
road construction particularly difficult. Being a former lake basin, the
country is flat and a large part of its area is exposed to frequent
flooding. In the north, dunes and clayey alluvial soils provide a poor
base for road construction. Natural gravel and lateritic materials are
scarce and sometimes have to be hauled over long distances. In the south,
the frequent and heavy raine entail costly drainage systems; the changing
hydrology of the Chari and Bénoué rivers and Lake rhad, together with the
requirements for agricultural irrigation, introduce further complications.
Lateritic soils suitable for road reconstruction are found only in the
south and east of the country. Even with generally low volumes of traffic,
heavy vehicles make up a sizable proportion and are commonly overloaded,
which hastens road deterioration.
3.04      For project execution the only quarry where adequate road
materials are found is located at Mani (93 km north of N'Djamena city).
This quarry is currently operated by an autonomous public agency (OFCA) and
the productivity is low. Since the sector strategy adopted by the
Government includes the privatization of OFCA and because efficient quarry
operation is essential to ensure timely availability of least cost
materials for road construction, entering into satisfactory arrangements
vith one or several private partners for the Mani quarry opérations has
been made a Condition of Credit Effectiveness.
3.05      In order to assess the standards to be adopted for road
construction and maintenance under such unfavorable conditions, a specific
study was made to determine the types of construction that would ensure
all-veather trafficability while keeping maintenance costs within
reasonable limits. Annex 3-2 presents the technical data on which the
standards for Chad's road system were based.
3.06      The detailed engineering of both N'Djamena-Djermaya and
N'Djamena-Guelengdeng roada has been conducted in accordance with the
recommendations of the design standards study. Both roads are in a region
of silty scil, where the soil study has shown that gravel surfaces are not
appropriate because the rains cause leaching and subsequent washout of the
road bed, necessitating extensive rehabilitation or reconstruction after
each rainy season. An impermeable paved surface is needed to protect the
road structure from erosion.
3.07      The specific standards of construction for both roads are shown
in Annex 3-3 and are as follows:
-    For N'Djamena-Djermaya the roadway will be completely
rebuilt with a sub-base of 30 cm of claysand, a base of 20
cm of crusher-run stone and on top a double bituminous
surface treatment. The paved surface will be 6 m width with
1 m shoulders;



-    For N'Djamena-Guelengdeng the firet 78 km from N'Djamena to
Loumia will be rebuilt with a sub-base of 30 cm of claysand,
a base of 20 cm of crusher-run stone, and on top  a double
bituminous surface treatment. The remaining 68 km will be
rebuilt with a sub-base of 30 cm, a base of 15 cm bituminous
sand and on top a double bituminous surface treatment.
3.08      Both roads would be built on the existing alignments which are
adequate.  The roads follow generally flat to rolling terrain, so only
limited earthworks are required. Damaged culverts and small bridges will
be repaired or replaced. There are no major bridges or earthworks
involved.
D.   Proiect Costs and Financing
3.09      Project costs are based on actual bid evaluation.  The total cost
of the project would be US$49.5 million equivalent net of taxes and duties,
of which 762 is foreign exchange. The Government would exempt from local
taxes all construction works and technical assistance contracts related to
the project. A 92 allowance has been made for physical contingencies;
price contingencies vere calculated in accordance with Bank guidelines as
follows:
Price Contingencies (in 2)
1987    1988    1989    1990
Local                      5        5        5       5
Foreign                    5.8      5.8      5.4     5.4
These  price  contingencies  apply  only  for  the  reconstruction  of  the
N'D4amena-Guelengdeng road, since  the N'Djamena-Djermaya (30  km) road  is
expected to be completed 9 months after work is started.
3.10      Under the Government's integrated rehabilitation and  maintenance
program for the priority road network--which is supported, in part, by the
ongoing  IDA  Hi, -ay  Maintenance   Project--the  emphasis  has  been   on
developing Government capacity to finance routine maintenance through
fiscal revenues on  a permanent basis.   Currently the routine  maintenance
budget is about CFAF 800 million for 1988 and is expected to reach by 1993
the level of CFAF 1800 million which will cover the routine maintenance
financing of about 3800 km. Given the severe financial constraints of the
public sector, it is recommended that Government participation focus on
these maintenance activities, rather than on rehabilitation projects. Thus
the Government's contribution has been limited to 52 of project costs.
During negotiations, Government agreed to (i) ensure proper routine and
periodic maintenance of the project roads in accordance with agreed
maintenance standards; and (ii) to submit a maintenance program for these
roads not later than June 30 of each year to IDA for prior approval.



- 10 -
Protect Cost Estimates
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreian  Total
Catexories                     -----CFAF million---    ---US$ million-----
A. Civil Works
Lot la N'Djamena-Djermaya        672    2016      2688    2.4       7.2      9.6
Lot 2a N'Djamena-Guelengdeng  2156    6860        9016    7.7      24.5    32.2
B. Consultina Services for
Works Sunervision            56     504      560     0.2       1.8     2.0
Total Base Costs                2884    9380   12264    10.3       33.5    43.8
Physical Contingencies    280       840    1120      1.0       3.0     4.0
Price Contingencies         84      392     476      0.3       1.4     1.7
Total ProJect Costs             3248    10612  13860    11.6       37.9    49.5
.-            - -             --
E.   Protect Implementation
3.11      Bids for civil works have been received and contractor  selection
is underway. The project works will be carried out by contractors under
the responsibility of the DTP through its subdivision for Road Studies and
lighway Design. Government has selected consultants
to supervise works in the field with the assistance of the National
Laboratory of Public Works and Housing (LNBTP). Two Chadian engineers will
be assigned as counterparts to be trained bv the supervision team and gain
on-the-job experience.   Construction is  expected to  start in  May  1988.
Annez 3-1 shows the Project Implementation Schedule. The Schedule is
tight, but the urgency that the Government has placed on executing the
Project, and the support at the Presidential level, provides grounds for
believing that the Schedule is feasible. The Project would be expected to
be completed by June 1990.
P.   Procurement
3.12      The civil  works would  be carried  out under  contracts  awarded
through ICB.   Consulting  services will  be  procured in  accordance  vith
Bank's guidelines. The civil works and consulting services contracts will
be submitted to IDA for prior review. The procurement arrangements are as
follows:



Amounts and Methods of Procurements a/
Item                  ICB          LCB       Other         Total
US$ million
Civil Works                 47.5                                   47.5
(45.0)                                 (45.0)
Conoulting Services
for Works Supervision                               2.0             2.0
(2.0)          (2.0)
Total                      47.5                     2.0            49.5
(45.0)                  (2.0)          (47.0)
*/ Amounts include contingencies.  Amounts in () indicate IDA financing.
G.   Dimbursements
3.13      The disbursement schedule is based on the implementation schedule
and in not in line vith the Africa Region transport sector disbursement
profile. In addition, an amount of about 202 of advanced payment of the
total cost of the project is expected to be paid to the contractors and the
consultant immediately after contract award. The credit is expected to be
fully didbursed by December 1990 as follows:
2 of Expenditures
CateRory               Amount of Credit Allocated       to be Financed
(US$ million)
Civil works                     45.0                     1002 for with-
drawals up to an
aggregate amount
of 21.9 million
US$ equivalent,
and 902 there-
after
Consulting services for
civil works supervision          2.0                    100
Total                    47.0



- 12 -
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA FY and                 N'Djamena-            N'Djamena-         Total
Quarter Ending             Diermva              Guelenadeng       Cumulative
By Qtr.   Cumul        By Qtr.   Cumul.
FY1988
June 30, 1988             2.0        2.0        6.3        6.3         8.3
FY1989
September 30, 1988        2.5        4.5        3.0        9.3        14.2
December 31, 1988         3.0        7.5        5.0       14.3        22.2
March 31, 1989            2.5       10.0        5.0       19.3         29.7
June 30, 1989             1.0       11.0        6.0       25.3        36.7
FYl990
September 30, 1989         --        ---        2.0       27.3        38.7
December 31, 1989         ---        ---        4.0       31.3        42.3
March 31, 1990            ---        ---        2.0       33.3         44.3
June 30, 1990             ---        ---        1.0       34.3        45.3
FY1991
September 30, 1990        --     -              0.9       35.2        46.2
December 31, 1990                               0.8       36.0        47.0
H.   Institution Building
3.14      The ongoing  IDA  Maintenance Project  financed  the  preliminary
studies and the detailed engineering required for the two project roads.
The ongoing project as vell as EDF, FAC and USAID are already providing
technical   assistance   to   the   executing   agencies.    The   proposed
reconstruction project will give the public works administration practical
experience in overseeing the preparation, contracting and execution of a
major project. It will thus strengthen Chadian transport institutions and
prepare  their  staff  to  handle  future  worke.   Further   institutiones
development wlll be the focus of the Transport Sector Project which .&
under preparation.
I.   Re ortins and Auditint
3.15      Under  the  Highway  Maintenance  Project,  a  satisfactory  cost
accounting system has  been set  up in the  DTP.  An  expatriate expert  i.
currently  helping  to   organize  the   service  and   to  train   Chadian
counterpartu. An independent auditing firm wlll audit the project accounts



- 13 -
vithin six months after the end of  each year. DTP, vith the assistance  of
the consultant firm in  charge of vorks  supervision, vill prepare  monthly
progrest reports and a final report as a basis   - the PCR.
J.   pnvirowrental Implications
3.16      Au the  tvo  project roads  vill  be rebuilt  on  their  existing
alignament. no enviroumental probleme are foreseen. The paving vorks vill
minimize present erosion and reduce flood damage.
IV. ECONONIC EVALUATION
A.   Prolect Bonofits
4.01      Quantifiable benefits of the rehabilitation vorks include reduced
vehicle  operation   coste  for   ail  vehicles   using  the   roads.    By
reestablishing normal traffic conditions on two of the most heavily
trafficked road sections to the north and south of the capital, a city of
about 400,000 people, the project vill allow agricultural and industrial
inputs to reach the regions and agrirultural surllus production to arrive
at the  markets in  N'Djamena  regularly and  at  reasonable cost.   It  is
expected that the re-establishment of the roads vill generate economic
growth and benefit both rural and urban populations by facilitating
interregional exchanges of goods and services, and reestablishing safe
all-veather passenger transport vith substantially reduced travel times.
Most directly, the project vill benefit road users, including vehicle
owners and paying passengers, through significantly reduced costs of
vehicle operation.   In addition  to  their economic  justification,  these
roads are of major strategic significance for Chad's economic and political
survival. It is essential that the central government located in N'Djamena
be assured reliable and regular access to the country's other major
centers, Abeche, Sarh, and Moundou. Only in this way can the Government
play an effective development role in these centers and provide for the
security and velfare of the regional populations.
8.   Traffic Grovth
4.02      In 1977, prior to the var, traffic on N'Djamena-Djermaya road vas
about 300 vpd, while on the N'Djamena-Guelengdeng road it was about 200
vpd. During the var, traffic vas virtually nonexistent and recovered only
very slowly after the var. Hovever, by October 1987, the traffic had
increased to 150 vpd and 120 vpd on the N'Djamena-Djermaya and N'Djamena-
Guelengreng roads, respectively. Projected traffic increases include both
growth associated vith the economic  recovery as vell as generated  traffic
that vill result from ensuring ail  season accesu  to the south by  domestic
routes.
C.   Scondmic Rate of Return
4.03      Since early 1986,  use of  the N'Djamena-Djermaya  road by  heavy
trucks has increased due to the postwar construction boom in the N'Djamena



- 14 _
region and  resumption  of  quarry  activities  in  Mani.   The  road  alto
c",eplements and contributes to the viability of a planned USAID investmont
for improving the Djermaya-Dandi road which leads past the quarry at Mani,
through a potentially  productive region to  the shores of  Lake Chad.   it
also serves  an  area  in which  irrigated  agriculture  and  reforestation
activities are being undertaken by other donors. On the above basis, it is
estimated that traffic on the N'Djamena-Djermaya road vill grov at 25Z per
year for the first three yearu of the project until the previous threshold
of 300 vehicles per day is reached in 1990, and 52 per year thereafter.
User cost savings generate an ERR of *bout 482.
4.04      Traffic  grovth  on  the  N'Djamena-Guelengdeng  link  ha.   been
inhibited by the poor condition of the Guelengdeng-Sg-h road which is nov
being rehabilitated by EDF and is scheduled for completion in 1988.   Until
these roads are completed, traffic between N'Djamena and the southern part
of the country vill continue co be diverted over a 400 km detour through
Cameroon at considerable  extra cost  and inconvenience  to truckers.   The
resultant cost and  time delays  have added  substantially, to  the colt  of
goods reaching the markets of Southern Chad and of the capital. For the
economic analysis, it has been assumed that 20S of the generated traffic
vill be rerouted  from the  Cameroon detour.   Therefore, project  benefits
derive from two types of user cost savings: vehicle operating cost savinge
due to the improved road condition and those due to the shorter routes.
The estimated rate of return for rehabilitating the N'Djamena-Guelengdeng
road ls about 36Z assuming that traffic vill grov by 25Z per year until the
previouc threshold of 200 vpd is  reached in 1990, and 5Z thereafter.   The
combined ERR for both roads is 42S.
D.   Sensitivit, Analysis
4.05      In addition to the base case, two pessimistic scenarios have been
evaluated. In the first instance, the ERRs have been recalculated ausuming
a 25Z increase in construction costs.   The resultant ERRs are 38S and  292
for N'Djamena-Djermaya  and  N'Djamena-Guelengdeng, respectively.   In  the
second scenario, more modest traffic growth assumptions have been adopted,
delaying the achievement of prevar traffic levels by two more yeara to
1992. The ERRs for the two roads are 442 and 33Z respectively. Even in
the case of a combination of the two pessimistic scenario the ERR' is
above 30Z.
4.06      Thus the expected rates of return for the N'Djamena-Djermaya road
ranges from a low of 38Z to a high of 48S depending on the degree of
pessimism incorporated into the forecast. The corresponding range of
estimates  for  N'Djamena-Guelengdeng  is   29Z  to  36Z.   These   resultu
illustrate the strong economic justification of the project.
E.   Proiect Risks
4.07      There is some  risk that traffic  may not grov  as expected,  but
presont indicators of economic growth are more favorable than they vere at
the time of appraisal, and forecast levels of traffic are comparable vith



- 15 -
those existing before the clvil var. The risk that the roads vould not be
,          adequately maintained  vill  be minimized  by  the ongoing  IDA  and  USAID
projecta which vere specifically designed to develop maintenance  capacity.
There is alo a slight risk of a renewed outbreak of hostilities in the
country, which vould make it  impossible to complete the project.   Another
j         ~~~drought vould not affect the viability of the proposed investments, as  the
transport cost savinga ascociated vith the delivery of external emergency
assistance  vould  exceed  the  transport  costs  savings  associated  with
domsestic trade flovu.
V.  AGREMNTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, agreement  or confirmation  vas obtained  on
the folloving points:
(a)  Governmsnt vould  prapare  and  submit  to  the  Association  for
approval  by  December   31,  1988,  an   Action  Plan  with   an
implementation schedule to carry out the policy reforpis and the
investment program set out in  the Sector Strategy (para.  2.17);
and
(b) Government vould ensure proper routine and periodic maintenance
of the project roads in accordance with agreed maintenance
standards and submit annually to IDA for prior approval, and not
later than June 30, a maintenance program for these roads (para
3.10).
5.02      The following vould be a  condition of credit effectiveness:  the
Government vill make arrangements with a party satisfactory to IDA to
operate the Mani quarry (para. 3.04).
5.03      Subject to above terms, the proposed Road Reconstruction  Project
le technically and economically sound and is suitable for a credit of
US$47.0 million equivalent on standard IDA terme.



.
- 16 -                     A4NNEX 2-1
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TRANSPORT SECTOR STRATEGY SUM*ARY
1.        In order to round out and  update the objectives assigned to  the
transport sector in the Interim Plan, the Government undertook an in-depth
study from which it derived the principles on which it based the actions to
be carried  out in  the sector.   These principles  take into  account  the
degree of achievement of the global and sector objectives of the Interim
Plan, and also programs and projects that have not been adopted to date but
which are vital for the consistent implementation of a transport policy.
The six principles concerned are the following:
(1) Definition of a Priority Network
2.        The lack of even perfunctory  transport plan was a handicap  that
had to  be overcome  with the  means available.   The study  of a  priority
transport network was accordingly undertaken by estimating the freight  and
passenger transport requirements on the main routes or between the chief
centers, while ensuring all-weather trafficability essential from both the
economic and the political and social viewpoints.
(2) Complementarity of Modes of Transport
3.        This principle takes due account of the specific  characteristics
of land and air transport but also, for reasons of cost, seeks to make them
more complementary. Quite apart from the nature of the services provided
by these two modes, in certain regions road communications could only be
made reliable and usable year round  by means of capital expenditure.  that
vould represent an extremely heavy burden in light of the financing
mobilizable in Chad. All-weather reliability and/or speed of comiunication
are clearly requirements that air transport can help to meet in conjunction
with the road system.
(3) Continuation of Rehabilitation Programs
4.        The purpose of the programs included  in the Interim Plan was  to
rehabilitate the most heavily used roads (a total of 2000 km) and airports.
As this iirst stage has nov almost been completed, the Government has
proposed proceeding with the rehabilitation of the existing infrastructures
in order to restore them to a service level suited to their traffic
volumes, vhile ensuring a minimum level of reliability. It would not
therefore be a question of constructing new infrastructures, since the aim
is to set in motion an investment program compatible with the financing
that can be mobilized in Chad with a view to reviving productive activities
as quickly as possible, developing trade between producing and consumer
areas and thereby speeding regional development.



. . . . . . . . ....11



- 18 -                     ANNEX 2-1
Page 3 of 10
(4) Settina of Road Construction and Maintenance Standards
5.        The number of different donors and contractors involved leads  to
obvious variations in construction methods.   The Ministry of Public  works
has  accordingly  drawn   up  rehabilitation  standards   that  take   into
consideration location (and therefore climate, and also the nature of the
soils and materials available in the near vicinity), traffic volume and its
damage potential (vehicle type and loading). These standards have been
*stablished in order to facilitate maintenance and to hold down future
maintenance costs.
(5) Establishment of a Maintenance Policy
6.        The justification  for  this  principle is  evident  if,  as  the
Government trusts will be the case, it is considered essential to maintain
the service level of the roads rehabilitated. The establishment of the
Office National des Routes (OFNAR) in 1984 and the allocation of public
funds for its operations were steps in the right direction, but inadeiuate
to meet all  the needs.   The Government  accordingly urges  the donors  to
participate more actively in this area in accordance with the procedures
set forth later herein.
(6) Reorganization of Institutions and Promotion of the Private
Sector.
7.        The  state  and  parastatal   institutions  of  the  sector   are
functioning but with limited means and personnel in need of training, while
the responsibilities  assigned  to  them  also  require  clarification.   A
division of tasks between the public and private sectors will have to be
effected whenever the latter develops the capabilities necessary to ensure
optimal efficiency in the execution of works of the provision of a
particular service.
8.        Specifically, this principle is based on redefining of the public
service functions entrusted to these institutions and strengthening of
their material resources and manpower, in conjunction with promotion of
private entrepreneurs through a policy offering incentives coupled with
provision  of  technical  and  management  training.   In  line  with  this
objective of developing and making maximum use of the private sector, the
Government has decided to privatize the quarries.
Transport Infrastructure
Road Infrastructure
9.        The priority  network  concept.   Since  Chad's  classified  road
system amounts to 7,300  km, rehabilitation of the  entire system over  the
medium term (six years) will not be possible.
10.       After study  of the  land transport  needs with  a view  both  to
reestablishing the international links and alse to ensuring the vital



- 19 -                     ANNEX 2-1
Page 4 of 10
domestic  links   (prefectures,  agricultural   or  industrial   production
centers), the Government has identified, in agreement with the different
donors, a basic network essential to growth that is to be given priority.
11.       This priority network  of about 3,800  km (more than  50Z of  the
classified system) represents the rehabilitation and maintenance target set
for 1993. Of th's total, 2000 km is to be completed in 1988. The further
1,800 km that will be reopened by 1993 will enable the Government to ensure
the minimum traffic indispensable for moving both freight and passengers
and the provision of  public 8'.crS (health, administration,  educatiun).
Maintenance will have to be peri,z)rrm. l on the entire 3,800 km on a regular
bqsis.
12.       With this aim in mind, the Chadian Goveranent, being desirous  of
efficien.ly performing its obligations and permitting optimum utilization
of assistance provided, has drawn up a set of standards designed to make it
possible te tie the construction and rehabilitation standards in with those
applicable to routine and periodic maintenance.
13.       Necessity  of  technical  standards  for  road  construction  and
rehabilitation.   Chad's  relief  and  geology  make  selection  of   basic
standards for  road construction  particularly difficult.   Being a  former
lake basin, the country is flat and a large part ôf its area is exposed to
frequent flooding.  In the north, dunes and clayey alluvial soils provide a
poor base for road construction. Natural gravel and lateritic materials
are scarce and sometimes have to be hauled over long distances. In the
south, the frequent and heavy rains entail costly draining systems; the
changing hydrology of the Chari and Bénoué rivers and Lake Chad, together
with the requirements for agricultural irrigation, introduce further
complications. Only in the south and east of the country are lateritic
soils suitable for road construction found. Traffic volumes are generally
low, but heavy vehicles make up a sizable proportion and are commonly
overloaded, which hastens road deterioration.
1"t.      In  order  to  assess  the  standards  to  be  adopted  for  road
construction and maintenance under such unfavorable conditions, a specific
study was made 1..o determine the types of construction that would ensure
all-weather  trafficability   while   keeping  maintenance   costs   within
reasonable limita.
15.       The proposed investment  program for the  transport sector  takes
into consideration the costs  associated with the recommended  construction
standards and represents a reasonably precise estimate of the cost of
rehabilitating a priority network of about 3,800 km that will be usable
year round. The estimated costs of the rehabilitation projects undertaken
to date by external donors range between CFAF 1.5 million and CFAF 10
million per kilometer for earth roads. In several instances, works carried
out  at  lower   cost  have   proveà  inadequate   to  ensure   all-weather
trafficability, while also rendering routine maintenance difficult and
costly if not impossible.



- 20 -                     ANNEX 2-1
Page 5 of 10
16.       The proposed standards vill make it possible to select those most
appropriate to each particular region, taking into account the nature of
the soil and anticipated traffic volumes. Application of these standards
will also enable more accurate estimate of construction and maintenance
costs. The Government stresses that these standards should be taken into
consideration when preparing works projects to be carried out on the
priority network.
17.       Adoption of road maintenance methods.  At this time when Chad  is
beginning to plan its development, it is clear that the country vill have
to revise its road management policy. There is a strong likelihood that
the rehabilitated system vill grow faster than the country's financial or
technical capacity for handling even its routine maintenance. Owing to the
backlog of urgent maintenance work, the present cost of the maintenance
program for the priority network exceeds OFNAR's financial resources.
18.       An appropriate  road maintenance  system must  Le established  in
conjunction with reorganization of the structures and an expanded training
program for supervisory staff in order to enable them to acquire the
management any supervisory skills they will need. Road maintenance as
programmed by the responsible authorities comprises two main categories:
Routine  Maintenance:  This  consists  of  activities  that   may
typically be carried out once or more times a year, such as repairing
potholes, smoothing washboard surfaces, upkeep of drainage systems and
bridges, maintenance of  ferries and  their accesses,  protection of  earth
roads by means of rain gates and reshaping of deformed roadbeds.
Periodic Maintenance:  This consists  of the resurfacing,  phased
over several years, of earth roads and repaving in the case of paved roads.
Annual programming of the various items of routine and periodic maintenance
is necessary in order to be able to draw up a technical and financial plan
of campaign that can serve as a basis for tracking progress and monitoring
the effectiveness of the work. A number of traffic counts need to be
carried out (January, April and September) in order to keep track of the
growth of traffic in terms of quality and composition. A first set of
counts was conducted in October 1987 on all the roads (40 counting
stations) vorking 24 hours a day for  a week, see maps in Chapter 2).   The
obtain detailed data on the traffic spectrum, axle-loadings should be
measured  on  the  main  routes  in  order  to  determine  the  causes   of
deterioration of paved and unpaved roads.
The organization set up for the monitoring and maintenance of the
system is divided into five territorial subdivisions: N'Djamena, Mongo,
Abéché, Sahr and Moundou. On the basis of these decentralized maintenance
districts, a number of measures have been implemented that make it possible
to monitor and  safeguard the  nation's road system.   The installation  of
rain gates, which worked well during the 1987 rainy season, provided
protection for the most recently rehabilitated 1,700 km. The good results
are due in large measure to the awareness of the importance of this work on
the part of the highest levels of government and the instructions issuied



- 21 -                     ANNEX 2-1
Page 6 of 10
accordingly, together vith the support of all the ministerial departments
concerned (Public Works, Interior, Military Police, etc.).
The Ministry of Public Works, Housing and Urban Development and
OFNAR are currently setting up decentralized road maintenance units, with
buiLdings (workshops, offices)  for the  districts and  supplies of  plant,
equipment and tools. A training program for personnel and supervisory
staff has been drawn up and will be implemented in 1988.
19.       The  costs   and   financinR  reauirements   entailed   by   road
maintenance. Road maintenance represents a significant cost item for the
State and the financing requirements have been estimated on the basis of
average costs calculated according to the service level of the road, its
physical environment (climate and types of soil) and types of maintenance.
The indicative maintenance costs determined are as follows (in CFAF per km
per year):
(a) For earth roads
Northern Zone
Routine maintenance       CFAF 300,000-700-000/km depending on
tràffic
Periodic maintenance      CFAF 15 million/km every 7-8 years
depending on traffic
Southern Zone
Routine maintenance       CFAF 160,000-550-000/km depending on
traffic
Periodic maintenance      CFAF 4 million/km every 5-7 years
depending on traffic
(b)  For paved roads
Northern and Southern Zones
Routine maintenance       CFAF 150,000/km
Periodic maintenance
-    Repaving             CFAF 8.5 million/km every 6 years
-    Regravelling         CFAF 4 million/km every 5 years
20.       Chad has made an appreciable effort to contribute toward the cost
of road maintenance by allocating a part of its petroleum product tax
proceeds to OFNAR's budget. For various reasons, these fiscal revenues



- 22 -                      ANNEX 2-1
Page 7 of 10
have not reached the level originally expected; however, the removal of the
constraining factors (both internal and external) will improve the yield
from the taxes concerned. A study of tax collection is presently being
made and is expected to lead to concrete proposals for removing the
difficulties encountered and increasing  the level of resources.   However,
the country's situation is such that the tax burden cannot be increased
without negative repercussions, which means that the donors will have to
contribute--at least during the program period--to the financing of both
the rehabilitation and the maintenance of the roads in question.
21.       Attention to  be paid  to the  feeder roads.   The importance  of
agricultural and livestock production means that the secondary systems and
feeder roads in particular would  benefit from immediate improvements.   In
the cotton-growing region, the IDA-financed Rural Projects Fund was
reactivated as of 1983. It is planned to expand this effort to the
livestock zone (using financing from IDA, Italy and West Germany). A study
now in progress will make it possible to determine the priorities and the
volume of financing required.
Air Transport Infrastructure
22.       Complementarity of  the air  transport system.   Chad's  domestic
airports  play  an  important  complementary  role  even  in  relation   to
destinations that are properly served, or will be, by the rehabilitated
road system.   The  fact  is  that  all  the  roads  are  not  passable  in
all-weather, and during the rainy season air transport makes it possible to
maintain a degree of continuity in commercial and administrative relations
and emergency communications.
23.       It is moreover apparent that the main air traffic flows  coincide
with the busiest road routes (Sahr and Moundou), as is generally the case.
Furthermore, a certain number of destinations, such as Faya Largeau in
particular, need good air service because the distances involved and t}.e
nature of the soils make highway projects difficult undertakings.   Airport
investments accordingly observe the following dual priority:
-    upgrading flight  reliability  and safety  before  passenger
facilities or measures to improve the quality of life for
personnel;
-    preference for the more  important centers, and among  those
of lesser significance, those which are not currently served
by a rehabilitated road system and will not be in the medium
term.
Transport System Management
Management of the Road System
24.       The Ministry  of  Public  Works, Housing  and  Urban  Development
(MTPHU), through the Directotate of Public Works, is responsible for



- 23 -                     ANNEX 2-1
Page 8 of 10
d.v.lopm.nt of the road system. Road maintenance is entrusted to OFNAR, an
autonomous agency  under  MTPHU  supervision.   Except  for  the  personnel
responsible for programming, management and studies, the majority of the
Directorate of  Public Works'  staff have  been transferred  to OFNAR.   In
order to improve the management of the road system, the Government  intends
to strengthen MTPHU's capacity to formulate and implement a consistent
transport policy. With regard to the road system, a certain number of
measures are urgently needed.
25.       Redefining of the public  service functions.  Responsibility  for
the progrmuming of road system improvements will remain with MTPHU.   OFNAR
will be responsible for programming the execution and supervision of road
maintenance. An increasing proportion of this work will be contracted out.
OFNAR should be ready to act with flexibility and to use its financial
resources not only for works performed by force account but also for
maintenance to be executed by foreign and national contractors. Within the
context of the road maintenance project, a study for the reorganization of
OFNAR is being made with a view to enabling the agency to align its
structure on the functions assigned to it.
26.       Need  to  strengthen  institutional  capabilities.   To  increase
absorption capacities in this sphere, MTPHU envisages expanding its
personnel. A program for hiring and assigning a considerable number of
technical specialists is accordingly being prepared in order to strengthen
the existing units.   Two types  of measures  are required  to upgrade  the
Ministry's human resources: firstly, a series of tra:ining and retraining
courses to improve the technical qualifications of all staff, then
secondly, over the medium term, a technical training program in appropriate
schools for young Chadian technicians and engineers. A short-term effort
is needed to intensify on-the-job training and to organize training courses
abroad, with a view to improving the technical capabilities of the existing
supervisory staff and technicians of the Ministry and OFNAR. IDA, ADF, EDF
and USAID have already assumed responsibility for a certain number of
training actions that will have to be further developed and intensified.
27.       Rehabilitation and maintenance:  an opportunity  for the  private
sector. As a matter of general policy, the Government wishes to limit
future expansion of the public sector and to encourage the private sector,
especially small and medium enterprises. The road rehabilitation and
maintenance program envisaged offers an excellent opportunity for promoting
the development of the national construction and public works industry.
28.       There  are  about   200  small   contractors  with   construction
experience in Chad. The few local firms vith the necessary experience for
undertaking public works are under foreign control. In the context of the
IDA-financed road maintenance project, the Government has prepared an
action plan designed to provide small public works contractors with the
support needed for organization, management and financing and to furnish
the supplementary training essential to equip them to perform periodic
maintenance and some routine maintenance work.



-24-                      ANNEX 2-1
Page 9 of 10
29.       In order to b. able to ensure that all necessary maintenance vill
be carried out, the aim is accordingly to progressively entrust certain
tasks to private contractors who vill thus supplement the vork performed by
OFNAR by force account.
30.       The recommended  strategy  is  therefore  to  have  all  periodic
maintenance carried out by contractors, to progressively reduce the
proportion of routine maintenance done by force account under OFNAR's
direct responsibility and to develop the capacity of jobbing contractors
and small constructions firms to perform routine road maintenance and
repair bridges. Solutions of this type vill have to be accompanied by
development of institutional capacity vithin the Ministry of Public Works
for management of the road system, and in OFNAR for programming and
supervision of the maintenance activities performed by force account.
31.       Reshapina the role of OFCA.  There is also an Office National des
Carrières.   <OFCA--National  Quarries  Authority)  which  reports  to  the
Ministry of Public Works and vas set up to manage the operation of quarries
in Chad, and the Mani quarry in particular. The large number of road vorks
to be carried out in 1988 and which vill extend into 1990 raises the
problem of the supply.of a considerable quantity of crusher-run stone and
aggregates from Mani.
32.       The Government must therefore maintain its role in the regulation
of quarry operation, in order to serve the public interest. However, it i.
not appropriate that it should be involved in the conmercial side of these
activities, which can certainly be handled more effectively by private
entrepreneurs functioning in a competitive environment. Cost recovery and
the regulation of access to resources can be ensured by means of a system
of fees administered by a government agency. OFCA should therefore be
relieved of its operations role and the running of the Mani crushing plant
should be entrusted to the private sector.
33.       In order  to  ensure  that  the materials  are  produced  in  the
quantities and qualities needed and when required, negotiations are under
way with a view to setting up a private company in which the Government
vould hold a minor interest.
Land Transport
34.       Passenger transport requirements are presently adequately met  in
a  free-market   environment.    As   regards   freight,   and   especially
international transport, Chadian carriers (with a few exceptions) need
their organization, technical competence and management strengthened. In a
veakened economy such as Chad's, it is clear that unduly hasty deregulation
vould lead to excessive concentrations of supply resulting in rapid rate
increases or abandoning of the less profitable routes (i.e. domestic routes
in particular).
35.       The  strategy  decided  on  by  the  Government  consists  of   a
progressive liberalization of the road transport sector in the course of



- 25 -                     ANNEX 2-1
Page 10 of 10
the period covered by the present program.  To this end the Government vill
separate the function of Groupement Professionel Coopératif (Private
Truckers Cooperative)  from that  of freight  management.  An  organization
other than the Groupement vill be made responsible for bringing supply  and
demand  together,  recording  transactions  and  declaring  them  for   tax
purposes.  A study on  how best to accomplish  this separation of roles  is
currently in progress and its conclusions are scheduled to be announced in
the Spring of 1988.
Air TransDort
Domestic traffic
36.       Taking into account the political  and economic context in  which
Air Tchad has to operate (not only due to the var, but also denial of
access to potentially profitable routes to Cameroon and Nigeria), the
company's results can be considered quite honorable.
37.       Air Tchad  has  adopted  a very  cautious  medium-term  expansion
policy: development potentials are beginning  to appear but do not  justify
large-scale investments over  the coming  six years.   In view  of the  low
demand, the Fokker F27, vith its combined freight/passenger capacity, and
the Twin Otter with its operating performance (short take-off) appear to be
the aircraft that are best suited to the system, the traffic and the
runways and strips that have  to be used, most. of which are unpaved.   The
F27 (17 years) and the Twin Otter (8 years) have life expectancies that are
amply sufficient to cover the plan period envisaged here. The present
under-utilization of this fleet and its likely life do not justify the
acquisition of new aircraft before 1993.
38.       International and  interregional  traffic.   The  development  of
these two types of traffic is subject primarily to such bilateral
agreements as Chad can negotiate with its neighbors on the one hand and
with other client and supplier countries on the other. For the immediate
future, resort to regular airlines and chartering by Air Tchad would seem
the best ways to initiate import-export movements. The fact is that Air
Tchad is much more likely to generate profits by means of charters, as has
become its practice.
39.       Nevertheless, it vill be necessary  to keep careful track of  the
needs expressed by the main exporters of products that can be carried by
plane (meat, cattle  on the  hoof, gum  arabic, etc.)  so that  appropriate
responses can be made at the right time.



CRAD
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1987--------------------------------------1988 _----------------------
NO   ACTIVITY                       N     D     i      F    M  |               i      MA A     S   '        N    D
Processing                                                                               
_~  Nefotiations                      -    -      -           -
Board Presentation              -    -      -               I                                  I           . -
I Effectiveness                                              I _               I    '            __I__
! Contracting                                                                             j I
Prep. Prequal. documents        don             _          i      -I
Notice in Dev. Forum           -           -                           I                             __I   __
I   Receipt Prequal. documents   _          _     _          .           I                            :__
Prequal. Rev. and Seltction                                  i           
;    I Tender call l                                   _             I                                     '           :
!   Tenders received                                   e        -    -
Tenders analyzed                -    -                               -  _
Gov. recommends award        !   -                      e *  i_                 __I_;_*_ _
IDA approves avard                                      a -    -  I 
Contract awarded             I                       i g                          , _                           i
Contractors mobilize                               _  ___               _    i
Contractors start work              _____ _____ _____ _______
I I'                                               I~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I I    I  
Consultants                                                                  i    i     i     i
I Consultant selected           done  _                              _         ,     I      I 
| IDA approves selection        done                   . _           _         |     I    j_._!
zizi Detailed engineering           - ___    --                                                     ,
I_    _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I_ _          _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _=   I               I  _ _   I        I     i
Supervision                                                             -  - ---   ----- ___________
CHD1:TABI
10120/87
'J



- 27 -                                  ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 15
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CHAD ROAD CONSTRUCTION DESIGN NORMS
GEIAL  «O        an £I CDAD 8STD
1.1. CLDWI
The Mia alimatological zones covering the Republi of Chad cour in the
ordoer ahown bolow, trou South to North :
1) _*1~iBfft O  , socs In the Soat
Sui-hbid tropical olimate - Moundou, Sarh region
- Annual rainfalis 1350 to 950 m.
- Iaiay useont 6 to 7 montha M Nay to November with maximum raintall in
July, Auguat and September.
- Dry soaons  5 to 6 sontha - November to April, with no raintall in
feoosber ld January.
- Noma  annual tesperatures: of the order ot 280C with oonthly maxima of
38@C.
2) Ubeloudam   zons
Dry tropical climato - N'Djamena, Bongor, Bokoro, Monio and Am TLman
rsgionez
*   lafhl raintalls 950 to 500 m.
_  la"ey *aons 4 to 5 montha - May-June to Septeber,  ',,th aaxum
ratall in July and Auguat (300 -  in Haut, 250 -  Ln the N'DJaPena
Dry souon: 7 to 8 sontho - October to April-May, no raintali in
llovober, Deoeaber and January (BHat), and. Décember, January and
February (N ' Djauena).
_ Mm an nual tmperature sà 28e to 30"C, with monthly maxima exceeeVing
400C.



- 28 -                                    ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 0f 15
3) 3dol e _a e    mmoe
Sutl-dAe*r% oluate . Bol, N'Gourip Au N'Djamena and Abeche rexigin.
- Amual ralafali  500 to 200 m.
- b.iny emons 3 monthe - July to September, with max. ralintall in July
MW Augut (over 150 m).
- Dry soason: 9 sontb - October to June, no rainfall trom Nove«ber to
aroh.
- Mm .onthly tomperatures: 280C with maxima exceeding 50eC on bare
grui.
^) Seau   on
Tropioal and Saharan desert climate - Fada,  Faya, Bardai and AOouzou
region.
- Aual ruinfails 200 to 50 .m.
- Sparte rainfall possible betwoon July and September.
- HMin   nnual  temperatures:  35"C  with maxima  exoeedirn  50eC  on bare
<round.
Vith respect to hygiroaetry, air water vapour content ia olose to
saturation during the rainy scason, and low to very low during the dry
soason. The huaidity level varies 3ubstantially during the day in the
dry seaoon, and le»s in the rainy season.
fvaporation in oonsiderable, lnoreasing frou South to North. Approxiate
annual values are 2000 -  in the South, 3000 -  in the central zone, and
In *xoma of 40000 - in the deaert zone (evaporation values meaosred
with a PICHE instrument).
Major variations ln annual raintall frou year to year should also be
notode In 19841, the 200 m isohyot was aituated close to N'Djeoona, Ati
and Aboche, whoreas ln a normal year, these towna art not far from the
500 - 1Uohyet.
Rainfall diatributton la indicated on the following aap.



29- 
CARTE PLUVZOIETRZQUE
ANNEX 3-2
k48. p of1 
`X(9wa;-



- 30 -                                  ANNEX 3-2
Page      15
1.2. IOD.S
The ootle eacoutetred  in Chad correspond to the following  oOl01@icl
torustioras 
- Terminal oontintental
Old quateary
- D.oont quaternary
- primary (solid rock)
Varlous Loolostcal aoll formations can be observed:
- prtmary formationst granttio rock;
* terminal continental and old to mlddle quaternary formationas
old, shallow or outeropping ferruginous shielda,
terralitia leveios
old series adulterated with mort or les3 silty sanda;
- recent quaternary formations:
* fluvio-lacustrian serieJ with clay-sands, inoorporating limestone
nodules, oovered to a greater or lesser extent by olays or silta,
*tluvio-laouatrian series with erg sand-clays, incorporating quartz
and coarse sanda,
*récent mandy  series, accumulated  in the major river depreasions,
resulting rros sodimentation, and progressively finer towards the
North,
*recont lacustrian clay meries, with fine clay sodiments and gravmlly
sand or pebbly clay in piedmont areas,
very récent to contemporary alluvial series, with clay-3ilt or ailt-
sand sediment.



ANNEX 3-2
31-                                           Pte. 5 of 15
Potentiolité  des  sols
_                                       .                  gzt*^lt Ot *^ CX"D .1w
SOUDAN                      à     a                                       me  "&dé  el ''PlOU
1 t  1  E   NIGERIA                 X                         , j          l
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u                                                      éfl #^04e



- 32 -                                 ANNEX 3-2
Page 6 of 15
tow  of  the»  toile  present  good  road  conatruotion  oharaoteristics.
Distribution of the difforent types is exoesoively Interleaved.   The
soutb.rn part of Chad inoludea ferruinous and ferralitio soils.  Along
the  rivwra  (Logme  ad  Chari)  hydromorphous  3olus  ar   *ncowntoeed,
bordorod by blaok tropical olaysp extended aubatantially to the East of
the  Cbarl  and  round  Lake Chad,  with  *o .-arid  and  rerralitia  soal
intrualons.
Eroulon solla are enoouutered to the North of a line trou M'DJ*»na to
Aboho, with sandstone and sandy desert souls in the dry vsalleys of the
tar north.   Depreasions art frequently filied with saline and sodic
soilà (<s Uap). In view of the diveruity, heterogenelty and diapermion
of the sollsp a siupliti.d olassification syst« has beon adoptod, tssed
on CDR bêarins oapaoity after 4-day soaking, Siving a direot indication
of "road" Quality for earthworks.
301L CLASIFICATION
Claas                      CBR bearing capacity
si                                 < 5%
32                            5 to 10S
33                           10 to 15%
S4                            15 to 30S
35                                > 30S



- 33 -                                 ANNEX 3-2
Page 7 of 15
PART 2
TSCWICAL STAIIDARDS I!OB ROAD
2.1.l GDOIURISCAL STANDARDS
The geo.etrical standards applicable to the road systea in the Republic
ot Chad are illustrated in diagrma 2/1 and 2/2 on pages 16 and 17.
For surtaced roada, distinction is made between rural sections, and the
urban sections ot national highways.
For unsurtaced roads, standards are based on a certain level of heavy
vehicle trafria (DLW exce.ding 3 T).
. ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~   ~    _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _     _    _  



- 34-                                ANNEX 3-2
DIACUN No. 211
GCTUICAL STAND ADS I
3uMvM 8
;~~~~m  wk  - M.'
Latente sol1e         I7                      _ 
NG      I
L                   9.5w" 0m.          I
E) URIAN SECTION
;~~~êo~U _       .lom.
I                          _I
SwNaIow.7m.I                          -
wI'                   j    M.
;  =,   ws7m. 1                  1  Sl*~~~~~~~P



- 3-                                  ANNEX 3-2
DIAGRAN do. 2/2                               Page 9o  15
aG.oencu  STANDADS
Level 1  0-5 HV/DAY                   OClndimt
Ql*,g mmMm mwm    i    W10oewU.152On.
/S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Io cRut1s           soi
-  ~ ~ ~ ~~~n1  Wa*goau1a.o
/~~~~~~GO   mm S ~ qÀ  thb.7                 1             \n.
. 1
Levela 3 to 5 _over 10 HV/DAV
11-01,~                 _            m ,-                  ehBoXt-5*Dn
I    .            _:__J_\



-36                                    ANNE  3-2
6Page Ir of lf
2.2.  TUfCAL             OI FOR   PICAL PAVET   1STuC
For aurtfod roamd, thaoe  pav_ment structures depend on the qualitV ot
thé Underlying *otlJ strata (S 1, S 2, etc.) and tratfio level (T 1, T 2,
etc.).
Data sbeets A to D indicate the typical structures recomended for the
Min *atorlalo uaed.
For wiourtaoed roada, w.arinl course and grading course structures take
account of the quality or underlying aoil utrata (S 1, S 2, etc.) and
the  level of servies  (N 1, N 2,  etc.)  aosociated  with  the  trarfic
Oarrie4.
Difterent structures are proposed (data sheet E) for ditrerent regions,
and the difforent materials encountered.
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



.~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ( .                                4
. -
O                              Q]              -  I                         HI [  
I~~~~ |I    n   S4 
SPECFIC STUDIES             _'                    I 
*  s'~~~



ANNEX 3-2
-38-                                    Page 12 of 15
ICIICAL  UID<E  FOR SURFACED IWADS
TYPICUL PAVEENT STRUCTURES                              Data shff  8
Road bas: Clay sand - cement (CS/C)
Sub-bme s clay sand (CS)
.~~~~~~ ~~~~ -                          T 2                T 3
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~]                            .?                         __
SIJAFACING         O@oub bu1m        TflI Wm.
btnent ''        te    .
S 1         //lL .» /
.     cm. CS      45 cm CS:
_ _~~~~1oe.&  _  ._.____
s   m    I
.1. 1i__ _-_ 
35 CW OSC
s ,
PAVEMENT.
CS iLI    I        eCSi
'  S



*                                     - 39 -                                ANNECX 3-2
Page 1of 15
TChUICAL GUIlENEs FOR SUUn         boDt"
TTflCAL PAVDENT STRUCTURtES                          Data sot C
Road bas. bituminou sand (BS)
Sub-baa o: clay sand (CS)
T2~~~~ 
____A4L8
s~~~~~Ics
gJRFAIG    s"1S             aan_«(sF s
S 2                -4-   -          -  
12_                          .     _
1cm CS    '       cmCSC
45                                     .    _                    l.-
gyp.ujp *:~                                   .~       .
1541                              



- 40 -                                     ANNEX 3-2
Page 14 of 15
TscICAL GIZIDU.HS  FUR SE VACED DOADS
TYPICAL PAV11T  STRUCTURES                               Data doet D
Road bases natural gravo1 (No)
Sub-baae s natural gravel (NO)
.,||T i  |        T 2                T3
SUAFACING
r| S 13.SA                          3o ,           iSA
>@@. .l1SicmRGp           licm.
$ 2
.N.SA   _     _      S.A
a     -    -  a~~~~~~ -l    G
rTRUCTUREl                                *'.  *
'PAVEMENT  l                              * 1     30.NG'
__4'                                          __
54



TECUICAL CUTDELIDS FOR UNSURFACED BOUDS  TYIC*L  AIUI NC C<URSE SllUCSU115
Thickniss ln eo - CC z grading course
I                        Traffle I                          Trcftic I                               Tra tic
N 1              < 5   1          a 2              5-10   1         1 3              10-15     15-20
|  V/day  |                       HV/day  |                             EV/day
I Latcritie            1   20    I Fine iouls             I         I Lateritte             I   25    I   30
I                      I    +    I Sandsand finé soils  1  25 t    |                             *    I   +
I_(South)              I  CI5_ 1                          I  GCZlO  1(South)                I   CCS15  I OC*20
Fine sola             1   20    1                       1          IFne soila s                30    1   35
S1       Iands and rine soila  I    +    I (North andf-East>    I  Clar   I                          I    *    I
(North and E-Eaut)    I  GC=10  1                       1         1 (Centre)    -            GCs15 1  GC=20
COR < 5%    t Fine aolla and hard   1   20    I Fine soils           1   30   I Sand» and fine soti1e1    25    I   30
I solls (ERast orth    I    +    I                       I    +    I                        i          1 I
I Hast, North East,    I GC=15  1 (Centre)               I  GC=15  l (North)                I  OCS15  I GC=20
E Hast, Eastern Contre) I         I                      I        ,                          _         I
Lateritto            I          I Fine sotie            |          I Lateritic
I                      1   20    I Sanda and fine sols  1   25    1                         1   25    I   30
I (South)                                                             ( I  I  | (South)     I
----------~~I 
Fne  ooll            I          I                       I          I Fine  oils           I          I
S 2      I Sandsand fine sols  1   20        ( (North and N-East)    I        I                      1   30    1   35
.1 (North and u-Est)    I                                             (Centre)              I ______ ____
CBR 5 to 10I J Fine soils nd hard   I           I Fine soils           I          ISands and fine aoils  T           I
soils (East North     1   20    1                        1   30    1                            25    1   30
I gast, North Hast,    I          I (Centre)              I         I (North)               I          I
I East, Eastern Centre) i         I                      I           _                      j          I
I Laterltio            I          I Fine aolls            I          I Lateritia            I          I
1  1   20    |Smnda nd rioe soil   1   20    1                       I   20    |   25
I (South)            |          |                       I          I (South)              I          I
l Fine 80118           I                      I           I           Fine 8011s o i
3 2      I Sand and fine soila I     20    1 (North and N-East)    I          I                      I   25    J   30
I (North amd N-ast)    I          I                       I         I (Centre)              |          |
CBR 5 to 10% j Fine sols and hard   I           I Fine solls                      I Safd8  nd fine 1soilr  I 
I soila (East North    1   20    I                        1   25    1                       1   20    1   25
I East, North East,    I          I (Centre)                        I (forth)               I          I
I EIst, Eastorn Centre) I         I                       I          I                      I          I
1:!I
o ,



ANNEX 3-3
- 42 -                          Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CH"
ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS OF N'DJAMENA-DJERMAYA AND N'DJAMENM-GUELENGDENG
ROU                          N'JAEMNA - mISSAGET
SECTION            N 'AMENA-DJERMAIA
Lo_  h           K               32
CiMfe WIdh       M8
Pavust dwIh    a                  6
With ci
Suflace trealmef wEihm           6.50
-uacond oourse                   6 ,50
* o*eord   m                     6,50
6.50
Ch4prng wdh      m_
AO&d baO wldh    X               8,45
Sub4ba wldh      m               9,80
Sub.grade width
(eMtIwoeh>       X10
Paveml."t so                     3/2
FiNsiope                         2/1
PAVEMENT                        
STRUCTURE
THICKNESSES
_ _          I   ,    
-.      ...    ; 



- 43 -
ANNEX 3-3
rase 2 of 2
SURFACED
ROUTE                        N'DJAMENA - GUELENGDENG
SECTION-            KOUSSIERI -KOUNDOUL        KOUNDOUL-GUELENGDENG
Length            K               12                        134
Crown width       m8
Pavemefi width    m                6                          6
width of
bètuminous layer                 6,506
Surlace Irealment wldth m
first course
second course
t - couwse            .    __.
Priming width     m                7                         6,50
chipping wit      m                76,50
Road base wioth    m             8,45                        8,36
Sub-base width    m               9,50                       9,26
Sub grade width
(eaflhworks)      m               10                          10
Pavement hope                     3/2                        3/2
Fill slope                       2/1                         2/1
C-T2-S2                    C-T1-S2
PAVEMENT
STRUCTURE                        12cm o,sSA
THICKNESSES                                                  1  US
Im
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. S~    . t.



oMANCUAUIE au MIISlUEE DES  RAVAI PUStlCS. DE L'HASITAT (ET lE LfUU MIS
i Hanistre dbm Travux Publics
de  "Habitat et *4de  I'Urbea 1   r        du mlibstre
Dir«cteur C46  r l                                                                                               Et bl e *mo"re
Présden  OFA                                                                                           ,mv tull
D7r ction          Direction               Dir ction des            Insp ctlon         ENPOfNAR                               OFCA          SmE
Cnti-ontx        Cadastre, Urbanisas          Travaux                 Cénàrn la    Ecol- Nationale      Off Ica National    lf;ce dm    Sectit
Equi 1 pmntx        Habitat                   Publics                                 des TP              des Routes         neèrirlèe    TCh"i dun
Electricité
|Direction
Affaires
Adm nistratives
CHD2:CHART1



ORMICIUAlIE  E LA DIRECTION DES WAVMUX PUUCS
Dir ct ur des
Travaux Publicsx      t
Division des Etudes                                                               Divisio  du centrale
I   Subdivision Etudos Routiéres                                                      Subdivision Travux Nuit Routes
Subdivislon Etud.s CGnérales                                                    Subdivision Travaux Neufs B.tio  te
Subdivision Equipemnt.s Urbains                                                 Subdivision Travax   is EquipTsu_te
Urbaine 
Subdivision Etudos Batimonts
I    Subdivision Architecture
CHD2: CART2



f0Mh1*E  OE LA SECTIUN OE L*IRFM
|      ~~Service* Contreux                                                                   Servie« Régionaux 
Division Financière             W                                              Arrondissemeot de N'DJ ae
Division de IlAd.inlstratlon                                                         Subdivisiol  de N'OJameoa 
Division de l'outillage mécanique                                                        Subdivision Abch                 I
Inspection du Matériel                                                              Subdivision de Mongo 
Division programation                                                               Arrondissement de Sarh
Subdivision de Sarh            I
Subdivision de Moundou
CHD2: CHART3
_ 



MAP SECTION



X , s. ~~~~~~C H A D !AA
\.  \               <a^    ROA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D RECONSTRUCTION      RoEP.
,  \                                    X                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EGYPT
j                                              Projaci ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rortdl 72 -m~vtle
\   wobtr  or;                                   ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~igi Pr ioriiy Rocid Ne*otro, to be Rthobàfitated
Fltriw4t Extr4on of teh PriodbtY Rood Nefriork
_   i)                                               *   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ferrln fo but Replrxtid
,   \   LlTiYA        X                                                      _    &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sidip #O bst Recorttsrvbt"
\   IB Yrre                                                                     Rood N esork,
$   . _   10              e                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              ~ ~~~~~Engimeretrd  20
NIGER                                   !                                                                    a.,or EsJrlh Tror*s!
! ! / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rood &"Iibhitn                                          i          lorud Mtr tiohit
CHAO                                                                  Roud SubdWision                     Crrentl
/     _             !                                          Ll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~      ~      ~~~~~~~ndtrr Sth Proie,"  FfLebPri
L>Ngiq«O        .fç  SUDAN                                                 S« *  Moio    Airporh               rryeh 
NIGERI,                                        4-Y                                        Artit                         - htnl  noi                                            a
.    lS      /.e               j                                    - -- -' ` tif 4.Foyst Lor9trt 
< 2   <        ,_~CENTRALt_
rCAMEROÔN         R-' -AeFRICTANt
NIGER                    /                                          
\           Xto ork             -s iti    t is<                                            Are-0~+1                  SUDAN
oto   s'  _t, .... L~~~~~~~~L';i S
-12   ro Uçwl  \7  <                                 ^     t        onçoi               +«G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wozioo s                   12 -
NIGERIA                                        --           X                                               ,                    (
/   (  |   oh^o re y«s   >   y      O       l                                                O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 30  oO   9P0 i120 1 50
t  CAMEROON             +                                                                                      t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~IOMTR
a \ -I tt~~~~~~~oCETAAFIN «
P<riozr«s°XS  &+  v/  -A--*                                          REPUBLIC~~ Timo
X   ,   .              ,   }                     ,                        I                         I                        s                         ]                  ._  ne
i O'L 



