nDocumnor
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
RePWs N. P-3880-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL D:VLOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.5 MILION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
FOR A
STOCK ROUTE PROJECT
September 12, 1984
Thb doennt bass       dbdd kbm idmabe a" by _eebbab     b   pafmrnmo



CRRENCY EQUIVALETS
Sudanese Pound  CLSd)              100 piasters   1000 milliems
US$1.00              LSd 1.30
LSd 1.00               US$0.77
WEIGHTS A-D MEASURES
Metric Units                 English Units          Sudanese Units
1 hectare (ha)              2.47 acres (ac)     -  2.38 feddans (fd)
Netric Units                 English Units         U.S. Units
I liter                   0.22 imperial allons    0.26 U.S. gallons
I metric ton          -   2,206.6 pounds
Abbreviations
CBPP                   -      Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonla
DG                    -      Director General
DSR                    -     Dry Season Route
FAo J.P. 15           -      Food and Agriculture Organization of the
llt.ited Nations Joint Programe No. 15
GOS                   -      Government of Sudan
LMKC                   -     Livestock and MPat Narketing Corporation
-;RC                  -      Livestock Route Company
1OA                    -zinistry of Agriculture
NSR                   -      Northern Stock Route
WIA                    -     NLtionai Water Authority



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SWDAN
STOCK ROUTE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Democratic Republic of Sudan
Amount:            IDA Credit SDR 5.5 million (US$5.5 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard.
Cofinancing:       IFAD Loan SDR 5.95 million (US$6.0 million equivalent)
Beneficiary:       Livestock Route Company
Onlending Terms:  Sudanese Pounds equvalent to SDR 3.03 million will be
onlent to the Livestock Route Company with annual
service charges equivalent to 162 of the outstanding
loan balrnce, 15 year repayment Including 5 years grace,
with the Government bearing the foreign exchange risk;
Sudanese Pounds equivalent to SDR 1.44 million will be
made available as an equity investment in the Livestock
Route Company; Sudanese Pounds equivalent to SDR 0.96
million will be transferred to the Livestock Route
Company as a grant; and SDR 0.12 million will be
retained by the Government to conduct a study of the
livestock industry.
Project Description:
ObJective:         To ensure the continued flow of marketed livestock from
the project areas of western Sudan to the principal
towns and for export, by renewal and extension of water
supplies and veterinary services along livestock trade
routes.
Components:        The project would include:
(a) Fifty-nine wateryards with about 83 tubewells to be
constructed on two main and two feeder stock routes;
(b) Facilities and materials for veterinary inspection,
treatment and vaccination at about 18 veterinary centers
along stock routes;
(c) Project administration facilities (office, housing,
vehicles and equipment);
(d) Technical assistance and training.
iTh documt has a restncted dsibution and may be used by recipients only in the performane of
their offxia duties. Its contents may not Otherwise be discod without Wodd Dank authoriato |



- ii -
Benefits:          The main annual financial benefits would include, re-
duced livestock holding costs (LSd 0.5 million); reduced
livestock trekking weight losses (LSd 1.5 million); and
reduced livestock mortality during trekking CLSd 1.2
million). Benefits that could result from increased
offtake or sale of water to sedentary farmers along the
stock route were not included in these estimates.
Risks:             Beneficiaries may not be motivated to invest in the
proposed Livestock Route Company and tubevell yields nay
be inadequate at some locations. Both risks are
considered low in view of the success of self-help rural
water supplies in Sudan, and the careful analysis of
risk carried out at each wateryard site, and financial
provision made for test bores and supplementary
tubewells.
USS Million
ProJect Components                          Local     Foreign     Total
- - - (US$ Million)
Water Yards                             3.7         4.6        8.3
Veterinary Services                     0.6         0.6        1.2
Project Administration                  1.7         2.0        3.7
Technical Assistance  and Training      0.4         1.2        1.6
Physical Contingency                    0.8         0.9        1.7
Price Contingencies                     1.2         1.9        3.1
8.4 V      11.2      19.6I/
m 
Financing Plan
IDA Credit                              0.1         5.4       5.5
IFAD Loan                               0.2         5.8       6.0
Government of Sudan                     8.1 l/      0.0        8.1 L/
8.4        11.2      19.6
Estimated Disbursements                      1986    1987    1988   1989
(USS Hillion)
IDA/IFAD:  Annual                       5.0     3.0     2.2    1.3
Cumulative                  5.0      8.0    10.2   11.5
Estimated Rate of Return:  About 27%
Staff Appraisal Report:    No. 4659-SU;   dated - August 31, 1984
Haps:  IBRD Nos. 17419, 17420, and 15852R2.
1/ Includes duties and taxes equivalent to US$3.5 million.



INIERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELMPMENT CREDIT
TO THE DEJlCRtIC REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
FOR A STOCK ROUTE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recomendation on a proposed
credit to the Democratic Republic of Sudan for SDR 5.5 million (US$5.5
million equivalent) to help finance a Stock Route Project. The credit will
be on standard IDA terms. Cofinancing of SDR 5.95 millions will be
provided by the International Fund for Agricultural Development (US$6.0
million equivalent) -./
PART I - THE ECONOM!
2.        An economic mission visited Sudan in January 1983. Its report
(Pricing Policies and Structural Balances-) No.4528a-SU of November 10,
1983 has been i stributed to the Executive Directors. The findings of the
mission are reflected below. Summary tables of social, economic and
financial data are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa. It bas a population of about 19.8 million (1982
estimate) and is classified by the UN as a least developed country * Per
capita GNP is estimated at about US$460 (1982 Atlas methodology). /  Mich
of the counzry is unoccupied or very sparsely populated and there is
relatively little population pressure on the land. Although much of the
country is desert or semi-desert, the Sudan has great untapped potential
for agricultural development. About two-thirds of the total land area is
suitable for crop or pastoral production, but only a small fraction of this
land is under intensive use. The economy is heavily dependent on exports
of cotton, the major commodity from irrigated land, and on groundnuts,
sesame and gum arabic. The manufacturing sector is relatively small and is
limited to processing agricultural commodities such as cotton, oil seeds
and sugar and to the production of consumer goods and building materials.
A development of potential significance to Sudan's prospects is the
discovery of oil reserves in the southwestern part of the country. An
export pipeline carrying around 50,000 b/d will be constructed, and export
is expected to commence in 1986. The public sector has long been important
I/ IDA's practice is to round the conversion of US$ to SDR's to the next
higher SDR 100,000 while IFAD's practice is to round to the next higher
SDR 50,000.
2/ Based on the nominal effective exchange rates for the period
1978/79-1980/81. Based on the official exchange rate as of November
15, 1982 of LSd 1.00 - US$0.769 per capita GNP would be about $260.



in the Sndanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the
railways, virtually all power and water supply, and a significant
proportion of industry, commerce and finance. Although some industrial
enterprises are being returned to the private sector, about half of the GDP
is still generated within the public sector.
The Current Crisis
4.        The most immediate problem facing Sudan is the balance of
payments situation. Between 1972/73 and 1974/75, the deficit on current
account increased from US$11 million to about US$470 million and remained
between US$450 and US$550 million until 1979/80, when the combination of a
doubling of oil prices and a serious decline in cotton production pushed
the deficit to over US$900 million. A further reduction in cotton exports
and increased petroleum imports led to a current account deficit of US$809
million in 1980/81 and US$1.3 billion in 1981132. Gross official reserves
fell to only a few days worth of imports. By end 1982, external payments
arrears had accumulated to above $2.2 billion.
5.        The crisis came about largely as the consequence of inadequate
economic management policies compouuded by external factors, such as the
sharply increased cost of petroleum imports, which have constrained
Government's ability to respond quLckly with effective remedial action.
Adverse developments in foreign trade were accompanied by other adverse
forces - reduced flows of external capital after 1976, mounting debt
problems, and absorptive capacity constraints.
6.        The rapid increase in the value of imports came about partially
because of the sharp increase in oil prices and the steep rate of
international inflation, particularly in 1973/74 and 1974/75. There was,
however, a sharp rise in the volum  of imports between 1974/75 and 1977/78;
since then, imports have actually declined in real terms. Exports declined
in real terms by nearly 50 percent between 1972/73 and 1981182. The
decline wvs concentrated in cotton, which occurred because of a shift from
cotton to other crops and also because of falling cotton yields. The
volume of cotton exports in 1981/82 was less than 15 percent of the 1971172
level. Transport difficulties and other infrastr-actural problems
contributed to this decline, as did declining maintenance in many public
irrigation schemes.
7.        The rise in development expenditures after 1973 was financed in
large measure by external capital, but because of absorptive capacity
problems, disbursements of this capital declined unexpectedly in the
mid-1970s, dropping from $465 million in 1974 to $332 million in 1977 and
1978. Because of the slow disbursements and accumulating arrears, external
donors became less willing to make new commitments. Sudan faced a
difficult choice: either to cut back on projects just started or to
maintain the projects by running down foreign exchange reserves and
borrowing from banks or other sources abroad. The Government decided to
try to sustain the development effort by using reserves and by borrowing
heavily on relatively hard terms. Annual external public debt service
payments falling due increased from $55 million in 1972/73 to more than
$800 million in 1982/83. The debt service burden as a proportion of



- 3 -
exports of goods and services increased from 12 percent in 1972/73 to
overlOQ percent in 1982183. This unfavorable debt profile led not only to
a heavy current debt service burden, but also has critical Implications for
future debt service obligations.
8.        The structural weakness in Sudan's public sector finances became
increasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases in
expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. The consequent
sbarp rise in public sector demands on the domestic banking system led to a
rapid acceleration in the growth of money supply, which reached 44 percent
in 1976/77. Although the monetary expansion has slowed in succeeding
years, the grovth rate over the period 1977/78-1980/81 still averaged
nearly 25 percent per year; during 1980/81, the rate of expansion again
rose to around 50 percent and, after a slowdown in 1981/82, rose again in
1982/83 by around 30 percent. This contributed to an acceleration In
annual price increases from 6 percent in the early 1970s to over 30 percent
in the past two years. Mbst of the increases in current espenditures have
been for social and community services, transfers to local government, and
general administration. The sharp increases in general administration
expenditures were due in large part to rising wages and salaries of
civilians in the central government, cost of living subsidies and
extra-budgetary expenditures. On the revenue side, tax revenues have
increased over the past few years; but since the tax system is relatively
inelastic, these increases have been made possible only with frequent new
tax measures. Recent changes. such as efforts to increase the relative
contribution of direct taxes, should improve elasticity somewhat.
Policy Changes
9.        Against this background of serious payments imbalances and
general economic crisis stemming from structural maladjustments in
production and trade, the Government has taken several significant
decisions in the last few years to establish financial equilibrium, to
restore export growth through appropriate policies and public investments,
to improve the performance of the public corporations, and to install an
adequate system for management of the nation's external debt.
(a) Financial Stabilization and IMF Agreements
10.       In June 1978, a stabilization program was announced as part of a
Stand-by Agreement with the IMF. The Agreement included a variety of
measures to establish a more realistic exchange rate, reduce deficit
financing, control foreign borrowing, and improve production incentives,
particularly in the irrigated agriculture sector. In May 1979, agreement
was reached on similar policy actions that allowed access to a three-year
Extended Fund Facility (EFF).
11.       In November 1980, the Fund Board approved a second year program
under the EFF. Because of non-compliance with agreed targets, the
Government was not able to make drawings in the third and fourth quarters
of 1980/81. Subsequently, in March 1981, several measures were taken to
strengthen the central government's budget, including increases in



-4-
petroleum product prices, import duties and the prices of cigarettes and
liquor. Further measures were taken in Noveu$er 1981, including (i) a
unification of the official and parallel exchange rates at a new
depreciated rate of LS 1.00 - US$1 .11; (ii) removal of budgetary subsidies
for petroleum products, wheat products, and sugar; and (ill) measures
designed to raise revenues and constrain credit expansion. These measures,
together with pledges at a special Donors Meeting in January 1982 that
closed the financing gap in the program, made it possible in the following
month for the IMF to approve a one-year Stand-by Arrangement for the Sudan
of SDR 198 million. However, this program also lapsed in mid-term because
of the Government's inability to comply with all of its conditions.
12.       The 1982 Stand-by Arrangement was subsequently cancelled.
Further policy me-asures were taken in December 1982, including a 44 percent
devaluation of the Sudanese Pound to LS 1.00 - US$0.77. The Governuent
also prepared a comprehensive medium-term recovery program, Prospects,
Programmes and Policies for Economic Development, 198Z/831984/85 (see
para. 18); this document formed the basis for discussions at the
Consultative Group Meeting in Paris in January 1983. The outcome of this
Meeting, together with a new debt restructuring package obtained from the
Paris Club in February 1983 (see para. 17), enabled the IMF to approve a
Stand-by Prograz for 1983 for a total amount of SDR 170 million. In May,
1984 the Paris Club again agreed to reschedule Sudau's official external
debts falling due in 1984 on terws which were consistent with the proposed
I1F Standby Arrangement, and a new Standby Arrangement was entered into on
June 25, 1984.
(b) Export Prowtion and Public Investment Programs
13.      An essential aspect of tha Government's stabilization program is
a concerted drive to increase foreign exchange earnings through increased
exports. This is being carried out under the Export Action Program (EAP),
initiated in mid-1979. The EAP was designed tn raise the volume of cotton
exports at an average rate of 7 percent per annum during the period
1979-91. B3y bid-1981 the actual production of seed cotton had in fact
declined further, but 1981/82 saw a substantial recovery with a 50 percent
increase in production volume. This improving trend was continued in
1982/83 with a further 25 percent increase, and in 1983/84 another 10
percent increase was realized. The total seed cotton production is now
close to 85 percent of the original target in the Export Action Program.
Several investments in the irrigated subsector are supporting this export
recovery. Under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (Credit No.
l000-SU of US$65 million and EEC Special Action Fund Credit of about US$11
million), funds were made available for urgently needed spare parts and
equipment. Several rehabilitation projects will be carried out in the
1980s. The New Halfa Rehabilitation Project, Credit 1022-SU, approved in
May 1980, was the first of these, followed by projects for the Blue and
White Nile. A rehabilitation project for the largest irrigation scheme,
the Gezira, was approved in June, 1983. The Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program II (Credit No. 1389-SU) provides much needed foreign exchange for
purchases of agricultural inputs in the sub-sector. In addition, several
policy measures have been taken in the areas of cost recovery, cotton
marketing, and institutional reform.



14.       Simultaneously with the EAP, the Government reduced the size of
its overall development program, as reflected in the Six-Year Plan, to a
more realistic level consistent with expeeted external and domestic
financial resources. In 1979 the GoverD ent prepared the first Three-Year
Public Investment Program covering the period 1978/79-1980/81. This
Program has been updated three times; the latest investment program,
covering the period 1983/84-1985186, was incorporated into the updated
medium-term recovery program presented to the Consultative Group Meeting
held in December 1983.
(c) Public Corporations
15.       The Government has taken several actions to help remedy the
problems of the public enterprises. The Government has abolished a
cumbersome and overly centralized corporate structure in agriculture and
replaced it with more autonomous agricultural entities. Organizational
reforms have also been implemented in the industrial and commercial sectors
as well. During the past year the Government has substantially increased
the prices for products of public corporations to Improve their financial
positions.
- [d) Management of External Debt
16.       As indicated earlier, Sudan's external debt burden has been quite
heavy for a number of years. The total disbursed outstanding external debt
at the end of 1983 amounted to around US$8.0 billion. Scheduled debt
service payments for 1984 exceed US$1.0 billion. During the mid-seventies
external debt management was weak, in part because authority to engage in
foreign borrowing and the administration of foreign loans was divided among
many different ministries. This inefficiency was ameliorated through the
decision to vest sole authority for foreign borrowing with the Ministry of
Finance.  A debt management unit (DMU) in the Ministry of Finance was
established in 1979, but this unit has not operated effectively. A new
unit, the Directorate for External Finance, is now being established to
remedy this situation and is being supported by a technical adviser
provided by the IMF.
17.       Steps have also been taken to deal with the severe debt arrears
problems. In November 1979, a Paris Club meeting was held on the
rescheduling of Sudan's debt. Participating countries (Austria, Belgium,
Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the
United Kingdom, the United States) and the Government reached agreement on:
(a) a rescheduling or refinancing of amounts falling due before October 1,
1979 and not paid (arrears); and (b) a rescheduling or refinancing of
amounts owed for the period October 1979 to June 1981. A further meeting
held in March 1982 rescheduled maturities falling due between July 1981 and
December 1982. The first payment on this arrangement was made by Sudan,
but because of an increasing scarcity of foreign exchange, the Government
was unable to discharge the other payments on time. The magnitude of
Sudan's debt problem and its inability to pay its rescheduled debt payments
led, in October 1982, to the appointment of an 'External Finance
Coordinator. The first step towards a viable long-term solution to
Sudan's debt problem was taken by the Paris Club in February 1983 when it



- 6 -
agreed to reschedule all outstanding obligations due up to the end of 1983
over 16 years, with a six-year grace period. Agreements for 1983 payments
were made with the commercial banks and other creditors. In May 1984, the
Paris Club met and agreed to reschedule Sudan's 1984 payments on a basis
similar to that agreed in 1983. Sudan has had difficulty making agreed
payments to all of its offic!zl creditors, however, and several aid
organizations have suspended disbursements.
New Recovery Program
18.       In October 1983, the Government issued a new medium-term recovery
program entitled Prospects, Programmes and Policies for Economic
Development: 1983/84-1985J86.   In addition to a  realistic three-year
public investment program focused on economic recovery, primarily through
rehabilitation of the export sector and economically efficient import
substitution (especially in sugar), this document contained macro
projections through 1990/91 that reflect the long-term nature of the
recovery process and a set of short and medium term policy objectives
covering areas such as foreign trade, production, demand management,
resource allocation and external resource mobilization.
19.       At the Consultative Group Meeting held in Paris on December
14-16, 1983, the Government presented its updated version of the
medium-term recovery program document, and requested program and project
aid to support the recovery program. At this meeting, the Government was
commended by many donors for the actions taken during 1983 to implement its
recovery program. If the Government builds on the progress which has been
made by staying within the terms of the new IMF Standby Arrangement,
keeping the exchange rate realistic, continuing to encourage agricultural
output by maintaining adequate price levels for crops, and by adhering to
its annour-ed development strategy for the next several years, a slow but
steady improvement in the balance of payments situation can be anticipated.
Recent Developments
20.       Last year the Southern Region was divided into three separate
regions, and all regions in Sudan were given a greater degree of autonomy
for levying taxes and carrying out regional development programs. Armed
resistance forces emerged in the south, and attacks on the Chevron oil
exploration activities and construction work on the Jonglei Canal caused
these operations to shut down. Yore recently, Chevron has partially
resumed its operations in Sudan.
21.       In August 1983 three measures were enacted into law based on the
Koran, called Sharia laws. These included changes in the penal code,
banning of the sale of alcohol, and a prohibition on the collection of
interest in courts of law. The civil code was extensively revised, and the
Constitution is now in process of revision. Early in 1984 direct taxes and
some excise taxes were abolished and replaced with a traditional Islamic
tax and welfare system called tZakat' to be administered by a separate
Zakat organization and levied at the local level for use in part for social
welfare purposes. More recently, a decision was taken to restore some of
the-abolished taxes in order to avoid an increase in the budget deficit.



-7-
22.       The economic effects of these developments are not clear at this
time except for a delay in the scheduled date for the export of petroleum
from early 1986 to a present estimate of late 1986. A new budget will be
presented soon which should clarify the expected changes resulting from the
introduction of Zakat.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SUDAN
23.       World Bank Group gross commitments to Sudan to date total
US$1,009.5 million. Of this, US$33.0 million are IFC commitments. There
have been eight loans (two on Third Window terms) and 36 credits for a
total of 38 projects. Nineteen projects are under implementation. Over
50 percent of total Bank/IDA lending has been for agricultural development:
seven irrigation projects, three rainfed mechanized farming projects, four
smallholder development projects; a livestock markSting project; an
agricultural research project; two Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
Credits, an agricultural credit project; and a sugar rehabilitation
project. Projects in other sectors include: three power projects, three
education projects, three highway projects, a domestic aviation project,
four railway projects, two port projects, two technical assistance
projects, and two industrial credit projects. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31,
1984.
24.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan
has been mixed. Many projects have difficulty in getting key materials -
cement, fuel and timber of which there are periodic shortages. Belated
delivery of equipment and supplies due to transporcation difficulties also
affects most projects. The continuing drain of skilled manpower to the
Middle East oil rich countries takes its toll on effective preparation and
implementation of projects. There have also been lengthy delays in meeting
effectiveness conditions, mainly because of problems in establishing new
institutions or project accounts, hiring key staff, completing necessary
legal documentation, or concluding required co-financing arrangements.
These problems have been brought to the attention of Government
authorities, both through supervision missions and annual Country
Implementation Reviews, and steps have been taken to resolve some of them
such as in procurement and obtaining legal opinions.
25.       The disbursement rate, i.e., actual disbursements during the year
as a percentage of the undisbursed balance at the beginning of the year,
declined from 23.4 percent in FY78 to 12.1 percent in FY81, but the rate
improved markedly to 27.7 percent in FY82 and 25.8 percent in FY83. The
FY84 disbursement rate declined to 10.0 percent, as compared to 23.0
percent for Eastern Africa and 23.4 percent Bank-wide, as the result of
delays in implementation of several large projects and the completion of
disbursements of the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (IDA Credit
1000-SU).
Assistance Strategy
26.       The Bank Group assistance strategy has been to encourage the
Government to undertake a broad program of economic reform aimed at
addressing the structural imbalances in the economy. We have been working



-8-
very closely with the Government and the IMF in the development and
implementation of Sudan's economic recovery program, which formed the basis
for Consultative Group meetings in January and December, 1983 and Standby
Arrangements with the IMF (para. 12). This was followed by the creation of
a Joint Monitoring Committee (JMC), where the aid donors and the Government
jointly monitor progress in carrying out the program, and continued Bank
involvement in reviewing an updated version of the recovery program for
1984/85-1986/87 and in chairing another Consultative Group meeting in
December 1983. In broad outline, this program concentrates Government
resources on the rehabilitation of existing eapital inve3tments,
particularly those which can contribute to expanding export earnings, while
restrainlng investment in new projects. At the project level, IDA has
continued to emphasize the rehabilitation of irrigated agriculture, Sudan's
major export earner, plus improvements in infrastructure needed to service
the agricultural sector. The Agricultural Rehabilitation Program was
effective in providing badly needed spare parts and replacement machinery
for the irrigated sector, as well as encouraging the Government to take
some important steps toward improving incentives to farmers through better
cotton prices and costing arrangements for the irrigated schemes, and the
Second Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (IDA Credit 1389-SU) followed up
this earlier effort with the financing of recurrent agricultural inputs.
We will bontinue to concentrate IDA lending on the agricultural sector and
critical infrastructure during the period ahead, with proposed projects in
agricultural r^search and extension, agricultural recurrent cost financing,
and electric power.
Relationship to other Aid Flows
27.       Bank and IDA lending - both new commitments and disbursements -
reprPsent about 10 to 15 percent of total aid flows to the Sudan. We
expect that this .elationship will continue a: about the same level during
the next several years. Bank and IDA obligations represent about 6 percent
of Sudan's total outstanding and disbursed debt. Bank/IDA debt service was
only about 1 percent of Sudan's total external debt service falling due in
1983. While this may rise slightly in the next several years, it will
remain a very small portion of Sudan's total debt service obligations.
PART III THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in Sudan
28.       Sudan has a population of 19 million people, a massive land area
of 2.4 million km2, and rainfall varying from 1,500 mm per annum in the
Equatoria Province of the Southern Region to 150 mm in the Northern
Region. The northern half of the country is arid and cultivation is only
made possible by irrigation from, and adjacent to, the river Nile. The
Southern Region has a high but also mostly unimodal rainfall. The project
area lies mostly between latitudes 10°N and 16N where rainfall declines
northward from about 500 mm to 150 mm per year. In that area, the
country's main irrigation schemes extending to 4 million feddans (1.7
million hectares) liU adjacent to the White Nile, Blue Nile and Atbara



-9-
rivers in the east, and savannah extends westward to the Chad border.
Sudan's large-scale mechanized rainfed farming schemes occupy 6 million
feddans of heavy clay soils mainly In the eastern part of the savannah
belt. Further vest smallholders culivate about 20 million feddans of
rainfed land, much of it baving sandy soils and therefore being more
amenable to hoe cultivation.
29.       Agriculture. including livestock production, provides a
livelihood for 80 percent of the population and accounts for 40 percent of
GDP and 95 percent of exports. The country's economic growth during the
half century prior to 1975 was brought about largely by increasing cotton
production, much of it on lAnd irrigated from the Nile rivers. In the late
1970s a disastrous fall In cotton yields on irrigated schemes led to a
crisis in foreign earnings. Uhile in 1970/71 the area under cotton was
1.2 million feddans and the yield 4.3 kantars per feddan, in 1980181, the
area diminished to just under 1 million feddans and the yield fell to 2-3
kantars per feddan. During that period cotton lint exported fell to 15
percent of the 1971172 level due to poor maintenance and operation of the
units providing Irrigation water, and to low margins to farmers for cotmon
growing which reslted in poor crop busbandry. The emphasis the Sudan
Governmemt and IDA have placea on restoration of irrigated cotton
production bas now started to bring about better yields.
30.       Only recently bas the interdependence of livestock and crop
production in farming systems in the irrigated schemes and in sedentary
farming systems in rainfed areas been acknowledged. While Government
research, extension and administrative services for crops and livestock are
located in one Ministry, historically they have been carried out by
agriculturalists and veterinarians in separate hierarchies. These
professionals bave had little training in common and little interaction at
the farm level. The result bas been a bifurcation of effort and use of
resources which has not maximized total farm outputs or maintained land
fertility.
31.      In the past, most Government budgetary and staffing allocations
have been devoted to the irrigated areas. Outside the Nile corridor, there
is a dearth of physical infrastructure, particularly all-weather roads, and
an unreliable railway service has presented logistical problems for the
supply of farm inputs and the marketing of produce. The harshness of
living conditions with few basic or social services makes it difficult to
recruit Government service personnel, compounding the problems of
implementing development activities. As a result, market forces and
private sector initiatives have been the main engine of progress in recent
years in all aspects of rainfed agriculture, including traditional crop and
livestock production and large-scale mechanized crop farming. It seems
clear that the expansion of production in these traditional livestock and
cropping subsectors will be heavily dependent on resolving complex
inter-related technical and social factors, including land ownership.



- 10 -
The Livestock Sub-sector
32.       Ruminant livestock is made up of about 16 million cattle, 2-1/2
million camels, 21 million sheep and 13 mlllion goats. While camel numbers
have not cbanged recently, cattle have increased by about 20 percent, and
sheep and goats by about 30 percent, in the last 10-12 years. An export
surplus of meat animals has been created which is currently allowing Sudan
to export annually abott half a million live sheep and some beef. Domestic
livestock populations in the main producing rangelands of Western Sudan
have built up In recent years to now exceed optimal carrying capacity.
Hence, future livestock population increases would not lead to more
out-turn of meat. The future increase in the human population of Sudan is,
therefore, not expected to be matched by increases in livestock numbers or
meat marketed. That trend would limit export of livestock before the end
of the decade unless human population growth declines or Improving
livestock husbandry produces better offtake percentages or heavier
carcasses. Currently, commercial offtake is estimated to be about 10
percent of cattle numbers and 18 percent of sheep and goats, producing
about 250,000 MT of beef, 65,000 MT of mutton and 35,000 MT of goat meat.
About 3 million cows will calve each year and yield on average about 300
liters of milk each in excess of calf requirements. Together with minor
production from goats, total annual milk yields are estimated to be 1.3
million tons. Production of meat and milk from the subsector is,
therefore, worth LS 1,750 mllion at current market prices in Sudan.
33.       Sudan has exported sheep to Saudi Arabia for many years.  This
trade has increased as the wealth of Saudi Arabia has enabled that country
to import increasing numbers of sheep over the last decade. With rapid
urbanization and population growth, Saudi Arabia is not expected to be able
to satisfy the rising demand for meat from domestic sources in the
foreseeable future due to its small animal population. The main exporters
of livestock to Saudi Arabia are Somalia and Australia. Sudan's current
recorded annual exports of upwards of half a million sheep are about 10-15
percent of the sheep imported into Saudi Arabia. Sudan has exported
cattle, and recently some chilled beef, to Egypt and other countries in the
Near East but the live cattle and beef exported has been worth only 20-25
percent of the value of the sheep exports.
34.       Live sheep exported during the year 1983/84 are about 16 percent
less than the record nuuer of 626,000 exported in 1982/83.  This fall has
been brought about by drought in the producing areas, preventing sheep
reaching export weight and quality, and by a temporary ban on imports of
Sudanese sheep into Saudi Arabia until Sudan conforms with that country's
new veterinary certification requirements. The rise in numbers of sheep
exported from about 200,000 per year during the 1970s is believed to have
occurred because the export tax, then 25 percent of the export price, has
been progressively removed. Recurrent imported inputs used in the
subsector are drugs and small cuantities of fuel for veterinary services
and fuel to transport sheep from Xhartoum to Port Sudan amounting in all to
about US$2 million per year. The recorded net foreign exchange earnings of
livestock during the three years, July 1980 to June 1983, totalled about
US$170 million or 11 percent of total exports for the period.



- 11 -
35.       Darfur carries about 21 percent of the ruminant population of
Sudan, Kordofan 19 percent and Southern Region about 28 percent.
Practically all breeds of the domestic species are indigenous to Sudan.
The desert sheep of North Darfur and North Kordofan are about twice the
weight of the sheep found in the Southern Region. It is the big desert
sheep which are favored for the export trade. Sheep of the breeds
indigenous to the Middle East are worth about double the price, pound for
pound, of European breeds currently supplied from Australia in the markets
of SAudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf.
36.       Govermnent services to the livestock industry all fall within the
purview of the Minister for Agriculture. Until recently, good progress was
made in livestock epidemic disease control and in reducing losses from
endemic diseases. During the last five years, due to shrinking funds and
hence lack of transportation, equipment and vaccines, veterinary services
have deteriorated and outbreaks of epidemic diseases have increased. The
epidemic diseases which cause heavy mortality are rinderpest and contagious
bovine pleuropnenmonia (CBPP) and both only affect cattle amongst domestic
stock. Foot and mouth disease (FMD) is the other serious epidemic disease
and like trypanosomiasis, which is transmitted by tsetse and other biting
flies in the extreme south of the project area, also affects mainly
cattle. Anthrax, blackquarter, haemorrhagic septicaemia (HS) and
tuberculosis are present but of less economic importance. Pneumonia and
internal parasites, the most frequent diseases of sheep and goats, are of
greatest concern in the wetter south of the area.
37.       As the country depends on livestock exports for foreign exchange
earnings to an increasing extent, it is essential that this trade is not
threatened by the spread of livestock diseases.  It is timely,
therefore, for Government to review its whole input into the livestock
industry and to focus particularly on the costs and benefits of its
services. Livestock keepers are well able to pay for essential services
and give every indication of being wil'ing to do so if the services are
effective and reliable.  For instance, they have frequently paid
exhorbitant prices for trypanocidal drugs brought into the country through
irregular channels. The Government plans to employ consultants to review,
together with the staff of the MDA, its services to the livestock industry
and recoumend how these services could be made more cost effective and add
protection to export earnings from livestock in the future. The costs of
these consultant services are included in this Stock Route Project.
The Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation
38.       In the early 1970s, Government saw the need to facilitate the
marketing of livestock and livestock products in order to ease the growing
grazing pressure on the overstocked rangelands, increase the volume of meat
into the growing urban and periurban markets in and around Khartoum,
Omdurman and Wad Medani and to allow a significant expansion in exports of
livestock and meat to provide much needed foreign exchange. Consequently,
in 1976, the Government established the Livestock and Meat Marketing
Corporation (IMMC) to promote and regulate this livestock trade. The



- 12 -
Livetock Marketing Project (WMP, Cr. 782-SU), which was approved in 1978,
was designed to support the building of UIMC as an institution, create
livestock marketing and transport infrastructure and establish a cadre of
trained professional staff to support marketing services.
39.       LMMC does not undertake any trading operations, its mandate being
to provide services to the trade for which it levies fees on livestock
passing through markets and additionally on livestock destined for export.
Railway rolling stock provided under the WMP began operating only in
November 1982 and so had no effect on export volume prior to 1982183.
However, it would be unwarranted to conclude that Sudan's Impressive
livestock marketing and export statistics during the last four years have
been achieved without any causal link to the Livestock Marketing Project.
First, the project has provided financing to establish LUMC and is largely
responsible for its ability to influence policy decisions affecting the
livestock industry. As such, LNMC has been instrumental in the reduction
or abolition of export taxes. It is also most improbable that the
increased trade volume could have been handled without LMMC's activities in
the markets facilitating veterinary control, making possible the orderly
holdirg of large numbers of livestock in Kadero Quarantine and Port Sudan,
and generally contributing to the smooth flow of the livestock trade.
Since November 1982, a most promising start has been made in livestock
block train operations, and by Narch 1984 almost 600,000 anl-Als had been
transported, mostly sheep from Kadero to Port Sudan for export.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The proposed project was prepared by the Sudanese Government with
assistance from the FAOlBank Cooperative Program. The project was
appraised in April 1983 for IFAD financing, but approval was delayed due to
lack of IFAD funds. Subsequently IDA agreed to co-finance a portion of the
project cost. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4659-SU, dated August 31,
1984) is being distributed separately. Negotiations were held at IFAD
headquarters in Rome in August 1984 on August 6-10, 1984. The Sudanese
delegation was lead by Dr. E.A.A. Zaki, Under Secretary of Planning,
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning.
Objectives
41.       The proposed project would support the government's policy of
stimlating meat production from the traditional sector to meet the needs
of a growing urban poputlation and a ready export market. The present high
net foreign exchange earnings from export of animals and animal products
could be threatened in the medium term by the domestic demand geLerated by
a growing human population in Sudan. The aim of the project to minimize
trekking losses and maintain the growth in export volume will therefore
become of increasing importance with the passage of tize.
42.       These objectives are consistent with the Bank's strategy for
Sudan, which is to assist in improving the country's balance of payments
situation through improvements in existing capital investments and support



- 13 -
for key infrastructure needed to increase output and exports. This
project's emphasis on increasing livestock exports through relatively
modest investments in improved wateryards, veterinary services, and
technical assistance would reinforce production in an area where Sudan has
a long tradition and natural economic advantages.
43.       The project also aims to provide some balance in regional
development as it would assist those regions of Western Sudan less vell
endoved than those having irrigated developments. Government has been
obliged by economic necessity to place development emphasis in the
irrigated and mechanized farming sectors in recent years in an attempt to
boost yields of export crops and grain. Kordofan and Darfur are rainfed
regions which have become of particular concern as population growth has
increased pressure on land. Sedentary farming rotations have been
foreshortened by reducing fallow periods resulting in severe wind erosion
on sandy soils. Nomadic or transhumant people are increasingly growing
some grain, and sedentary farmers carrying a few amnials. The income from
periodic sale of livestock is the only source of funds for subsistence
farmers to invest in crop inputs. In those areas, the value of livestock
is almost entirely dependent on there being a market in the east, without
which livestock would be worth very little. Animals trekked to market
along the existing and proposed routes would be drawn from a wide spectrum
of farming systems in which producer incomes vary between about US$100 and
200 per capita. While incomes of sedentary farmers without livestock would
be lower than those with livestock, the project would nevertheless support
development in a part of Sudan which has not received much attention and
where average incomes are well below those in other parts of the country.
Project Description
44.       The project would support the establishment of a Livestock Route
Company (LRC) to install and operate water holes and veterinary services
along two stock routes running from western to central Sudan. Water would
also be made available to people living close to wateryards on the
livestock routes. The project would include a botanical monitoring service
to assist in regulating the use of the rangeland along the routes, and
would be implemented over four years with the following components.
45.       Wateryards (LS 18.5 million).  Fifty-nine wateryards with about
83 tubewells would be constructed on two main and two feeder stock routes
which extend over a total distance of about 2,000 km. Tventy-four
wateryards would each be supplied by two tubevells and 35 wateryards by one
tubewell. Wateryards would be equipped with water storage tanks and
selling facilities. The project would also provide housing for staff,
vehicles for delivery of supplies (fuel and spares) and radio equipment.
46.       Veterinary Services (LS 2.5 million).  Office buildings and
housing for staff would be provided by the project. To facilitate proper
services to be rendered at the Veterinary Centers, refrigerators for drugs
and specimens and four-wheel drive vehicles have been included. In the
first year of the project, initial vaccines would be provided and
subsequently, a revolving fund to replenish used up drugs would be
established from initial drug sales.



- 14 -
47.       Project Administration (LS 8.3 million).  A project office and
store would be constructed at El Obeid as well as housing for incremental
project staff other than locally recruited personnel from El Obeid.
Vehicles would be provided to enable staff to supervise construction,
operation and maintenance of facilities and for purposes of range
monitoring. Remote sensing equipment for the project would be used to
identify the best locations for well drilling sites. The project would
also finance salaries and wages for incremental stiff which include the
Project Director, senior technical staff and general administrative
personnel.
48.       Technical Assistance (LS 3.2 million).
(a)  Resident Staff:   An internationally recruited Chief
Hydrogeologist would be resident in Sudan for 24 man-months to advise the
Project Director on project start-up, assist project staff to plan their
work programs and, together with project range management staff,
identify drilling sites ahead of the main drilling contractor. An
internationally recruited Chief Engineer would be resident on the project
for 26 man-months to assist project staff to prepare, award, supervise and
make periodic payments for three construction contracts for offices,
stores, housicg and stock handling facilties to be built along the stock
routes in Darfur, Kordofan and Central Region, respectively.
(b) Consultants. Provision is made for six man-months of
consultant time to prepare specifications, bidding documents and draft
contract for the stock route water supply contract. A consultant firm
would also be employed as Supervising Engineers for the water supply
contract. They would approve the quality and type of all materials and
eqai7=-at supplied, approve all installations, measure depth of wells
drilled and materials used, c-rtifv claims for payment under the contract
and issue contract variation orders if necessary. Provision is made for 42
man-months of work by the supervising engineers. Short-term consultants
would assist LRC for two man-months in each of the first four years of the
project for project monitoring and ewaluation. These consultants would
design technical programs to assess botanical cbanges along the stock
routes and interpret their significance. Provision is made for 12
man-months for short-term consultants to review Government livestock
services and advise the Goverament on how it can improve the value of its
input to the livestock industry, and ensure that animal disease control
programs effectively protect Sudan's livestock export trade. In total, 68
man-months of internationally recruited consultant time would be provided.
A Sudanese consultant firm would provide two site engineers and three site
clerks of works to assist supervision of the three civil works contracts
which would be running simultaneously at a total of about 60 sites over the
three provinces. Provision is made for 72 man-months of local consultant
time.
49.       Training (LS 0.1 million)
A company secretary would be trained in corporate
administration. A Sudanese with a degree in accountancy would go overseas
for a further year's training in company administration. Water pump and



- 15 -
engine mechanies to operate project facilities would attend the NWA
training school in Rhartoum. The training courses conducted by NWA
adequately meet the needs of project staff to be located at wateryard
sites. The other professioual expertise which would be used in the project
would be in hydrogeology and veterinary services. As training in these
disciplines is undertaken on a national basis both at degree and diploma
level and as there are more professionals trained than can find gainful
employment, it would not be appropriate for the project to sponsor further
training of this kind.
Project Costs
50.       Project costs are estimated to be LS 32.7 million (US$19.6
million) of which about LS 18.6 million (US$11.2 million) or 57 percent
represents foreign exchange equivalent. Detailed cost estimates are
summarized in the Summary of Project Costs at the front of this report.
51.       Cost estimates are based on June 1983 prices updated to December
1984, and based on recent quotations by contractors and by the experience
of UNICEF which is building similar facilities in remote areas of Sudan.
Physical contingencies provided in the project vary between 5 and 20
percent depending on the type of expenditure and remoteness of the location
and amount to LS 2.3 million (US$1.7 million). Price contingencies have
been calculated on the basis of 8 percent through 1985/86 and 9 percent
thereafter for foreign exchange costs. Duties and taxes for imported goods
and services are estimated to amount to LS 5.8 million (US$3.5 million) or
17.8 percent of the project cost.
Proposed Financing
52.       Under the joint financing arrangements, IFAD would contribute a
loan of US$6.0 million equivalent and IDA a credit of US$5.5 mll-ion
equivalent. The IFAD loan would be made available to the Government at one
percent interest with 50 year repayment including a 10 year grace period.
The fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
agreement between the Borrower and IFAD would be a condition of
effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a), draft Development Credit Agreement). The
Government would provide the equivalent in local currency of US$8.1
million, including taxes and duties of US$3.5 million, for a net Government
contribution of US$4.6 million.
Credit Terms and Onlending Arrangements
53.       The Government would register a company, the Livestock Route
Company (LRC), which would own project assets, and in which livestock
traders and producers would over time purchase up to 80 percent of the
equity. The Government would make available as a grant to the LRC the cost
of technical assistance and training in the project to the value of US$2.0
million. Additionally, the Government woutld make available to LRC project
funds of LS 15.7 million (US$9.5 million). The first LS 5.0 million of
these funds to be used by the project would be the Government's equity
investment in LRC. The talance of these funds (LS 10.7 million) would be a
loan from the Government to LRC.



- 16 -
54.       This loan, the terms and conditions of which would be laid down
in the subsidiary loan agreement, would be for up to 15 years with annual
service charges equivalent to 16 percent of the outstanding loan balance,
including a grace period of five years (the principal being repayable from
years six to fifteen). Inflation rates over the period 1980/82 increased
substantlallly to an average of 26 percent but are estimated to decline to
15 percent by 1987. Therefore, while the proposed service charge is not
positive In the early years of the project, it is expected to be positive
after 1987. LRC would not incur any liability for taxes and duties on
project related Import costs incurred before July 1, 1990. A subsidiary
loan agreement between the Government and LRC acceptable to the Association
would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b),draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
55.       The Livestock Route Company (LRC) will be responsible for the
implementation of the project. The draft Articles of Association for the
LRC were agreed by the Government and IDA at negotiations. LC has been
registered under the Sudan 1925 Companies Ordinance with an authorized
share capital of LS 20 million, and a nominal paid-up capital of LS
50,000. -Eighty percent of the Government's LS 5 million equity holding in
LEC would subsequently be offered as shares to livestock traders and
producers by July 1, 1989 (Section 4.04, draft Development Credit
Agreement). By December 31, 1987, LRC would conduct a mid-term review with
the Association and the Fund which will include the appropriateness of the
original corporate structure to the objectives of the project. Changes to
the corporate structure would be made, if necessary, based on the
conclusions of the review (Section 4.03, draft Development Credit
Agreement). This review was deemed appropriate because of the changing
character c- the company as shares gre sold to the public. The Government
would appoint the first Board of Directors of the LRC from persons active
in livestock production, livestock trade and administration of livestock
services. The selection of the Chairman of LRC's Board and the Managing
Director acceptable to the Association has been agreed upon. The actual
appointment of Board members and the Managing Director would be a conditlon
of effectiveness, as spelled out in IFAD's loan agreement which has cross
effectiveness with IDA's legal agreements. During che period up to June
30, 1989, as shares are purchased annually by traders and producers,
shareholders as groups will be entitled to proportionate representation on
the Board of Directors. The first Board of of Directors would act for five
years by which time the majority of LRC shares would be held privately. On
July 1, 1989, the LRC would elect its own Board of Directors. From that
date voting on all company matters would be weighted proportional to shares
held.
56.       From the beginning of project year three, company shares would be
offered for sale yearly to livestock traders and producers. Traders as a
group would be able to buy up to 45 percent and any one individual up to
three percent of company shares. Producers as a group would be able to buy
up to 35 percent and any one individual up to one percent of company shares
(Section 4.04, draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government would



- 17 -
retain 20 percent of LRC shares. These proportions have been agreed with
the Government as a reasonable basis for assuring appropriate industry
representation in the company. Shareholders who wish to liquidate their
holdings could sell their shares to other shareholders in the LRC,
including the Government, at whatever price is obtainable.
57.       Traders would be given the opportunity to accumulate funds to
purchase shares by paying amounts additional to normal water charges for
stock using project routes.  Similarly, producers could accuimlate share
purchase funds by making additional payments in connection with LMMC
marketing fees, enabling them to mobilize funds sufficient to purchase LRC
shares individually or as a group. Traders and producers would decide
individually if they wished to participate in share accounts and they would
be under no obligation to do so. The proceeds of each individual's share
account would be used to buy shares when they are offered annually. The
project vould assist producers within sub-tribal groups or district
associations to form legal entities to buy and hold shares in the LRC.
The Government intends to set the share account savings rates for traders
for stock using project stock routes at LS 5 per head of cattle and LS 1
per head of sheep, and for producers for stock traded through LHMC markets
LS 2 and IS 0.4 for cattle and sheep, respectively.
58.       LMOC has been closely involved with the evolution and design of
the stock route project and has the administrative capacity to add to its
present responsibilities. The project is known to have the support of
LMNC's senior staff and the livestock traders. The Government would cause
LMHC to enter into an agreement spelling out the support arrangements which
IMCC would provide to TRC (Section 4.05, draft Development Credit
Agreement).
59.       The LRC would have its own veterinary staff which would operate
on the stock routes from the Company's headquarters in El Obeid. The
Company veterinary staff would work in close liaison with veterinarians in
Regional and National Ministries of Agriculture but, being autonomous,
would devote all their time to animal health in trade stock. They would
not be a cost to the Government nor would their equipment and materials but
they would use vaccines provided from the central laboratory at Soba and
charge for them at the usual Government rates which cover costs of
preparation and administration.
60.       The cost recovery system through collection of charges for water
and veterinary services would enable LRC to recover fully wateryard costs
and company overheads incurred under the project. Water charges and
veterinary fees to be paid by livestock traders and sedentary farmers would
be set at such a level as to ensure full cost recovery, including coverage
of costs of operation and maintenance, depreciation, and financing charges
(Section 2.08, draft Project Agreement).
61.       During negotiations, the Government reiterated that it is the
Government's policy to stimulate exports through reductions in or
elimination of export taxes, as set forth in the document entitled



- 18 -
Prospects, Programmes and Policies for Economic Development - II which was
presented to the Sudan Consultative Group Neeting in December 1983, and
which is expected to remain in effect. In addition, the Govertment agreed
to conduct a study of the services provided by the Government to the
livestock industry and the effects of permitting livestock export proceeds
to be repatriated at the parallel exchange rate by March 31, 1986 (Section
4.02(a), draft Development Credit Agreement).
62.       The Chief Hydrogeologist of LRC would have primary responsibility
for location of drilling sites and would commence work three months before
the foreseen start of the water supply contract to identify the locations
of test bores and wateryards in consort with project range mangement
staff. The Chief Engineer would locate project housing, offices and
stores. He would prepare tender documents including proforma contracts and
assist in bid evaluation. In supervising the civil works contracts, he
would be assisted by two site engineers and three clerks of works.
63.       The Supervising Engineers would measure and certify work done
under the drilling and construction contracts. They would also inspect all
permanent materials and equipment used in wateryard and borehole
construction to ensure they conform to specification. Preparation of
tender documents and designs for the water supply contract is being carried
out by consultants and will be completed before the start of the project.
Procurement
64.       Recent experience in IDA projects with construction of water
supply facilities and civil works in the rural areas of Western Sudan
suggests that development of tubewells and wateryards would be successful
and completed within a given time period only if undertaken by a firm with
experience: la operations in remote areas and with adequate financial and
technical capacity. Also, close supervision of remote area work is
necessary to maintain quality and tempo. The National Water Authority
(NWA) already has work commitments beyond its capacity in developing and
maintaining both rural and urban water supplies for the population of
Western Sudan. A single water supply contract is proposed, which is
estimated to cost the equivalent of about US$7.9 million to be awarded
following tendering using ICB procedures in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines. The contractor vould:
(a) supply tubewell casing and screen, pumps, engines, drilling and
packing materials and materials to construct head works, water
storage tanks, livestock water troughs, standpipes, pipe
connections and fittings;
(b) drill wells and install all equipment and structures; and
(c) test and commission each well and wateryard.
65.       Firms would be prequalified before being invited to tender. To
enable work on this contract to start at the beginning of the dry season
about September 1985, consultants will be engaged prior to negotiations to
design the structures and prepare specifications and tender documents for



- 19 -
the water supply contract to be ready about December 1984. A firm of
consulting engineers would be appointed to supervise the water supply
contract. The firm would inspect and certify quality of work, equipment
and materials installed. The contract would provide for payment by depth
of tubewells, and length of pipe connections between well heads and
wateryards. The firm would inspect and certify thes:' depths and
quantities.
66.       Civil works to be done under the project would include the
building of a project office/stores and staff housing at El Obeid, staff
housing at each of 59 water yards and at 18 veterinary vaccination posts,
and a livestock yard and crush at each vaccination post. These structures
would be the same design as those being erected by the Western Savannah
Project at Nyala and at field stations in Darfur and would be sited by
project staff. The work would be contracted under local competitive
bidding procedures of the Ministry of Construction and Public Works (MCP)r
vhich have been used to award contracts for market construction in the
Livestock Marketing Project and found satisfactory. Additionally, firms
would be prequalified. These procedures allow participation by
non-Sudanese firms in joint ventures with Sudanese firms. Local firm
participation either alone or in joint venture is considered necessary
because of the location of the work and the need for liaison at field
level. Prequalified firms would be invited to bid for the work in one, two
or all three Regions. These works are estimated to cost in total about LS
6.6 million.
67.       Vehicles would be procured under ICB.  Equipment other than that
supplied under the water supply contract would be purchased in small
numbers of units inappropriate for ICB. This equipment would be procured
under Limited International Tendering procedures. ICB procedures would
encompass about 65 percent of the goods and works to be procured under the
project and LCB about 29 percent. In the case of the water supply
contract, qualifying domestic contractors would receive a preference in bid
evaluation of 15 percent or the import duty, whichever is lower.
68.       Procurement documents for the water supply contract, the civil
works contract(s) and the supply of vehicles contract would be reviewed by
IFAD/IDA prior to their being issued. Advertisements for expressions of
interest by contractors, pre-qualification questionnaires, invitations to
bid including draft contracts, bid evaluations and proposals for contract
awards, and major contract modifications would be the documents requiring
such prior review. The selection of international recruited staff and
consultants would be made in accordance with World Bank and IFAD
Guidelines, and the consultants selected would be acceptable to IFAD/IDA.
Disbursements
69.       IDA disbursements would be made to meet 100 percent of foreign
exchange costs of the project, plus the local expenditures associated with
consultants' services and training. The foreign exchange costs would
include imported equipment and materials to construct and equip tubewells,
wateryards, project housing and other buildings, and additional overseas
costs incurred by contractors to purchase and position construction



- 20 -
equipment and personnel. Disbursements would be fully documented. World
Bank disbursement profiles covering ten years lending (1971-81) indicate
average disbursement periods of seven years for Bank-wide agricultural
credit projects, and over eight years for agricultural projects in East
Africa. The shorter disbursement period assumed for the proposed Project
is considered justified because: (1) the main investments would be made
under two, or at most four, construction contracts; (ii) it is necessary to
complete all the construction to fully utilize any of the project
facilities. The project has, therefore, been designed to enable
construction to be completed rapidly; (iii) technical assistance, both
expatriate and local, has been provided to help ensure that the remote area
developments are built rapidly and to acceptable standards; and (iv) the
participation in project management by the users of the facilities to be
built will hasten facility completion.
70.       IFAD and IDA funds would both be used to finance all types of
costs specified in the disbursement schedule of the Development Credit
Agreement, and would be disbursed for this purpose on a pro rats basis in
proportion to the size of the IFAD and IDA contributions to the project.
Accounts and Audit
71.       LRC would establish and maintain its accounts in accordance with
sound and generally recognized accounting principles and practices
satisfactory to IFAD/IDA (Section 4.01, draft Project Agreement). LMKC's
Chief Accountant would act as financial adviser to LRC. In addition,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that LRC's annual accounts would
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IFAD/IDA and forwarded
with the Auditor's Report to IFAD and IDA not later than nine months after
the end of each fiscal year during the life of the project (Section 4.02,
draft Project Agreement).
Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
72.       The LMMC's Research Division would be responsible for project
monitoring and evaluation. The Research Division currently collects data
on numbers, weights and prices of animals passing through the livestock
markets along the stock routes. It would be well placed, therefore, to
monitor facility development and use on those routes. The project range
monitoring unit would report to the Director of LNMC's Research Division.
Consultants would assist the range monitoring unit to design range trend
evaluation criteria and assess the work of the unit annually. In addition
to work on range condition and movement of trade livestock, the monitoring
unit would measure and record numbers and species of migratory animals
passing through the several locations on the stock routes which have very
fragile range conditions. The numbers of sedentary people and their
animals and areas of cultivation which impinge on these fragile locations.
73.       During project implementation, LRC would report progress
semi-annually to MOA, IFAD and IDA. LRC would prepare a project completion
report, with assistance from LMOC, summarizing project performance and
evaluating its impact (Section 2.05 (d), draft Project Agreement). The
strengths and weaknesses of the LRC and its replicability would be fully



- 21 -
discussed in this report as would the environmental impact of the stock
routes. This report would be submitted to IFAD and to IDA not later than
six months after the closing date of the project.
Environmental Impact
74.       The appraisal mission was made aware of the concern of everyone
involved vith livestock marketing to p'otect the environment in Western
Sudan. Although the routes appear as quite narrow corridors when seen from
the air, the progression of the desert southwards is a stark reality seen
on every journey between Khartoum and Nyala either by air or overland.
Livestock traders are well aware of their dependence on production of
herbage along the routes, particularly when use of the routes is to be
extended into the dry season as the project proposes. The main reason for
constructing the Dry Season Route (DSR) is to reduce the numbers of animals
using the Northern Stock Route (NSR). Although the project will cause a
proportion of animals to traverse from west to east in the dry season, use
of the DSR will not threaten the vegetative succession as the dominant
grass species along both routes are annuals and those along the DSR will
have set seed before that route comes into seasonal use. While the NSR
will be in use at the critical time when grasses mature and set seed, the
numbers 6f animals using its eastern sections (the most fragile) will be
much reduced.
75.       The project makes provision for monitoring and evaluation of
range conditions and trends along and adjacent to the stock routes, which
will define the status of the vegetation and seek patterns of use on the
routes to promote improvement in vegetative density and quality.
Financial Benefits
76.       The project would directly benefit livestock producers, traders
and consumers through livestock holding cost reduction, decreases in
trekking weight losses, and reduction in trekking mortality rates. The
project would enable livestock traders to supply meat markets in urban
centers with less fluctuation throughout the year. With producer marketing
spread more evenly over the entire year, average producer prices would
improve because uniform monthly offtake of animals would reduce producer
holding costs and seasonal gluts in supply which force prices down.
Consumer prices for neat would fall because of lower marketing costs.
77.       About 365,000 cattle equivalents3/ are trekked annually to
market from Western Sudan. Currently, most of these animals are moved in
the rainy season (August through November). The project would extend the
trekking period into the dry season by developing the dry season route
(DSR) complete with wateryards, hafirs and veterinary services. Livestock
feed would be provided and sold to traders by sedentary farmers along the
route. It is estimated 95,000 cattle equivalents would be moved later in
the year by this means and raduce holding costs normally incurred for
3/ It is estimated that five sheep/goats are equivalent to a head of
cattle in feed and water consumption.



- 22 -
approximately two months in Omdurman/Khartoum. These animals would now be
held at the places of origin at much lower costs. The reduction in holding
costs would be about LS 876,000 annually when the project becomes fully
operational in 1989/90.
78.       Currently, animals trekked in the dry season between December and
March incur weight losses which could be reduced if water was located
strategically along the DSR where animal feed is relatively abundant.
Although marketed animals are not sold by measured weight, research at LMMC
has shown that butchers assess weight of live animals with almost uncanny
accuracy. It is estimated that about 80,000 cattle equivalents are trekked
during the dry season. The reduction in trekking losses would be about LS
2.5 million million at full development.
79.       In addition to these benefits, the project would reduce the
mortality rate of animals during trekking from the present level of 5
percent to about 4 percent. The reduction iv mortality rate, because of
the project, is estimated at LS 2.0 million annually.  Project benefit
calculations do not include benefits that could result from increased
o ftake or the provision of water for sale to sedentary farmers located
along the routes.
80.       Incremental benefits as a result of the project were adjusted
downwards to take into account the fact that trekked animAls join the route
at different points and it is, therefore, estimated that 60 percent of the
livestock would effectively use the entire route. The total incremental
benefits after this adjustment are estimated to be LS 3.2 million annually
when the project is fully developed in 1989/90.
81.       The LRC would start with smll net losses in the first three
years of the project and begin making a profit from year four which would
progressively increase from then on. Accunulated cashflow would be about
LS 3.2 million before starting to repay the long-term debt and replacing
vehicles and equipment in year six. The debt/equity ratio for LRC would
progressively improve after year five over the life of the project, and the
company would have a sound liquidity position.
Economic Analysis
82.       The economic rate of return for the project is estimated to be
about 27 percent.  The rate of return as calculated on a 15 year economic
life for the bulk of the capital costs. The life of vehicles and equipment
was estimated to be five years. Appropriate replacement cost at 19R4
constant prices for vehicles and some equipment was included in the
analysis after every five years. Rates of return for individual routes
(NSR and DSR) and other project components were not calculated because of
their interdependence, and as such it was not possible to separate benefits
associated with each component.



- 23 -
Sensitivity Analysis
-83.      The project is sensitive to reduction and/or delayed benefits but
not to the extent of reducing the economic rate of return below the
opportunity cost of capital, estimated to be 13.5 percent, even when total
benefits a-e delayed for three years, which is very unlikely. A switching
values test shows that costs for wateryards and Project administration
(Main cost components) would have to increase by 96 percent and 201
percent. respectively, or benefits decrease by 36 percent for the net
present value of the project discounted at 13.5 percent to fall to zero.
Risks
84.       The principal risk facing the project relates to the proposed
Livestock Route Company. Project beneficiaries may not be motivated to
invest in the company as they may feel provision of water is a service
function best carried out by a national or regional authority. Hbwever,
unsatisfactory experience with Government supplied water services in remote
rural areas over the last decade and the successful self-help operations in
some of those areas have convinced the Government and many rural people
that the Government cannot continue to subsidize the expanding need for
water service nor can it efficiently recover costs. Company viability
wouLd depend heavily on shareholders themselves paying prices for water
which generate a profit to their own company. This situation would
stimulate efficient facility operation but could give rise to disagroeeent
on water pricing policies between traders and other shareholders. HBwever,
the company would sell between 10 and 15 percent of the water it produces
to consumers other than livestock traders.
85.       The other main risk to the project is in the tubewell production
program. Hydrogeological work carried out since preappraisal confirmed a
real risk of some wells not yielding adequately. A technical risk
assessment has been made for each proposed drilling site. The project bas
been designed to minimize the risk by providing for sufficient exploratory
boreholes and additional production wells at wateryards in potentially low
yield locations.
PART V - LEGAL ISTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
86.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Sudan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement bewteen
LRC and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
87.       Special features of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report.
88.       Additional conditions for effectiveness of the proposed credit
would be:



- 24 -
(i)  the fulfillsent of all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the agreement between the Borrower and IFAD
(Section 6.01 (a), draft Development Credit Agreement); and
(:i)  the signing of a subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to the
Association, between the Governmeut and LRC (Section 6.01
(b) draft Development Credit Agreement).
89.       I an satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreemet of the Association.
PART VI - 1ECOZODATION
90.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 12, 1984



- 25 -                                        ANNEX I
T A8 LE                                          FACE I
SUDAN                 - 5OCIAL DWCTODtS DM 50T
516                                  EUDN  C0US (UtI     AURAS /.
mosr                (MT    Tr ESTDUTE) lb
REE U        -[DDLE DlCtl!G    t C OL
l1O&      1970e     £DA          APXW  S. Or SAARA   K. ARICA & M  EAST
am cam m. no
TU=AL                             250.3       250S.3    2505.83.
AGRICMTURWAL                       667.0       677.0     684.5
GM mm OPV  Cal)                       160.0       160.o     640.0            1112.9                  1149.6
Ima           m CP
oKXaUtS OF OIL 3QflVALZT           40.0        1l1lO      70.0            52.0                     622.t
-OIAZO AM3 IXTL STATI5TICS
POPMATIO_%aO..EAl (THbSM)   11165.0          13359.O   20167.0
MMA4 F0?MATIOK CZ OF TOTAL)         10.3        16.4      2Z.5             29.7                     6.2
OLATIK ZN MU  2000 OML)                                 33.9
S OfA  POPMATII CM=                                  112.2 
POPVZAT.L30 amUSK
FM sq. M.                          4.S         5.5       7.3             55.8                     36.3
PES. M L AERX. USD                16.L        205       2.6              111.5                   461.7
POOMA2IO ACE STRUCTURE CT)
0-14 TRS                         63.7        43.7      44.1              45.4                    43.6
S-44 TIS                          53.2        53.4      52.8             51.7                     53.1
65AA31EA                           3.t         Z.9       2.3              2.4                      3.3
LOPUIAZZU R WTh EATU CZ)
TOAL                              1.9         2.2       3.1              2.3                      2.8
URIAN                              6.9         6.3       5.               5.2                      4.5
Ct     INTH RTE   P (F  Tom)        47.0        47.0      45.4             47.0                     40.4
RM MRATS RAT1 CP( 7US)              25.6        22.1      17.6             IS.2                     11.5
-M ss            lUwnm  RzA          3.3         3.3       3.2              3.2                      2.8
M. AAL cN.OCS)
USM  C! OF 3A 0t035)                 --                  5.0 ! eA          ,,                     22.2
I3= or P      OW  PE CAPIm
C1969-71-100)                      92.0       I10.        37.0             91.6                     97.3
PER CAP1TA SUPPLY oF
CALORIXS CZ W0 UIs )I30) 84.0                 9L0       9.               93.2                    110.I
PR0!ED  (CGRA  FM DAY)            65.0        66.0      63.0             56.7                     70.1
OF 11C A11WAL AM PMI0           2.0    t220           21.0 tO           17.0                    17.8
CRLD CERS 1-4) MA2H RAZ             4O.1        32.4      23.0             13.7                     14.6
LlP EFCT. AT IR  Ct1     )          3L.7        4L.3      47.0             51.7                     57.S
DtWAr 3OT. ( RA  CP  ThUS)         16.LO       14        119.1            L02.7                    101.5
SS TO SE WAm (3P30)
TOMAL                               ,.        19.0      66.0 If           35.6                    59.7
D*                                  ..1.0               49.0 7f          54.1                     34.5
33iL                               ,          13.0      45.0 7F          27.3                     38.4
ACCES TO ECELDISF0SD.L
(20?F POPULATION)
TO                                  ..        16.0      22.0               ..
RtURL                              __           ..
1OOATIOFM PUSXCIAS               33230       14070.0    3930.0          1196L3                    434S.1
VW. "M msC ram           w        3010.0 lb   1720.0    1430.            22689                    1331.1
Pop. PU UospITAL Mm
TOTAL                            970.0 11    920.0 /I 1050.0l              9.9                   43L9
go"                              130.0 7  I  19o0 7    370. 0           36a.7e                   55.5
RRAL                            43O.o         3.0 /1  1370.0 /         4012.1                   2513.5
AZNSIWI>S PtNSrL RED---  -22
A3ISSWS PU 3S11. I3            _     .           ..        ..               ..                     2.
AVERACE SUEZ OF 0305EMW
TOTAL                               *.5.1
El3*                               .,          5.l t       ..._
RURAL                              ..           ..         .
A.136 me. or 0zRsnoM S/
TOML                                ..          ..
a_.                                            2.5 ..
RD_AL               ,        _        .,
ACCzSS     ZINCT. (o OF  LIsm
TOAL                                ..          ..        ..               ._                      2
gu .m                                         26.4 L      _.               ..                     77.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..               ..                     16.:



- 26 -                                          ANNEX I
TABLE  34L                                       PAGE 2
sUmD                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SEDAN                               RcERs  GROUPS (WEI    AVERAGES) /a
MOST               (NeSr MEUT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT    £     LE DiWME       I         E
1960b     1970Lb     STnATE       AFRICA S. OF SAMARA   S. AFRICA 4 MM EAS
- AIUSED ESROT RTIOS
PRIMIA:  TOTAL                    25.0        38_0       52_0             91.0                     88.3
NALE                   35.0         *6.0      6;.0             90-5                    102.5
FEMALE                 1'0          29_0      43.0             73.6                     73_6
SECOSMART: TOTAL                   3.0         7.0       18.0             17.4                    43.0
MALE                    5.0         10.0      20.0             23.7                     52.3
FE-MLE                  1.0          4_0      15.0             14.8                     33_0
VOCAIOSAL C( OF SECONDARY)           3.4         1.4 /k    4.0 tk.1         53                      10.3
1CPILf-TEA RATIO
PRI!UA                            41.0        47.0       33_0             38.6                     30.3
SEWSDAR                           20.0        17.0       23_0             24.3                    23.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (:)             13_1        14_. 7    32.0              35.6                    43.5
-OR
tASStER CA2S/TUOUSL4D POP            1.4         2-0         '              20_7                    17.8
RADI0 RECEIVERS/tEOCSSD POP         17.0 in     80-3      70.2             100.8                   1381.
TV RECEIVERS/730CSAND POP            0.8 /T      3.2       5.5              18.5                    46.1
SEIS?APE  CDAfl CERRAL
ISTEREST-) CIRCULATIOS
PER TDOCSaD POULATIOS;             4.4         9.2        1.0 /e          17.2                     31._
CINE!-  AUIAL AITENDASCEICAPITA      0.9          ,,       O 5 7T            0-3                      1.7
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TIOCS)         3701.0      4547.0    6311.0                                          _
FEAL (PERCEtS)                     9.6        10.2       1;.0             33.8                     10.8
AGHICCLTCRE CPERCENT)             86.0        82-0       78.0             57.I                     42.4
INDUSTRY (PERET)                   6_0         8.0       10.0             17_4                    27J9
PARTICIPATIOS RATE (PRCENT)
TOTAL                             33.2        32.8       31.3             36.3                     26.2
.ALE                              293         58_2                        47.9  47.6              46.4
FEMALE                             6.4         6.8       7.0              25.1                      5.8
ECOMORIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.4         1.4       1.5               1.4                     1.8
PET OF PRIVATE INCOE
RECEIVED BY
NIES= 51 OF WCSEHOLS              20.9 /n. o_
lIGHEST ZOX OF OUSEHOLDS         50_ /n    49.2 4'
1WESr Z  OF IIEILDS               50 ____    5.1
LOWEST 4O OF 11S0E10DS            13.9 7/n,    14.5 7i
ESTIAED ANSOLME POVERTY   O
L(EL (USS PER CAPITA)
cm__                                            ,_      137.0 fq         525.3                    274.8
RURAL                                _          ,,      80.0             249.0                    177.2
ESTDMAED RELATIVE POVERTY I E
LEVEL 'ISS PER CAPITA)
URJ                                 ..          ,       115.0/q          477.4                   402.6
RMtAL                               __          ,,     100.0             186.0                   284.9
ESTIMATED POP_ BELOW ASSOLUE
POVERT INCOME LEVEL (Z)
R,_                 _._.                        ..
RL                                  .                   85.0 /g_
NOT AVAILABLE
MOr APPLICABLE
NOT E S
/A  The grop  erages for each indicator are  opulatlau-wighted arithttc seans. Coveae of couttl  -as Ike
Indicators depends an availability of data and La not ulforz.
/b  Cmless othorulme noted. Data for 1960- refer to any year betwen 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970- betwe  1969 mnd
1971; aad data for -Mot Recent Eatlate- bet ween 1980 and 1982.
/c  1979; /d Ages 15-50 years. North only; /e 1977; If 1976; LL 1975; /b 1962; /I Govermnt hospital establshmts.
Li 1966; AU BeDleging 1970. the daratloo of general aecondary education wa reduced from 8 to 6 years; /1 Iudes
progrm  oTS traing centera operated by Department of Labor and 17 abort-term center. operated by inatry of
Youtb ad  Sport; /a 1963; /2 1964; /o  durma. urban; I 1967-68; fg 1978.
ME. 1984



- 27 -                                                  Al= I
fci. T-          Fz Page .3
n_ 6.S  _-       _. *_* f   tat_- nad.isad _fSuitS       -  -       *_-ci  iffittis         tisc ft isttcs.tC  ito Gao. -  d..-i.. c-Si..               t  -
dsifm  ttc-           tt.ic           it         itflt. t.n.t elseiiiic                  ec         ticS
-flt-i~~~~~~~_, w a-t-                                               -2|-r--f >r- - --T - _2_*tS  
t _          a 4         fl t_nt                m if n- *_           t.     l r_=_  i_ rM .|-                       * .r                           S.  or 'M.
.tn    a     c.  ft  -no T.-  G                 -    jr.    .E   te1. t-           .t Mi    "  md_ .s   I t__                                       _*_* _ a -t. rt._
otfatn-s.n   -ca       .             datSata  .6  smatel ite -               fttt"     i -   it. -C. IteXts..-   mm, c                Lmt.6 o  Sf opoo i it.
g.-. o-  dc                        lat-                      i         i d:_- i_  _miittf  m' - dh-                          - at -of.            a      md
_--ct   . t_o< _              i  - _        rt-                                          -        i..t- at.    i      . f_  = --     itt        ito    _ 
mo      c-     __         _t  _i  -                                                                                           ft-ui    to _^t rtc,_St_
:                -           --tL -r         t                 ... _                                         _         _ _   _ , t a   -s.    t  _
-C         r    c      ti      c       .                                               -    -                                                   oi _ t_    S   t  _fii_t
-=&                                      -C                                               -T -  1_                    -1_ _tir ot _-ti _f .  r _
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ % - _-.m L n 
Ct   tCt'?    !-      cccii.        tt       ifai ti ic                                ccn       t   ti        u.. -ml,- I.             i    Sfi-    l  ad
m.ii.m   -        is.cite t   o         -          d---- bl  ciaeCn..   aa;ci ii                           -.t       ttO         cci           ..,.fol
ot. a imt..         _   - I         -_ dstoc                                             if -    -.om -_  I Z                                            s
_2-     r  -II  a-2.              T. -m                                          - _    _..t _    _                      ge _S _
L-_ ....oS                                          ot -a                                               1t t.     _           *   ri    em 
_d  W.Si.t.i.t t          * _i n   ,- c_l _   .atcsC  _t __gc _:ed                      g    l __   _i.  c *- .1 *do __- i_ _cc_
-       , ' -0.       t...     -S o_ z-                                                                         taS r                  . -s -  aI.
t_[tZ   t_  o_:  _  __  g-e  _t r __sts_ -7   .s                                                              'f E1_    |w st, 7-=  __ _  _   _
P_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ i.   cic.nos a.c.                             ft _n ro_     mcdr: _,_._l1    _ _ F
-     ifs.   3.         *ti  - r -   ct,3. s. i. -  ts                          __ _      r   1_            .                       -1_,
-          -                                                                               Ct. -         St iict..   atcs...     i --- s  ta- c  _    -_
_ i    ia  t -                                                       *_ is - ..  _ _tnt a t.i _ts_,  _  a sr.!  ci     - rs_ w.sal c -     _     t _ __
f_tatin ..tttt_i  - 1. at                 . r_cuc        c    I- Z. *.                 ad ct.   at . _              t _  t      -. -                  r_
s.m  _ata   in. *_    ',  -  ii   d.c..                                             te .._        f.c t  .s t_tict _mt  r   :...__
E0r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~ r-5 _   w_fs                                                                     -1r _-,_Tr  _z
t.c-tif t.t 9.ci0fltS.  @i.a mcomcy .6=                                                                      -  .l  -~ ti!  nn-         W   -n.! *  f fl_
icc.   t    2       o..nccs    .tt                         -rt--.t-c  i -.  -1 T.it                                                                 -lc t.ai.
10__:_ _C-     _____- el:                                                                                                                          m- IW*
opw"s-,tilc .      0ad        Sefp          .tti dIon t -1t &"Z                                t..tflcl.    -in . nia             -it          ?6is  -1
L-.a.? -         it_.              tt --_: *-cL- _   *d  0iS * _ -
!   __:  1, sst  _ 1_s ^__                                 _:' *-@__! w_w  *_ b -~~~~,     Ur__e -  IRo   *_adh-  r                W
_ t. _t                   _p. Ut.   ,        . _r                                  _            3       ..   .-  *-     - .   ,   c .
i.   tt-     -          1.- -f    -                                                -s.,,,, __S._ .- .
.tici.atoiis.-i. .;           ado *       - s _.nflc a..m                                                    n. - -   -T- --     .-I cT-      _    tm-__
cs               1    - i   ptam   =  mc        _.-c  _at                                              r.t Mt.              _rr_     it s    t   i
ins is_ cd.-   in S  -_  _          o- _  -                                             .Ms .an.  c   -iti c_itc   a - rt       0  an  to _.t
bans . s_at i                    -s. aio ,o            i_ s-t it                     t. _-..1,- st   aic               ti          css    na_
_.v- * _t_ t_ _w, t __s._ E =__ _~~0 p-  
taSacts. c-nC -         __w__            __ft   c   f.  i  it  t t t1 - ___l _  _-w                                _. _i                 i
_ _ les_ _w f f f E f z ,[ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41  _fF                                                             l  _   - 
it   _fctr_ito       _ i I.cu   t_c Cm .ca. act..                                    c-con? _    _fi          11__at.@    __
_  1T,                                           e__^, 1_}. I-rN  _  1_Z _ t_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Om  amm
I-nC  t   _tin.5 _r   it  a,.f_t   _ it            is     _ tc t ciii               iaicf          s attitei   tac     ° a    _.i.   -  f cc tt.t  I_ t
-.  mm   -e                                                                         tn° i- tsat.  c-ft 1- itat   adX cat  -  n_ Os. t.t_t  cit_t1_, i_*t
-  tC-i c _- 11=_te rt  .c1 tiSm_-i._: _m  baai f _.                   _         1  .tE  tsusctn  .sb
T.-=   atci.c  tad7"         -       an  f-t.  iittcSa                              .ccc.  ..    n    -Sc.   a,     
ant.  fl  t-S    -S Wa.
_ca.ts          .c   rc.sit-_ Ottds. e_ti..iS _,cctci s.fi           I_n 1i:c      _11. __ _ _ _  _w~_r_r__
_,..i.  in.  t.2   Se* in  nto.                                                        flt d_t   Sm- f, s>fe_C   t   fc-  .ni*_   _i n   an_         .  ad 
_clci _(fact   .- _a d  -1 _ac  - c-S   neW ot _ cat  ad1*-                     _      sittc  ..iLt_ _r11_ .  _.
c_ctti    t  i _c  . _msPt  _  5t7§fl.                                                .c*i   tifcc   it    t_.  _d fc             i a<t _  tc..nt.      en..
_fn  tti_c  ir  it-ad ._     - a_.i _if tic _i.d_ ft-S   a t_.                         Se        t*t;d..fcic  ti    t                   t  .s.tco
_t_ an  s - c _ _t   c a  b * -   fla    c   -.~ i _      i   n Ot -                 tix_-st----- a.f.. 'c  _S nii i , -?         c i      tic     cs........................................  _
_-c  _t.d. ta  tsc.  _  __ n    nt a _s.ot.  _e  _in              g . c I_                 ctn_   ads i_    a._ _Sd tfintn to 1_    t  5 t 
atS  tfft  _ cct   tf              sOti.    _iti         -futf            _               t.Z ftccsfl be-I-tm   t-   .ci.a   -            it  SitateD*w__r
ftfltuiir fs.. c-fl, ia~ccct c-S   f.u:m. tis. fiS  Se                     Cfw _tfct-ls.v  tat:i aec   _ci.  as.            dta af _   . ailii_
*C                                                                                       Sis.m  anis_e tt-t       lttC@.f.                     i-       t.
.6 scict_.act   d.ie  ..ec tsafs  mf iS           c_n  tii_s_            tic-   tt  t.c__  fr-f- Satt :                      foc -       -_ ifs. - n ___
_ e           _. cet@s _                     -                                        t1 s  ract _si t1  _i    t. iainm   aiSm   mcw drr _._  _ ia
.6 ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     _     --ii-  e2~-t a  .ti-ict  "a    t_t at                     .
terws.  i4a   Yea ctimt     t. in attic              . _r an2__[|PP|t _i t _     _ .0  Picica_
^._ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ -as  a r.5 __t                     tttt cm- ni__   -t   at__t .r.
_ i1nE_.__  o-; StIs.                             _ _rti-  nn. ttt' ads.  dt.                                                   aE        Xt        S       w
_____~~ __         t _ smt _ mt.5ii -_ *r_   a_E   t . c _it.  _cst  _a's m     a.1    cc      .timSm
_tm-c  s1.c-n   -w ri r.ta  i___fli fl..  tmi   cac-              a                  o.ci.cc..ci-5sn   e    ttnt   et.tnga
S. a. att1 _.    trac. _t.._ Sec.  tenel sic, ad t_!. _e                                        so
it  .sit t.ci  ci .t_is r_X......  a_.ucsi-t.tdtf                                         tici..accnisfan   i.a   ccttie.
s_ .c.    _.  to iS. .1f-ta  .1tt_ tt __. _at    _! _._.                                              c.i     ci.ac.is                 la   .   d
_tit  adS tat.  _f   if  _.5 t          r_id   _f6c   S.  s.it-f    c t.i~4   c-a. _..                                          ii
*     -P lts.:-_.m      cin.   d   nt    Sttni   .m



-28-                              AM= I
Page 4
SUDAN - COUN¢RY DATA
ECONXI!C LNDICATORS
Auiig&i RTE of GRC ?R
CROSS DC!ESTIC PMoOCr IN 1981(87, I/Cntant Prices)
USS mln.    Z         1977/78-1981/82    1977/78-1981/82
CDP at Market Prices         8.894.4   100.0              8.0                 0.1
Cross Domestic invsoen       l,t 1051.7    11.8         11.4                 4.4
Gross National Saving         -248.6    -2.8            - 2.6              -24.8
Current Account Balance     -1,300.2   -14.6            -30.6              -23.9
Exports of Goods, NFS          787.8     8.9            - 2.7                 1.8
Imports of Goods. NFS        2,246.3    25.3              3.8    -           11.9
oUrTUr, LABOR FORCE AND
PR3DSJCIVITY IN 19S1182
Value Added 2/     Labor Force 3,        V.A. Per Worker
US$ Jan.           MIT".       Z        US5   Z Cof average)
Agriculture      2.989    36.5      3.93     70.3        760       52.0
Industry         1.139    13.9      0.40      7.2      2.840      194.5
Services        _4O52    49.5       1.26     22.5      3.210    220.0
Total       8.180   100.0      5.59    100.0      1.460       100.0
Central Covernmeet - 1981/82
(LSd-. -sn.)     Z of GDP 41
Current Receipts                 890             12.3
current Expenditure              975             13.5
Current Surplus                 - 84            - 1.2
CapLtal Expenditures 5/          512              7.1
moNEY. CREDIT AND PRICES             77/78   78179   79/80    80/18     81/82
(adllion LSd oucstanding end period)
Money Supply                         669.1  877.0   1,047.5  1,48.9  2,028.1
Bank Credit to Central Goverannnt    593.5  913.7   1,131.6  1,400.0  1,590.8
Bank Credat to Private Sector and
Parastatals                       490.8  652.9    814.3  1,118.6  1,560.9
(Percentages)
Annual percentage changes In:
General Price Index (estimctes)       17.0    25.6      25.9    28.1      24.9
lank CredLc to Central Goveranent    27.4   54.0        23.8     23.7    13.6
Rank Credit to Private Sector
and Parascatats                    13.5    33.0      26.7    37.4       39.5
NOT: Allf conversions to dollars in thls table are at the annual average cffective
nominal exchange raze prevailing during the period covered.
11 Bank staff estlmates.
1 The last year of offlcially publisbed national accounts ls 1977178; t  data
presented here are the Goveraient's o&n escinaces presented In Prospec-s.
Prozranies and Pollcies for £cennnic Developm.:nt; 1992flk3-I914085.
31 TocaL labor force (est.); uncmployed are ailocated to ecrnir nf their normal
cccupation.   Unalloca ed- concists mainly of unemploynd workers seeklag their
flrst job.
&/ At n=:ket prices.
Ei ExpendItures from Development Budget (locludes sone capital expenditures by other
public entlcles).
EAZDB
November 1G. 1983



T"ADe NALANCK ANO CAPITAL FLOWS
DALACK 0F PATINTS IsTU4TKs
_ 78/79   t/so   iao/           1981/8Z      KERC(4ANDIes IvXaOTs (AVERAoE 1979/80-1981/82)
US* BIn.          X
Isporta Goods, NMS                699        798        801         088
lports Goode, NFS              1,321      1,564      1,821     2,246       Cotton '                  179.1          35.9
Resource Gap                    - 622      - 765    -1,026    -1,458        sorIiutlm                  70.2          14.0
Interest, MLT Debt (not)         - 72       - 60       - 79     - 184       aroundnutn                 47.1           9.4
Other Factor Paymmnts (net)    - 69         - 59       - 88     - 192       Cum Arabic                 41.5           8.3
Private Transfers                 240        209        305        350      sesame                     40,1           8.1
Currant lalance                 - 451      - 615      - 809    -1,300       Other                      95110         J8.2
Pubti,  Grants                     17         84        122        174             Total              477.0         100.0
Direct Inveastnt                  -           tO         20         70
Public HbL  Loans, dRib.          618        615        540       420       EX ERNAL 015 TU, DIW ER 31  19 2
Public NLT Loans, amocrt           30         42         52         97
Total PubiLe Net                  588        573        488        322                                            Us$ Mln,
Net Credit, IHP                    58       I1S         165        --
Capital Flows (inl. errors                                                  Public Debt, WDD, lLT                 5.096.0  /
and omissions)               - 160      - 113      - 52        499
Qtange In Net Reserves                                                      DUST 8UIVICI RATIO 10OR 1981/62
(- indtantes Increase)        - 50      - 54        .66        235                                                  X
Public Debt, lncl  guaranteed            18.3
RAtk  OF EXCI1UNCE                                                          Non-Cuaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Annuatl Av rngao            Ind Period
M980/81       1981/82     Nov.                     la 5L  13RD/IDA LENDING, (Dec. 31, 1982) (Hlion W t)
Officil 1                                                                                                        IBRO      IDA
Lgd I - US$        2.000/1,250  1.250/.1li1    1.111        0.769
Iftoctivet                                                                  Outstanding and Disbursed            46.8    339.6
L84 I * US$             1.580         1.230      1.111      0.769        Uodisbursed                           2.6    259.0
Free Markets                                                                Outstanding inmd. Undisbureed        49,      5NT
L9d I - US$                           --         0.769      O.556                        ..
N* Not available.
T Total DOD (including 1HKV outstanding arrcear, and Lillitary dobt) Ic, however,
estimated to US$7.3 billion as of December 31, 1982.
November 10, 1983



_ 30 -
ANNE II
Page 1
A. STATEHT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of March 31, 1984)
Amount (USS Milion)
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan/                                                                    Undis-
Credit No.    Year  Borrower  Purpose                Bank         IDA    bursed
Seven Loans and fifteen Credits fully disbursed:     139.0        256.1
Credit 547     1975  Sudan      Education II                       10.0   0.6
Credit 614     1976  Sudun      Technical AssistAnce                4.0    0.1
Credit 782     1978  Sudan    Livestock Marketing                  25.0   12.2
Credit 804     1978  Sudan    Nechanied Farming III                16.0   7.7
Credit 834     1978   SAn       Agriltural Research                15.0   7.8
Credit 882     1979  Sudan      lighway II                         41.0    2.7
Credit 904     1979  Sudan      So. Region Agriculture             15.0   7.6
Credit 1006    1980  Sudan      Third Power                        65.0  30.3
Credit 1022    1980  SuAn       Nev Balfa Rehabilitation           40.0  30.8
Credit 1118 /1 1981  Sudan      Blue NlLe Pump Rehab.              32.0  25.5
Credit 1119 71 1981  Sudan   'White Nile PumP Rehab.               35.0  27.3
Credit 1153 7T 1981  Sudan      Second Tech. Assistance             6.0    4.1
credit 1181 T7  1981   Sudan   Western Savannah                    13.0    4.5
credit 1201 71 1982  SuAn    Agricultural Services                 18.0 - 15.7
Credit 1233 71 1982  SudAn      Second Port                        25.0  10.2
credit 1388 71 1983  Sudan   **Gezira  ehabilitation               80.0  80.0
Credit 1389 71 1983  SudAn    Agric. Rehab. Program II             50.0  49.4
Credit F011*71 1984  Sudan   **Third Education Project             10.0  10.0
Credit 1451 7  1984  Sudan   **Third Education Project              5.4    5.4
Credit 1450    1984  SuAan      Third Hlighway Project             16.0   16.0
Total                                      139.0        777.5  34W3.8
of which repaid                           96.4          4.2
Total now outstanding                       42.6        773.3
Amount sold                   5.8                 8.3
of which repaid             5.8             -   8.3    -
Total held by Bank & IDA                    42.6        773.3
Total undisbursed                            Nil        343.8  343.8
/1  IDA 6 Credits, US dollar equivalent of SDRs at time of negotiations.
(Note: SDR amounts of these 11 credits are: SDR 25.1 milion, SDR 27.5
million, SDR 4.9 million, SDR 11.2 million, SDR 15.7 million, SDB. 21.5
million, SDR 74.2 million, SDR 46.4 million, SDR 9.6 million, SDR 5.2
milion aud 6DR 15.5 million respectively.)
** Not yet effective.
*11 Special Fund Credit



- 31 -
AME IT
Page 2
B. STATEIENH OF IFC IMESTHENTS
(as of March 31, R984)
Fiscal                                         (Amount in US$ udllLon)
Year         Obligor                             Loan  Equity Total
1964 and       hartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972         Textiles                            1.9   0.3    2.2
1976         Cotton Textile Mills                  8.7   1.3   10.0
1978          Seleit Food Production Ltd.         11.0   1.2   12.2
1978          Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.      6.7   1.4    8.1
-1980         Sudan Cement Company                  -    0.2    0.2
1982          White Nile Petroleum Co. Ltd.         -    0.3    0.3
Total gross commitments             28.3   4.7   33.0
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales               6.7   0.5    7.2
Total commitments nov held by IFC    21.6   4.2   25.8
Total undisbursed by IFC             1.9   0.2      2.1



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEEr
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 18 months
(b) Project prepared by:             PAO/Bank Cooperative Program
(c) Identification mission:          November 1982
(d) Appraisal mission:               April 1983
(e) Negotiations:                    August 6-10, 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:  90 days after signature of the DCA
Section II - Special IDA Implemntation Action:  None
Section III - Special Conditions:
Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) the fullfill}ent of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the agreement between the Borrower and IFAD (para. ;.) and;
(b) the signing of a subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to the
Association, between the Government and LRC (para. 54).
Other Conditions:
(a) Government would offer for sale about 80 percent of its equity
holding in the LRC (paras. 55 and 57);
(b) Government would cause LMMC to enter into an agreement spelling out
the support arrangements which UIKC would provide to LRC (para. 58);
(c) Government would provide to the Association by March 31, 1986, the
results of the study on the review of the Borrower's livestock
services and its input to the livestock industry, including
necessary measures to improve livestock exports (para. 61); and
(d) LRC shall set water charges for the wateryards at a level which
assures full cost recovery, such charges to be adjusted annually
(para. 60).



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Sudan - Stock Route Project
prowmt ThbJe
item      im      Tim   ~LIT    Other  hWUfcabIe  ThtaIL
1. Water Yard Contrat
a. CLvilWats         0.9 (0.6)  -      -        -         -    0.9 (0.5)
b. BEumet            7.0 (4.5)  -      -        -         -    7.0 (4.5)
subttal              7.9 (5.1)  -      -        -         -    7.9 (5.1)
2. Od my CLvil Wis        -     3.9 (3.3)  -       -         -     3.9 (3.2)
3. Veddl                0.9 (0.7)  -      -        -         -    0.9 (0.7)
4. o1lu r-Ipin            -              0.9 (0.6)  -        -    0.9 (0.6)
5. Incremental
patlg O,t                    -        _       -       4.0    4.0
6. Tic. A         e
ad Tafrz                                    2.0 (2.0)         2.0 (2.0)
TOn                  8.8 (5.8) 3.9 (3.3) 0.9 (0.6) 2.0 (2.0)  4.0   19.6 (11.5)
Fl wmz  impn dasa amoutsfiumzed by 'IFAD/IIM.
Proort Pofile of Va1zefNser of Cmit:acts
7lmfdrd         ?b. of Cbotrwcs    Valb iaboe
(IS$ '000)     above Thredwld           A
-       O~(U$  )LUM
AbUe 5,000            1              7.9
2,000-5,000           1              9.9
1,0'-7,00           1              U.0
20O-1,00              6              13.6
* Dtes dild for rio revw of pocure t douxwtation by M



20           SUDAN                          2j*
IFAD STOCK ROUTE PROJECT
PROPOSED BOREHOLES AND HAFIRS   !
Proposed BorehaIes:
High Risk                            I
*    Medium Risk
0    Low Risk
A   Hefirs
*   Veterinary Vaccination Posts
-        Railways                            I      N R H R
*   Provincial Capitals
o   Seleced Tewns                 ._J                                       i
- .-RiversD RU
___- Ptoiincial Bwndories                             DARFUR
Inernotional Boundaries
0       50         200 i it,   (iJ
50D     60 M-If
_   _     _- -                                                  o
_     _      _-_          _      _  ~  ~   
er____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E /  I                         e
=RB                 i                  N1la
L I BYA       RE  PSAUDI
EGYPT      ~ARABIA
I \t <  \'9SOUTHERN  *
C!NTRA II <   )DARFUR Ed                                                  '
CHAD                                                        .     os-F
|RICN   SUAN R                              i
_    ZAIRE                               2     i    .:  BAHR    EL    GHA



IBRD 1741
r I 2f 30S - f.
- PROJECT                    !                                   |                                   .r>
-AND HAFIRS   |                             I.-   ,
AND HAFRI                           N  O   R  T H   E R N
!  i                                /       N   I i1E
-s Psts !-+
! NORTHERN                                                     \
J                                                                s K HAR T OCUM
_._*J          \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oxdrm ,j KHAR70                         ,-
DAR FUR            I                                                       KASSALA
1                                         1~~~~~~~~~~~~c  5
N   O     R  T  H   E   R   N 
(j                                0HO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~two ah imkShei                     /
)                          \   ou aad                      h i 7~~~~~~~~~~~Soit  G E Z  j e
i;  0EI FeZr      (    K O   R  D  O   F A   N
Sab Bnds    l.m
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O L-u Rw& , o                                        B   E
En Nah.      !,bB I
N4yal
SAUDI                       Vo   031 Nb      '                         0 U0DilIng El */fl.;  ~  ,  famazm
ARABIA                                                   TH El -_ 
SOUTHERN  U    o                E   ISOUTHERN  *Iz
\--\F DARZFUR    EeDIsj-j eOb S huhu-i\
lo<   W  -<KaduIied   KORDOFAN
0                         ~~~~~m
N                                                              7
ETHIOPIA  i. 10
-MAL  'it;2                    \ _A~-7  A                   U P P E                 N I L E
=- rSOVAL,s        2 BAHP   EL   GHAZ
_  _  _  _   _~~~~2?



20 
S U D A N|
IFAD STOCK ROUTE PROJECT
MAIN LIVESTOCK OFFTAKE AREA |
AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY AND
SIAMPLIFIED  GEOLOGY                |
Aertl Photogroohy  -    Railways
Sim5lified nQEs y    *°  Provinciol Coaitals  |
Ii RU ,b. Fmiatn       Selecmtd Towns
---Riv*rs 
I      Nubian SandVm-ra: 
Fwnaat on            Provrncea Bonriores
rJ  roe,'ca .iu.       __a..-l Inotnmnol            NORTHERN
0 ~~s MO   200lf                     J                                \  <w
* _          *'   9                     ~~~DARFUR!\
flioaIo                li mw
V.         _            G_mino V
-       SO NW          1
LIBYA         ArAB            SAUDi                N
ARABIA 
CHAD                            'S~~~OUTHERN
C2'AD  '.1    ' hEr  f0)Burm
SUDAN                              N      DARU
A,eo -                 i              I          r                       \ '  I
F.__ L                                  I"_   I
_-eSx_ z @ 1               /                    2?                 -
-    -_e   .vX                    i/SOUTHIOP\A
ARCAND RP.     t        -w       >Now
ZAR                  KENYAsMAw                       BAHR    EL          H ZL          -     _
g  ZA7RE ,jD/ KEtA | / K "( 2- 



PROJECT  -                                                                   5
- aKE AREA
AND     -N  R T H E R N 
;y|                                                                 N t 1 
7roD C                            :                            :          ,,
Scm           NORTHE2N                                         /      N ILE
9   DAR'UR    I                                          6  KASSALA
/                            -    ' N O R T  E R  L
N  a                                 /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4,                                     K O R D 4AE        N
_f   {  <)   -  -             U PP E R '    ;Mabb, N I L E    4  >~~~~~~~~N I 
S  *BAH R                                                                 Ed  G HAm L n



ArO~~~~Ir
us ±
-.
l    'il   X   \! 
}   Io-r C_:
IZZ      _;9,:
L~~~                         _  k   



s    ~             ~~~~~~~~~~ :   ::  '. . :.,','V,!i                                   , '   
C  i  A   0              .                                                                                 * "  A.  >2         /            I       -
I %.NO 
{...  ~.,_ -_._n,,,. ' ,'.. ,                       .J                                           -
Ip~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
...q-wn Shit Vnl...... E>        N   T,           f            _ _ .t-JA_,_-
5 I,.ellle , gidl                                                                                    A                                      4aSAS'iA \\  
*  Cae.jle                                                                                                                        ..-ul  |     e s*u4p-^' \ SS i J   "    e
o   Sd*Itetb4 b0n0  orJ I .1W1                                                                                     /   t I                           O
UN   IOA                                                 UCJ
P,o.M.oI COphlzl                          I                                                                     ,r .rwII,ll")l
It ,                                                                                                    ..I SMVAh 4C1I
few                                       _ __m       I    J)11
t             ,~~~1:                                                         I!                                          _ _    _Y       r_ _   , w C #@*e0;z  






