Doctment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10372-MA Type: (SAR)
TEMPLETON,/ X82272 / F3061/ ASTAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 15, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
th._ir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
December 1991
Currency Unit: Malaysian Ringgit (M$)
M$l   - US$ 0.37
US$1 - M$2.70
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
Government:  January 1  - December 31
Bank:        July 1   - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)    =     2.47 acres (ac)
i kilogram (kg)   -     2.2 pound (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
CIF               -     Cost, Insurance and Freight
FELCRA            -     Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation
Authority
FELDA             -     Federal Land Development Authority
ffb               -     Fresh Fruit Bunch (oil palm)
GDP               -    Gross Domestic Product
ICB               -     International Competitive Bidding
INRO              -     International Natural Rubber Organization
KPFB              -    Koperasi Peserta FELCRA Berhad (FELCRA Settlers'
Cooperative Limited)
KPFB Holdings     -    KPFB Holdings Sendirian Berhad (KPFB Holdings
Company Limited)
KPR                -    Koperasi Peserta Rancangan (FELCRA Scheme
Participants' Cooperative)
LCB               -     Local Competitive Bidding
MIS                -    Management Information System
MRD                -    Ministry of Rural Development
PWD               -     Public Works Department
RISDA              -    Rubber Industry Smallholders' Development Authority
RRIM               -    Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia
RSS                -    Ribbed Smoked Sheet (rubber)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THIRD FELtRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SU..MARY  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . iii
I.  BACKGROUND   . .    . .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    . .  1
Agriculture in the Economy ................. . 1
The Tree Crop Sector .................... . 2
Bank Sector Experience and Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
II.   THE FEDERAL LAND CONSOLIDATION AND REHABILITATION AUTHORITY  . . . 6
Origin ........ .. . ..                                        6
Organization ...... .. . ..                                    6
Land Development Program  ...... ... 7
Organization of Schemes ....... ... 8
Agricultural Performance  ...... ... 8
Beneficiaries ..... . . . . ..                                 9
Financial Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Bank Experience with FELCRA   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
III.  THE  PROJECT    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    14
Project Origin and Preparation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Rationale for Bank Involvement  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
Project Objectives and Main Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Detailed Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1c
Agricultural Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Infrastructural Support ....  .    .    . ......  .  .  .  .  .   .  18
Institutional Strengthening ....  .    ...... .  .     .  .  .   . 20
Studies   .....  .  .  .  .  .  .    .3...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  ,3
Project Management Support  ....  .    ......  .  .    .  .  .   . 24
Project Costs .....  .     .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  24
Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Procurement. .......   26
Disbursement. .......   28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Malaysia in
December 1991. The mission comprised Messrs. K. Templeton (Task Manager),
W. Cuddihy (Economist) and A. Byrne (Financial Analyst). The mission was also
assisted by Messrs. P. Boyer (Tree Crop Specialist), J. Roman (Rural Engineer)
and C. Maguire (Training Specialist). Peer Reviewers were Messrs. D. Notley
(Financial Analyst), K-H. Yeow (Tree Crops Specialist) and C. Rees
(Ecologist). Mr. C. Madavo (Director, EAl), and Mrs. D.M. Dowsett-Coirolo
(Chief, EAlAG) have also endorsed the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Scheme Development  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  30
Staffing  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  30
Implementation Schedule ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 30
Operation and Maintenance ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 31
Management of Palm Oil Mills ,id Agricultural Schemes . ...  31
Accounts and Audit  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ...   3;
Monitoring aad Evaluation ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 32
Environmental Effects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
The Role of Women .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  33
Reporting   .    .    .    .   .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    33
V.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICES  ... .  .  .  .  .   . 33
Agricultural Production ....  .  .   .......  .  .  .  .  .   . 33
Marketing and Price Prospects   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Palm   Oil  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    34
Rubber  ......  ..  .  .   . .........  .  ..  ..  .   .  39
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Benefits  ......  .  ..   .     ..........  .  .  ..  .   .  42
Scheme Income Analysis  ....  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 42
Project  Analysis    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   46
Project Risk  .....  .  ..  .   .......  .  .  .  .  .  ..   .  47
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Detailed Cost Tables
Annex 2: Disbursements
Annex 3: Financial Statements of KPFB Holdings Sdn. Bhd.
Annex 4:  FELCRA's Financial Statements
Annex 5: Tapping Training Program (5.1); Terms of Reference for Accounting
Consultants (5.2); Agricultural Production Technologies (5.3);
FELCRA Staffing (5.4); FELCRA Action Plan (5.5)
Annex 6:  Crop Yield Profiles (6.1); Commodity Prices (6.2-6.3); Farm Model
Cash Flow and Economic Analysis for Oil Palm (6.4-6.6) and for
Rubber (6.7-6.9); Economic and Sensitivity Analyses (6.10-6.11)
Annex 7: Documents in Project File
CHARTS
Figure 1: Organizational Chart of FELCRA (1991)
Figure 2: The Agricultural Development Process
Figure 3: Organization of Proposed Plantation and Finance Divisions



- iii -
MALAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Malaysia
Beneficiary:             Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation
Authority (FELCRA)
Loan Amount:            US$94.0 million
Terms:                   17 years, ir-<uding 5 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:
The project would strengthen FELCRA as a development institution and
would support its efforts to disengage from the management of various
mature operations in favor of private beneficiary institutions. t
would: (i) rehabilitate planting 48,000 ha of idle agricultural land
through planting of tree crops under group farming arrangements, and
would maintain a further 120,000 ha of tree crops during crop
immaturity; (ii) provide agricultural scheme and other infrastructure;
(iii) introduce a system of reduced frequency tapping to lower rubber
tapping costs and labor requirements; (iv) strengthen FELCRA through the
creation of new plantation and finance divisions and the introduction of
improved accounting and financial management systems; (v) assist FELCRA
in privatizing the management of its palm oil mills and of agricultural
schemes which have repaid their land development loans; (vi) expand
training programs for farmers and staff; and (vii) provide studies and
management support services
Benefits and Risks:
The main project benefits would include improved incomes for some 24,000
smallholder families including many previously earning under the povarty
level; devolvement of the management of mature agricultural schemes and
agro-processing facilities to private beneficiary institutions;
improvement in FELCRA's efficiency as a development agency with
particular attention to its technical services and financial management;
and increased national export earnings from tree crops. The only
notable project risk would be a significantly steeper deterioration in
the cost-price relationships for rubber production than have been
anticipated in the project economic analysis. However, this is not
considered serious as conservative assumptions have been used and, the
rate of return is relatively insensitive to further variations in these
assumptions.



- iv -
Estimated Costs: LocalForeignTotal
-----    US$ million---------
Agricultural Development                          88.3          58.9       147.2
Civil Works                                       28.2          15.8        44.0
Training                                           2.9           1.9         4.8
Studies                                            -             1.1         1.1
Equipment, Furniture and Vehicles                  3.0          14.3        17.3
Project Management                               120.5           -         120.5
Base Costs                                     242.9          92.0       334.9
Physica: Contingencies                                           -           -
Price Contingencies                               19.9           6.8        26.7
Total Project Costs                            262.8          98.8       361.6
Financing Plan
IBRD                                                           94.0         94.0
Government                                        262.8          4.8       267.6
Total                                          ,262.8           .        361.6
Estimated IBRD Disbursements                  FY92   FY93      FY94   FY95   FY96
Annual                                        0      30.22   22.8    21.3   19.7
Cumulative                                    0      30.2    53.0    74.3   94.0
Economic Rate of Return: 13%
Map: IBRD No. 23771
1 Exclusive of taxes and duties estimated at US$2.7 million.
2 Including retroactive financing of US$9.4 million.



MAIAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I.   BACKGROUND
Agriculture in the Economy
1.1       Malaysia's agricultural sector continues to play a key role in the
economy, although its relative importance is naturally declining as the
country proceeds towards industrialization. In 1991, agriculture's share of
GDP was 15%, down from 24% in 1980.11 However, the sector still employs 25%
of the workforce and contributes 10% to direct export income, while also
providing raw materials and jobE to other export industriei. Malaysia's long-
run agricultural growth rate has l-een high by international standards. During
the 1960s and most of the 1970s, the growth in sectoral output at constant
prices averaged 7%. This declined to a lower, but still very respectable, 5%
during the 1980s as expansion of the land frontier slowed.
1.2       About one-third of Peninsular Malaysia and 5% of East Malaysia (5
million ha) are under cultivation, with the remaining area under forest or
scrub regrowth. About 86% of this area is planted with tree crops, mainly
rubber and oil palm. Oil palm has overtaken rubber as the largest crop
because of its greater profitability and relative ease of management. Cocoa
also expanded rapidly during the past three decades, from only 2,000 ha in
1960 to 370,000 ha in 1990. The balance of the area under cultivation is
devoted to rice, Malaysia's main food crop. Food production jumped as a
result of the spread of irrigation and high yield varieties of rice during the
1970s, but has since stabilized.
1.3       The 1990 Household Expenditure Survey estimates the number employed
in agriculture to be about 1.84 million, down from almost 2 million a decade
earlier. Of the approximately 850,000 households involved, the largest number
are rubber smallholders (155,000), followed by paddy farmers (116,000), oil
palm growers (100,000) and estatR. workers (81,000), with the rest divided
among mixed farming and fishing. There are also large numbers of undocumented
immigrant laborers, particularly in the tree crops estate sector. Although
farm employment has dropped, real agricultural GDP rose at an annual average
rate of almost 5%, indicating a long-run productivity increase of 6% per year.
Both wages and labor productivity are closely tied to commodity prices, which
experience significant short-run fluctuations. To illustrate, nominal
agricultural wages increased at a lower rate than inflation in 1990, but this
was reversed during the first half of 1991, when they rose by 5.8% in response
to commodity price changes, resulting in real wage gain} of about 3%. During
this period overall labor productivity in rubber and oil palm rose 6.6%. For
the future, it is likely that the long-run trend of falling agricultural
The Second Outline Perspective Plan 1991-2000, Government of Malaysia,
1991.



- 2 -
employment should continue to be offset by increasing labor productivity,
resulting in wage increases equal to or slightly above the rate of inflation.
The Tree Crog Sector
1.4       Present PerZormance    Alaysias climate and soil conditions
provide a strong natural compA- ..;ve advantage for tree crops. The country
has long been the world's large   producer and exporter of rubber and oil
palm, and is one of the major pruducers of cocoa. In 199Y, Malaysia provided
6 million tons of the total world output of 11.8 million tons of palm oil
(Table 1.1), and 1.25 million tons of the world output of 3.2 million tons of
rubber (Table 1.2). Malaysia remains the industry leader for palm oil in
terms of area, yields, production, technology and downstr.iam processing. For
rubber, this position has changed over the past decade, a; increasing real
labor costs have begun to erode relative profitability. In 1991, Malaysian
rubber output fell to 1.25 million tons, while Indonesia's rose to 1.29
million tons and Thailand's to 1.25 million tons. Although Malaysian rubber
production has been on a gradual long-term decline, high prices in 1988 evoked
a strong output response and a resurgence of interest in replanting. Far from
being a sunset industry, indications are that a firming of long run prices,
improvementi in production and processing technology, and maintenance of high
and consistent quality will ensure that Malaysia remains a major force in the
world rubber market.
1.5       Malaysian tree crop yields are high, both on total planted and
mature areas. By planted areas, the overall yield of oil palm fresh fruit
bunches (ffb) averages 18 tons/ha, compared with 9.5 tons/ha for Indonesia and
11.9 tons/ha for Thailand. For dry rubber, yields are about 760 kg/ha
compared with 400-500 kg/ha for Malaysia's two neighbors. However, these
average figures underestimate the higher yields of mature plantings in
Malaysia: average yields for mature estate oil palm are about 25 tons ffb/ha,
for estate rubber about 1,400 kg/ha, and fnr smallholder rubber about 1,000
kg/ha. Malaysia's yield superiority reflects the good institutional
performance of research, extension and marketing based on individual commodity
specialization.
1.6       Palm Oil Outlook.  World demand for palm oil has grown at some 10%
p.a. over the past two decades, from 1.7 million tons in 1971 to 11.4 million
tons in 1991. Palm oil remains the lowest cost source of vegetable oil (about
US$200/ton compared with US$300-500/ton for annual oilseeds), and some 90% of
this output is consumed in developing countries (Table 1.1). Long-run demand
is expected to continue to grow at a rate of at least 6% per annum based on
population growth and high income elasticity at low income levels (para. 5.7).
Global production is projected to double within 15 years, from 11.8 million
tons in 1991 to 24.4 million tons by the end of 2005, with the increase in
supply coming mainly from established producers (Table 1.2). Prices are
expected to rise 30% in current dollars and to decline 20% in constant dollars
over the next 15 years (para. 5.6). Based on immature plantings already
established, as well as on projected plantings, Malaysia should increase
production by about 70%, from the present 6 million tons/year to 10.2 million
tons, over the period. While this is significant, it will not be sufficient
to maintain world market share, which is expected to drop from a high of 61%



- 3 -
in the late 1980's to 42% by 2005. Despite lower relative prices, the
Malaysian palm oil industry should maintain profitability through a vigorous
planting program with high performance varieties and through exploitation of
identified, but as yet underutilized, yield potential. The major issues for
the industry remain the price and availability of labor, and the fact that
Malaysia's market access is affected by the discrimina.ory trade policies of
other countries. While Malaysian palm oil is virtually unprotected (para
5.8), it faces competition from subsidy programs of oilseed exporters and
tariff barriers of importers.
Table 1.1:   f m..n Oil Production. Consumption and Prices
Actual                      Proiected
1979-81   1988-90   1991       1992   1995   2005
Production (million tons)
- World                       4.9        9.5     11.8       13.1   16.3   24.4
- Malaysia                    2.9        5.8      6.0        6.2    7.1   10.2
- Market Share %               59         61       50        47      44      42
Consumption (million tons)
- Industrial economies        0.9        1.4      1.3        1.2    1.3    1.8
- Developing economies        3.3        7.8     10.1       11.3   14.2   21.3
- Market Share %               78         84       88         90     92      92
Prices
-Current US$/ton              584        350      339        341    408    450
-Const. 85 US$/ton            556        238      211        210    248    183
Source:   International Trade Division, World Bank: Price Prospects for Major
Primary Commodities, 1990, and Commodity Price Bulletins.
1.7       Rubber Outlook.  World consumption of natural rubber is expected to
rise from 5.2 million tons in 1991 to over 7 million tons within 15 years,
with supplies coming mainly fLom established producers (Table 1.2). Increased
demand for natural rubber, particularly in developing economies, relative to
that for synthetic rubber comes from recent technological developments and
availability of more types and grades of natural rubber of stringent
specifications. Rubber prices are projected to recover in nominal terms as
the global economy pulls out of recession and to double within 15 years to US
cents 206/kg, but to remain relatively low in real terms over the long-run.
Much will depend on the economic performance of Asian and East European
countries wish high income elasticity for rubber products.  Malaysia's
production is expected to regain recent levels of up to 1.5 million tons
through technology innovations, including reduced frequency tapping and
replanting with high performance clones, but to reduce its market share
slightly from about 27% in 1992 to 22% by 2005.



-4-
Table 1.2:  Rubber Production. ConsumpLion and Prices
Actual                         Projected
1979-81  1988-90   1991          1992    1995    2005
Production (million tons)
-World                 3.8      4.9      5.2         5.4       5.9    7.2
-Malaysia              1.5      1.5      1.2         1.3       1.5    1.6
-Market Share %         40       30       24          24        25     22
Consumption (million tons)
-Industrli.' economies  2.0     2.5      2.4         2.5       2.7    3.2
-Develo,.Lg economies  1.4      2.2      2.3         2.4       2.6    3.4
-Market Share %         41       45       49          49        49     51
Prices
-Current USc/kg        162      129      100         114       146    206
-Const.85USc/kg        155       92       62          70        86     84
Source:   International Trade Division, World Bank: Price Prospects for Major
Primary.
1.8       Tree CroD Strategy.  Government sector policy aims to ensure the
supply of food and agricultural commodities for industry and export, while
eradicating rural poverty. The tree crop subsector is seen as the principal
vehicle for achieving the non-food objectives. The development strategy has
been to provide high quality support services, replanting programs and
settlement schemes, as well as to set and regulate product quality standards.
The results of strong Government support to institutions serving the tree crop
sector have been recognized internationally. Of note is the Rubber Research
Institute of Malaysia (RRIM), which has a long history as a world leader in
advancing rubber production technology. The Rubber Industry Smallholder
Development Authority (RISDA), through a replanting program of 30,000-40,000
ha per annum, has ensured the availability of high quality clones in the
smallholder subsector. The Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA) has
resettled over 100,000 smallholder families in estate-type schemes planted to
rubber, oil palm and other crops to close the gap between smallholder and
estate performance levels. As the supply of new land for these schemes has
diminished, Government policy has emphasized intensive rehabilitation of
existing smallholdings through a group development approach by the Federal
Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA), which had developed
some 240,300 ha (of tree crops) by the end of 1990 (para. 2.6). The OPP2
confirms that the policy emphasis for the future will continue to be on
consolidation and rehabilitation of existing smallholdings, rather than on the
settlement of new lands.
1.9       Diversification.  Both the private and public sectors are actively
involved in crop and product diversification. Little palm oil is now exported
in crude form, and even refined oil is increasingly exported as manufactured



-5-
products.  Similarly, rubber is it,creasingly manufactured into final products
before export. Government agencies are also involved in the expansion of
pepper, pineapple, fruits and vegetables among smallholders, as well as the
increase of small animal production. FELCRA, for example, has moved into
large scale production of pineapple. Strong private sector investment has
resulted in high growth rates for poultry, pork, mutton' and beef. The
Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute (MARDI) concentrates
on widening the range of crops adapted to the local environment and on
improving crop processing technology.
Bank Sector Experience and Stratqgy
1.10      The Bank has consistently supported the Government's growth and
income objectives and strategies in the agricultural sector in Mala-   . For
the future, the Bank will continue to assist smallholder progrnms e :~J at
poverty alleviation and productivity improvements to help maintain Malaysia's
international competitiveness. This assistance will empLasize institution
development and support for the devolution of management activities to farmer
beneficiaries, and the privatization of activities which no longe; need to be
carried out by the public sector.
1.11      The Bank's past involvement in the sector has helped to increase
foodgrain output, through large and small-scale rice irrigation schemes and
the development of Malaysia's research and extension services. Tree crop
development has been supported under both crop-specific operations and area
development projects in which tree crops played a major role. Crop
diversification has been pursued through both area development and
agricultural research projects. The Bank has also had a long association with
Malaysian agricultural policy analysis through formal technical assistance to
the Economic Planning Unit of the Prime Minister's Department and through
regular economic and sector reporting.
1.12      To date, the Bank has made 32 loans for agriculture and rural
development, amounting to US$956.6 million, or nearly 40% of total lending to
Malaysia. Within the food crop sector, the most successful was the MUDA I
Irrigation Project (LN.434-MA) which led to a doubling of cropping intensity,
increased yields and strong institutional development. Within the treecrop
sector, seven loans have been made to FELDA to assist implementation of its
land settlement schemes. Six of these have been completed, and five Project
Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) and an Impact Evaluation Report (IER)2/ by
the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) concluded that all these FELDA
projects were quite successful in me-'ing their objectives. Achievements in
land development, crop yields, incoLt and economic returns were satisfactory.
The Bank has also made three loans for FELCRA-led development, all of which
achieved or exceeded targets and were considered successful and sustainable
(paras. 2.23-2.26). The Bank has made one loan in 1990 for RISDA, which has
also been an implementing agency in several of the Bank supported rural
development projects.
21   PPAR Nos. 2122, 3024, 3978, 4221 and 5780.  IER No. 5988:  Malaysia-
First, Second and Third Jengka Triangle Projects.



- 6 -
II. THE FEDERAL LAND CONSOLIDATION AND REHABILITATION AUTHORITY
OrigLi
2.1       In the 1950s and early 1960s, many States had alienated large
tracts of land for rubber development to landless villagers and farmers whose
holdings were too small to generate an adequate income. Most of these lands
were hilly and remote, and the new holders did not have the technical and
financial resources to develop them adequately. The Federal Land
Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA), under the Ministry of
Rural Development (MRD), was established in 1966 to consolidate and
rehabilitate these State and privately owned smallholder lands. This program
was part of Government's major thrust to reduce rural poverty by promoting
group farming arrangements for smallholders, based on the more efficient tree
crop, estate-type production systems which have been so successful in
Malaysia. FELCRA's activities are largely confined to Peninsula Malaysia, but
during the Sixth Plan period it will initiate its first rehabilitation program
in Sarawak; it has no presence in _;.h.  At the end of 1990, FELCRA had
developed some 247,000 ha (5% of the total cultivated area in Malaysia),
mostly oil palm and rubber, of which 83,000 ha were in production, for a total
revenue of about M$152 million. Production included 31,000 tons of rubber and
120,000 tors of palm oil, representing abo'lt 2.5% and 1.8% respectively of the
national production of these commodities. For the future, FELCRA will
concentrate primarily on rehabilitating underutilized or idle smallholder
lands, but has no plans to engage in any significant new land development.
2.2       By a 1985 amendment of its original Act, FELCRA's mandate was
substantially broadened, permitting expansion into rural non-agricultural
activities, including the promotion of cooperatives and their commercial
ventures, oil palm processing and participation in MRD's national village
development and rural industrialization programs. By 1991, FELCRA had
established some 86 farmers' cooperatives engaged in a wide variety of
activities (para 2.13), had four oil palm processing mills in, or about to
come into, production, and had initiated about 17 cottage industry projects in
food processing, manufacturing of barbed wire, ceramic and wood products,
furniture and tools, and services such as motor repair shops and tourist
amenities.
Qrganization
2.3       FELCRA is a fully funded Government statutory body operating under
a 16-member Board of Directors, comprising a Chairman, one representative each
of the Ministries Finance and of Rural Development, the Director General of
FELCRA and up to 12 other members appointed by the Minister of Rural
Development to represent various central and State government agencies. The
Board Chairman determines operational policy in line with the Agency's
objectives, while the Director General is responsible for policy
implementation and administration. FELCRA's structure has been modified three
times over the last decade to reflect the Agency's changing operations, the
most recent being in 1989 to strengthen its social development programs.



-7-
2*.4      Under the current structure, depicted in Figure 1, the Director
General is assisted by a Deputy Director General, to whom six Divisional
Directors report, with responsibilities for Planning, Technical Services,
Social Development, Management Services (including finance, personnel,
procurement and training), Processing/Marketing, and Monitoring and Evaluation
(which includes the scheme inspectorate). At the secondary management level,
there are 21 Deputy Directors of Sections and 12 State Directors (including
Sarawak, Perlis combined with Kedah, and the Trans Perak Area Development
Project as a separate office) who report to the Deputy Director General. At
the State level, FELCRA operations are managed by State Directors, assisted by
field managers and supervisors, agricultural officers and engineers, social
development, marketing and finance officers and administrative staff. At the
field level, the agricultural schemes, which individually range from less than
50 ha to more than 1000 ha, are managed in clusters. Each cluster has an
operational center and manager, with the indi-idual schemes under supervisors
and assistant managers according to area. There are currently 181 clusters
averaging 1,360 ha in area and averaging about 8 schemes each.
Land DeveloDment Program
2.5       Over the years, FELCRA has been involved in land rehabilitation and
consolidation, group settlements, area development, border security schemes,
youth schemes and a few aboriginal settlements. In future, the emphasis will
be on rehab1litation and consolidation. Whereas most of FELCRA's earlier
programs involved rubber, oil palm became the dominant crop in the 1980s, in
response to commodity prices and smallholder preferences. More recently,
FELCRA has encouraged some planting of diversified crops where the
agroclimatic conditions and market prospects are favorable. The most popular
crops have been various fruit trees with local market or export potential,
pineapple and cocoa.
2.6       Of the 247,000 ha developed by FELCRA through 1990, about 164,000
ha was in conselidation schemes (65%) and 82,000 ha in rehabilitation schemes
(35%).  Including the 16,300 ha developed in 1991, the distribution by crops
is:
Oil Palm      60  %     157,600 ha
Rubber        33  %      87,400 ha
Paddy          2.5%       6,700 ha (Trans Perak Area Dev.)
Cocoa          2.5%       6,700 ha
Others         2  %       4,600 ha (mainly fruits)
For the five years, 1987-1991, development averaged about 15,000 ha per year.
Although oil palm has been the dominant crop, there has been a strong swing to
the planting of rubber in th,e last three years, with annual hectarage
increasing from abolit 1,000 ha in 1987 to 5,500 ha in 1991. This trend is
expected to continue during the project period in response to relative
commodity prices and the increasing emphasis given by the Government to
developing the poorer northern and eastern states (Kedah, Perlis, Kelantan and
Trengganu) which are generally more agroclimatically suitable for rubber. The
areas in production included some 31,000 ha of rubber in 122 schemes, 46,000
ha of oil palm in 417 schemes, 5,600 ha of paddy and 630 ha of cocoa.



-8-
Organization of Schemes
2.7       For each scheme, FELCRA signs long-term agreements with all
participants or the State for State schemes, giving it the right to develop
their lands as a group farm for more cost effective operations, to facilitate
the use of more advanced production technologies and management systems, and
to attain better product quality and higher returns. The scheme development
process from site selection to implementation of agricultural development is
depicted in Figure 2. Other than requests from States to develop specific
blocks of land, FELCRA normally identifies potential scheme areas through
their State staff who have very good knowledge of local smallholder lands
suitable for development. FELCRA dialogues with owners to explain the nature
of its program aned promote their interest in group farming, and establishes an
owners' consultative committee with which it devises a development schedule.
FELCRA then arranges liens on all land titles in the scheme area and prepares
a feasibility report for Board clearance and Federal Treasury approval.
2.8       Land development through the completion of crop establishment is
done by contractors retained by FELCRA, who are required to employ owner
beneficiaries seeking work. Crop maintenance from planting to full production
may also be done by contractors, or by beneficiaries and their families under
FELCRA force account arrangements in those schemes where the majority of
beneficiaries prefer this. Land development (including on-farm roads, drains
and fences), planting and crop maintenance costs are assumed as a loan by the
farmers. Access roads and management infrastructure, service and facilities
are provided as public services. Costs and revenues to owners are shared in
proportion to their individual land areas.
2.9       FELCRA manages schemes until such time as the land development loan
has been repaid, after which the beneficiaries' cooperatives are expected to
take over. Until recently few schemes had repaid their loans and therefore
FELCRA had not yet developed the specific arrangements for transfer of scheme
management, although for some years it has been encouraging scheme
beneficiaries to organize into cooperatives during land development (para.
2.13). Conscious of the need to withdraw from mature scheme management as its
land development portfolio expands, and of the risk that group farming
arrangements could break down without adequate guidance and support, in 1989
FELCRA encouraged the cooperatives (through their umbrella organization, KPFB)
to establish a private company (KPFB Holdings) to provide agricultural
management services to mature schemes (para. 2.14). At the end of 1991, of
the 38 schemes that had fully repaid their loans, privatized management
arrangements are in place for 21 schemes, only two of which do not involve
KPFB Holdings.
Agricultural Performance
2.10      During preparation of the proposed project, FELCRA reviewed its
agricultural performance in rubber and oil palm, focussing on the period of
crop immaturity and crop yield by production year. On the period of crop
immaturity, the findings were that for both oil palm and rubber, the average
immaturity period is some 25% longer than industry (i.e. estate) standards,
but better than that of unassisted smallholders. Long immaturity periods



- 9 -
reduce investment returns and beneficiary incomes, and are mainly due to
delays in land preparation and planting. Other factors include inadequate
supply of planting materials, fertilizer supply problems and poor contractor
performance. With regard to yields, those of oil palm were generally
satisfactory and consistent with estimates of the Malaysian Oil Palm Growers
Council for estates under similar soil conditions. Rubber yields averaged 25%
lower than those of commercial estates for about the first eight years of
exploitation, after which the gap widened because virgin bark is prematurely
depleted and tapping forced onto inadequately renewed bark. This, in turn, is
caused mainly by imprudently heavy tapping in the early years to achieve
faster loan repayment. Other factors include poor tapping skills, inadequate
management supervision and the lack of incentives for quality tapping in the
wage structure.
2.11      In light of these findings, the Bank encouraged FELCRA to consider
a system of reduced frequency tapping with latex stimulation, as has been
developed and now widely used in West Africa, to counter both high rates of
bark consumption and shortages of tappers. The Malaysian rubber industry has
traditionally been cautious about these systems, because of earlier unrelated
negative experiences with the use of the stimulant and the unsuitability of
the local tapping wage structure. In early 1990, FELCRA officials visited
several West African countries to observe the use of reduced frequency systems
and were sufficiently impressed with the potential to recommend their trial in
FELCRA schemes. Nine demonstration plots totalling 108 ha on schemes over a
wide geographic range, and a 270 ha pilot program on a scheme with a serious
shortage of tappers, were set up in 1991 with consultant assistance and with
the concurrence of the Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia (RRIM).
Preliminary results are sufficiently encouraging that the new technology will
be promoted throughout the FELCRA system under the project. Other problems
affecting crop performance would be addressed through strengthening the
technical capacity of FELCRA's agricultural management and field inspectorate,
and through additional training and exposure of scheme managers and
supervisors to industry practice.
Beneficiaries
2.12      Incomes.  By the end of 1990, FELCRA had a total of nearly 46,800
beneficiary families in its schemes, of which 38,300 were in rehabilitation
schemes and 8,500 families on consolidation schemes. Several State
governments are still completing settler selection for some of the larger
schemes which FELCRA is implementing. In 1990 the average monthly income of
beneficiaries in producing rubber and oil palm echemes was M$474, with income
from rubber just marginally higher than that from oil palm, compared to the
Government's poverty benchmark of M$360 per month. Beneficiaries working on
schemes not yet in production earned a little more than M$200 per month.
Surveys indicate that most beneficiaries also obtain other income from off-
farm employment by one or more family members.
2.13      Cooperatives.  Cooperatives were first introduced to FELCRA
beneficiaries in 1979, when the FELCRA Settlers' Cooperative Limited (KPFB)
was launched. It was soon found that this central body could not adequately
cater to the needs of members at the farm level, and therefore the first



- 10 -
scheme level cooperative (KPR) was formed the following year. Cooperatives
aim to involve members in the operation of their schemes and to encourage
entrepreneurism and generation of off-farm income. These objectives are
consistent with FELCRA's policy of withdrawing from scheme management on
repayment of the land development loan. FELCRA's strategies to make
cooperatives stronger and more attractive to beneficiary participation consist
of leading the cooperatives into upstream and downstream business and revenue
earning operations based on land development, and member training in
leadership and cooperative management. At the end of 1991, there were 75
registered cooperatives and 11 others were in various stages of formation.
Total voluntary membership had reached 13,651, paid-up capital M$9.38 million,
asset value M$1.6 million and total turnover in 1991 exceeded M$35.0 million
for a net profit approaching M$2.0 million. The still relatively low
membership reflects the large ntumber of schemes established in recent years,
for which cooperatives have not yet been formed, some traditional rural
caution about cooperative operations and the low direct participation of
beneficiaries in scheme management. However, for the existing 75
cooperatives, beneficiary participation is about 90%. The cooperatives
undertake a variety of contract business activities such as production of
planting materials, rubber tapping, transportation of oil palm fruit bunch (a
major activity), raising of livestock, small scale trading and construction,
and supply of consumer goods for which they have 30 retail outlets. The
cooperatives still depend heavily on FELCRA and its staff, but the chairmen of
23 cooperatives and the treasurers of 73 now come from the memberships. In
addition, 15 cooperatives are financing one or more of their managerial posts
and 64 are paying for clerical assistance.
2.14      As part of Government's privatization strategy to downsize its
direct role in business, and in particular to increase the operational
efficiency of land development parastatals and stimulate a spirit of
entrepreneurism among their beneficiaries, FELCRA spearheaded the formation of
FELCRA Settlers' Cooperative Company Limited (KPFB Holdings Sdn. Bhd.) by
KPFB. Holdings was incorporated in January 1989 with an authorized capital of
M$3.0 million. Current paid-up capital is M$172,000, held as shares by 16
scheme cooperatives (77% of the total) and KPFB (23%). For the forseeable
future, Holdings will undertake three main functions: (a) management of
FELCRA's four existing palm oil processing mills and construction of
additional mills; (b) management of profitable schemes, limited initially to
those which have fully repaid their development loans (estimated to reach 65
schemes with 27,900 ha up to the year 2000),; and (c) provision of technical
agricultural services to FELCRA, such as interpretation and laboratory
services of soil and crop foliar analyses, and soil surveys. Other functions
that may be privatized and passed on to Holdings include haulage of scheme
produce to processing facilities, supply of computer services and commodity
trading.
2.15      To service their operations, Holdings is recruiting experienced and
capable staff from FELCRA. As necessary, specialized staff will also be
sought from the private sector. Holdings will charge service fees to the
schemes and mills to cover overheads and prov.de an appropriate level of
profit after taxation. Holdings has sourced the bulk of its operational
finance and working capital requirements from local banks and is negotiating



- 11 -
term financing for its investment requirements. Additional issued capital
would be raised from existing shareholders and new cocperatives requiring
Holdings' services, and possibly in future from FELCRA itself through equity
participation. The forecast consolidated profit and loss account and
consolidated balance sheet covering the period 1992-1995, based on its
projected operations, are satisfactory (Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2).
2.16      Women in FELCRA Schemes.  Women participate in I'ELCRA schemes,
generally as part of the agricultural labor force and they comprise about 8%
of cooperative membership. They are involved in a wide range of scheme field
work and are often prominent as rubber tappers, particularly in the State of
Kelantan where they traditionally make up the majorit, of the tapper force.
Child creche facilities support women's participation in field work on larger
schemes. FELCRA's social programs have also provided women with training and
opportunities for generating supplementary family income through production of
handicrafts and snack foods and condiments, which are sold through cooperative
shops. These occupations, however, are mostly low income and part-time in
nature, because of limited markets for the products. Agricultural skill
training courses, including rubber tapping, are available to women on an equal
opportunity basis with the men.
Financial Performance
2.17      Sources and Uses of Funds.  FELCRA has become a large and complex
organization, undertaking various development activities for the Government,
and undertaking agricultural and other types of development in a fiduciary
capacity on behalf of scheme beneficiaries. Development activities are funded
by a combination of budgetary allocations for different purposes. FELCRA also
generates a limited amount of income by way of interest earned on short-term
deposits at banks and on funds invested in development schemes, and derives
dividends from certain schemes in which it has made equity investments and
from some miscellaneous sources. The distribution of FELCRA's sources of
funds during the period 1988-1990 is detailed in Annex 4, Table 1, and
summarized below.
(a) The Government provides annual budgetary grants to FELCRA to cover
activities which it considers to be public responsibilities (staff salaries
and other administrative expenses, and capital expenditures on infrastructure
such as access roads, offices, staff quarters, water and electricity supplies,
and some other buildings, vehicles and equipment). At year end 1990, M$139.1
million from the M$245 million net accumulated development budget allocation
had been utilized for the above purposes ar4 M$105.9 million remained unspent
and held in cash for furthe: scheme infrastructure.
(b) FELCRA makes loans or behalf of the Government for land development
schemes, settler housing and palm oil mills. Total outstanding borrowings at
the end of 1990 were M$703.2 million, comprising M$658.3 for agricultural
schemes, M$17.1 million for settler housing and M$27.8 for mill construction.
The terms extended for land development schemes have been standard since 1985,
and comprise an overall loan period of 25 years, including a grace period of
10 years, with interest at 4% p.a. accruing after the grace period (Annex 4,
Table 2). These tates target the poverty group of small farmers with low



- 12 -
income levels. They are positive in relation to Malaysia's historic inflation
rate (para. 6.12) and are standard for all Government smallholder development
programs. Although they are lower than the terms of the Bank's loan to
Malaysia, they are in line with overall cost of the funds used to finance the
FELCRA program. Since FELCRA is not a financial intermediary, there is no
impact on credit markets. It represents less than 5% of rubber and palm oil
production; hence its impact on Malaysian export prices is not significant.
(c) FELCRA also administers certain other funds for itself and on
behalf of Government. At the end of 1990, these accumulated funds comprised:
(i) for FELCRA, M$42.2 million of miscellaneous income, M$35.8 million of
deferred interest receivable, and M$9.1 million of retained earnings from palm
oil mills; and (ii) for Government, revolving funds of M$44.1 million
including the FELCRA dividend fund, replanting fund, estate insurance fund and
marketing services fund. In addition, FELCRA administers M$28.7 million in
dividends payable to development scheme beneficiaries, and a bank loan of
M$0.1 million, which are included in its accounts under liabilities. Of the
M$1,080.3 million of total funds employed by FELCRA at the end of 1990, M$96.4
million was net working capital (mainly cash on hand), M$152.2 million was net
fixed assets including mills and investments, and M$831.7 million (77% of the
total) was in long term accounts receivables (beneficiary accounts).
2.18        Beneficiary Accounts.  FELCR1. handles the capital investment in
agricultural land development schemes on behalf of Government, as well as the
trading activities of each development scheme. For investments in development
schemes, FELCRA acts as the agent of Government until scheme beneficiaries are
selected. When the development schemes begin production, FELCRA acts as the
fiduciary agent of scheme beneficiaries. With FELCRA receiving and
controlling scheme revenues, loan repayments are on schedule for nearly all
schemes and at 95% overall. In many of the better schemes, repayment is often
well ahead of schedule.
2.19        Financial Status. Plans and Projections.  FELCRA's consolidated
balance sheet at December 31, 1990, together with supporting schedules
indicating the results of its main business activities, is shown in Annex 4,
Tables 3a-3f. FELCRA's overall financial position is reasonably satisfactory.
Estimates of FELCRA's financial plans, based on Government's approved budget
allocation to FELCRA for the Sixth Malaysia Plan, in the form of projected
balance sheets for FELCRA's main development business and separately for the
paim oil mills for the project years 1992-1995 are shown in Annex 4, Tables 4
and 5.
2.20        Some aspects of FELCRA's accounting and financial management
systems would benefit -rom some strengthening. Historically, FELCRA has
financed certain costs incurred in completing development schemes, and in
supporting occasional loss-making schemes, from funds available internally
(part of its accumulated miscellaneous income and some loan repayments from
development scheme beneficiaries in advance of payment to Government). At the
end of 1990, the funding of such investments amounted to M$120.6 million,
although the total has since declined as FELCRA moves to limit such costs.
The practice of financing unprofitable schemes could in the long run adversely
affect FELCRA's financial position, and therefore will be addressed under the



- 13
project with the assistance of consultants (para 3.14a). In addition,
improvements to the accounting, and financial computerization of beneficiary
incomes are necessary, and these also will be provided for under the project
(para. 3.11).
Bank Experience with FELCRA
2.21        The Bank has thus far supported expansion of FELCRA through three
loans. Two have been completed, with the Bank generally commending FELCRA's
successful rural development efforts, while performance under the ongoing
third loan has also been good.
2.22        The first loan, approved in 1981, was for the Trans Perak Area
DevelopL 't Project (Loan 1960-MA). The project was originally designed for
the Ministry of Agriculture, but FELCRA was the main implementating agency and
took it over after three years. The loan of US$30.65 million after revision,
financed the development of about 4,350 ha of rice in Malaysia's first and
only rice estate, and 8,200 ha of tree crops, mostly oil palm. Despite early
implementation problems associated with the change of agency, contractors and
drainage issues, the project exceeded many targets and increased agricultural
productivity and income of settlers, was adequately funded and staffed at
completion, and was judged to be an overall success and sustainable_3.
2.23        The second loan, also approved in 1981, was for the FELCRA I
Project, (Loan 2013-MA) and amounted to US$37 million. It financed the
Agency's land rehabilitation and consolidation program. The project developed
some 36,800 ha of oil palm and rubber over 7 years instead of the 5 years
anticipated at appraisal. The major implementation delays in the first two
years were due to technology changes in the type of rubber planting material
used and the time needed to redevelop the planting material nurseries. Later,
high palm oil prices led to a severe shortage of oil palm planting material in
1985/6 as many farmers preferred to plant oil palm instead of rubber, and
recession-driven budget cuts constrained new developments. The Bank audit
report concluded that at the end of the project, FELCRA was a stronger and
more efficient institution with a high staff morale, well managed and capable
of responding to its changing mandate in line with shifts in Government
policy*/.
2.24        The third loan of US$66 million over four years was for the Second
FELCRA Land Development Project (Loan 2917-MA). It was approved in 1988 and
provided time-slice financing for most of FELCRA's development program under
mainly Statement of Expenditure disbursement procedures. Loan disbursement
was generally ahead of target. The project was closed on target at the end of
1991 with 96% of the loan disbursed; the remainder is expected to be taken up
within gi four months disbursement grace period. Implementation of agriculture
and associated scheme infrastructure have exceeded targets, although progress
31 PCR dated April 5, 1991 for Trans Perak Area Development Project,
Loan 1960-MA.
XI  PCR dated May 18, 1990 for FELCRA I Project, Loan 2013-MA.



- 14 -
with other civil works and palm oil mills was slower due to administrative
delays in land acquisition, mill licensing procedures, and unsatisfactory
contractor performance. Contracts for the Training Centers and State offices
were awarded in late 1991 and their financing, in large part, is part of the
Third Project. The project completion report is still to be written, but all
indications are that this third project has also been quite successful.
III. THE PROJECT
Proiect Origin and Preparation
3.1         The Government and the Bank initiated discussions in 1990 for a
proposed project to continue Bank support for FELCRA's development program
through the Sixth Malaysian Plan period (1991-95). The first preparation
mission was mounted in December 1990 and the second in May 1991, for which
FELCRA prepared a draft project proposal and supporting papers (Annex 7).
This proposal, modified in line with Bank suggestions, was formally submitted
to the Bank in August 1991. The project was preappraised in September 1991
and appraised in December 1991.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.2         FELCRA's expanding land development and social programs, and its
continuing management of all existing schemes into their production years, has
placed increasingly heavy demands on the agency's technical, management and
financial resources. Thus, there is a risk of weakening performance in the
agency's main developmental area of agriculture. The Bank's continued
involvement through the proposed project would help to assist FELCRA in
dealing with key transitional issues which it will face in the immediate years
ahead, in order for it to remain a highly effective development agency. These
include: (a) the need for institutional strengthening with particular focus on
FELCRA's agricultural and financial management systems so as to achieve
greater internal efficiency; (b) the need for significant improvement in crop
production technology to maintain Malaysia's competitiveness as a major tree
crop producer; (c) the task of devolving the management of schemes for wilich
development loans have been repaid to the beneficiaries or their institutions,
without weakening management quality or overall scheme performance; and (d)
privatization of the management of FELCRA's palm oil mills. The project would
be consistent with the Bank's long-standing poverty alleviation objectives in
Malaysia, given that rubber smallholders constitute the largest remaining
poverty grouxp in the country. Finally, the project would contribute to
women's income earning levels by upgrading skills of women field workers,
especially rubber tappers.
Project Objectives and Main Features
3.3         The project aims to support FELCRA's continued evolution into a
stronger and more effective development institution, to increase the incomes
of its clientele smallholder beneficiaries and improve the quality of rural
life; enhance the quality and efficiency of agricultural performance; support
the agency in the transitional period as it begins to disengage from the



- 15 -
management of mature agricultural schemes in favor of beneficiaries,
cooperatives and proceeds to privatize management of its palm oil mills; and
expand national revenues from tree crops. Main features of the project would
include:
(a) rehabilitation of idle agricultural lands by crop establishment and
early maintenance of tree crops under group farming arrangements,
with a particular focus on promotion of improved crop production
technology;
(b) construction of agricultural scheme infrastructure and management
facilities;
(c) institutional strengthening of FELCRA in the areas of agricultural
development, financial management, computerized information systems
and other management support;
(d) support for FELCRA's efforts to disengage from the management of
agricultural schemes without disrupting scheme performance and
beneficiary incomes, and from management of its palm oil mills;
(e) human resource development through local and overseas training of
staff, and skill training for scheme workers and family
beneficiaries; and
(f) technical assistance through consultant studies.
3.4        The project, which supports FELCRA's approved development program
and budget for the 1992-1995 period of the Sixth Malaysia Plan, would be
implemented over four years. The Bank would provide time-slice financing of
the approved program, except for the activities of village development and
rural industries. The project would absorb about 92% of FELCRA's total budget
for the period.
Detailed Project Description
Agricultural Development
3.5        The project would: (a) rehabilitate through cro2 establishment
about 48,000 ha of idle and low productive smallholdings, organized as group
farms and benefitting about 24,000 beneficiaries. The annual planting target
would be 12,000 ha. Notionally, about 50% of the total would be oil palm, 40%
rubber, and the balance of 10% other crops. About 400 schemes would be formed
based on current average scheme areas of 150 ha for oil palm, 200 ha for
rubber and under 50 ha for other crops. Details of the phasing of the
planting program by crop are shown in Table 3.1, and expenditures are set
forth in Annex 1, Table 1.



16 -
Table 3.1: Schedule of Crop Establishment
('000 ha)
Crop                     1992        1993        1994       1995      Total
Oil Palna                 6.0        6.0         6.0         6.0      24.0
Rubber                    4.8        4.8         4.8         4.8       19.2
Diversified crops         1.2        1.2         1.2         1.2       4.8
Total                    12.0       12.0        12.0        12.0      48.0
FELCRA would advise, but final crop choice would be a consensus of scheme
beneficiaries, reflecting local agroclimatic conditions, commodity price
trends and crop processing/marketing facilities. Oil palm will likely be the
choice in areas of gentle terrain and high water table while rubber will
predominate in hilly areas and where there is a prolonged dry season. The
planting of diversified crops, of which the most popular would be fruits
(guava, starfruit, banana and pineapple) would be largely confined to more
fertile areas, except for pineapple on peat soils. The planting of fruits
would proceed very cautiously and in relatively small areas as FELCRA
endeavors to tie their development into contract arrangements with experienced
producers or established marketing chains so as to reduce the high risks
associated with crop perishability and quality requirements. The estimated
total base cost of the crop establishment program, covering expenditures on
land preparation, planting and planting materials only, is M$61.1 million
(US$22.6 million), with average per hectare costs of M$2,510 for oil palm and
M$2,785 for rubber. The average per hectare cost for oil palm, has been used
as a surrogate in estimating the costs of establishment of diversified crops.
(b) The project would also support early crog maintenance for areas
planted before and during the project. This includes costs such as weeding,
fertilizers, pest control, pruning and sanitation, soil and foliar analysis
and the maintenance of farm roads, bridges and drains. The schedule of areas
for maintenance is shown in Table 3.2, and the expenditures are detailed in
Annex 1, Table 1. Total area is 119,900 ha including 83,900 ha planted prior
to the project and 36,000 ha planted during 1992-94. Maintenance expenditures
are defined in FEILRA as extending from the completion of field planting until
the year of first net operating profit. Currently, this period is 5 years for
oil palm and 9 years for rubber. Total base cost of crop maintenance is
estimated at M$336.4 million, including M$3,348 per hectare for oil palm and
M$4,333 per hectare for rubber.



- 17 -
Table 3.2: Schedule of Areas Under Maintenance
('000 ha)
1992        1993        1994         1995       Total
Oil Pal
Planted preproject    58.1         44.8        29.9         21.9       154.7
Planted in project      -           6.0        12.0         18.0        36.0
Subtotal      58.1         5L9                                 190
Rubber
Planted preproject    23.5         20.5        18.2         16.9        79.1
Planted in project      -           4.8         9.6         14.4        28.8
Subtotal                  27.81.3                              107.9
Diversified crop
Planted preproject      2.3         1.9         1.3          0.7         6.2
Planted in project      -           1.2         2.4          3.6         7.2
Subtotal       L 1.1                   3.2         A.l        1LA
All cr2Rs
Planted preproject    83.9         67.2        49.4         39.5       240.0
Planted project         -          12.0        24.0         36.0        72.0
Total         8L3          7L.2       7L34         75.5        312.0
3.6       Im2roved crop production technology would be introduced to promote
better agricultural performance. The main focus would be on the introduction
of reduced frequency tapping systems in rubber, but application and
development of other improved crop production technologies, including the use
of sound nursery production systems, would also be supported (Annex 5.3).
Implementation of the reduced frequency tapping systems would lower labor
requirements and production costs, counteract the high rate of bark
consumption, improve and sustain yields, and enable areas to be brought into
tapping on schedule. Initially, third daily tapping with stimulation would
replace the current alternate daily system, although fourth daily tapping with
its further labor-saving advantages would eventually predominate. Results to
date in the pilot demonstration areas (para. 2.11) are fully in line with
expectations The proposed phasing of the program is shown in Table 3.3.



- 18 -
Table 3.3: Phasilg of Reduced Frequencv TaDRing Systems
(ha)
1992        1993        1994         1995       Total
New Tapping Areas       1,600       2,000       2,900        5,200      11,700
Existing Areas         3,500*       7,600      11,400       15,200      37,700
in Tapping
Total                   5,100       9,600      14,300       20,400      49,400
*estimated area of delayed tapping
Reduced frequency tapping will be introduced as a priority to all schemes
coming into tapping for the first time during the project, except in those
selected cases where it would release labor that could not be gainfully
employed in other local occupations. In 1992, the new tapping system is also
a priority in the estimated 3,500 ha not yet opened for tapping because of
labor shortage. In addition, about 37,700 ha in tapping prior to 1992 will
also be phased in during the project. The pace of first year implementation
will be linked to completion of scheme manager and supervisor training and the
development of appropriate incentives. Current tapping wage rates are
designed for the alternate daily system with its relatively low daily rubber
harvest per tapper, and bonuses paid for daily quantities above 15 pounds. An
incentive payment for attendance at tapping was introduced in 1991. However,
with reduced frequency tapping, harvests per tapper would be two to three
times higher and thus the current wage structure, by reason of its bonus
levels, would lead to fairly high payments and undermine the significant cost
advantages to the system. FELCRA will need to revise the current wage
structure so as to make it compatible with the new tapping system, while at
the same time ensuring that it embodies adequate remuneration and incentives
for tappers to compensate for the handling of increased daily crop and
significant cost savings to scheme management. As part of its tapping
development strategy, FELCRA has targeted the introduction of incentive
payments for tapping quality and production levels from May and August 1992
respectively.
Infrastructural SuDDort
3.7         The project would provide for the construction of agricultural
scheme infrastructure including access roads, offices and staff quarters,
utilities and harvesting facilities. Provision of these facilities will
normally take place at least one year in advance of crop production. The
total estimated base cost of the component is M$106.3 million, as detailed in
Annex 1, Table 2a.



- 19
(a) Access roads would link schemes to the public road network.
Construction specifications of roads to schemes of more than 400 ha, schemes
with considerable areas of potential development nearby, or where there are
villages along the proposed alignment, would be according to the Public Works
Department Rl or R2 standards, which were used in the Second FELC-A project
and currently in FELDA projects. Specifications for roads to smaller schemes
would be those used by FELCRA for all-weather main agricultural roads within
schemes. All roads would have lateritic pavement except those passing through
well established villages, which would be asphalted. Roads of more than 2 km
length and those involving major bridge work would be constructed by the
Public Works Department under their normal contract and supervision
arrangements. All shorter roads would be implemented by FELCRA through
contractors with FELCRA supervision. The project would construct about 217 km
of new roads of which 93 km would be implemented by PWD and 124 km by FELCRA.
Most of the roads have been identified and designs prepared. The project
would also complete some 146 km currently under construction. Total estimated
cost of the road component is about M$51.6 million of which M$44.4 million,
860, would be incurred by PWD.
(b)  Buildings, consisting of scheme offices, staff quarters and stores
will be constructed in timber and semi-bricks using standard FELCRA designs
and specifications. Quarters will range from individual to terraced units
according to staff grades. Project requirements are estimated at 60 units of
offices, 60 units of garages, 69 units of stores and 730 units of housing for
a total estimated cost of M$26.0 million. Phasing of construction is shown in
Annex 1, Table 2b.
(c) Water and electricity utilities would be supplied to scheme
complexes. Water is sourced from the public reticulation system where
possible; alternatively river sources or well systems have to be developed.
It is estimated that the project would develop 68 water supply systems for a
total cost of M$14.1 million. For electricity, the national grid system is
used wherever possible; alternatively, generator sets ar; installed.  Costs
will vary by size of scheme complex. An estimated 66 electric supply systems
would be installed for a total expenditure of M$7.2 million.
(d) Harvesting facilities provided by the project would comprise loading
ramps for oil palm fruit bunches and rubber latex collection stations. Size
and number of facilities vary with scheme area. The project would construct
69 loading ramps for a total cost of M$6.9 million and about 28 latex stations
costing some M$0.6 million.
3.8       The project would also provide other infrastructure not related to
individual agricultural schemes. These would consist of State directorate
offices and training centers for a total base cost of M$12.5 million, as
detailed in Annex 1, Tables 2a and 3.
(a) FELCRA aims to have its own State offices in most States. Five
offices would be constructed during the project. The first four (in Perak,
Negeri Sembilan, Pahang and Kedah) were originally targeted for completion
during the Second Project but were delayed by problems of approval and
acquisition of suitable building sites. Construction of three of these four



- 20 -
offices for a total cost of M$5.5 million comenced in the second half of
1991, with completion expected by mid-1992, while the contract for the fourth
(Kedah) 18 expected to be awarded in early 1992. The remaining office for the
State of Johor would be constucted in 1994-95 at a total cost of M$2.0
million; land acquisition for this site is advanced.
(b) The project would complete on-going construction of FELCRA's two
training centers approved for financing under the Second FELCRA project and
awarded only in 1991 due to delays in budget approval. These are the central
training complex at Tebing Tinggi in North Johore and the training school at
Seberang Perak in the Trans-Perak project. Total base cost for the completion
of these works is estimated at M$5.0 million, compared with their total
contract value of about M$8.3 million, the difference being works completed
prior to this project. Implementation of the central complex consisting of a
lecture hall, seminar rooms, administrative block, staff quarters, hostel for
250 students, library and social amenities, was 20% complete when the
contractor failed due to financial problems.  The work was retendered in
November 1991.  The thirty-nine units of staff quarters will be .endered in
April 1992. All works are expected to be completed by the end of 1992. The
training school is largely completed.
Institutional Strengthening
3.9         The project would strengthen FELCRA's institutional capacity
through organizational changes, improved financial and agricultural
management, further human resource development among staff and scheme
beneficiaries, and disengagement from management of mature operations.
3.10        Organizationail The project would establish three new Divisions of
Plantation, Finance and Htman Resource Development, out of existing
structures, and would expand the scheme inspectorate.
(a) The existing small agriculture section of the Technical Services
Division would be upgraded and expanded to form a new Plantation Division by
bringing together some of FELCRA's best scheme managers and agricultural
professionals, many of whom are scattered in other divisions and among the
State offices. The new Division would allow for a more effective and
concentrated attention to the standards of scheme management, promotion of
improved agricultural technology inputs and more focus on implementation
constraints and problems than hitherto. The Division, with Deputy Directors
for Agriculture and Management, will consist of four Sections of Crop
Agronomy, Crop Exploitation, Agricultural Monitoring, (concerned with nature
and results of the use of agricultural technologies) and Scheme Management, as
shown in Figure 3. FELCRA has an available senior (grade A9) post for a new
Head of Division, who would have a strong background and wide experience in
agriculture and the management of tiee crops, including rubber, on a
commercial scale and preferably from the estate sector. Agreement was reached
at negotiations that by December 31, 1992, FELCRA will establish and
thereafter maintain the new Plantation Division headed by a qualified and
experienced officer (para 7.1(a)). The Technical Division that will remain
after relinquishing its agricultural functions will focus on FELCRA's civil



- 21 -
works program, survey and other technical works and should absorb any
engineering functions required by the Settlers Development Division.
(b) A new Finance Division would attend to FELCRA's large and complex
financial services and management operations. The existing finance, budgeting
and electronic date processing sections, three of the nine units in the
existing Management Services Division, would form the new division. The Head
of the ncw Division should have a strong background and wide experience in
financial management and accounting. FELCRA has a post available for the
division Head and is proceeding to search for a suitable candidate. Agreement
was reached at negotiations that by December 31, 1992, FELCRA will establish
and thereafter maintain the new Finance Division to be headed by an
experienced and qualified officer (para. 7.1(b)).
(c) Responsibility for FELCRA's training program is currently split
between two divisions: the Management Services Division for staff training and
the Settlers Development Division for training of scheme beneficiaries. To
strengehen the focus on staff development and to rationalize its training
operations, FELCRA proposes to create a new Human Resources Division in early
1993, combining these two training sections and the existing Personnel and
Manpower Planning sections, into the Management Services Division.
(d) The Scheme Inspectorate, a service of the Monitoring and Evaluation
Division, provides an independent and routine assessment of agricultural
implementation performance in all schemes for FELCRA management. It focusses
particularly on the nature, timing and quality of agricultural operations.
The Inspectorate, which is modeled on the well-known visiting agent system of
private estates, was established in 1991 with 14 staff drawn from State and
field positions. The number of inspectors will be increased to about 24 in
1992 to ensure semi-annual coverage of all schemes.
3.11      Financial Management:   FELCRA's accounting and financial
management systems will be improved with the assistance of accounting
consultants financed under the project (para. 3.14 (a)). The most significant
actions would include inter alia:
(a) improved financial control and management of beneficiaries' accounts
through regular preparation of periodic summary financial information
analyzing the status of accounts receivable (by age, type, profitable and
unprofitable scheme etc.);
(b) preparation of regular financial statements reflecting the movements
on the capital account of each scheme, so that beneficiaries can clearly
ascertain amounts added to their existing debt, repayments made against their
loans and earnings accruing to the scheme retained by FELCRA. Such statements
would be submitted to the beneficiaries at least annually and would disclose
relevant details of scheme trading activities for the year;
(c) an improved accounting and reporting system, including inter alia:
(i) separation of FELCRA's investments in Fringe Schemes from its long-term
accounts receivable and appropriate classification in the financial
statements; (ii) accounting for interest received versus interest accrued;



- 22 -
(iii) appropriate recording of beneficiary loan repayments received in
advance, and the funds in the financial statements; and (iv) accounting
properly for quit rent deductions and payments;
(d) formal arrangements with the Ministry of Finance for approving and
financing of land development schemes where original budgets (and therefore
the Government loans) are insufficient to meet additional costs incurred to
complete such schemes or where expenditure is incurred to support loss-making
schemes; and
(e) preparation for FELCRA management of summarized financial statements
showing the status of FELCRA's main business activities as well as its
consolidated financial position, for internal management purposes on a regular
basis. A statement showing FELCRA's present and forecast cash position should
also be produced as part of this financial management package.
3.12      TrAining:  The project would support FELCRA's human resource
development program through training of staff, scheme beneficiaries and their
families and field workers in their agricultural skills, and the provision of
training materials. Estimated total base costs of the program are M$13.0
million (Annex 1, Table 3). Components and their estimated base costs are:
(a) local training of staff (M$5.3 million for lecturers' fees, external
course fees and participant allowances); (b) overseas training, subject to
Government approval, for professional staff in management and technical skills
(M$1.2 million); (c) training of scheme beneficiaries and their families in
skills of agriculture, cooperatives, homemaking, entrepreneurism and
generation of supplementary income (M$5.0 million); and (d) training materials
(M$0.5 million). All staff are given the opportunity to participate annually
in one or more training courses provided by the Training Unit or made
available in outside training institutions. Courses cover a wide spectrum of
technical subjects relevant to FELCRA's operations as well as more general
studies to strengthen the work ethic, and are graded into basic, intermediate
and advanced levels. Of principal importance to the project would be the
training of scheme managers and supervisors in the features of quality tapping
and reduced frequency tapping systems (details of this program are given in
Annex 5.1). The costs of the rubber tappers training program for improving
skills and tapping quality, and involving 14-15,000 tappers over the project
period, would be charged to the individual scheme profit and loss accounts.
For local training of staff, women, whether staff or beneficiary, have equal
access to all FELCRAts courses. It has been agreed that the Training Division
will monitor the gender participation in all courses.
3.13      Evolution of FELCRA's Management Role.  FELCRA would continue to
pursue its efforts to withdraw from the management of its agricultural schemes
and palm oil mills in favor of private beneficiary institutions, while
ensuring the continued sound performance of these operations through:
(a) progressive disengagement of FELCRA from the management of schemes
which have fully repaid their land development loans, and possibly
of schemes which have not fully repaid their loans but which
exhibit good potential production and financial performance;



- 23 -
(b) increased involvement of cooperative leadership in scheme
management, supported by appropriate training, so that when loans
are repaid the cooperatives are fully acquainted with the range of
issues and decisions that need to be taken routinely;
(c) introduction of graduated management fees to schemes that have
achieved profitability, so that by the time loans have been repaid,
the schemes would already be financing most of their management
costs. FELCRA's development contracts with the States and scheme
beneficiaries do not specifically provide for management fees, but
FELCRA will review this with the aim of effecting a change. It is
intended that for 1992, Holdings will charge a management fee of
M$17.40/ha (M$7.0/acre) to all schemes transferring to their
management; and
(d) monitoring by FELCRA of the performance of agricultural schemes and
palm oil mills which are under private management arrangements.
The details of FELCRA's action plan for management devolution were reviewed
during negotiations and found satisfactory. Agreement was reached on a
periodic exchange of views between FELCRA and the Bank on its management
devolution efforts (para. 7.1(c)).
Studies
3.14      The project would finance several consultant studies, including a
financial management study which is a priority and is therefore scheduled to
start in late 1992. Other studies have yet to be defined in detail. Of the
total M$3.0 million of base costs for project studies, M$2.4 million is
earmarked for the financial management study, as detailed in Annex 1, Table 4.
(a) The financial management study of FELCRA's accounting policies,
procedures and internal controls would involve a detailed review by a
qualified professional accounting consultant familiar with international
accounting standards, as well as those normally accepted in Malaysia, of
Government accounting regulations and the generally accepted accounting
principles applicable to the plantation industry. Recommendations would be
made to improve FELCRA's internal controls and annual financial reporting
formats to ensure clear disclosure of the results of operations and key
business activities, and to integrate the new accounting procedures and
systems into the design, development and implementation of the computerized
Database Management System and the Management Information System. Job
descriptions for the new Finance Division staff would also be needed. The
study would require about 15 staff months of consultant services. Detailed
draft Terms of Reference have been prepared (Annex 5.2). Agreement was
reached that by December 31, 1992, FELCRA would appoint an independent firm of
accounting consultants selected in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines
to undertake the financial management review of FELCRA's accounting policies
and practices (para. 7.1(d)).
(b) Other activities tentatively include: (i) a Rural Industries study
to identify effective ways for FELCRA management to promote rural small scale



- 24 -
or cottage industries for the benefit of its beneficiaries without direct
involvement in the supply of technical, management, financial, and marketing
services; and (ii) a Production Cost study to review and compare FELCRA's
agricultural operations with those of the estate sector of the industry with a
view to finding ways to further improve efficiency.
Project Management SURRort
3.15      The project would provide equipment, including a computerized
accounting and management information system, and vehicles, in support of
management services for a total base investment cost of M$46.8 million, as
detailed in Annex 1,
Table 5a.
(a) Eouipment. Furniture and Vehicles: Excluding computers, equipment
including 20 units of weighbridge for oil palm schemes of more than 1,000 ha,
laboratory equipment, miscellaneous field implements, and office equipment,
and furniture for scheme and State offices, have a total estimated cost of
M$9.8 million. FELCRA's large fleet of vehicles and tractors needs to be
further expanded and renewed to ensure project operational effectiveness.
Requirements of 4-wheel drive vehicles are estimated on the basis of one unit
to every cluster with an additional unit to clusters exceeding 2,000 ha or
having difficult transport conditions. In addition a pick-up truck is
provided to clusters of more than 1,000 ha. Supply of tractors, used widely
for crop collection, is normally one 70-80 hp unit to every oil palm scheme at
the time of first harvesting and an additional unit for every 200 ha of
planted area; for rubber, the basic allocation is one 60-70 hp unit from the
time of first production and additional units for every 400 ha of planted
area. Total base cost of project requirements, listed in Annex 1, Table 5b,
is M$32.4 million.
(b) Computer EquiRnpent: The project will support FELCRA's continuing
effort to improve its management information database and introduce elements
of a decision support system through upgrading of its hardware and software
computer facilities. Planning and providing for updated and expanded
computerization of FELCRA accounts and MIS databases started under the
recently completed Second FELCRA Project. Contracts for the supply and
installation of an integrated system are expected to be awarded in early 1992.
The system, which has been agreed with the Bank, comprises a mainframe
Headquarters system to which is linked the mini-computers at State offices
which in turn are connected to the higher grade personal computers in all
scheme clusters. Total estimated cost of the system including peripherals and
software is M$4.6 million.
Project Costs
3.16      The total project cost, including contingencies, for the four years
1992-95 is estimated at M$976.4 million, equivalent to about US$361.6 million,
exclusive of identifiable taxes and duties of M$7.3 million (US$2.7 million).
The foreign exchange content of the project cost is US$98.8 million (27%).
Unit costs for works, goods and services are based on recent contract prices
for similar works, vehicles and equipment. Project base costs are calculated



- 25 -
in constant 1992 prices. No physical contingencies have been applied to the
base cost estimates, since total expenditures are limited by the total budget
allocation for the Sixth Plan period and any significant changes in costs
would therefore need to be handled through adjustments in physical targets.
Price contingencies of US$26.7 million, equal to about 8% of base costs, have
been included to accommodate annual projected inflation rates of 4% per annum
for local costs and 3.9% per annum for foreign costs. Project cost details
are given in Annex 1, Tables 7-9 and are summarized in Table 3.4.
Table 3.4: Project Cost Summary
(US$ million)
MS '000               USS '000         foreign   Total base
Component        Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  exchange       costs
Agricultural Development:
Planting        36.7    24.4    61.1   13.5    9.1       22.6     40            7
Maintenance    201.8  134.6   336.4   74.8   49.        124.6     40 /a        37
Subtotal     238.5   159.0   397.5   88.3   58.9    147.2       40          44
Civil Works:
Scheme Infra.   68.1    38.2   106.3   25.2   14.2       39.4     36          12
Other            4,9      a,      L      1.8    1.        2.      l            1
Subtotal      73.0    40.8   113.8   27.0   15.2      42.2      36          13
Other
Training /a     11.1      6.8    17.9    4.1    2.5       6.6     39            2
Studies          0.0      3.0     3.0    0.0    1.1       1.1    100           0
Equip.& Vehicles 8.1    38.7    46.8    3.0   14.3       17.3     83            5
Project Mgt.   325.3      0.0   325.3  120.5    0.0    120.5       0           36
Bale  Cost   656.0   248.3   904.3  242.9  92.       334.9     27         1
Physical conting.0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0      0            0
Price conting.  53.6        18.5        ILI    AA 6.8      1i                   8
Total Project
costs &    709.6   266.8   976.4  262.8   98.8    361.6       27         108
/j  Component includes Training Centers of M$5.0 million (US$1.8 million) base cost.
/k  Exclusive of taxes and duties estimated at US$2.7 million.



- 26 -
Pgroject Financing
3.17      The proposed Bank loan of US$94.0 million to Malaysia would finance
about 26% of total project costs exclusive of taxes and duties and about 95%
of the estimated foreign exchange content of $98.8 million. Government's
contribution to total project costs through its annual development and
operating budget allocations to FELCRA would be about US$265.0 million. The
US$4.8 million of foreign exchange costs not financed by the loan relate to
the estimated financing foregone as a result of reserve procurement of 110,500
tons of 'straights' fertilizers that FELCRA has contracted to purchase from
government central contract in 1992. Financing arrangements for the project
by categories of works, inclusive of contingencies, are summarized
in Table 3.5.
Table 3.5: Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
World Bank        Government            Total
Category              Amount    %        Amount    %        Amount     %
Agricultural
Development           58.3       37      100.6     63       158.9      44
Civil works           17.3       37       29.4     63        46.7      13
Equipment, furniture
and vehicles          15.4       83        3.3     17        18.7       5
Training /a            1.9       37        3.3     63         5.2       2
Studies                1.1      100        0.0      0         1.1       0
Project Mngmnt.        0.0        0      131.0    100       131.0      36
Total Financing       94.0       26       267.6    74       361.6     100.0
/a  Training Centers costing US$1.9 million including contingencies are
included under Civil Works category.
3.18       Procurement
Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.6.



- 27 -
Table 3.6:   Procurement Method and Disbursements
(USS million) LA
Total
Item                            ICB        LCB       Other       NBF A     cost
Works:
Agricultural Development         -                               -         101.4
-        (20.6)    (16.9)       -        (37.5)
Scheme infrastructure            -         41.9        -         -         41.9
-        (15.5)      .          -        (15.5)
Other civil works                -          4.8        -         -          4.8
-         (1.8)                           (1.8)
Subtotal                      -         4.-                   -         47
-        (17.3)                          (17.3)
Goods
Vehicles                        11.7        1.3        -         -          13.0
(9.7)      (1.1)      -          -        (10.8)
Equip. and furniture             1.8        3.9        -         -           5.7
(1.4)      (3.2)      -          -         (4.6)
Fertilizers and chemicals       36.6       10.6        -         -         47.2
(13.5)      (3.9)      -          -        (17.4)
Planting materials              -           -         10.3       -         10.3
-           -        (3.4)       -         (3.4)
Subtotal                      50.1       15.8       10.3       -         76.2
(24.6)      (8.2)     (3.4)                (36.2)
Training
Training                         -          -          4.7       -4.7
(1.4)      -         (1.4)
Materials                        -          -                    -             .5
(0.5)      -         (0.5)
Studies                                     -                    -.1
( 1. 1 )  -         (1.1)
Administration
Salaries                         -          -          -84.4               84.4
(0)        (0)
Services                         -          -          -.                  46.6
-  -  -  (0)       (0)
Total                           50.1      118.3       622      131.0       361.6
(24.6)     (46.1)    (23.3)    (0)         (94.0)
Percentage of procurement       14         33         17        3          100
(26)       (49)      (25)        (0)      (100)
/a Figures in parentheses show Bank financing.
A Not Bank financed.



- 28 -
(a) Works: Agricultural and infrastructure works represent 28% and
13% of total project costs and amount to US$101.4 million and US$46.7 million
equivalent, respectively. Except for one road contract for an estimated
US$3.6 million in an isolated area and involving a substantial bridge, all
contracts for these works would be under US$1.0 million, geographically widely
dispersed and scattered in time over the project period, and thus of little
interest to foreign bidders who would however, be eligible to compete. All
works contracts will be awarded under LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank
with the following exceptions:
\i)  land development works costing less than US$40,000 each, and
estimated at US$15.2 million in total (15% of the value of all
land contracts), which will be procured following local
procedures acceptable to the Bank; and
(ii) crop maintenance works such as weeding and the application of
fertilizers, estimated at US$30.4 million in total (30% of the
value of all land contracts), which will be carried out by scheme
beneficiaries under force account.
(b) Goods: Fertilizers (US$36.6 million), vehicles, except trailers,
passenger cars and speedboats (US$11.7 million), and computer equipment
(US$1.8 million) would be procured under ICB procedures in accordance with
Bank Guidelines. A margin of preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. bid price
of imported goods, or the amount of customs duties and taxes, whichever is
less, would be allowed for domestic manufacturers. All other goods would be
procured through LCB in which foreign suppliers would be eligible to
participate, except for planting materials valued at about US$3.8 million
which would be mostly procured from scheme cooperative nurseries under
standard terms with FELCRA. Contracts for items or groups of items of goods
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000 each and not exceeding
the equivalent of US$1.0 million in aggregate, may be procured on the basis of
comparison of price quotations in accordance with the Borrower's normal
procurement procedures.
(c)  Consultant Services:  Consultant services (US$1.1 million) would
be procured according to Bank Guidelines, with terms of reference,
qualifications, and contract terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(d)  Procurement Review:  All contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$2.0 million equivalent or more (about 17% of the total value
of all contracts), and all overseas training proposals would be subject to
prior Bank review. Other contracts would be subject to selective post-award
review.
Disbursemen
3.19      Disbursement of the proposed loan over four and one-half years are
detailed in Annex 2, Tables 1A and 1B, and summarized below:
(a) 37% of the expenditures of: (i) land preparation, crop
establishment, crop maintenance through to maturity and



- 29 -
agricultural inputs; end (ii) all civil works including scheme
infrastructure of access roads, buildings, utilities and harvesting
facilities, State offices and training centers;
(b) 100% oL the foreign expenditure costs of directly imported
vehicles, including tractors, and equipment including furniture,
100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured items, and 75%
of the cost of items procured locally;
(c) 100% of all costs of overseas training, local training lecture
fees and training materials; and
(d) 100% of the cost of consultants' services.
3.20        Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) for all expenditures for: (a) agricultural development
including land preparation, crop establishment, crop maintenance through to
maturity and agricultural inputs; (b) contracts valued at less chan US$200,000
equivalent for civil works, vehicles and equipment; and (c) training.
Documentation on these withdrawal applications would be retained by FELCRA for
review by Bank supervision missions. All other disbursements would be made
against full documentation. To the extent possible, withdrawal applications
should be consolidated into amounts of US$50,000 equivalent or more, prior to
submission to the Bank.
3.21        The loan is expected to be disbursed over four and one-half years.
As the project is an expenditure time-slice of an ongoing development program,
disbursements are projected to be much faster than the standard profile for
Malaysian agricultural projects. This is supported by the experiences of two
other recent time-slice loan operations, the Second FELCRA Project (Loan 2917-
MA) for which 95% of the loan was disbursed after three and one-half years,
and the ongoing RISDA Project (Loan 3139-MA) where 44% was disbursed in 23
months. The loan closing date would be June 30, 1996. The proposed loan
would provide retroactive financing not exceeding US$9.4 million for eligible
development expenditures incurred from the start of appraisal on December 1,
1991 through the date of loan signing, so as to ensure continuity of Bank
financing.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.1         Malaysia would be the borrower for the loan, and the Ministry of
Rural Development (MRD), through FELCRA, would be responsible for project
execution. FELCRA would be assisted by the Federal and State Public Works
Departments for the construction of larger roads. FELCRA's Finance Division,
which has had considerable prior experience with the Bank's procurement and
loan withdrawal procedures, would be responsible for preparation of loan
withdrawal applications on behalf of the Government.



- 30 -
Scheme Development
4.2         The scheme development process from identification of areas
through to land development is shown in Figure 3. Areas with potential for
development are normally first identified by FELCRA State staff, particularly
scheme managers with their intimate knowledge of the smallholder lands in
their areas. Dialogues with owners to discuss development proposals are
carried out by the State Office, which also initiates the land title
verification process and prepares a feasibility report. The Technical
Division is responsible for all design and preparation of tender contract
specificstions for all agricultural and engineering works. Contracts for
works estimated not to exceed M$100,000 are arranged through the State office;
larger works are tendered through Headquarters.
Staffing
4.3         FELCRA's projected staffing for the project period is summarized
by grades and functions in Annex 5.4, Table 1. At the end of 1991, total
staff numbered 3,488 persons. Of these 44 staff, including 12 of Grades A and
B. working in the two palm oil mills have been seconded to KPFB Holdings and
will not be re-absorbed into FELCRA. The current ratio of staff to hectares
of land in development of 1:75 is expected to decline as management withdraws
from schemes with fully repaid loar.s, and staff capabilities improve through
training. Thus, the annual increase in professional and semi-professional
grades is not likely to exceed 50 posts per year and there is no planned
expansion among lower grades. Planned staff increases, shown in Annex 5.4,
Table 2, will be principally in the categories of managers and supervisors for
new agricultural areas, an enlarged scheme inspection service (para 3.10d) and
staff for FELCRA's village development and rural industry programs. Under
FELCRA's management withdrawal program, staff will initially be seconded to
KPFB Holdings under Government staff rules for a period of two years, at which
time they may formally separate. By 1995, it is estimated that at least 186
staff, including 142 agricultural staff and 44 staff currently working in the
palm oil mills, and comprising of managers, field supervisors, factory
engineers and operators and clerks, will have been moved to Holdings.
Implementation Schedule
4.4         Since the project is a continuation of FELCRA's ongoing
development program, no significant pre-project implementation arrangements
are required. Implementation targets would be adjusted annually according to
the actual allocations for the year. The first year's program has been
defined and agreed. An understanding was reached that FELCRA would review its
proposed annual work program and approved level of funding with the Bank
around the end of each year for each subsequent project year (para 7.1(e)).
For the first project year, some 9,000 iha (75% of target) were ready for
implementation at the time of appraisal and tenders for many contract works
were in place. Additional areas were expected to be added into the year's
program. Planning for programs of subsequent years would be initiated and
largely completed one year in advance of targeted implementation. All
maintenance work on immature crops in schemes established prior to the project



- 31 -
would continue on a routine basis, with FELCRA hiring contractors or employing
scheme members, their families and others under force account arrangements.
There are a substantial number of 1991 ongoing contracts for access roads,
both FELCRA and PWD implemented, and buildings which will be completed in
1992. Design works for roads are ready for several years in advance. Works
are assigned to PWD annually. Designs for offices and staff quarters are
standard while work on utilities and harvesting facilities would be phased in
according to progress with agricultural development. Construction of the two
training facilities and three State offices are on-gning and a fourth State
office is ready for tender. Land acquisition for scheme and other civil works
is ongoing.
Operation and Maintenance
4.5         Financing arrangements for the maintenance of all existing FELCRA
access roads constructed by PWD and FELCRA, have, until recently, been
insecure. It is Government's policy that all Federally financed PWD roads
should be gazetted as Federal roads and maintained through annual grants
specifically earmarked for this purpose. Unfortunately the gazetting process
is very slow and the roads after construction receive only limited maintenance
with funds that FELCRA is able to allocate for this purpose. For reasons
concerning different standards, the FELCRA-constructed access roads are not
accepted for inclusion in State networks and therefore do not qualify for
State maintenance funding. FELCRA thus remains responsible for their upkeep.
Recent Government changes in the budgetary process permit FELCRA to identify
funds for the maintenance of all access roads constructed under the project
and which remain under FELCRA's responsibility. Funding for 1992 (M$2.0
million) and that proposed for 1993 (M$4.935 million), was satisfactory to the
Bank and an understanding was reached that the Government would continue to
provide adequate funding for project access road maintenance during the
project.
Management of Palm Oil Mills and Agricultural Schemes
4.6         In taking over the management of FELCRA's palm oil mills, Holdings
will enter into a contract with FELCRA, setting out the terms and conditions
of the services to be provided and the financial arrangements between the
parties. In the transfer of management of agricultural schemes, scheme
benefiaries as a group would enter into a contract with Holdings or other
beneficiary institution as the management entity. Representative copies of
these various management contracts would be sent to the Bank for information,
after approval by the FELCRA Board in the case of the palm oil mills.
Accounts and Audit
4.7         FELCRA is subject to normal Government control and audit
procedures. The accounts are audited by the Office of the Auditor General,
who is considered an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. FELCRA would
submit its audited consolidated financial statements to the Bank annually,
including separately the results of its various business activities, and a
summary analysis of the long term accounts receivable by type and age. The
formats of these financial statements should adequately reflect project



- 32 -
expenditure and progress over the life of the project. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that FELCRA would submit audited annual financial
statements within nine months of the end of each fiscal year, including a
separate audit opinion on the use of funds disbursed against SOEs. (para
7.1(e)).
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.8         FELCRA's Monitoring and Evaluation Division would continually
assess the overall performance of its agricultural development program. This
would focus on scheme economic and financial performance, taking into account
crop yields, costs of production and production revenues, progress with loan
repayment and scheme contribution to beneficiaries' in-ome. Results reported
regularly to FELCRA management, and to the Government, would also be rourinely
made available to the Bank. It has been agreed with FELCRA that the database
on the costs of land development in the States, used in the economic
evaluation of new scheme proposals and in development cost estimates, and the
level of beneficiary participation in scheme operations, will be regularly
monitored and brought up to date in 1993.
4.9         Implementation of FELCRA's action plan for devolution of the
management of agricultural schemes which have repaid their land development
loans and palm oil mills in favor of private institutions will be routinely
monitored (para. 3.13). A list of proposed performance indicators, and 1991
data for the 75 cooperatives to provide a basis for recording progress of
cooperative development during the project, are provided in Annex 5.5,
Table 1.
Environmental Effects
4.10        Project activities concern primarily the rehabilitation of
existing agricultural lands and are therefore unlikely to induce significant
environmental impacts. FELCRA will update its planting directives to scheme
managers and supervisors and check lists used by the monitoring inspectorate,
to reflect environmentally sound field practices. It is planned that this
update would emanate from findings and recommendations of a mid-1992 workshop
of agriculturalists and others of leading land development agencies, under the
direction of the Department of the Environment, convened to review and agree
environmental guidelines for land development. The proposals for their
consideration were prepared by an independent consultancy through the Sabah
Land Settlement and Environmental Management Project (Loan 3039-MA).
Agreement was reached that adequate environmental directives and guidelines
will be incorporated into FELCRA's planting directives and inspectorate check
lists by December 31, 1992 (para 7.1(f)). For road construction, the
environmental standards and controls observed by the PWD and FELCRA are set by
the State and Forest Department authorities and are satisfactory. A list of
environmentally acceptable agricultural chemicals has been agreed with the
Bank among which is the herbicide paraquat, which needs to be carefully
handled and managed. Bank requirements in the use of this herbicide are in
line with those of the Pesticide Board of Malaysia. An understanding was
reached at negotiations that FELCRA is endeavoring to comply with necessary



- 33 -
safety procedures and would include such requirements in its planting
directives and guidelines.
The Role of Women
4.11        Women will participate in scheme development, generally as part of
the agricultural labor force. FELCRA's training programs for scheme
beneficiaries and their families, like those for FELCRA women staff, will be
available equally to women as for men. FELCRA will conduct many courses on
schemes or in villages to encourage women's participation without overly
disrupting their domestic routines. The Training Division will maintain
records by gender of participants in all training programs. The proposed
study on the most effective roles for FELCRA in small scale rural industries
(para 3.14(b)) will have, as one of its objectives, the identification of high
income earning activities fcr women.
Reporting
4.12        FELCRA would prepare and submit to the Bank a semi-annual progress
report on project implementation and consolidated expenditure performance,
both actual and committed, for each main category of development. The Bank's
Supervision Plan is shown in Annex 5.5, Table 2.
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICES
Agricultural Production
5.1       The oil oalj   yield profile for the project planted areas is shown
in Annex 6, Table 1. It is based on average industry yields on inland soils,
which also approximate FELCRA's average performance over the first ten
production years. Average yield over 24 years is about 18 tons FFB/ha with a
peak of 22.6 tons/ha in year 16, and a total FFB production of about .".43
tons/ha. At full production from about 2010, the new rehabilitated area of
24,000 ha is estimated to produce a total of 530,000 tons of fresh fruit bunch
from which some 105,000 tons of palm oil would be obtained.
5.2       The yield profile for rubber is shown in Annex 6, Table 1.  Over 25
years of tapping, the average annual yield is 1.55 tons/ha with a peak of
about 1.75 tons/ha in the tenth year. This compares with current performance
over 14 years of tapping of 1.26 tons/ha with a peak of 1.67 tons/ha in year
9. Yields would decline to uneconomic levels after about 25 years. The
profile, which reflects a 30% better performance than individual smallholders,
is derived as 90% of the current average commercial yields of the two most
widely grown Class I clones, also prominently planted in FELCRA schemes,
assuming that FELCRA's performance will improve substantially with the new
tapping technology. At full production in 2010, the new rehabilitated area of
19,200 ha is estimated to produce a total of 34,000 tons of dry rubber.



- 34 -
Marketing and Price ProsRects
Palm Qil
5.3       World demand for palm oil grew at a rapid 10% per year over the
past two decades and is expected to grow at 6% per year over the long-run,
based on population growth, substitution of palm oil for other vegetable oils,
and high income elasticity at low income levels. Global consumption should
almost double over the next 15 years. Demand for palm oil is derived from
total demand for edible oils, from the degree of technical substitution in end
use and from relative prices of the oil sources. Global demand for all oils
rose from 52.6 million tons in 1987/88 to 60.3 million tons forecast for
1991/92. The largest source remains soybean oil with 26.5 % of the market,
followed by palm and palm kernal oil with 22.2% of the total (Table 5.1). Over
the period, total demand rose 15%, that for soybean oil rose 6%, while that
for palm oils rose 40%. The cheapest source of oil remains palm oil and
demand growth is greatest in developing countries where about 90% of output is
consumed.
Table 5.1: Edible Oils Demand
(million tons)
Consump-
Market    tion
1987/88  1988/89    1989/90   1990/91   1991/92  Share   Increase
consumRtion
Soybean oil       15.0    14.9      15.8      15.9       16.0     26.5       6
Palm oils          9.6    10.6      12.1      12.4       13.4     22.2      40
Coconut oil        2.7     2.7       2.9       2.9        2.9      4.8       7
Others            25.3    25.7      26.3      27.7       28.0     46.5      11
Total           52.6    53.9      57.1      58.9       60.3    100.0      15
Source:   USDA, Foreign Agricultural Service, World Oilseed Situation and
Outlook, Dec. 1991.
5.4       Export Demand.  Palm oil commands a 43% share of the international
trade in edible oils, followed by soybean oil at 17% of global exports. The
largest importers are China, Singapore, India and Pakistan, which together
with smaller Asian countries import 60 % of the total traded. Asian long-run
demand has increased at an annual average of 40% and is projected to continue
increasing at 30%-40% per year (Table 5.2) because of low average per capita



- 35 -
consumption of fats and oils was 7.7 kg, compared with 20 kg for high income
developing countries and almost 40 kg for developed countries. China's income
elasticity for calories from fats and oils in 1988 was estimated by FAO/World
Bank to be 1.12% with a population of over 1 billion.
Table 5.2: Palm Oil- Gross Exgorts and Imoorts
(million tons)
Actual               Projected         Change %
1969-71  1979-81  1989-91    1999-01    2005       Annual
Exports, total        1.0      3.5       7.5        14.8       18.3        49
-Malaysia             0.4      2.4       5.2         8.3        9.2        25
-Indonesia            0.2     0.4        1.0         2.9        4.3        11
Imports, total        0.9      3.2       7.4        14.7       18.3        49
-USA                  0.1     0.1        0.2         0.2        0.2         0
-EEC                  0.5     0.7        1.0         1.5        1.5         2
-E.Europe             0.0     0.2        0.6         1.1        1.4         4
-Asia                 0.2      1.8       4.8         8.3       10.6        30
Source:  World Bank, USDA and Government reports.
5.5       Export SUPDly. The two largest producers of palm oil are Malaysia
with about 6 million tons, followed by Indonesia w'th about 2.3 million tons
of annual outturn. The long-run forecast is a continuance of this position,
with Malaysia producing 10 million tons within 15 years and Indonesia
producing almost 7 million tons. Indonesia is expected to consume a larger
share of its palm oil, leaving Malaysia as the dominant exporter of about 9
million tons annually. To achieve this target, Malaysia will have to maintain
an annual planting program of about 100,000 ha.
5.6       Prices.  Malaysia continues to dominate palm oil production and
exports because its soil and climatic conditions are ideal for high yields,
research and other supporting institutions are able to generate streams of
productivity raising improvements, and because exchange rate and industry
policy are favorable. Detailed comparative cost of production studies in the
late 1980's estimated that annual oilseed oils (soybean, rapeseed, safflower)
cost US$300-$500 per ton to produce, while East Asian palm oil cost about
US$150-$250 per ton.6'  Other palm oil producers were often at a disadvantage
because of unfavorable exchange rate and trade policies, with costs of
production often being double or more that of Malaysia.  Because of increasing
labor costs, Malaysia's 1992 production cost is creeping towards the US$200-
250/ton, while Indonesia's remains in the US$150-$200/ton range. However,
this is still well below the export price of US$350/ton (Malaysia fob)
61  Landell Mills, 1987; Larson, D., 1991.



- 36 -
received in early 1992, and below the $US430/ton export price of soybean oil,
US$414/ton export price of rapeseed oil, and US$600/ton of corn oil for the
same period. Price projections indicate that this relativity will remain
(Table 5.3). While increasing labor costs are a concern for Malaysian
producers, there are also a number of already identified sources of
produc.tivity gains to be implemented. In addition, Malaysia will soon be
entering the phase where replanting will be greater than extension of planted
area. The presence of existing infrastructure and established labor supplies
will lower the average cost of establishment and operation.
Table 5.3: Edible Oil Prices and Projections
(US$/ton)
Actual                        Projected
1980    1985   1990   1992        1995      2000    2005
Current Prices
-Palm oil              584     501    285    350          408      425      450
-Coconut oil           674     590    371    550          639      793      774
-Groundnut oil         892     878    975    750          733      779      713
-Soybean oil           501     572    463    423          515      575      634
Constant Prices (US$85)
-Palm oil              556     501    194    215          239      208      183
Source:  World Bank Projections:  USDA, FAS Reports.
5.7       Industry Protection and Exprt Comnetitiveness. World markets for
edible oils are characterized by a high degree of price and non-price
interventions and this causes relatively higher price instability than for
other commodities. Within the oils, palm oil price is among the most
unstable. Among importing countries (e.g., India) the most common
interventions are quantitative import restrictions to encourage domestic
production of annual oilseeds. Vegetable oil prices are affected by livestock
cycles and the demand for oilseed meal. Among exporters, the most common
intervention are export subsidies, including the Export Restitutions of the
EEC (whereby exporters of oil are compensated for exporting at a loss) and the
US Market Development Programs under which the export of oils, oilseeds and
meals are subsidized through the GSM 102/103, PL 480 Title I/II, Sunflower Oil
Assistance Program, Cottonseed Oil Assistance Program, and the Vegetable Oil
Export Enhancement Program). The announced subsidies for FY92 for the GSM
program alone exceed US$1 billion. The net impact of these programs is to
lower prices, destabilize markets and retain high cost producers.



- 37 -
5.8       Malaysian palm oil production and trade is free of supply management
and price intervention. Mission estimates (Table 5.4) based on published data
for 1991 show that the nominal protection rate on Malaysian palm oil was zero
in that year, consistent with that of other years. Farm-gate prices to
producers represented the border price equivalent less normal deductions for
processing, transport and services, all valued at the freely convertible
exchange rate. Traded inputs are not subject to interventions and value-added
at domestic prices equals value-added at border prices to give an effective
protection rate of zero. Using the domestic resource cost (DRC) methodology to
estimate economic efficiency, by deducting the opportunity cost of primary
factors of production from value added, a cost of M$0.64 is incurred to earn
M$1.00 of net benefits. This indicates highly efficient use of factors and
palm oil production should be expanded to the point where the cost rises to
M$1.00 per M$1.00 of benefits and provides empirical support to the view that
Malaysia can absorb labor cost increases in the industry. In terms of foreign
exchange generation, it cost M$75.00 of domestic resources to produce a ton of
ffb worth US$42.00 (M$116.62, value-added). The implicit exchange rate is then
M$1.78 per US$1.00. Since it costs only M$1.78 of domestic resources to earn
US$1.00 from palm oil and M$2.75 per US$1.00 (the actual exchange rate) from
the rest of the economy, palm oil is a highly competitive foreign exchange
earner for Malaysia.



- 38 -
Table 5.4 Malaysian Palm Oil - Efficiency Estimates
(October 1991)
Nominal Protection
1.    Crude Palm Oil (CPO)
Average seller's price cif Rotterdam         US$/ton   342.50
- less freight                                           40.00
financial charges (2.75%)                           9.42
insurance (0.4%)                                    1.37
normal arrival loss (0.25%)                         0.86
FOB Price                                               290.86
Convert to M$ usi', spot rate 2.7380          M$/ton   796.36
- less port charg%.s                                      2.00
transport mill to port                             30.00
Equals Border Price equivalent ex mill                  764.36
2.     Palm Kernels (PK)
Average sellers' price ex mill Malaysia       M$/ton   574.98
3.    Fresh Fruit Bunches/ton
CPO value at 20% extraction                             152.87
PK value at 5% extracrion                                28.75
- less milling cost                                      30.00
(a) FFB val./ton at mill door in efficiency prices   161.62
(b) Actual producer price at mill door                 161.62
Nominal Protection Rate (a-b)/a                             0%
Effective Protection
Traded inputs/ha (fert., chemicals etc.,) year 10            690.00
Value of traded inputs/ton ffb in domestic prices             35.00
Value-added/ton ffb in domestic prices                       116.62
Value-added/ton ffb in efficiency prices                     116.62
Effective Protection Rate                                         0%
Domestic Resource Cost (DRC)
Value of primary factors/ha at domestic prices
- labor                                                  497.00
- capital (depreciation)                                 500.00
- land (imputed value in rubber production)              500.00
Total value/ha of domestic resourceS                     1,497.00
Opportunity cost of domestic resources/ton ffb               75.00
Valie added by domestic resources                           116.62
DRC coefficient                                               0.64
Source: Mission estimates from published data



- 39 -
Rubber
5.9       Demant.  The demand for natural rubber is derived from total demand
for elastomers and from the degree of technical substitutability between
natural and synthetic sources. Total demand for elastomers is some 15 million
tons annually, of which about 5.2 million tons is for natural rubber (Table
5.5). Natural rubber consumption has grown at 2% to 3% per year over the past
20 years, from 3 million tons in 1970, despite the inroads made by synthetic
elastomers. While demand for natural rubber in the transport sector has
declined, this has been more than offset by an increase in demand from other
manufacturing industries. Advances in grading and processing have allowed
rubber to meet stringent specifications and improve its non-price
competitiveness for a wider range of end-uses. Buyers are increasingly moving
towards direct trading with countries that are able to ensure reliable
supplies with guaranteed technical specifications demanded by consumers. As
with palm-oil, the greatest demand growth will be in Asia where consumption
has tripled from 797,000 tons to 2.4 million tons over the past two decades.
5.10      SuDply Status and Outlook.  Production in Malaysia has declined from
1.53 million tons in 1980 to 1.25 million tons in 1991 (Table 5.5). In 1988, a
one-time jump to 1.66 million tons was recorded as a response to a short run
price peak. The decline is due to a fall in planted area as rubber is
replaced by oil palm and urban infrastructure or is left untapped in high-cost
areas. The estimated planted area fell from about 2 million ha in 1980 to 1.82
million ha in 1992. Some recovery of production level is anticipated from
yield growth but the long run outlook is for Malaysia's share of world
production to fall to about half of its 1980 share of 40%, with Indonesia
being the dominant producer.
Table 5.5 Rubber - Production
('000 tons)
Actual                    Proiected       Share %
1980    1988   1990    1991    1992   2000   2005
Production        3,814   4,749   5,318   5,238   5,349  6,566  7,180
World             1,537   1,660   1,290   1,250   1,260  1,570  1,600       22
Malaysia            982   1,235   1,263   1,297   1,345  1,800  2,065       29
Indonesia          514      954   1,220   1,250   1,280  1,560  1,600       22
Thailand
Source: Government of Malaysia Economic Report 1991/92; World Bank,
International Economics Department



- 40 -
5.11      Trade.  While Malaysia is also expected to lose its leadership in
terms of total export volume, it will remain one of the big three exporters
(Table 5.6) and should dominate the higher-priced, quality end of the market.
In 1980, Malaysia exported 1,553 tons of rubber, equivalent to 48% of total
exports; by 1991 its share had fallen to 29% as total production fell and
domestic use in manufacturing rose, often to be exported in higher value form.
The export of rubber manufactures from Malaysia increased from M$84 million in
1980 to M$1,356 million in 1990. Import demand will be greatest in Asia where
high population levels and growth, and high income growth and elasticity of
demand, accompanied by increasing industrialization is expected to strengthen
import demand from 1.55 million tons in 1991 to over 2.4 million tons within
15 years.
Table 5.6: World Trade in Rubber
(000 tons)
1980    1990      1991     1992    2000    2005
Exports
Total           3,259   4,150   4,232      4,370   5,127    5,598
Malaysia        1,553   1,291   1,250      1,260   1,484    1,512
Indonesia         886   1,149   1,158      1,189   1,452    1,643
Thailand          483   1,158   1,186      1,215   1,480    1,518
Imports
Total           3,388   4,150   4,233      4,370   5,127    5,598
N. America        772     982      953       927   1,060    1,141
EEC               780     800     860        870      948    1,003
Asia              821   1,536   1,550      1,606   2,185    2,404
Source: Economic Report 1991/92, Ministry of Finance, Malaysia; World Bank,
International Economics Department.
5.12      Prices and Costs.  In turrent dollars rubber prices have fallen from
US$1.62/kg in 1980 to US$1.00/kg in 1991 (Table 5.7), and to US$0.97/kg in
early 1992. Prices are unlikely to firm until the global economy pulls out of
recession, but are then expected to double over the long run. In constant
dollars the price of rubber adjusted for inflation in 1991 had fallen 58% from
US$1.55/kg in 1980 to a record low of US$0.65/kg in 1991. Constant dollar
prices are expected to increase over the long run but only to US$0.84
equivalent. Malaysia's average cost of production from mature rubber
plantings in 1991 was about M$0.90/kg for field costs, M$0.80/kg for tapping
and M$0.35/kg for processing and marketing, to give a total cost of M$2.05/kg
(equivalent to US$0.74/kg). For immature rubber the cost is about US$1.10/kg.



- 41 -
Table 5.7: Rubber Prices and Price Projections
(US Cents/kg)
Actual                      Proiected      Change
1980    1985   1990  1991        1995   2000  2005    %
Current Prices        162       92    103   100         146    176   206   +27
Const. 1985 Prices    155       92     70    65          86     86    84   -46
Source: IBRD
5.13      Industry Competitiveness.  The future of Malaysia's rubber industry
depends on its international competitiveness and the adjustment actions taken
to counter the decline in relative prices. Between 1980 and 1990 the moving
average real price of rubber fell 55%. The short-term reaction of smallholders
has been to keep planted area fairly constant at about 1.8 million ha while
tapping less (Table 5.8). Estates on the other hand have more quickly
replaced rubber with oil palm. In just ten years, estates' share of output
fell from nearly 40% to 28% because it was more profitable to grow oil palm.
This does not, however, mean that Malaysia should not continue to grow rubber,
particularly on lands marginal for oil palm because of transport distances,
soil conditions and slopes. Using the same protection estimates methodology
as for palm oil (para 5.7) and the pricing structure shown in Annex 6, Table
9, both the nominal and effective rates of protection are effectively zero.
Small welfare transfers are given to some smallholders but not to the industry
as such. The static model two sector DRC analysis estimates that it costs
M$0.99 of domestic resources to earn M$1.00 of value-added in rubber
production, with the analysis being most sensitive to assumptions about the
opportunity cost of labor. The economic implication is that growers who can
produce below the average cost should stay in production, as well as those
able to reach value-added above the average. Long-run adjustment will see
continued relocation of rubber onto land with lower opportunity cost,
increased concentration among smallholders with lower marginal opportunity
cost of labor and technology changes to raise the productivity of labor.
5.14      Malaysia generally receives a higher price than the published grade
prices because of consistent quality. Advances in technology allow cleaner
latex of specifications between narrow limits to be supplied. Buyers
increasingly prefer direct purchases tailored to specific requirements and pay
a premium. While industrialization puts Malaysia at a disadvantage in terms
of labor costs, it brings gains in processing and marketing advantages and
suggests that concentration on the high value top end of the market will
ensure a healthy long-run competitive position.



- 42 -
Table 5.8 Malaysian Rubber Statistics 1985 - 1992
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Prices (H cents/kg)           249      310     262      233     230      235
Planted Area (000 ha)       1,898   1,861   1,848   1,832   1,825   1,819
-  smallholdings              --      --    1,486   1,480   1,480   1,480
- estates                     --      --      362     352      345     339
Production (000 tons)        1,581  1,660   1,419   1,291   1,250    1,260
- smallholding               1,094  1,186      931     892      890      897
- estate                       487    473      488     399      360       363
Yield (kg/ha)
- smallholdings              1,113  1,191      988     909   1,000    1,025
- estates                    1,531  1,495   1,389   1,329   1,400    1,424
Source: Government of Malaysia, Economic Reports
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.1       The benefits of the project would be: (a) strengthening of FELCRA's
agricultural performance (paras. 3.6 and 3.10(a)); (b) promoting its
disengagement from the management of mature schemes (para. 3.13); (c)
production of an incremental 105,000 tons of palm oil per year and 34,000 tons
of rubber per year for export to meet firm international demand (paras. 5.1
and 5.2); and (d) improvement of the incomes of some 24,000 beneficiaries with
annual average incomes for a family of five below M$436/month (US$145), among
the poorest in the country, expected to benefit (paras. 6.4 and 6.6). The net
foreign exchange earnings by full development in 2010 (using projected world
market prices and in 1992 constant dollars) would be about US$100 million per
year. The project would be an effective means of implementing the
Government's rural development strategy of improving smallholder incomes and
self-reliance and in promoting human resource development.
Scheme Income Analysis
6.2       Oil Ralm Schemes.  The analysis is based on a typical scheme model
of 300 ha of land being developed for oil palm to rehabilitate some 120
smallholder properties averaging 2.5 ha each. Development costs over four



- 43 -
years amount to M$6,058/ha (Table 6.1 and Annex 6, Table 4). The scheme is
provided with buildings, electricity, water supply and other infrastructure,
as well as vehicles and equipment. FELCRA provides management services
during the development phase. The first crop of about 1.7 tons ffb/ha is
harvested three years after planting. Yields rise rapidly to a little over 20
tons/ha by year 9 and remain at this level for about 10 years after which they
gradually decline (Annex 6, Table 1). The cash flow remains negative until
year 6 (Annex 6, Table 5). FELCRA's loan to the settlers covers expenditures
during development. Cost recovery is made by deduction from receipts due
beneficiaries for delivery of ffb to FELCRA or other mills. Beneficiaries who
chose to work on the scheme typically earn some M$1,875 per year from 250 days
field maintenance work at M$7.50 per day, the current wage for this work in
FELCRA schemes. Harvesting is done by contractors. Beneficiaries also
receive dividend payments from scheme net profit after debt service, starting
about five years after planting. By year 9, a beneficiary family working on
the scheme would receive an income of M$3,917 from dividends and M$2,813 from
wages for 1.5 labor units to give a total income of M$6,729 per year (Annex 6,
Table 6), about double that of the without project situation. The scheme IRR
with full cost recovery and under the assumptions used, is estimated to be
11%.
Table 6.1: Summary Oil Palm Schemes
Scheme Model    Scheme 1       Scheme 2     Scheme 3
Devel. cost/ha             6,058         3,846          3,176         4,726
Yield tons/ha               22.3          25.3           21.1          21.9
Oper. cost/ton                68            57             67             35
Price/ton ffb                145           144            139           153
Gross margin/ton              77            87             72           118
G.M./ha                    1,717         2,201          1,519           n/a
Source: Annex 6, Tables 4-6.
6.3       The results of this model were compared with the actual performance
of the three ongoing palm oil schemes given in FELCRA's Agricultural
Performance Study (1991), as a check on the validity of the assumptions.
Based on current contracts, unit development costs of some M$6,106/ha are from
60% to 90% higher than for the three schemes developed some 10 years or more
ago (Table 6.1). Operating costs for the period 1988-90 averaged between
M$35/ton and M$67/ton of ffb harvested. The Performance Report states that
these figures are low because of procurement difficulties with fertilizer and
the model operating cost estimate of M$68/ton ffb seems reasonable as do
yields. The ffb prices are those received by the schemes for 1989 and the
average of M$145/ton ffb at mill gate is used in the summary table. The gross
margin/ton varies between M$72 and M$87/ton with the excessively high figure
for the third scheme being due to inadequate fertilizer application and not
sustainable. The gross margin per ha of the model is estimated to peak at



- 44 -
M$1,717/ha in year 9 lying either side of the actual performances of the two
schemes. The model and its assumptions are considered valid with profit
performance differences between old and new schemes being fully accounted for
by changes in cost-price relationships.
6.4       With FELCRA's existing average share size of 2.5 ha and using
current costs, prices and yield profiles, the total maximum annual income for
a working beneficiary (about 9 years after planting) is estimated to be
N$6,729. While this is above the OPP2 relative poverty estimate of M$5,232
for 1990 (M$436/month), the net income falls below this threshold once loan
repayment begins in year 11 and does not fully recover as yields eventually
decline through the 15 year repayment period. Doubling the share size to 5.0
ha raises the average income for a working beneficiary to M$8,707.
Table 6.2: Income Effect of Share Size
2.5 ha                 5.0 ha
Gross mergin                      4,322                    8,644
Debt service                      1,375                    2,750
Net income                        2,947                    5,894
Wages from scheme                 2,813                    2,813
- Total income/year               5,760                   8,707
- Relative poverty line           5,232                   5,232
6.5       The model is most sensitive to palm oil price assumptions.  Scheme
and mill records show ffb prices per ton varying from M$224 in 1984 to M$76 in
1985 to M$180 in 1988 and down to M$110 in 1990 reflecting movements in
international prices of the final products (para 5.6). Palm oil prices in
current dollars have declined from a high of US$729/ton in 1984 to US$342/ton
in 1991, CIF Rotterdam. This price nevertheless remains above the cost of
production of between US$200-$250/ton (para 5.6). In constant 1985 dollars,
to eliminate the effect of inflation, the trend has been generally downwards
from US$716/ton in 1970 to a low of US$199/ton in 1990. The long-run
projected price affecting project output most is expected to be US$183/ton in
constant dollars. Without improvements in productivity, the long-run expected
cost is US$156/ton. To offset the effect of falling prices, the project will
promote best agricultural management practices to maximize productivity
improvements. However, this will not exhaust the yield potential of oil palm.
It can be expected that over the life of the trees to be planted under the
project, average yields will be higher than those used in the model.
6.6       Rubber Schemes.  The analysis is based on a typical 200 ha scheme
with 80 beneficiaries. The development approach is the same as for oil palm.



- 45 -
Development cost over the seven years to tapping emounts to M$7,238 per ha,
based on current contracts (Annex 6, Table 7). Yields rise from 520 kg of
latex per ha to a peak of 1,750 kg/ha some 10 years later and slowly decline.
The total investment reaches M$1.64 million, about M$20,000 per family.
FELCRA's tapping costs are typically about M$1.20/kg for young rubber falling
to about M$0.85/kg for trees at peak production. With less frequent tapping,
average tapping cost would fall at least 15% to M$1.02/kg-M$0.68/kg. The cash
flow remains negative until year 8 when the first tapping yields 520 kg/ha
(Annex 6, Table 8). Under the project, less frequent (third daily) tapping
would reduce the number of tappers required and would increase labor
productivity to give a net 15% savings on unit labor costs. The rate of
return on the rubber scheme model with full cost recovery is estimated at 12%.
Beneficiaries working on the scheme as tappers, machinery operators or field
maintenance laborers would receive a net income of some M$6,000 per family by
year 13 made up of about equal shares of wages and dividends (Annex 6, Table
9). The results are marginally better than those for oil palm because rubber
yields and real prices do not decline as quickly.
6.7       The model and its assumptions were compared with results of
FELCRA's Agricultural Performance report on ongoing schemes. The development
cost of M$7,238/ha based on current contracts is consistent with the average
cost of M$6,313/ha for schemes developed during the 1980s, adjusted for
inflation. The 7-year period to first tapping used in the model is one year
longer than the commercial standard but six-months shorter than FELCRA's
average. Yields are consistent with those being achieved on well managed
FELCRA schemes but lower than those on estates. The net income per working
beneficiary of M$6,000/year at full development is towards the high end of the
range reported by the profit and loss analysis of ongoing schemes given in the
Performance study. However, the income estimate is considered conservative
under good management and using the practices discussed in para. 3.6. The
chief difference between the model and the actual performance of FELCRA's
rubber schemes is that model yields do not show the drop after year 12
resulting from poor tapping practices (para 2.10).
6.8       The model is most sensitive to assumptions on the price of rubber
relative to tapping labor cost, which accounts for 70% - 80% of the production
cost. In real terms (1985 constant dollars projections, Annex 6, Table 3),
rubber prices are expected to rise by 20% over the next decade, an average of
2% per year. At current wages, both FELCRA and the estate sectors are losing
10% to 15% of rubber production because of tapper unavailability and poorly
skilled tappers are adversely affecting current production and tree life. A
move to third daily tapping will require 30% fewer tappers for a given area,
but they will need a higher skill level and adequate incentives. On the
49,400 ha to be converted to third daily tapping under the project, the number
of tappers needed would be reduced from 24,000 to 16,000 at full development.
Other industry advances in nursery and agronomic practices indicate potential
yield increases in the near future beyond that assumed for the project.
6.9       Scheme Cost Recovery.  All land development costs are recovered
except management costs, which are about 5% of annual operating costs. The
interest rate charged on land development loans has generally been positive in



- 46 -
real terms, bat involves a small subsidy element (para. 2.17(b)), which has
been justified as an income transfer to a poverty target group. Beneficiaries
assume full financial responsibility for these loans and, under the project,
will pay full management costs after loan repayment. Loan repayment rates are
about 95% (para. 2.18), as collection is made through deduction from payment
due to beneficiaries for ffb and rubber marketed by FELCRA.
Project Analysis
6.10      The base case rate of return at economic costs and prices, all in
terms of constant 1992 dollars, is estimated at 13% (Annex 6, Table 10). The
IRR for rubber is 12% and that for palm oil is 11%. To this is added the
tapping cost saving of 15%/kg of rubber from introducing the reduced frequency
tapping method to about 50,000 ha phased in over 8 years. Not included in the
benefits are the expected, but unquantifiable, gains from the adoption of
third daily tapping by producers other than FELCRA schemes and the benefits of
the access roads external to the schemes. All development and operating costs
are included with full costing of access roads. One half of the training cost
is included, since the other half is apportioned to activities of FELCRA not
related to the project. The result is insensitive to assumptions on training
costs. Similarly, FELCRA head office overheads are included at 15% of the
total cost, since this represents the project share of FELCRA's overall
activities. This rate of return is considered satisfactory under the
assumption of a 10% opportunity cost of capital for Malaysia.
6.11      Economic pricing.  Prices of investment items are estimated net of
taxes and duties. Most significant are the excise duties (30%) and sales tax
(10%) on vehicles and lower rates on equipment such as weighbridges. The cost
of current inputs such as fertilizers are also net of taxes. The farm-gate
prices of oil palm and rubber in Malaysia reflect their full economic value.
The only market intervention program for palm oil is an export duty on crude
palm oil to encourage domestic processing. This is currently about 3% of the
fob price but is insignificant since less than 5% of output is exported as
CPO. For rubber, the buffer stock operations of INRO have no effect on inter-
year prices.
6.12      The oil palm prices used in the analysis are the Rotterdam cif
price projections less freight, insurance, financial charges and delivery
losses adjusted back to the farm gate (Annex 6, Table 2). The New York spot
price of RSS1 rubber (Annex 6, Table 3) is adjusted to RSS3 level to reflect
average quality of project output and is further derived to the farm gate
(Annex 6, Table 9). The impact of project output on world markets is already
included in the price projections. No adjustment in the price of foreign
exchange is needed since the ringgit is freely convertible at the market rate.
Similarly, the labor market functions without controls and the analysis
assumes that the marginal productivity of labor equals the wage rate.
6.13      Sensitivity Analysis.  The rate of return is markedly insensitive
to changes in assumptions (Annex 6, Table 10). A 20% increase in the cost of
tapping over and above the general inflation rate reduces the rate of return
on the rubber scheme model by only 1%. A doubling of the cost of tapping only



- 47 -
reduces the rate of return to 7%. This is because tapping is not a
significant cost until year 10. At the project level, the effect is mixed
since the rise in tapping cost increases the benefits due to tapping cost
savings from introduction of the third daily system. Similarly, the return is
relatively insensitive to changes in investment costs. A 10% increase in
investment costs results in a fall of the rate of return from 13% to 12%.
This is because the annual operating costs, particularly for oil palm are
higher than the annual investment costs. Results of sensitivity tests across
a range of assumptions is given in Annex 6, Table 11.
Proiect Risk
6.14      The only major risk for the project would be a steeper
deterioration in the cost-price relationships for rubber production than could
be offset by productivity gains, which would leave FELCRA holding significant
areas of untapped rubber. The success of the new tapping technology, which
will be the major sources of productivity gains, depends on the supply,
training and supervision of workers. The project training component will need
to be matched by a system of incentives adequate to motivate tappers in a fast
growing economy of rising expectations (para. 3.6). The risk is less in oil
palm because the main labor requirement is largely for unskilled workers and
wage rates are competitive with non-agricultural wages. The project is fully
sustainable and self-financing after the development investment period. The
Government assures the necessary budget funds to complete investment needs
after the project period, and the whole thrust of the project is to encourage
smallholders to take over the full management and associated costs of their
group farms.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
(a)   By December 31, 1992, FELCRA shall establish and thereafter maintain
a new Plantation Division headed by a qualified and experienced
officer (para 3.10(a));
(b)   By December 31, 1992, FELCRA shall establish and thereafter maintain
a new Finance Division headed by a qualified and experienced officer
(para 3.10(b));
(c)   FELCRA shall, from time to time, exchange views with the Bank on its
program to devolve to private institutions, the management of palm
oil processing mills, and agricultural schemes which have repaid
their land development loans (para. 3.13);
(d)   By December 31, 1992, FELCRA will appoint an independent firm of
accounting consultants to carry out a financial management review of
FELCRA's accounting policies and practices (para. 3.14(a));



- 48 -
(e)   FELCRA shall submit to the Bank within nine months of the end of
each fiscal year, its audited financial statements including a
separate audit opinion on the use of funds disbursed against SOEs
(para 4.7); and
(f)   By December 31, 1992, FELCRA shall incorporate into its planting
directives and inspectorate check lists, adequate environmental
directives and guidelines (para 4.10).
7.2       With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$94.0 million to Malaysia. The loan would have a
repayment period of 17 years, including a grace period of 5 years at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.



MALAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Detailed Cost Table
NS
Base Costs                                      Base Costs in USS
_UUU3UUUUUSU   MnU3_U                         _ _ _  _  _  _  _ _
Unit       1992     1993      1994      1995    Totol         1992      1993      1994     1995    Total
..................................................  ............................................................................................................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. CROP ESTABLISNIENT/REHAB
OIL PALM                   7500.0   7500.0   7500.0   7500.0  30000.0          27m7.8   27m7.8   27m7.3   2777.8  11111.1
RUBBER                     6274.5   6274.5   6274.5   6274.5  25098.0          2323.9   2323.9   2323.9   2323.9   9295.6
DIVERSIFIED CROPS          1500.0   1500.0   1500.0   1500.0   6000.0           555.6    555.6    555.6    555.6   2222.2
Sub*Total                  15274.5  15274.5  15274.5  15274.5  61098.0          5657.2   5657.2   5657.2   5657.2  22628.9
8. CROP MAINTENANCE
OIL PALM                  71869.7  62839.6  51830.3  49356.3 235895.9         26618.4  23273.9  19196.4  18280.1  87368.9
RUBBER                    18283.0  19683.4  21628.4  24351.4  83946.2          6771.5   7290.1   8010.5   9019.0  31091.2
DIVERSIFICATION            2845.1   3834.7   4576.9   5319.1  16575.8          1053.7   1420.3   1695.1   1970.0   6139.2
Sub-Total                  92997.8  86357.7  78035.6  79026.8 336417.9        34443.6  31984.3  28902.1  29269.2  124599.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           10827.3  101632.2  93310.1  94301.3 397515.9        40100.9  37641.6  34559.3  34926.4  14J228.1
*72M ===E s======== ====== g=Z=====  ==__====2 zC====== == ====--==                    =  =zZ===
Total                         108272.3  101632.2  93310.1  94301.3 397515.9       40100.9  3764;.6  34559.3  34926.4  147228.1                       C.
Values scaled by 1000.0 3/3/1992  15:47
ii1



MkLAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHENE INFRASTRUCTURE & BUILDINGS
Detaited Cost Table
Ns
Base Costs                                   Base Costs in USS
Unit      1992      1993      1994     1995    Total        1992    1993    1994    1995   Total
..................................................  ................................................................................ ......................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. SCHEME INFRASTRUCTURE
ACCESS ROADS               22040.0  17300.0   9470.0   2790.0  51600.0        8163.0  6407.4  3507.4  1033.3  19111.1
WATER SUPPLY                3860.0   5130.0   3840.0   1250.0  14080.0        1429.6  1900.0  1422.2   463.0  5214.8
ELECTRICITY                 3360.0   1490.0   1800.0    580.0   7230.0        1244.4   551.9   666.7   214.8  2677.8
SCHEME OFF.& STAFF HOUSES   5960.0  105F0.0   5340.0   4080.0  25960.0        2207.4  3918.5  1977.8  1511.1  9614.8
LOWDING RAMPS               1300.0   1500.0   2300.0   1800.0   6900.0         481.5   555.6   851.9   666.7  2555.6
LATEX COLLECTION CENTRES     100.0    140.0    120.0    200.0    560.0         37.0    51.9    44.4    74.1   207.4
Sub-Total                   36620.0  36140.0  22870.0  107C0.0  106330.0    13563.0  13385.2  8470.4  3963.0 39381.5
B. OTHER CIVIL WORKS
STATE OFFICES               5500.0      0.0   1000.0   1000.0   7500.0        2037.0     0.0   370.4   370.4  2777.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            42120.0  36140.0  23870.0  11700.0  113830.0    15600.0  13385.2  8840.7  4333.3 42139.3
Total                          42120.0  36140.0  23871.0  11700.0  113830.0    15600.0  13385.2  8840.7  4333.3 42159.3
Values scaled by 1000.0 3/3/1992  15:48



- 51 -                              ANNEX 1
Table 2b
MALAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phasing of Buildings in Scheme Infrastructure
(No. of Units)
1992      1993      1994      1995       Total
office                               6         31         8        15        60
Store                                7         36        11        15        69
Garage                               6         31         8        15        60
Staff Houses                       121        300       182      127       730



MALAYSIA
THIRD FEtCRA LAND DEVELOPENT PROJECT
TRtAINING
Detailed Cost Table
NS
Base Costs                              Base Costs in US#
Unit     1992    1993    1994    1995   Total          1992   1993   1994   1995  Total
1. INVESTIENT COSTS
................
A. TRAINING
TRAINING  MATERIALS      910.0   150.0   100.0    50.0  1210.0        337.0   55.6   37.0   18.5  448.1
TRAINING CENTERS        4710.0   250.0      0.0     0.0  4960.0    1744.4   92.6    0.0    0.0  1837.0
OVERSEAS CORSES          260.0   370.0   370.0   240.0  1240.0         96.3  137.0  137.0   88.9  459.3
LOCAL COURSES           2020.0  3400.0  2540.0  2540.0  10500.0       748.1  1259.3  940.7  940.7 3888.9
Si-oal70 .  .......  31......  23......   19......  2......  ......   1......   .......  ........
Sub-Total  t             7900.0  4170.0  3010.0  2830.0  17910.0    2925.9  1544.4  1114.8  1048.1 6633.3
....... .   ........  ........  .......     ........  .......  .......    .......
Totat I7STMENT OSTS             7900.0  4170.0  3010.0  2830.0  17910.0    2925.9  1544.4  1114.8  1048.1  6633.3
U UUUSUU33US3twflUUU3SS * t   t2sS3US- m2U 222    ===5=2= ===ZS== S======2 =======
Total                        7900.0  4170.0  3010.0  2830.0  17910.0    2925.9  1544.4  1114.8  1048.1 6633.3
- Values scaled by 1000.0 3/3/1992  15:48
vi



NALAYSIA
TIIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
PROJECT STUDIES
Detailed Cost Table
ns
Base Costs                     Base Costs in USS
2=3=2=s2332=3=3==3===33=33ss33sr   3=323=:ssa======3..  ==22=2
Unit    1992   1993 1994-95   Total        1992   1993 1994-95   Total
,....................................................  ................................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. STUDIES
CORPORATE StUDIES       200.0  150.0  150.0  650.0          74.1   55.6   S5.6  240.7
ACCOUNTING SYSTEMS      600.0  1700.0    0.0  2300.0       222.2  629.6    0.0  851.9
.......   ....... . . . .    .    .   . .......  .......   .......   .......   .......
Sub-Total                800.0  1850.0  150.0  2950.0       296.3  685.2   55.6  1092.6
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS          800.0  1850.0  150.0 2950 .0       296.3  685.2   55.6  1092.6
3=3=3 3333332 3=-2==3 --=-==-2    =32=2= ======= ======= =.=====
Total                        800.0  1850.0  150.0 295O.0        296.3  685.2   55.6  1092.6
- Values scaled by 1000.0 3/3/1992 15:48
w
/~~~~~~



MALAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT
Detailed Cost Table
NS
Base Costs                             Base Costs in USS
Unit    1992    1993    1994    1995   Total        1992    1993    1994    1995   Total
.............................................  ................................................................................................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. VENICLES
4 WHEEL DRIVE         4230.0  6030.0  2880.0  2700.0 15840.0    1566.7  2233.3  1066.7  1000.0  5866.7
TRACTOR 60HP           920.0   280.0   600.0  2080.0  3880.0      340.7   103.7   222.2   770.4  1437.0
TRACTOR 70HP          1080.0  1170.0  3110.0  4010.0  9370.0      400.0   433.3  1151.9  1485.2  3470.4
TRAILER 3.5 TON        320.0   40.0   150.0   260.0   770.0       118.5    14.8    55.6   96.3   285.2
TRAILER 5 TON          590.0   180.0   480.0   620.0  1870.0      218.5   66.7   177.8   229.6   692.6
PASSENGER CAR, TYPE A    140.0   140.0   0.0     0.0   280.0       51.9    51.9     0.0     0.0   103.7
PASSENGER CAR, TYPE B    0.0     0.0   110.0    30.0   140.0        0.0     0.0    40.7    11.1    51.9
SPEEDBOAT              120.0    40.0   120.0     0.0   280.0       44.4    14.8    44.4     0.0   103.7
Sub-Total              7400.0  7880.0  7450.0  9700.0 32430.0    2740.7  2918.5  2759.3  3592.6 12011.1
B. EQUIPMENT
WEIGHBRIDGE            540.0   450.0   360.0   450.0  1800.0      200.0   166.7   133.3   166.7   666.7
COMPUTERS             4600.0     0.0     0.0     0.0  4600.0    1703.7    0.0       0.0     0.0  1703.7
INPLEMENTS              30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0   120.0       11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1    44.4
OFFICE EWIPNENT       1100.0  16S.0  1450.0   450.0  4690.0       407.4   625.9   537.0   166.7  1737.0                                n
FURNITURE              800.0   800.0   800.0   800.0  3200.0      296.3   296.3   296.3   296.3  1185.2
Sub*TotaL              707?.0  2970.0  2640.0  1730.0 14410.0    2618.5  1100.0   977.8   640.7  5337.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS       14470.0 10850.0 10090.0 11430.0 46840.0    5359.3  4018.5  3737.0  4233.3 17348.1
===:== u=3=33=== uu    u=====3 s=3333       = s 3    = s s==u=====     3=3 -3
Total                     14470.0 10850.0 10090.0 11430.0 46840.0    5359.3  4018.5  3737.0  4233.3 1734.1
- Values scaled by 1000.0 3/3/1992 15:48
I-.1



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5b
MALAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phasing of Vehicles and Equipment
(No. of Units)
Unit cost
incl. tax
1992    1993    1994    1995    Total    (M$ '000)
4 Wheel Drive                  94      134       64       50      352          45
Tractor (60-70 HP type)        23        7       15       52        97         40
Tractor (70-80 HP type)        24       26       69       89       208         45
Trailer (3-1/2 ton type)       64        7       29       52      152           5
Trailer (5 ton type)           84       26       69       89      268           7
Passenger Car type A             2       2        -        -         4         70
Passenger Car type B             -       -        3        1         4         35
Speedboat                        3       1        3        0         7         40
Weighbridge                      6       5        4        5        20         90



MALAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPtMET PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Detailed Cost Table
Ns
Base Costs                                          Baso  Costs in USS
1992      1993       1994      1995     TotaL          1992      1993       1994      1995      Total
..................................................     ............................................................................................................
11. RECURRENT COSTS
...............
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
STAFF SALARIES             46500.0   51402.0   54372.0   57494.0  209768.0         17222.2   1907.8   20137.8   21294.1   77691.9
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE   20971.0   25506.0   28268.0   31366.0  106111.0           7767.0    9446.7   10469.6   11617.0  39300.4
NISCELLAEOUS                1599.0    2466.0    2590.0    2719.0    9374.0           592.2     913.3      959.3    1007.0    3471.9
S...;l60..  .........0 850.0 ......... .032 3.0          258.7. .......8   .........  ......... .........
SUbRTota                    69070.0   79374.0   85230.0   91579.0  325253.0         25581.5   29397.8   31566.7   33918.1  120464.1
*3UU=3333..      .    ... 3....              3 3 .. ......... .........    ......... .........33 ......... ......... .........
Total RE RENT COS69070.0   79374.0   85230.0   91579.0  325253.0                           25581.5   29397.8   31566.7  33918.1  120464.1
Totcl                           69070.0   79374.0   85230.0   91579.0  325253.0         25581.5   29397.8   31566.7   33918.1  120464.1
_ = _ _ _ _    _    55585==5=5---=~~~~~~~~~~~--------------g _ 
- VaLues scaled by 1000.0 3/3/1992 15:49
CU
0' I-



MALAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NS
Sumary Accounts by Year
Base Costs                              Foreign Exchange
...................................................     ................................................................... .........
1992      1993       1994      1995      Total          X    Amwot
UU=UUUU===33==-==DUSUUUUUZ=32=Z3=3333==--    33a3.3uzuuu33
1. INVST1IENT COSTS
...................
A. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT
1. CROP ESTABLISHMENT               15.3       15.3      15.3       15.3      61.1         40.0   24.4
2. INITIAL MAINTENANCE              93.0       86.4      78.0       79.0     336.4         40.0  134.6
Sub-total                             108.3      101.6       93.3      94.3      397.5         40.0  159.0
B. CIVIL WORKS
1. STATE OFFICES                     5.5        0.0       1.0        1.0        7.5        35.0    2.6
2. SCHENE HO COMPLEXES              36.6       36.1      22.9       10.7      106.3        36.0   38.2
3. TRAINING CENTERS                  4.7        0.3        0.0       0.0        5.0         35.0    1.7
Subtotal                               46.8       36.4       23.9      11.7      118.8         35.9   42.6
C. VEHICLES & EQUIPNENT
1. VEHICLES                          7.4        7.9       7.4        9.7      32.4         77.4   25.1
2. EQUIPNENT                         7.1        3.0       2.6        1.7       14.4        94.4   13.6
Su- total                              14.5       10.8       10.1      11.4       46.8         82.6   38.7
D. TRAINING
1. TRAINING EQIP.& MATERIALS         0.9        0.1       0.1        0.0        1.2       100.0    1.2
2. OVERSEAS TRAINING                 0.3        0.4       0.4        0.2        1.2       100.0    1.2
3. LOCAL TRAINING                    2.0        3.4       2.5        2.5       10.5        25.0    2.6                                                        1
Sub-totaL                               3.2        3.9        3.0       2.8       12.9        39.2    5.1
E. STUDIES
1. CORPORATE STUDIES                 0.2        0.1       0.1        0.1       0.6        100.0    0.6
2. ACCOUNTING SYSTEMS                0.6        1.7       0.0        0.0        2.3       100.0    2.3
Sub-total                               0.8        1.8        0.1       0.1        2.9        100.0    2.9
.............................................. ............................................................    ..................
Total INVSTNENT COSTS                 173.6      154.6     130.4      120.4      579.0        42.9  248.3
II. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
F.  STAFF SALARIES                     46.5       51.4      54.4       57.5     209.8          0.0    0.0
G. OPERATION & NAINTENANCE             21.0       25.5      28.3       31.4      106.1         0.0    0.0
H. NISCELLANEOUS                        1.6        2.5        2.6       2.7        9.4         0.0    0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                  69.1       79.4      85.2       91.6     325.3          0.0    0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                  242.6      234.0     215.7      212.0     904.3         27.5  248.3
Physical Contingencies               0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0          0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies                  4.8       14.1      22.1       31.0      72.1         25.7   18.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                   247.4      248.1     237.8      243.0     976.4         27.3  266.8                                                      0 :
3=33==== e~      = 3 3 3 Z            U 3 3=             =S33==========3==...====.
Taxes                                1.9        2.7       1.4        1.3       7.2          0.0    0.0
Foreign Exchange                    76.3      68.9       61.2      60.4      266.8        100.0  266.8                           . X
........................................................................................................                                                       -- 
values Scaled by 1000000.0  3/3/1992  15:49



MALAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sumrmry Account by Project Component
Ns
Physical           Price
VEHICLES                                                   Contir6encies      Contingencies
AGRIC.   INFRASTR       &                             PROJECT                ...........--................
DEVELPT   UCTURE   EOUIPNNT   STUDIES  TRAINING  NANAGNUT         Total         X      Amount       X   Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
1. CROP ESTABLISHMENT                   61.1        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       61.1       0.0        0.0      8.2        5.0
2. INITIAL MAINTENANCE                 336.4        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      336.4       0.0        0.0      7.9      26.5
......................................................................... ........................... ...........
Sub-total                               397.5        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      397.5        0.0       0.0      7.9       31.5
B. CIVIL WORKS
1. STATE OFFICES                         0.0        7.5        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        7.5       0.0        0.0      4.8       0.4
2. SCHEME HO COGPLEXES                   0.0      106.3        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      106.3       0.0        0.0      6.4       6.8
3. TRAINING CENTERS                      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       5.0        0.0        5.0       0.0        0.0      2.2        0.1
Sub-total                                 0.0      113.8        0.0        0.0       5.0        0.0      118.8        0.0       0.0      6.1        7.3
C. VEHICLES & EOJIPMENT
1. VEHICLES                              0.0        0.0      32.4        0.0        0.0        0.0      32.4        0.0        0.0      8.5       2.8
2. EWIPUENT                              0.0        0.0       14.4       0.0        0.0        0.0       14.4       0.0        0.0      5.7        0.8
Sub-total                                 0.0        0.0       46.8        0.0       0.0        0.0       46.8       0.0        0.0      7.6        3.6                   OD
D. TRAINING
1, TRAINING EOIP.& NATERIALS             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        1.2        0.0        1.2       0.0        0.0     3.6        0.0
2. OVERSEAS TRAINING                     0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        1.2        0.0        1.2       0.0        0.0      8.0        0.1
3. LOCAL TRAINING                        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      10.5        0.0       10.5       0.0        0.0      8.4        0.9
...................... ................................................. ........................... .......    ...
Sub-total                                 0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       12.9        0.0       12.9       0.0        0.0      7.9        1.0
E. STUDIES
1. CORPORATE STUDIES                     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.6        0.0        0.0       0.6        0.0        0.0     7.6        0.0
2. ACCOUNTING SYSTEBS                    0.0        0.0       0.0        2.3        0.0        0.0        2.3       0.0        0.0     4.9        0.1
........................................................................................................ .......
Sub-totat                                 0.0        0.0        0.0       2.9        0.0        0.0        2.9       0.0        0.0      5.5        0.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  397.5      113.8      46.8        2.9       17.9        0.0     579.0        0.0        0.0      7.5      43.6
11. RECURRENT COSTS
..............
A. STAFF SALARIES                         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      209.8      209.8       0.0        0.0      8.6       18.1
B. OPERATION & MAINTENANCE                0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      106.1      106.1       0.0        0.0      9.0       9.5
C. NISCELLANEOUS                          0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        9.4        9.4       0.0        0.0      9.1       0.8
................................................................................................................
Total RECURRENT COSTS                     0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      325.3     325.3        0.0        0.0      8.8      28.5                 1  |
Total BASELINE COSTS                    397.5      113.8      46.8        2.9       17.9      325.3     904.3        0.0        0.0      8.0       72.1
Physical Contingencies                  0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0                     
Price Contingencies                    31.5        7.2       3.6        0.2        1.1       28.5      72.1        0.0        0.0                                    OD F-
................................................................................................................
Total PROJECT COSTS                     429.1      121.0       50.4       3.1       19.0      353.8     976.4        0.0        0.0      7.4      72.1
=== ~3 ===== =                  =================_=======================_== -                               -==  
Taxes                                   0.0        0.0       7.2        0.0        0.0        0.0       7.2        0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                      171.4      43.4       41.7        3.1        7.2        0.0     266.8        0.0        0.0



MALAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Suary Accounts by Year
Totals  Includirg Contifgencg es                      Totals  Including Contingencies
Ns                                                     US$
....................................                    .......................................................... ..................
1992    1993    1994    1995   TotaL                 1992    1993    1994    1995   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
1. CROP ESTABLISHMENT                        15.6    16.2    16.8    17.5    66.1                  5.8       6.0       6.2      6.5    24.5
2. INITIAL  MAINTENANCE                      94.8    91.6    86.0    90.6   363.0                 35.1    33.9    31.9    33.5   134.4
............         .....................          .  . ........................................................... .................
Sub-Total                                       110.4   107.7   102.8   108.1   429.1                 40.9    39.9    38.1    40.0   158.9
B. CIVIL WORKS
1. STATE OFFICES                              5.6       0.0       1.1       1.1      7.9           2.1       0.0       0.4      0.4       2.9
2. SCHEME HQ COMPLEXES                       37.3    38.3    25.2    12.3   113.1                 13.8    14.2         9.3       4.5    41.9
3. TRAINING  CENTERS                          4.8       0.3       0.0       0.0      5.1            1.8      0.1       0.0       0.0       1.9
Sub-Total                                        47.8    38.6    26.3    13.4   126.1                 17.7    14.3         9.7       5.0    46.7
C. VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT
1. VEHICLES                                   7.5       8.3      8.2    11.1    35.2               2.8       3.1      3.0       4.1    13.0                                                                             Ln
2. EQUIPMENT                                  7.2       3.1       2.9       2.0    15.2            2.7       1.2       1.1       0.7      5.6
....................................                    .......................................................... .................. 
Sub-Total                                        14.8    11.5    11.1          13.1    50.4             5.5      4.3       4.1       4.8    18.7
0. TRAINING
1. TRAINING  EQIP.&  NATERIALS                0.9       0.2      0.1       0.1       1.3           0.3       0.1      0.0       0.0       0.5
2. OVERSEAS TRAINING                          0.3       0.4       0.4      0.3       1.3           0.1       0.1       0.2      0.1       0.5
3. LOCAL TRAINING                             2.1       3.6       2.8      2.9    11.4             0.8       1.3       1.0       1.1      4.2
..... ........  ................................................  ............. .....................................
Sub-Total                                         3.3       4.2       3.3       3.2    14.0            1.2       1.5       1.2       1.2      5.2
E. STUDIES
1. CORPORATE STUDIES                          0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2       0.7           0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1       0.3
2. ACCOUNTING  SYSTEMS                        0.6       1.8       0.0      0.0       2.4           0.2       0.7       0.0      0.0       0.9
....................................                    .......................................................... ..................
Sub-Total                                         0.8       2.0       0.2       0.2      3.1           0.3       0.7       0.1       0.1      1.2
....................................                    .......................................................... ..................
Total  INVESTNENT COSTS                         177.0   163.9   143.7   137.9   622.6                 65.6    60.7    53.2    51.1   230.6
== _ _==3=3=== ==w== = =====~=====s _=e== 
It. RECURRENT COSTS
...................                                                                                                                                                                                                    7
A. STAFF SALARIES                                47.4    54.5    60.0    66.0   227.9                 17.6    20.2    22.2    24.4    84.4                                                                             I-a
S. OPERATION  & MAINTENANCE                      21.4    27.1    31.2    36.0   115.6                  7.9    10.0    11.6    13.3    42.8
C. MISCELLANEOUS                                  1.6       2.6       2.9       3.1    10.2            0.6       1.0       1.1       1.2      3.8
....................................                   .......................................................... ..................
Total RECURRENT COSTS                            70.5    84.2    94.0   105.1   353.8                 26.1    31.2    34.8    38.9   131.0
5=_===S=====Q=e=L:==-               ====       w=5=Q====== ==--=
Total PROJECT COSTS                            247.4   248.1   237.8           243.0   976.4          91.6    91.9         8.1     90.0   361.6
............................................................................................................



- 60 -
ANNEX 
NALAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES AND AMOUTS
Disbursement
Category                Amount (USS millIon)                   Dfsbursement
Percentage
1.  Agricultural Development                 58.3                         37%
2.  Cfvil Works                              17.3                         37%
3.  VehIcles, tractors,                      15.4                         (i)   100% of forefgn
trailers, speedboats,                                                       exchange cost of
equipment and furniture                                                     directly fmported
ftems;
(Cf)  100% of ex-factory
cost of locally
manufactured Items net
of taxes; and
(Mli) 75% of cost Locatty
procured Items.
4.  Training, including                       1.9                         100% of costs of overseas
overseas training,                                                    training, course and lecture
lecture fees for local                                                fees for local training and
training and training                                                 training materiaLs.
materIals
5. StudIes                                    1 1                         100% of cost of consultants.
Totat            94.0
B. DISBURSEMENT DETAILS
IBRD                Semester         Disbursement (USS milion)                                    Profile
Fiscal Year          Ending          Semester        cViulative          Cumulative X         Cumulative X
199               June 30  1992        0                  0                  0                      0
1993              Dec. 31, 1992       18.1                18.1              19                      2
June 30, 1993       12.1               30.2              32                       4
1994              Dec. 31, 1993       12.1               42.3               45                      10
June 30, 1994       10.7               53.0              56                      18
1995              Dec. 31, 1994       10.7               63.7               68                     24
June 30, 1995       10.6               74.3               79                     30
1996              Dec. 31, 1995       10.6                84.9              90                     40
June 30, 196         9.1               94.0              100                     50
Loan ClosIng Date June 30, 1996
g MaLaysian AgricuLturaL Projects (05/17/91).



-61-
Table 1
MAIAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KPFB HOLDINGS SDN. BHD.
Forecast Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
(M$ million)
1992        1993         1994         1995
Turnover                             3.284       4.795        6.581        7.836
BRenditure
Rental                           0.144       0.144        0.144        0.144
Salaries/Allowance              1.172        1.420        1.653        1.940
Office Expenses                 0.180        0.90        0.200        0.200
Travelling                       0.217       0.285        0.343        0.375
Medical                          0.047       0.066        0.083        0.092
Provident Fund (EPF)            0.157        0.192        0.234        0.263
Staff Insurance                 0.040        0.056        0.070        0.079
Repairs and Maintenance          0.063       0.063        0.063        0.063
Depreciation                    0.101        0.101        0.101        0.101
Laboratory                      0.065        0.050        0.060        0.060
Directors' Fee                  0.004        0.005        0.005        0.005
Hire Purchase                    0.185       0.090        0.090        0.090
Miscellaneous                    0.060       0.060        0.075        0.075
Audit Fees                       0.005       0.010        0.010        0.010
Interest on Loan                0.330        0.330        0.330        0.330
2.770       3.062        3.461        3.827
Profit/(Loss) Before Tax        0.515        1.733        3.119        4.009



-.62 -                     ANNEX
Table 2
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KPFB HOLDINGS SDN. BHD.
Forecast Consolidated Balance Sheet 1992-95
(M$ million)
1992        1993        1994         1995
FIXED ASSETS                        0.487       0.388       21.633      40.225
CURRENT ASSETS:
Work in Progress                6.480      27.840       27.840      27.840
Cash in Hand/Bank               0.291       0.662        0.431       1.328
Investment                      2.000       3.000        7.000      11.000
Fixed Deposit                   0.220       0.500        2.000       2.000
Debtor                          3.003       3.003        3.003       3.003
12.481      35.394      61.907       85.396
Financed by:
Share Capital                   2.452       2.452        2.452       2.452
Retaiuied Profit                0.334       1.126        2.028       2.606
Reserves                        0.034       0.369        1.495       3.522
Short Term Overdraft            0.500       0            0           0
Long Term Loan - Division       2.500       3.000        3.000       3.000
- Mills         6.480      27.840       51.840      72.412
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
Provision for Tax               0.181       0.607        1.092       1.404
12.481      35.394      61.907       85.396



63                             Annex 4
Table 1
MALAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FELCRA's Sources of Funds. 1988-90
(M$ million)
1988     1989    1990       1988-90
Government Grants
Admninistration       48.5      44.8    53.2        146.5
Development           33.0      72       86.2       191.5
81.5    117.1   139.4        33.
Govemment Loans        104.4      67.4    67.0       238.8
Obherlncome
Interest               1.2      3.6      4.2         9.0
Dividend               3.5       2.7     3.1         9.3
Miscellaneous           1 5      L1       12 37
fi.2    10.0     L.         272
Total Funding          1922l    194.5   217.4



- 64 -
Annex 4
Table 2
MALAYSIA
TID FELCRA LAMN DEVELOPMENT PROIE5
Terms and Conditions of Govemment Loans to Felcra
Grace       Grace
Free       period on    period on
Interest    Total      interest    interest     pnncipal
Period of          rate        terms       period      payment    repayment
Lon v  al          (% p.a.)    {years)     Lvear)      (year)       (years
loans for Land
1967-76             6.5         15           5           6/a          6aA
1977-80             6.5         20           5           10l        1Oj
1981-83            0.0          25          25         n/a           10&
1984                3.75*       25          10          10/4         10to4
1985                4.0         25          10          10/4         10/.4
1986                4.0         25          10          10/.4        101.4
1987                4.0         25          10          104          10 Ld
1988                4.0         25          10          1014         10/.4
1990                4.0         25          10          10/4         10/4
Loan for 
1984                7.5         15           0           3 &          3
*    Some agreements are interest free.
h    Interest is capitalized for one year befor repayment begins in year seven.
/k Interest is capitalized for five years before repayment beings in year eleven.
k    Interest-free loans.
14   No interest capitalization, as the loan is interest-firee until repayment begins in year eleven.
& Interest is capitalized for three years.



- 65 -
Annex 4
Table 3a
FEDERAL LAND CONSOLIDATION AND REHABIUTATION AUTHORITY
(incorporated In Malaysia Under Act 22 Year 1966)
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (US$)
As at December 31, 1990
M$ Million
FIJNDS PROunDFD FROM:
Loans from Government                               703.2    636.2
Grants from Government                              245.8    185.0
Bank Loan                                             0.1       0.1
Dividends Payable to Beneficiaries                   28.7      25.6
Revolving Funds                                      44.1      36.8
Felcra Accumulated MisceliRneous Income              42.2      36.1
Deferred Interest Receivable                         35.8      32.3
Palm Oil Mill Accum. Retained Eamings                 9.1       5.3
TOTAL                                              1 109.0    97
Cash at Bank                                        142.2    122.4
Other Current Assets                                 5.9       44A
202.1    166.7
Deduct: Accounts Payable                            Z7 05
Subtotal                              125.1    102.2
Investment                                            0.9       0.9
Fixed Assets (Net)                                  151.3    117.9
Long Term Accounts Receivable: (Net)
Settlers Land Development Schemes                 786.4    694.5
Setters Housing                                    24.7     21.6
Advances to Loss Makkiig Schemes                   20.6      20.3
Subtotl                                8        7364
TOTAL                                              1,09 0    957.4



- 66 -
Annax 4
Table 3b
FEDERAL LAND CONSOLIDATION AND REHABIUTATION AUTHORITY
(Incorporated in Malaysia Under Act 22 Year 1966)
LOAN ACCOUNT BALANCE SHEET (US$ MILLION)
As at December 31, 1990
M$ Million
1ai 990 98
FtUND:; PROVIDED FROM:
Government Loan for:
Settlers Land Development                        658.3    588.2
Settlers Housing                                  17.1      17.5
Investment                                         La        t2
Subtotal                               676.7    60fi 9
Bank Loan                                             0.1      0.1
Advances from (or to) other Felcra A/cs
Administration Accounts                           42.8     36.9
Trustee Account                                    62.9     43.8
Paim Oil Mill Account                             --A&
105.2     77.5
Deferred Interest Income                            35 
TOTAL                                                817.      71L,
Current Assets                                     43.9     34.1
Deduct Current Liabilities                        58Z      54 6
Net Current Liabilities                          -14.8    -20.5
Investment
Panji Alam Co. Ltd.                                 0.9       0.9
Long Term Accounts Receivable: (Net)
Setters Land Development Schemes                 786.4    694.5
Settlers Housing                                   24.7     21.6
Advances to Loss Making Schemes                    au zBZ
Subtotal                               731f      736.4
TOTAL                                                  .8      716.8



- 67 -
Annex 4
Table 3c
FEDERAL LAND CONSOLIDATION AND REHABILITATION AUTHORITY
(Incorporated In Malaysia Under Act 22 Year 1966)
TRUST ACCOUNT BALANCE SHEET
As at December 31, 1990
M$ Million
iaa
Revolving Funds
Economic Project                                        0.9                   0.9
Land Consolidation                                      0.5                   0.5
Project Investment                                      2.3                   1.2
Marketing Services                                      3.2                   2.8
Estate Insurance                                        6.6                   5.1
Replants of Palm Oil                                    9.5                   8.1
FELCRA Dividend                                       1l8
41.8                  34.4
Dividends Payable to Settlers                            287                   25 6
DTOAL                                                    70.5                  au
REPRiESENIED RY
Cash                                                     11.3                   19.4
Accounts Receivable                                        L2 12
12.5                  20.6
Deduct: Accounts Payable                                  4.                    4A
Net Current Assets                                      7.6                  16.2
Advance to Felcra Loan Account                           62                    AM
IOTAL                                                   Z7                     au



- 68 -                             Annex 4
Table 3d
FEDERAL LAND CONSOLIDATION AND REHABILITATION AUTHORITY
(Incorporated In Malaysia Under Act 22 Year 1966)
ADMINISTRATIVE ACCOUNT BALANCE SHEET (US$)
As at December 31, 1990
M$ Million
RINDS PRO\/DED FROM
Government:
Grant for Development
Held in Cash                            105.9                74.0
Spent on Fixed Assets                   139i.     245.0    103 8         177.8
Grant for Administration - Held in Cash                 0.8                   7.2
Revolving Fund for Staff                                2                     2A
TOTAL                                                248.1                  187.4
Accumulated Miscellaneous Income                      4.22                   3A
TOTAL                                                290.3                  223.5
REPRENT Y-
Cash                                              107.4                   82.5
Accounts Receivable & Deposit                       5.9                    3.0
Advances and Loan to Staff                          L                      L 
115.3                  87.3
Deduct: Accounts Payable                               6 9 
Net Current Assets                                   108.4                   82.8
Fixed Assets (Net)                                   139.1                  103.8
Advance to Felc.a Loan Account                        4.2 8L9
ITOAL                                                2DJ=                   223



- 69 -
Annex 4
Table 3e
FEDERAL LAND CONSOLIDATION AND REHABIUTATION AUTHORITY
(Incorporated in Malaysia Under Act 22 Year 1966)
PALM OIL MILL BALANCE SHEET
As at December 31, 1990
M$ Million
FUNDS PROVIDED FROM:
Loan from Government                                   26.5                  2!1.3
Advance from Felcra Loan A/C                            0.5                    3.2
Accum. Retained Earning from Mill Operations            L53
TOTAL
REPRESENTED BY:
Cash and Bank Balances                                 23.5                  20.5
Accounts Receivable                                     6.4                    3.7
Inventory                                               Q                      M
30.4                  24.7
Deduct Accounts Payable                                 L 5L
Net Current Assets                                     23.9                  23.7
Fixed Assets (Net)                                     12A2 4.1
TOTAL



FEDERAL LAND CONSOUDATION AND REHABIUTATION AUTHORITY
SOURCES AND APPUCATIONS FOR FUNDS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,1990
M$ Millions
PALM OIL
SOURCESOFFUNDSFROMGOVPRNMENT             LOLANIAC  ADMIN A/C TBUSE           MILL A/C     TOTAL
New Loans (Repayments)                     69.8          -           .        -2.8        67.0
Grants                                       -        60.7                      -        60.7
From Felcra (Intemal Accounts)             27.7          -           -          -        27.7
Increase In Oil Palm Mills Earnings                      -           -         3.8        3.8
Increase in Divided to Settlers Schemes                            3.1          -         3.1
Other Income/income Receivable              a.D                    ZA t                   17
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS DURING1990 I                                  10                    17 3ZL
APPUCATIONS QF EUNDS
LOANS TO SETTLERS NE OF REPAYMENT            95.3           -          -           -        95.3
ADDITIONS DELIFONS TO F-(ED ASSETS                       35.3          *        -1.9        33.4
ADDITIONSI/DEt-TIoNs TO WORKING CAPITAL
Cash and Equivalents                         -        24.9        -8.1         3.0       19.8
Other Working Capital Terms                 5.7        0.7        -0.5        -2.8        3.1
ADVANCES TO FELCRA (LOAN AC) (NOTE 1)         _ -         5.Z 22LZ
NET APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS DURING 1990                     U 1. 1.01.   , x
X h



FEDERAL LAND CONSOUDATION AND REHABIUTATION AUTHORITY
FORECAST BALANCE SHEET
MS MOion
FELCRA DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
ASSETS                                        ArL    Act/Est-        Eilaa   EPll                         aN
Fixed Assets (net)                         139.1      229.8       303.6       336.0      365.8        393
Settlers Housing                            24.7       29.1         37         46.5       55.7        66.6
Long Turm Receivables                     786.4       883.1       986.3      1079.3     1161.3      1249.4
Advanoes to Loss Making Schemes             20.6       20.6        20.6        20.6       20.6        20.6
Investment                                   0.9        0.9         0.9         0.9        0.9         0.9
TOTAL FIX  ASSETS                           7U.1        11635       134824     14833       160423      1730.5
Cash                                       118.7       87.6       103.0       130.3      153.6       174.1
Other                                       53.0                   67.0        Z.Q        92.0       144.0
DEDUCT CUaBR    UAML       S
Div. Due to Participants                   28.7        30.1        31.6        33.2       34.9        36.6
Other                                       70.0       63.0        75.0        87.0       99.0       151.0
NETCtURRENTASSETS                                73 am                             1 t1.7               LI
1TTLNEIT A0                                                 08 17t611          1572A       17l0        laal
FNANCEDBY:
1_1                                          658.3       764.5      878.7       984.2      1080.2      1183.8
LONG7IWBGOVERNE        ANSrIOiJS?J)           17.1        21.5       29.4        38.9        46.1       59.1
LONWTERMGOVERNMENTLOANSIWNESTMEN               1.3         1.3        1.3         1.3         1.3         1.3
GVERNMENTGRANI'SEVELOFMBET                   245.8       291.0      356.2       391.3       419.7       440.1
RETA NDHOOME                                  42.2        51.2       59.2        66.2        72.7        79.2
DEFERRED MBINT P=ME                           35.8        39.3       42.8        Au          49.8        53.3
07HER RI"2B                                   442         #442       #442        44.2        44.2       A4L2
0TOAL                                       1044.7                 1411.8      1572&       1ZILf0     JAT
Current Ratio                                  1.7         1.5         1.6        1.7         1.8         1.7
Ouick Asets Ratio                              1.2         0.9         1.1        1.1         1.1         0.9



FEDERAL LAND CONSOLIDATION AND REHABILITATION AUTHORITY
FORECAST BALANCE SHEET
M$ Million
OIL PALM MILLS
AQL    Act./Est.       Elan       Plan
FIXED ASSETS (NET)
Present                                    12.2        10.2        8.2         6.2         4.2        2.2
Future                         _-                                    21 23                2Z5 
SUliBTOTL                                  12.2        10.2       39.5        35.5        31.5       27.5
CIIRRENT ASSETS
Cash                                       23.5       25.3        25.6        32.3        42.8       55.7
Other                                       7.0         7.5        8.0        10.5        12.5       16.0
Deduct Current Liabilities                 J7.1        -.6.       .LJ.       .1Lf 6                  .16   .
SUQI&                                      2nA        2L2                                 42         5.
42-Z~~~~~~~~~~-
TOTAL NET ASSET                                                       L2    83.1
FINANCED BY:
GOVEMEWLNS
Actual                                     26.5        22.7       19.5        16.2        12.5         8.7
Future                                                            31.3        33.5        35.8       38.3
RETAIWD EARNINGS
Present Oil MIll                            9.1       12.7        15.2        1 9.0      24.4        31.1
Future Oil Palm Mills                       -            .        -1.         -            ll
1         z121       14A2       iL.         2L
Current Ratio                                 4.3         4.4         4.2        4.1         4.4         4.5
OuIck Assets Ratio                            3.3         3.4         3.2        3.1         3.4         3.5



-73                               ANNEX 5.1
Page 1 of 16
!CR VID SU"  M    -
1.    = U
1.1  The objective of the paper is  to  offer proposals on
action plans an tapping expertie/skills training
programs for Felcra staff and its tape- force.
2.
2.1. The extnsive or uncnmtrolled use of rubber barks in
tapping activities will hinder regrowths or recovering
of tree bark. The investigations and test carried out
at Felcra projects show that almost all of the tree
barks are uilised durg a period of only 7 to  8 years
cmu,ared  to its overall plant exploitation period of 12
years i.e. under the controlled tapping frequency
syStm 52 d2.
2.2. This uncontrlled  tapping system which reduces plant
eXploitation period affects project output, settlers
long-term incoma and repayment prograrm on development
cost.
.
2.3. The  unhealthy  conditions  above are influenced by
several factors i.e. poor supervision and mnitoring of
tapping activities and quality of tappers. This is due
to the ladk of tapping knowledge and expertise in
output exploitation aspects among  Felcra  staff/its
taoppr force.



-74                               ANNEX 5.1
Page 2 of 16
3.  TRINWI   IS  O1 TPPING
3.1. Uhtil July 1991, 134 rubber pojects totalling 35,000
hectares wre  in puction  and would  continue  to
increase in the future. This show that there will be
an inease in the mber of field staff to  be trained
for tapping.  Based on the number of rubber projects,
320 field staff (inclusive of 20 personel required in
1992) will thus have to be given taping exposure and
kills.
3.2. 7Lbe field staff above make up of Technical Agricultural
Officers,   State   Agricultural   Officers,  Project
Maagegrs,  Field  Supervisors   and   Senior   Field
Supervisors. The criteria for selecting the candidates
is based on the following:-
3.2.1. The technical Agricultural Officer at Felcra
Administrative Level is directly responsible
for  inpleffnting and monitoring  as well as
evaluating a controlled tapping systnm at the
rubber projects and especially evaluating the
feedback of the training program.
3.2.2. State   Agricultural   Officer    at    state
Admnistrative Level is responsible for field
management,   planning   and   nonitoring   a
controlled  tapping  system   at  the  rubber
projects and also in evaluating the feedback of
the training program.
3.2.3. The Project Manager who is responsible for the
overall field manageuffnt activities and project
adSinistration should equip himself with the
knowledge and eperUtise in tapping activities
so as to enable him to co-ordinate and mmnitor
effectively the staff and his tapper force.
3.2.4. Field Suparvisors are directly responsible for
mnitoring and offering guidance on efficient
methods of controlled tapping to his tapper
force.



- 75                              ANNEX 5.1
Page 3 of 16
3.3.  The  training  program  is  a refresher course  for
candidates of para 3.2. above and the objective of the
training program is as follows:-
3.3.1. Offer the candidates further/new knowledge on
rubber output exploitation  aspects,  tapping
techniques using the reccmmended controlled
system.
3.3.2. To self experience and to  increase and  improve
their tapping skills and expertise among course
participants using the learned techniques.
3.3.3. The course participants thus will be able to
manage, supervise and offer proper guidance to
its field staff and present tapper force as
well as to those who will be recruited at the
projects in order that tapping techniques will
follow the controlled system.
4.  NER4BE OF PARTICIPANTS, TRAINEES
A   TRAING PROM SCDULE
4.1. Nurber Of Partiiants
4.1.1. As  mentioned  in   para   3.1.,  320  course
participants    camprising   of   agricultural
officers, project managers, field supervisors
will  undergo. training  according  to   the
following breakdown:-
i. Agricultural Officer      :  9
ii.  Project Manager          : 43
iii.  Field Supervisor         : 268
Total        320



- 76 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 4 of 16
4.1.2.  Out   of   the   320   staff  above,   36  field
supervisors have undergone a 6 day training
program with  the cooperation of RRIM  officer
from 5 until 10 August 1991 and from 9 until 14
Septeuber 1991 at Felcra Bukit Pedoman, Johor
and at Felcra Langkawi, Kedah.
4.2.         =Ai
4.2.1. In  order to carry out this training program, it
is proposed that part of the course sessions
i.e.  4 sessions  cowprising of 80 personnel be
conducted by RRIM trainers at the RRIM Training
Centre, Sungai Euloh, Selangor.
4.2.2. The remainder of  204 is proposed to be trained
by Felcra officers themselves who had undergone
basic training and a training course in the
1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th sessions as in para
4.2.1. above. The program for the  training of
trainers is as follows:-
i. 9 experienced Felcra officers comprising
of agricultural  o, icers  and   project
managers will be selected to undergo an
intensive course in Sessions 1 at the
RRIM  Training  Centre at  Sungai  Buloh
together with 11 other participants.
ii. The samg 9 trainees will be required to
undergo session 2 at the same venue along
with 20 other field staff. During this
session, they  will take over  25%   of
theory and 25% practical modules as
trainer.   They  will  be  guided   and
mnmitored by eerienced RRIM instructors.
iiI. At the third session, the same future
trainers will be required to conduct 50%
of theory and 25% of practical nodules
also guided by a RRIM instructor.



- 7 7-~                            AkTNEX 5. 1
Page 5 of 16
iv. The final stage of instructors course
i.e. in session 4, they are required to
conduct a camplete theory and practical
module.  They   will  be  assessed  and
evaluated   by   the  RRIM  instructor  to
ensure  that   they   are  qualified  and
capable  to   conduct courses. for field
staff and Felcra tapper force.
4.2.3.  This training program  is a  continuing  process
to  train   new   recruits  enployed at Feclra
projects in order to obtain maxi=m production
fram   the  increasing projects.  As such the
long-term objective of the instructors among
Felcra officers is to improve their knowledge
and  expertise   in  this   field  through  the
continued  training  program.   These  officers
will  be   the   main  source   in  the  Felcra
administration who will assist and ensure
maximun rubber production and its quality.
4.3.  Program Sche
4.3.1. As mentioned above, 2 training sessions have
been conducted with RRIM involving 36 field
supervisors. For 'the other training programs
in  1992,   involving  284 personnel,  Felcra's
administration has requested the cooperation of
RRPtM to conduct 4 more sessions which will
involve 80 officers and staff i.e. 20 personnel
for each session. The venue is proposed to be
at the ERIM Training Centre, Sungai Buloh,
where sufficient facilities are available.
4.3.2.  Should the allocation for this  training  program
be sufficient, it is proposed that 14 course
sessions be carried out in  1992.  Four  (4) of
the above 14 sessions will be carried out with
the assistance of RRIM expertise.



- 78 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 6 of 16
The scheduled program are as follows:-
Course                                Course
Session   Period       Venue       Participants
1    Weeki 1    RRIM Sg. Buloh      20
January 92
2     Week 3    RRIM Sg. Buloh      20
January 92
3    Week 2    ERIM Sg. Buloh       20
February 92
4    Week 4    RRIM Sg. Buloh       20
February 92
5 - 14 Mac 92 -  Felcra projects   204
June 92                     -----
Total       284
4.3.3. The training program for the  fifth  (5)  session
until the 14th will be carried out by Felcra
officers at  Felcra projects.   This action  is
more   cost  effective and will expedite  the
process of  transferring  technology  to   other
field staff.
5.     a    CONTS
5.1. It  is proposed that this  tapping  expertise training
program be carried out for 6 days comprising of theory
and practical modules.   It mainly  stresses on good
tapping techniqye using the present tapping system.
5.2. In detail the contents of the training progrini for
Felcra officers and staff is as in AiPEMIX



- 79                              ANNEX 5.1
Page 7 of 16
5.3.  The 6 day training program will consume 46 hours as  in
the following breakdown: -
i.  Theory/Lecture          : 7 hours (15%)
ii.  Practical Training      : 26 hours (57%)
iii.  Discussion              : 13 hours (28%)
6.  ESTIMED EXPENDITURE FOR STAFF
TFAINIG CON GOOD TAPPING TECHNTOUE
6.1. It is estimated that the total cost of expenditure to
carry out the tapping expertise training program for
284  personnel  in  the above  14 course series  is
M$99,880.00. The cost breakdown is as follows:-
6.1.1. Trainirg Program At The
RRIMM rainin, Centre, Suncai Euloh
i. Fee $300.00/per person       : $24,000.00
9 80 persons
ii. Transport $200.00 per person : $16,000.00
e 80 persons
Tbtal    $40,000.00
6.1.2. Training Program Undertaken
By Felcra Officers
i.  Full Board $15.00 per person : $18,360.00
@ 204 persons @ 6 days
ii. Accomodation $40-00 per roms : $16,320.00
@ 68 rooms e 6 days
iii. Transport $50.00 per person : $10,200.00
Q 204 persons



ANNEX 5.1
Page 8 of 16
iv.  Hall And Facilities $500/    : $ 5,000.00
per session @ 10 sessions
v.  Contigency $1,00/per session : $10,000.00
@ 10 session
Total     $59,880.00
6.2.  It  is  believed that major costs  could  be   further
reduced and that a smooth and efficient training
program be undertaken on the whole if the 10 training
program be carried out by Felcra officers at Felcra
projects compared to if all the training programs were
to bo carried out at the RRIM Training Centre Sungai
Buloh. As in comparison, the overall cost expenditure
of each personnel if carried out at the RRIM Trainig
Centre  Sungai Buloh  is about $500.00   compared  to
$293.00   if  it  is  carried out wholly  by Felcra's
administration at the projects.
7.  PROPOSED TRAINING PROGRAM EFR
REDCED FRUENCY TAPPING SYTE3M       .
7.1. Based on proposed hectarage of 11,725 hectares (1992 -
1995) for adoption of reduced frequency tapping, a
total number of 61 staff who will be supervising the
areas proposed for the reduced frequency tapping system
will undergo a special one day training program on d3
tapping system. Details on reduced frequency tapping
are as in APPEMIX II.
7.2. The number -f norsonel to be trained per year from
1992 - 1995 is as follows:-
1992   -   9 personnel
1993   - 10 personnel
1994   - 16 personnel
1995   - 26 personnel



- 81 -.
ANNEX 5.1
Page 9 of 16
7.3.  The  estirwated cost  for the above special  training
programs to be executed  in  5 sessions  is M$9,150.00.
The breakdown is as follows: -
1992   -  9 personnel  @ $150.00 = $ 1,350.00
1993   - 10 personnel  @  $150.00 = $ 1,500.00
1994   - 16 personnel @  $150.00 = $ 2,400.00
1995   - 26 personnel @ $150.00 = $ 3,900.00
(2 sessions)
Total         $ 9,150.00
8.  TRAINN  NEEDS CN TAPPING EXPERTISE
Flo  TELRA TAPPERS
-8.1. Obiective
The objective of tapping expertise training planned for
Felcra tappers is to improve tapping skills among the
target group by practising proper techniques and
methods. It is therefore hoped that at the end of the
training program, tappers will achieve the expected
goals as in the following:-
8.1.1. Tappers will be able  to  tap  the bark to its
r ecnmieled depth and thickness avoiding damage
of the bark while tapping, thereby saving usage
of bark for long-term production.
8.1.2.  Tappers can make proper preparations   before
begining tapping works i.e. sharpening tapping
knives in correct methods, fixing spring-coil
and attaching latex cups in proper techniques
as well as to keep clean the equipuent used
before and after tapping.
8.1.3.  Tappers  can  open  up  tapping  sites using
recciunended methods by accurate norking and
curving of barks.



- 82 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 10 of 16
8.2.  atbOd  In      tae
8.2.1. All  existing  tappers will be evaluated and
graded by their scheme supervisor.  According
to their grades, they wiUl be required to
uergo  part or all of  the  full  tapping
course.   New  tappers wild be required  to
dem nstrate a certain level of tapping skills
before being hired.  Existing tappers will be
upgraded in their skills.
8.2.2. The full tapping expertise training program for
the tappers is proposed for a period of 3 weeks
or 18 days.  The  course  participants  are
oorised of those who are presently involved
in tapping activities at Felcra projects and
future  tapper recruits.  For those who are
already wing, this training program  will act
as an evaluation to their 'tcrk performace i.e.
based on quality of wark in  producing  latex  as
in skillful tapping, tapping speed and latex
collecting.  For future  tapper recruits  the
same process of orientation and evaluation will
be adhered to. This is to ensure that quality
ork is achieved, in tapping so that an even
level of latex collection is maintained.
8.2.3  This training progrm  will be carried  out at
Felcra  projects where the tapper or future
tappers work.  They  will  be  trained  and
itored by Felcra staff i.e. Project Msnagws
and Field Supervisors who had already undergone
tapping expertise course.
8.2.4. Generally, the training PrOgram is carried out
in the form  of  theory  presentations  and
practical training.



- 83.                             ANNEX 5.1
Page U of 16
The contents is as follows:-
i. Tapping Terminology And Introduction
To Trainina Technicues
The aspects  stressed are preparation of
tapping   equipments,   cleanliness   in
tapping  and   latex  collection,  basic
tapping techniques and controlled tapping
(Based on project's needs)
ii. Practical Training In
Tamina Stacae 1 - 4 days
At this stage, the course participants
will use the trunk of rubber tree to tap
using proper thickness depth.
iii. Practical Training In
Taoinca Stacae II - 6 days
Five course participants will be given
one task  tapping  area  and  will  be
required  to  tap about 100 to 110 trees in
40  minutes.   At  this   stage,   the
participants will be evaluated whether or
not they can achieve quality tapping at a
required time.
iv. Practical- Training In
Taminra Stacae III - 6 days
Each tapper will be given a task (500
trees) which will have to be worked upon
at a  fixed time.  At this stage  they
wuld be evaluated on targeted quality
tapping.



- 84 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 12 of 16
8.2.5.  For each stage  of practical training carried
out, the course participants will be evaluated
whether or not they are eligible to proceed
practical training to the next stage and so
on.  At the  end of the course, new tappers who
succeed will be recruited to work in the Felcra
projects.  During  the duration of the training
program, the tappers will be given course
allowance    of   $5.00/per  day   and   tapping
incentives based on the quantity produced at
stage 7.2.3. above.
8.2.6. To ensure  that  this  training  program  brings
positive results and at the sametime 'rapping
activities will not be hindered, it is proposed
that the existing group of tappers have to
undergo training programs 7.2.3. (i), 7.2.3
(ii) and 7.2.3. (iii) at a shorter duration.
Recruitment for training is done at stages for
example 10 personnel for one group at one
session.
8.3. Number Of Tappers And
cost Of Procram
8.3.1.  Until  1991,  11,700  tappers wwer  required for
tapping in Felcra rubber plantations using the
d2  tapping system.   From 1992 - 1995, based on
11,725 hectares proposed for the phasing for
reduced frequency tapping, an addition of 2,931
new tappers are required.   Therefore  the  total
number  of  tappers  proposed for  the  tapping
expertise program is 14,631.
8.3.2.  For  the  training of   the  existing   tappers
(11,700),   priority  of  training will  be  as
follows: -
Ist    - Scheme participants/dependents
2nd    - Outside people hired by the scheme
3rd    - Contract workers



- 85 -                            ANNEX 5.1
Page 13 of 16
8.3.3.  It is estimated that the cost  involved  for
carrying  out the training programs  for  the
total   tapper  force  of   14,631   is MS1.54
million.  The cost breakdown for 10 trainee per
session is as follows:-
i. Allowance $5.00/per trainee/   : $  900.00
per day x 10 x 18
*ii.  Tapping equipments             : $  150.00
(knife and sharper)
@ $15.00 per trainee x 10
Total       $1,050.00
* The total estimated cost of tapping
equipients    for   the      program    is
M$219,465.00.
9.  TO   COS
9.1. The total estimated cost for this training program for
Felcra staff and its tapper force is M$ 1.65 million.
BreakdowA is as follows:-
i.    Staff training on d2  - M$    99,880.00
ii.    Staff training on d3  - M$      9,150.00
iii.    Tappers               - M$ 1,540,000.00
10. g2MMCLUIO
10.1. Felcra's adinistration believes that the  steps  taken
to have this training program for its field staff and
tapper force will be able to solve problems of low-
grade production at Felcra rubber projects. With the
inplmntation of reduced frequency tapping system at
Felcra projects, it will overcome problems in the
availability of skillful tapper force which we ax-*
presently facing. As such immediate action has to be
taken by Felcra's administration to make this training
program a possible and successful one.



- 86                              ANNEX 5.1
Appendix I
Page 14 of 16
E Lm COMM CaRWT  FOR ThPP q      ED
CM STNDUD TP2PI       N_22)(
Day 1        Intxoduction   Written response/oral by participants
(Mbrning)    (1/2 hour)     regarding tapping (objective questions)
Lecture 1       Introduction on rubber tapping (Anatcay
(2 hours)       and Physiology and methods to open
tapping sites)
Lecture 2       Tapping system, stimalatL  n and
(2 hours)      tapping schedule
(Evening)   Practical A     Training on sharpening knife
(2 hours)
Day 2       Practical B      Training on opening tapping sites
(Mokrning)   (4 hours)      and tapping (methods in tapping
per tree per person repeatedly)
(Evening)   Lecture 3       Tapping equipments and collection
(1 hour)       LELICS, knife, cup, RRIMGDM, RRDCnP
etc.)
Lecture 4       Controlled upward tapping (CUT)
(1 hour)
Day 3       Practical C      Tapping (continuation)
(Mbrning)    (3 hours)
Practical D     Monthly mar1.wrr  Q monitor bark usage
(1 hours)
(Evening)   Practical E     Traiuing on chemical usage
(2 hours)       (Introductry level)



-87                            ANNEX 5.1
Appendix I
Page 15 of 16
PM;t          CURSE                   TOPIC
Day 4       Practical F    Controlled upward tapping (CUT)
(Mbrning)   (4 hours)
(Evening)   Practical G     Training on fixing tapping aid
(2 hours)      equipmints
Day 5       Practical H    Tapping  in  field  area  (one  site
(Mbrning)    (4 hours)      per person)
(Evening)                   Discussion
Day 6       Test            Tapping test
Course evaluation
trainpro
14-15:



- 88-.                            ANNEX 5.1
Appendix 2
Page 16 of 16
NASDE C ADOPINXN FCR
ma    FR3Dr  ThPPI3
YEAR OF PLANTING          1986   1987  1988  1989
YEAR OF PRODUCTION        1992   1993  1994  1995
1.  PERAK                  305      28   339   269
2.  KEDAH/PERLIS           227    738   898  1,385
3.  PAHANG                 822    215   685   580
4.  NEGEI SEMBILAN         121      32   307  1,225
5.  JCHOR                   -       89    88   344
6.  KELANTAN                92    867   224   988
7.  SARAWK                  -       -      -    230
8.  SELAGOR                 53      -    367   207
TOTAL HECTARAtE      1,620   1,969  2,908  5,228
BY YEAR--                                      =
GRAND TOTAL
(1992 - 1995)                                      11,725
NO. OF PERSCU4L
ON SPECIAL COURSE     (9)    (10)  (16)  (26)          61
OF D3



- 89 -                     ANNEX 5.2
Page 1 of 9 Pages
NALASI
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
C)NSUTANTS FOR FELCRA ACCOINTING AND
DATJ%BASE XANAGE1ENT NOPETION SYSTE
1. Qeperal
1.1   Felcra at present maintains its accounts and prepares reports for
Government, Audit and Management purposes in accordance with
government accounting procedures. It is not proposed to abandon
procedures which may be required for government accounting or
auditing purposes, but it is proposed to refine these so as to show
more clearly the results of FELCRA's activities and its financial
status for management pu..poses. It should be understood that Felcra
has two major roles to play which have made its operations very
complex from a financial management viewpoint:
It acts as a middleman, receiving, holding and disbursing funds for
Government, as well as for development scheme beneficiaries (in fact
acting like a Trustee for both).
-    It is the actual developer and manager of some 1,400 development
schemes and several oil palm mills.
1.2  In its technical comments, the World Bank recommended tha. x-r
management purposes and for the information of third parties
(including Government Departments) FELCRA, in addition to preparing
more informative and clearer consolidated financial statements,
should prepare separate sets of accounts summarizing the results of
the activities and operations of its four main components as set out
in para. 2.3 below.
In addition to the normal year-end consolidate financial statements
which include a Balance Sheet, Income and Expenditure Statement, and
Source and Application of Funds Statement, the Bank has suggested an
additional financial statement referred to a the "Financial
Statement of Cash Position". This would show inter alia: -
(a)       Loan repayments received in advance from development
scheme beneficiaries;
(b)       Development grants from Government not yet utilized;
(c)       Monies held in Trust such as:
-    Contractors Deposits
-   Revolving Fund balances
-    Dividends payable to development scheme beneficiaries
-   Other Funds held for development scheme beneficiaries



- 90                      ANNE
Page 2 of 9 Pages
(d)       Felcra Income earned such as:
-   Felera Dividend (10% from Fringe Schemes)
-   Interest earned on deposits
-   Interest earned on accounts receivable
-   Miscellaneous income
(e)       Palm Oil Hill cash balances (represented by Palm Oil Hill
retained earnings and accumulated depreciation).
In addition this statement would demonstrate how such funds had been
utilized and were held at year end i.e.:
(a)      Utilized to finance development schemes, and oil palm
mills
(b)      Utilized as advances to loss making schemes.
(c)       Placed on deposit at banks.
(d)      Held on current account at banks.
1.3 From a management viewpoint, the four main components of Felcra's
operations can be broken down as follows: -
_         Development Activities;
-        Administration Activities;
-         Trustee Activities;
-        Oil Palm Mill Activities.
but of these, Development Activities is by far the most important.
1.4 Developomnt Activities
(a) The financial statement for this activity should clearly
analyze the progress made by development schemes during the
year - presenting the various types (and stages of development)
of long term accounts receivable bX way of summary schedules
(showing both numbers of schemes and the value thereof)
including inter alia:
(i)    Type of Scheme:
-   Land Development
-    Settlers Housing
-   Rehabilitation Schemes
-    Fringe Schemes
-   Youth Schemes
(ii)  Stage of Development
-   Under Development
-    In Production - Profitable Schemes



- 91-                   Page 3 of 9 Pages
-    In Production - Loss Making Schemes
-    Inactive Schemes
-   Advances to Loss Making Schemes.
(iii) Age of Accounts Receivable Balance Outstanding:
-    Differentiating by type of Scheme (number and value
by year).
-   Differentiating by State of Development (number and
value by year).
-   Differentiating between current and long-term portion
overdue, by type of scheme.
(iv) Repayments Received in advance:
-   By type of scheme.
(b) Its liabilities to the government for loan principal and
interest repayments and for any funds received from other
sources.
1.5 Administration Activities,  encompass those for which Felcra
receives grant monies from the government which are utilized to run
its own operations. These accounts would facilitate the annual
budgeting process and enable the management and Treasury to see more
clearly what funding Felcra needs for normal operations. This
should include appropriate allowances for the repair and maintenance
of all Felcra fixed assets such as Buildings, Equipment, Vehicles,
Roads etc.
1.6. Trust Activities, in which role Felcra receives and handles in a
fiduciary capacity monies belonging to third parties such as
dividends due to development scheme beneficiaries and various
Reserve Funds maintained by Felera for specific purposes.
1.7  Oil Palm Mill Activities  showing the results of the two mills
presently being operated as well as the costs of the two mills under
constructrion.
2.  DEAILED TERMS OF RFERECE
2.1  Felera has decided that in its efforts to continue implementing its
computerization plan, it would be advantageous to Felcra to engage
the services of consultants to:
(a) Review and recommend improvements to Felcra's accounting
policies, procedures and systems.
(b) Redevelop the existing application systems to a Database
Management System (the new accounting policies, procedures and
formats will be implemented within the Database Management
System).
(c) Develop a complete and systematic Management Information
System.



- 92 -                           S.iH K-L
Page 4 of 9 Pages
2.2 The following will comprise the scope and duties of the consultants.
The scope of work of the consultant are as follows. -
(a)  To review all existing accounting policies, procedures and
systems for all FELCRA's activities. Some of the accounting
policies to be reviewed are indicated in Attachment 3.
(b)  To propose necessary improvements to the accounting policies,
procedures and system and financial reporting.
(c)  To provide direct assistance in the implementation and
development of the Database Management System and the
Management Information System based on the recommended
accounting policies, procedures and systems.
3. DUTIES OF CONSULTANT
ACCOUNTING POLICIES PROCEDURES AND SYSTEMS
In close consultation with FELCRA's accounting staff:
(a) Revise or prepare an updated Accounting policies and Procedure for
Felcra Management's approval.
(b) Draw up a detailed Chart of Accounts to simplify and improve the
accounting system and the computerization thereof.
(c) Draw up a practical method of accounting for, and presenting the
various types of development schemes separated into:
(i) Scheme under Development (e.g. work in progress).
(ii) Developed schemes (not incurring interest charges).
(iii) Developed Schemes in Production (interest accrued;
principles and interest payable), distinguishing between:
-    Profitable Scheme
-    Loss Making Schemes
(iv) Inactive scheme (abandoned schemes, abandoned houses, etc)
(v) Advances to Loss Making Schemes.
(d) Review the accounting methodology employed for accounting for
principle, and for accruing interest receivable and payable as well
as for treating interest received on loans to beneficiaries,
including accounting for payments received in advances etc., and
interest paid on long term loans from Government; the
computerization thereof: and the presentation thereof in the annual
financial statements. Also reclassifying (if considered desirable



-93 -                     ANX SJ
Page 5 of 9 Pages
and practical) the amounts recoLvable and payable withLn the next 12
months undercurrent assets and current liabilities, etc.
(e) Review and advise Folera on the presentation of: -
(i)  Its consolidated Balance Sheet Income and Expenditure
Statement; Statement of Funds Held and Cash Positlon; and
Statement of Source and Application of Funds for the annual
financial statements.
(ii) The reclassifying of items in the financial statements where
appropriate, to ensure the financial statement comply with
Malaysian Law, and generally accepted international accounting
standards.  (e.g. treatment of Fringe Schemes - 108 of which
belong to Felera and for which Felera receives a dividend).
(f)  Examine Felcra's internal controls, accounting systems and
procedures and develop ways to: -
(i) Ensure prompt authorization and funding of cost overruns
(compared with approved budgets) on development schemes, etc.,
(ii) To prepare a suitable cash management system lncluding cash
flow forecasts to enable Felcra to better manage it financial
affairs in an efficient, cost effective manner, to ensure: -
-   Loan repayments to Government are made in a timely manner;
-   Felcra reviews the appropriate level of funding for its
administrative and development budget;
-   That trustee funds are maintalned intact and are used for
the purposes intended;
=   That Felera's Internal controls and system and procedures
over cash payments and receipts are satlsfactory,
appropriate and maintained din sound working order to
minimize any potential misuse.
(Lii) Furnish appropriate and timely financial and accounting
information which can be used by Feclra's Management to
manage FELCRA's affairs more efficiently.
4.  DATABSE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND
KAMkGEIENT INFORMATION SYSIEM
The consultant will provide direct assistance in the following:-
4.1 The designing, development and implementation of the now applicatLon
systems using the Database' Management System based on the
recommended accounting procedures and formats stated above.
4.2 The designing, development and implementation of the Management
Information system which involves three majors components: -



- 94 -                     ANNEX 5.2
Page 6 of 9 Pages
-    the accounting information subsystem;
-    the administrative information subsystem; and
-    the operations decision support subsystem.
4.3 The schedule of duties of the consultants over a period of 15 months
is shown in Attachment I.
5.   PROJECT ESTIMATED COSTS
The project will be carried out as a joint venture between Felcra and the
Consultant concerned. The estimated consultant cost was based on the
local (Malaysian) Consultant fees:-
(a) the estimated cost of engaging the consultant to review and propose
the new accounting system and procedures is approximately
$800,000.00.
(b) The estimated cost of engaging the same consultant to design and
implement the Database application systems based on the new
accounting procedures and formats and also to develop and implement
a Management Information System will be approximately $1,500,000.00
Therefore an overall estimated cost of engaging a consultant is
(M)$2.3 million.
(c) The schedule of breakdown of cost over a period of 15 months for the
overall consultant services is shown in Attachment 2.



Schedule of  uties of tde COnulttwt
-Owe  a ie TYes  Period     ._.                              __._=_--_-
Person       Peron
don          day              1991           1992               1992           1992              1992              1993
Activities______
Fletcr      Consultant    Oct-Dec           Jo-Nar          Apr-JMune         Jul-Sep           O    eJ-Mar
1.     Review Accounting
System and                40            60                           XXXXXXX0OO(
Procedures
2.     Identify The
Necessary Changes         30            30                                  XXX
3.     Propose The Mew
Accounting System         20            20                                  XXX
and Procedures                                                             _
4.     Prepare The
Accounting Policy
and Procedures            40            20                                  XXX
Manuals
5.     Oetail Design of
The Database
Application Systems       150           90                                          XXXXXXXXXXXX    XXXXXXXXXXX                                            qa
6.     Conversion of
Existing Data Into
the Database System       50            20                                                          _
7.     Acceptance Testing
50            20                                                                     XXX
8.     I plemantation of
The Database
Application Systems       90            20                                                                     XXX
9.     Detailed Design of
The Management
Informatior System        90            60                                                                             XXXXXOOOXXXX    _
10.    Ieplementation of
The Management                                                                                                                                           Q
Inforntion System         50            40                                                                                             XYXXXXXX            :O-
Total               610           380 wo_                                                    _                      .                                |
-  -=



Annex 6.2
- 96 -                    Atina =6.2
Paso I of 9 Page
Breakdown of Consultant Cost
Over A Two Year Period
'__________ __________ ___________ ______ _    ;1992    1993
1.  Review Accounting System and                 200,000            _
Procedures
200,000
2.   Identify The Necessary Changes
3.   Propose The New Accounting System and
Procedures                                  200,000            _
4.  Prepare The Accounting Policy and               -            200,000
Procedures Manuals
5.  Detail Design of the Database
Application System                             -            400,000
6.  Conversion of Existing Data Into The
Database System                                _               _
7.  Acceptance Testing                              -            100,000
8.   Implementation of The Database                              400,000
Application systems                            _
9.  Detailed Design of The Management
Information System                             -            300,000
10. Implementation of The Management
Information System                             -            300,000
Total                       600,000       1,700,000



- 97 -                         Annex 5.2
Attachment 3
Page 9 of 9 Pages
Accounting Policies To Be Reviewed
And Updated for Felcra Management Agreement
Inventories of Stock on Hand
-     How should these be valued?  FIFO or Standard Cost.  If standard how
often should standards be revised - annually?
Lona Term Accounts Receivable
-     Treatment of bad or douL-iul debts/inactive schemes.
-    Treatment of Fringe Schemes - FELCRA 60 10  equity    vein and 10%
Dividend each year.
-     Separate Current Portion at year end for Balance sheet presentation.
Fixed Ass_ts (Non Palm Oil Mill)
-    Any need to calculate depreciation thereon?:
-     Include annual provision for repairs and maintenance in administration
budget (in preference to development budget for Government Grants).
Deferred Interest Income
-     Separate actual interest received form development scheme beneficiaries
loan repayments and show separately as income each year.
Accounts Receivable and Payable/Security DeDosits
-     Show long term separate from short term (current)
-     Separate debits from credits and show gross amounts in year end
financial statements
Analyze and explain debits in CAC accounts payable.



- 98 -              ~~~ANNEX 5.3
Page 1 of 3
MALAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Production Technologies
Oil Palm
1.1       Land PreRaration:  Areas for oil palm would be mainly flat to
undulating, and often include low lying lands such as abandoned rice fields
with impeded drainage which would have to be corrected before planting the
crop. Land clearance would be mechanical, preferably done in the dry season,
slopes terraced as necessary (estimated at 330 meters/ha), drains and
perimeter fencing installed and legume cover crop planted as a priority for
soil protection, especially on slopes, all in advance of planting the palms.
1.2       Planting:  Germinated seeds of high yielding progenies would be
procured from major outside suppliers. The seedlings will be raised in
polybags in on-site or cluster nurseries under contracts to cooperatives with
close FELCRA supervision to ensure product quality. Plants of 10-12 months of
age, selected for vigor, would be planted into the field during the
appropriate planting season at a density of 148 plants per ha. Supply
planting for initial losses, estimated at not more than 5Z, would be done
during the first year after planting only.
1.3       Field Maintenances  The palms will be routinely circle weeded,
using herbicides, at monthly intervals in the first three years, reducing to
once in three months during the following two years. New generation, low
toxicity herbicides will be introduced as appropriate. Types and quantities
of fertilisers, which should always be timely applied in accordance with
established industry practice, would after the first year be determined by the
results of annual foliar analysis. The use of empty fruit bunches and treated
mill effluent as fertilizer are being evaluated on a small scale in some
schemes. Frond pruning, control of leaf-eating insects and ablation of early
fruit bunches in the second year to prevent precocious fruiting would be
routine.
1.4       Harvesting:  With good maintenance, the palms should be in
production not later than three years after planting. The ripe fruit bunches
(ffb) are harvested twice monthly initially and at 10 day intervals from about
the third production year. Harvesting would continue for about 25 years after
which the stand should be replanted because of low yields and the difficulty
of harvesting tall palms. Mechanised collection of ffb using various systems
has been tested and introduced in a number of schemes. The ffb would be
transported to the scheme loading ramp from where it would collected by
contractor for delivery to a FELCRA mill if conveniently located, to a private
mill, or in some isolated schemes, sold ex-farm gate to traders by tender.



- 99 -                     ANNEX 5.3
Page 2 of 3
1.5       Processing:  FELCRA has two oil palm proceesing mills at Nasaruddin
in Perak and Bukit Kepong in North Johor. Two further mills, at Seberang
Perak in Perak and Maran in Pahang, are under construction and expected to be
commissioned in the second half of 1992. Mill supplies are normally drawn
from schemes within a distance of about 60 miles, although for the Bukit
Kepong mill, which has under-utilized capacity, FELCRA has been providing
transport cost assistance to more distant schemes. Supply contracts to
private mills are normally for one year. Mills grade ffb for quality,
primarily on fruit ripeness, and pay sappliers according to the daily gazetted
palm oil price less processing costs.
Rubber
1.6       Land Prcjarations Rubber areas would be typically hilly, often
with steep slopes, and growing old or abandoned rubber much of which may be
partially teverted to secondary forest conditions. All land clearing and
preparation would be done mechanically under contract. Slopes would be
terraced with requirements estimated 990 meters/ha. In some localities,
rubber wood might be sold for charcoal or other uses. Clearing would normally
be done in the dry season so that planting can proceed in the most favorable
season. Terraces and interrows would be planted as quickly as possible after
land preparation with a legume cover crop mixture to protect soil from water
movement and to suppress weed growth.
1.7       Planting:  Young rubber plants would be produced mainly in
cooperative nurseries within the scheme cluster under close FELCRA
supervision. Rubber seeds from high yielding clonal areas would be
germinated, planted into nursery rows or polybags, selected for vigor,
budgrafted with high yielding clones at 4 to 6 months of age, and, for the row
plents, transferred to polybags. The system of producing young buddings on
stocks about 3 months old will be tested in the near future in selected
nurseries for further efficiencies. Vigorous buddings would be ready to plant
into the field about four months later. Supply planting would be limited to
one year unless advanced planting materials are available. Core budded stumps
as an improved alternative for suppling have recently been used. Deeper field
planting for longer tapping panels is now standard practice in all new rubber
areas. Clones used would follow RRIM recommendations in the ratio of 70Z of
Class 1 clones and up to 30Z of Class II clones; FELCRA has an ongoing program
with RRIM for evaluating promising new clones. Planting density would be 511
trees/ha for a targeted stand at tapping of about 450 trees/ha. Clones would
be planted in minimum sized blocks of at least one tapping task to match with
tapping requirements.
1.8       Field Maintenance:  Poor standards of -weeding can seriously reduce
the growth vigor of young rubber. Planting rows will be clean weeded using
herbicide on a monthly schedule for about the first three years after
planting, and then at decreasing frequency as the tree canopies develop to
about once in three months when the trees reach tappable size. The use of low
volume spraying in weed control for cost savings is being investigated. The
trees would be regularly fertilized during immaturity with compound
fertilizers at RRIM recommended rates by soil type. Appropriate nutrient



- 100 -                          ANNEX 5.3
Page 3 of 3
rates for use after the trees enter into tapping would be based or the results
of annual foliaz analysis. FELCRA is closely following RRIM's evaluation of
the pr&ctice of withholding fertilizers for up to 8 years on rubber tapped on
renewed bank with a view to its possible adoption for significant cost
savings.  Pests and dise ?r', except for root disease, are not of great
importance in young rubb
1.9       Harvesting:  Tap1ing would commence when 1OZ of the trees attain a
trunk girth of 45 cm at one meter from the ground. With good field practice,
this should be at not more than 6 years from plantinz. FELCRA's standard
tapping system is a half spiral cut alternate daily. Under the improved
tapping technology program, all areas on opening would be tapped under the
reduced frequency system of a half spiral cut every third day with application
of ethepon latex stimulant at 2.5Z concentration ab3ve the tapping cut at 6-8
times/year. Full recovery tapping would be practised to compensate for rain
days. Areas in tapping before 1992 would remain on the alternate daily system
until the new system can be phased in. FELCRA in moving towards less labor
intensive tapping technology, will be receptive to any new labor saving
tapping technology recommended to the industry.
1.10      Processing:  Rubber as latex and cup lumps, is brought to field
collection stations by scheme transport and sold to the Malaysian Rubber
I)evelopment Corporation in all areas where they have a processing factory.
For- other schemes, the rubber is processed on site into air-dried sheets, or
more commonly, sold directly by tender to private traders. Prices are based
on the daily commodity quotations and the measured dry rubber content of the
latex, or estimated content of cup lumps.



- 101                  ~~~~~ANNEX 5.4
- 101 -                         Table 1
MALAYSIA
THIRD FELERA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiected Staffing by Grade and Function 1992-95
1991 (Actual)    1992      I99.     1994      1995
A. By Grade
Grade A                  205               228       253        278     303
Grade B                  340               355       376        398     420
Grade C                1,823             1,790     1,774      1,752   1,737
Grade D                1,120             1lo08     1,102      1,092   1,086
Total              3,488            3,481      3,505     3,520   3.546
B. By Function
Administration         1,340             1,326     1,321      1,313   1,312
Finance                   42                44        44         44      44
Data Processing           38                39        40         41      41
Agriculture               26                49        49         53      54
Schemes (Plantation)  1,655              1,621     1,635      1,644   1,661
Engineering              156               159       160        161     162
Survey                    88                88        88         88      88
Social Development       143               155       168        176     184



- 1OM  -                   ANNSX 5.4
Table 2
MALAYSTA
THIRD FSLCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Changes in Staff Numbers by Grade and Function
1992-1995
Grades A and B             1992       1993        1994       1995          Total
Administration                +2       +1           +2        +6            +11
Finance                       +2                                             +2
Data Processing               +1       +1           +1                       +3
Agriculture                  +23                    +4        +1            +28
Scheme 'Plantation)           -3      +30         +31        +31           +89
Engineering/Survey            +1       +1           +1        +1             +4
Social Development           +12      +13           +8        F8           +41
Subtotal Change        +38       +46         +47        +47          +178
Grades C and D
Administration               -16       -6          -10        -7            -39
Finance                                                                       0
Data processing 8
Agriculture                                                                   0
Scheme (Plantation)          -31      -16          -22       -14            -83
Engineering/Survey            +2                                             +2
Social Development            -                                               0
Subtotal Change         -45      -22         -32        -21          -120
Total Change             -7      +24         +15        +26           +58



-  103  -                                    AX   S.S
Page   df 2
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELgOpENT PROJECT
FELCRA's Action Plan
imlementation Tarsats and Monfitorina Indicators
191   2ig       1i           94        12
(Actual)
1. FELCRA Staffina
Anricultural Inspectorate                   14           24          24         24            24
Snoeme Management
Grades A+B                           240          237         267        298           329
Grades C+D                         1,405        1,374       1,358       1,336        1,322
Secondment of Staff to
KPFB Holdings:
No. Agric. Staff                             0
No. Marketing Staff                          0
No. mill staff                              44
2. Disenaaacment from Scheme Manaaemen
(by oil palm and rubber schemes)
No. of Schemes                               0           16          25         35           42      (48 in 1996)
Ha. of Schemes                               0        5.900      8,900      12,100       155100      (21,000 in 1996)
3. Technical Services to HoldinMs
Foliar Analyses Interpretation (ha)          0      110,000    120,000    136,000       147,000
Soil Survey Analyses Interpretationtha)    0              0     2.5000       3.000        3,000
4. Schene Performance (by scheme)
Total Production
Yield per ha
5. Palm Oil Mill Performance (by mill per month)
Total ffb Throughput
Extraction Rate
Fatty Acid X
Days of Operation
Hours of Operation
Downtime
6. Manacement Trainina for Coooerative Members
No. of trainees - basic courses                       1.460         100         75          150
No. of trainees - intermediate courses                  305       1,442        310          200
No. of trainees - advanced courses                      100         150         95          570



- 104 -                          ANNEX 5.S
Page 2 of 2
7. Coogerative
(a) Performance of the 75 cooperatives registered at December 31, 1991 for the
period 1991-95 (1991 data shown where available).
General                                                            199
- no. scheme beneficiaries in the 75 coops.              15,115
- no. male and female                                    13,267 (m), 1,848 (f)
- no. beneficiaries as cooperative members               13,651
- % membership - total                                  90%
- no. male and female as cooperative members            12,546 (m), 1,105 (f)
- % membership - male and female                        95% (m),  60% (f)
- Total value of member shares                          M$9.376 million
- Avg. paid-up share value per member                   M$638
Management of CooReratives
- no. coops. with members in mgt.                       73
- no. coops. with FELCRA staff in mgt.                  73
- no. coops. with member as president                    0
- no. coops. with member as chairman                    23
- no. coops. with member as secretary                    9
- no. coops. with member as treasurer                   73
- no. coops. with FELCRA staff as president             22
- no. coops. with FELCRA staff as chairman              52
- no. coops. with FELCRA staff as secretary             64
- no. coops. with FELCRA staff as treasurer              0
Cooperative Financing of Management
- no. coops. financing managers (and total managers)   15   (17)
- no. coops. financing clerks (and total clerks)        64  (106)
- no. coops. financing laborers (and total laborers)   29  (141)
Financial (data for 1991 incomplete)
- total turnover                                        M$35.062 million
- avg. turnover (74 schemes)                            M$0.474 million
- total net profit                                      M$1.699 million
- avg. net profit (74 schemes)                          M$0.023 million
- profit as % turnover                                  4.8%
- total costs of management
- total net profit of coops. financing mgt.
- total mgt. costs as % total coops. expenditure          -
(b) For Cooperatives registered 1992-95
- no. cooperatives
- no. scheme beneficiaries
- no. beneficiaries as coop. members
- % membership
- total and average annual turnover                      M$
- total and average net profit                           M$
- Avg. paid-up share value per member



- 105  -                                                  AULIX I
MALAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Simervision Mission Plon
Staff
Project       Approx.                                                           Expectod                Inputs
Mo.      Tear       Mission Oate              Area o  Concentration               Skill Requirements        CStaffweeks)
1.      199       Saptember         Loan effectiveness, procureomnt and        Tre  crop speciatists                11.0
disbursement, appointment of Financ        Economist
Division had, progress of                   Financial Analyst
accounting/consultants update resultr      Computer Speciltist
nd implementation of tapping
technoLogy, tapping wages, Holdings
contracts  nd progres In scho  and
mill mnAgement, MIS, review FELCRA's
proposed 19   work progr  .
2.    Jan./Feb.  Jan./Feb.          Tapping technology nd planting material   Tree Crop Specialisto                 11.0
progr_m and new wage structure,            Financisl Analyst
functioning of new agricultural            Economist
division,  nviror e ntat guidelines for    Engineer
agriculture, financial and schm_           Training Specialist
manegament arrangements, rural industry
and perequat studlies, progres of hold-
ings nd cooperatives In schem
management, civil works, procuremant,
training progrm. Human Resource
Developmant Division.
3.       1t13     October           Tapping and agricuiture program, audits,   Tree Crop Specialists                 8.0
perfor_ance of holdings nd FELCRA's         Financial Analyst
withdrawal from sche_  management, NIS,   Economist
study on agricultural costs and review     MIS
results of earie r studies, revI.._
FELCRA's proposed 1994 work progrm.
Proposats.
4        1994     March             Agricultural program, FELCRA8s with-        Tree Crop Specialists                10.0
drawl from scheme management, staff and   Financial Analyst
amliholder training, revfew agric.         Economist
costs study, famotioning of all new        NIS
divisions, civil work-, progress of
cooperatives.
S.       1995     Nov*ar            Agricultural program  including rubber      Tree Crop Specialists                6.0
tapping technology, Review of FELCRA's    Economist
proposed 1995 work progrm. Financial       Training Speciatist
management, MIS.                           Engineer
Cooperatives
6.       195      MNAY              AgrIcultural program, civil works,          Econom st                            6.0
training progrm.                           Tree Crop Specialist
F;nancial Analyst
ms
7.       1995     Nove.er           Agricultural program, disbursements,        Economist                            4.0
Progres  of Hotdings.                      Tree Crop Specialist
8.       1996     5 pto br          ProJect CopLetion Report.                   Economist                            4.0
Tree Crop Sp cialist



- 106-                        ANNEX 6
Table 1
MALAYS
THIRD FELCRA LAND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Crop Yield Profiles
Years from                  Oil Palm                     Rubber
Planting                 (ton ffblha)             (x8 dry rubber/ha)
1                          0                           0
2                          0                           0
3                          0                           0
4                         1.7                          0
5                         5.1                          0
6                         9.5                          0
7                         13.9                         0
8                         18.3                        520
9                        20.8                         920
10                        21.1                       1,190
11                        21.3                       1,410
12                        21.4                       1,520
13                        21.7                       1,620
14                        21.9                       1,700
15                        22.5                       1,720
16                        22.6                       1,730
17                        22.4                       1,750
18                        22.4                       1,730
19                        21.2                       1,730
20                        20.2                       1,720
21                        19.6                       1,710
22                        19.4                       1,700
23                        19.0                       1,680
24                        18.6                       1,660
25                        17.3                       1,650
26                        16.5                       1,630
27                        15.5                       1,600
28                        14.8                       1,590
29                        14.5                       1,570
30                        14.0                       1,510
Total Yield                            477 tons/ha              35,560 kg/ha
Production                              27                          23
Average Yield                         17.7 tons/ha               1,550 kg/ha



- 107 -                              ANE  6
Table 2
1I          Il-E    ffS         R        UI E
| g  |    4 ! R 84; Bn n #, | g    t  X n,  ; 0- 
| t            Ut1   ll;"         gi     ;4          : 
i;  !      }'"-ili                      s        aS
|3  Ilt                  In        U     i 4  10
W   llB3g; Za  ,    gx    l002.    ll;i
X~~~~~~ I 
F    "   4   lllSsl!1.!3jF                       111



lHRDEO RLAND DEVLPMPROJCT
RUBBEIPRMSIRUCIURE
YEAR      ACIUAL9I            92     93      94     95     96      97     98     99   00      01      Q     4       0a5    06
A. CRRBENPRICS -                   Augt
MARDEC -b-
RSSI Mikg fob                        235.54
-km   hqa.cm                          13.77
dhWuot                              3.00
Net fawm gate                        21&77
MARDEC - =Wv.-
SMR 20 Msglc fob                     206.53
-klssdutyc                            1.3.77                                                                                                                o
dismt                              23.50                                                                                                                 0
Net fwm gate pnc                     169.26
Ba PROJECFIONS -
(Jul91)
RSSI N.Y. Czr.tUScentsikg                          110    116    121    145    150    160    170    180    184    195    200    210    215    215
8SCoSLUScetu4g                                 70     73      73     84     84     85      86     86     86      85     85     84      84     84
92CbfsLUScenfkg                               107    112    112    129    129    130    132    132    132    130    130    129    129    129
LeuFmtW&Jhu USceotWkg                               1S      1S     iS     1S     iS      iS     1S     1S    IS       1S     1S      15     15     15
foblOag   92CmstMcmtsfkg                           253    266    266    312    312    316    321    321    321    316    316    312    312    312
RSS3@909RSSLMcmtrwg                                228    239    239    281    281    285    289    289    289    285    285    281    281    281
L=mu ft4 &plw  ,, i                                 12     12      12     12     12      12     12     12     12      12     12     12      12     12
WWotedsketgpAitperice                              216    227    227    269    269    273    277    277    277    273    273    269    269    269
mmmmmS11ss=""=S                               =C=   C-  ===  =mm   mm   ms                   m   =      =                     =-
SmwCe          pi= MARDEo FE.RA              1tmw km BkJul 9L



THMRFeLCR IAUND1VE0 ETPRTWFECT
OIL PALM - FEWD COTS PEER HECTARE
YEV                 1      2        s       4       6       0       I       e       9       to     II   1 2         13      14      iS      is      IT      It      to      20      30
PIfPAPATON AND PLANTI
_________________
FELUN, & CLEARN                 070
AGFL RaS                         OD              700
CRAIS                           201              150
TERACES                         ISO
FENCES                          420
COEaCRoPs                        150
uNW   PLANFING                  Go       e0
SURVEY                          100     l0o
SUB-TOTAL                    2At                                                                         0       0           0                                                            a 0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 o  0  0  0  0
MATERW8
FERT O1L PAU                            till    330      270     310     350     345     340     335    330      325     325     315    3J5      315    315      295     295      295     295       0
FERT. COVER CROP                         S0
CHEMOALS                                 20     SS      :SS     S05     90       05      as      75      70      s0      s0      s0      s0      s0      50      50      50       so      50      10
SFA  ISIIUANCE                           35      to      10      1e to            10      10      s0      1o      10      16      10      le      lo      to      10      i0      1t      is      to
FF8 TAAN8ORT                                             20       7      124    tOo    220       270    274      27      270     262     205    293      204    291      291     270      203     to2
---     -- -        --      ---     ---     ---     ---     ---     ---    ---     ---    ---       ---    ---       ---    ---     ---     ---      ---     ---     ---
SUB-TOTAL                       0     %L.    405      451     soo      505    m27      679     we0   600       0       0e0     0ea     an0    074    075       052       2     eV7     t        202
LABOR
WEEaN                                   400    2US      260      1o0    i:o       as      95     so       7s      70      70      70      70      70      70      70      70       70      70      70
pESTONIOL                                        to      t0 to             10     10      10      to      10      is      IS      Is      iS      Is      Is      IS      IS      IS       iS       0
FERTLWN3                                 30      50      as      t0       70      0S      as 0 5      55          so      So      so      so      So      so      40       40      40      40       0
PALMMAITEMAiNCE                                   10      10      10      10      to      to      10      10      10      10      10      10      10      10      :0      t0       10      10       0
SUFPLY PLANWIVE                          30
`R  MANTBEANCE                                           20      20       20      20      20      20      20      20      20      20      2D      20      20      20      20      20      20        0
CEMSS                                    :0      10      tO      to       to      10       0      10      tO      10      10      10      10      tO      10      10       10      10     tO       10
HARVESTIN                                                43      112    too      230     311    312    317    27         270     262    205    293       294    201      29'    270      203      162
SUB-TOTAL                       0     470     375     410    307      420      440     t21     507    496      452     453     457     400     4o      400     450     450     441     420    262
---         ---    ---     ---      ---     ---    ---      ---     ---      ---     ---     ---     ---     ---     ---     ---    ---     ---     ---      ---    _---
TOTAL                        2.510     50   1.720     070      05   1.0t5   1.073   1.200   1.20    1.187   1.120   1.122   1.120   1.125   1.141   1.144   1100   1.100   1.077   1.051    464
.00..    .6 ... ..  ....  .......  ....  ......                                                                                       ....    .... .... .... ....             .... ....
ChIRUATWE COST               2510   3.400   5.180   e0os    0.03   rss7   9,030  10.20  11.434  12t20   13,740  14053  15.903  17.10S  :8.249  19.303  20.501  21.010  22.67  23.736   "l
VIELTOK44A                                              1.70    510    9.60   13.00   10.30   20eo   21.10   21.30   21.40   2f.70    21.        22.S    22.0    24    22.4    212    202    140
HAVESTINGOOSTSTON                                        25      22       20      17      17      Is    1s        3      13      13      1s      13      13      13      13      13      13      13
TRPNAIAFTATIO TO ILL                                      IS  t 5         13      13      13      13      13      13      13      13      13      13      13      13      13      13      13      13
INCOME
FFSPCEINAT ML                   U9      130    1I6       104    100    1OS       Iso     145     141    1t30     132      ?7     122    iSe      11      Ito     1s1      I       li      *10    110      l l
TOTALOME                          0       a       0     270     010    1473    2066    2054   2933   2070    2012    2718    2547    2504    20S0   2007    203    2040    2502    2304    1652 0          .
NETNOME                       (s1q    (GM   (1.72m      (w       (7     4G0   1.012   1.044   1.7i9   1.t03    .02   I5S    1.527   1,450   1.514   1.L.3   1.tSJ    t.53    1.424   S.=3   1,1t0    I-a
----------------------------------------------------                                           -------------.-----                                                  --          ---------
S&aw     FEL     A  9dbzd Pe   _,atmm 9S .  91: FELCRA Pmw*  tkMoorbg aiFl     0DpwSn dRcoid .
Nb  bIvk vus lot tyIwO 21 -29 gvn hw r   p4w n h pcjscl tie.



THRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REPRESENTATIVE OL PALM SCHEME
MI
YAR                 t      2      3      4      5      0      7       e      9     10    IS       12    13    14    1s        16     47    1l    19    20    30
SCHEME INCOME
PLANTED AREA (NA)               300    300   300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300
Y1ELDtA(TONFFS)                   0       0      0     1.7   5.1    9.5   13.9   18.3   20.8   21.1   21.3   21.4   21.7   21.9   22.5   22.8   224   22.4   24.2   20.2   140
PRODUCTION (TON FF8)              0      0       0    50   S,530  2.850  4,170  5.490  e.240  0,330  8.390  e.420  6,510  0,570  6.750  6,780  6.720  6.720  6e3s0  8.0o0  4,200
PRICEJTONFFS (SM                 149    438    S58    464    160    455    450    145    14i    t38    132    127    122    148    lie   t18 40      8    I48    4s8   Il6    Ila
GROSSREVENUE (SSOOq               O  0       0         84    245    442    626    796    830    so6    843    8tS   794    775   797    800    793    793    750    745    490
INVESTMENT COST (SWOODO)
________________
- FEI  DEVELOPMENT              724    285    548    264       0
- SCHEME INFRASTRUCTURE           0    232    ea        8      0
- VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT           46      5      5      57      0
- MANAGEMENT COSTS                16    6e    4o       22      0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS          845    538    60s    354       0      .0     0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0 
._...............             ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ... ...    ..              ...    ...    ...    ...     ...    ...    ...    ...    ...   ...    ...    ....
OPERATING COSTS
___________
- MATERIALS                                                  452    476    488    204    209    207    200    204    499    200    202    203    t96    490   194    187    61
- LABOR                                                      ISO    420    134    IS5    452    149    436    130    437    438    440    144    137    137    432    128    79
- SCHEME INFRA. MAtNT.                                         8                           8       a8        8   8      8      a      8      a              8      8      8      e
- VEHICLE& EOUP.O&M.                                           5      5      5      5      5      5       5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5       5      5      5
- MANAGEMENT                                                  22     22     22     22     22      22     22     22    22      22    22      22     22      22     22     22     22
TOTAL OPERATINGCOSTS              0      0       0      0    304    337    357    395    398    391   374    372    371    373    378    378    367    367    358    354   174
. ,,. ........... .... ,....,, .... ... ...... ...  . ....    ...   .... a. ....    .S  ....    ...    ... ..    ...   ...   ....    ...   .....    ...   .....    ...   .....    ...   .....    ...   .....    ...
SCHEME NET INCOME               (81S)  -S"   (GM    (261)   (59)   105    209   401    484    470    472    444    423    402    4t9    422    426    426    392    364    321
.. .. . . .. . .. w .. . . .. . .. lw......   ....    ...   ....    ...   ....    ...   ....    ...   ....    ...   ....    ...   ....    ...   ....    ...    ...    ...    ...
S4R                           4 t%
SOURCE: TABLE 1; FELCRA AGRICULTURALPERFORAINCE STUDY 199s; FELCRA RECORDS FINANCE.PLANNINGAND MONITORING OEPTS.
Noe: kKtWK%  vakwm for yfou 21 - 29 gIeiIn wharkg ppm in pwjc (de.
oFm
v, a'



THRD FECALAND DEELPW aMM
NUMOFPPARAPMENS   120
PLANIED HECTMES             300
rTPE OF SCHEME             REHUBUTATION
WEAA                1    2      3     4      6      6      7      8      9      10       It      12    13    14       15     10     17      le      19  20      30
MICOME
F0SP&AIU                         149   13B   158   164    160    1565    SO    146    141    136    132    127    122    Ila    118    118    Ila    Ila        118   118    Ila
C      nc a Co.                                      84    246    442    626    796    660    6OI   643    615    794    ns    797    S00          3 93    793  70    716    490
Fs   abl                         753   285   516  264        0
Tel                             73   286   516   346    246    442 026    796    60    81 6e43    66    794 N                    797    800      3    793     750    715   490
FIhidDswk2pnuri OutD             753   265  5t1    204       0      0
Op.mkigCcuts                       0     o     0      0    282    315    335    373    374    369    349    3S0    349    351    356    356    345    345       330    329    152
RAqf*  Rold                        0     0     0      0     30     30     30     30     30      30     30     30     3D     30     30     30      30     30      3D     30     30
S8t Ld  hwg  (C.AC4                0     0     0      0      6      6      6      6      6       6      6      a      a      6      6      6      6       0       a      8      6
A.pqwt uw. v.LoP&I                 0     0     0      0      0      0      0      0      0       0    165    OS    166    1656  tOS    106    16        1065    165    166      0
Tcil E*Widkm                   753   286   S18   204    318    351    371    409    4tO    405    560    6S    550    552    5           57 5    646    540   537    530    168
... .... ...    .... ...    .... ...    .... ...    .... ...    .... ...    ..... ...._.. ....    ...    .... ...    ...... ..............._......-............ 
Sdwm ".p1 s94)11                 0     0      0     0      0     91    265    367    470    456    293    204    244    223    240    243    247    247       213    186    306
DMduu_Sw ^dciuypS                 0     0     0      0      0    758  2,125  3.226  3,917  3.800  2,442  22,0   2.033  lAS  2.000  2.025  2.056  2,058    .775  1.542  2.567
ADCOW 7sg    T5-1.5)              0     0     0      0  2.813  2.813  2,813  2.813  2.813  2,813  2.133  2.61   2.83  2.813  2.83  2.013  2.813  2.813   2.813  2.8t3  2,613
NdlweCmkb Sdh2sal                 0     0      0     0  2.813  3,571  4.93M  60,C6  6,729  6,613  5.254  5,013  4,846  4.071  4.83  48318  0.871  471    4566  4354   5380
._ . .................. ...w................  ...  ...    .....    ...   ....    ...   ....    ...   ....    ...   ....    ...    ...   .....    ...   ....    ...    ....    ...    ...
OEWELOPET LOAN REPAfNM8
Eff TERMS - LOAN PERlOD25 6                                   Cqaihi MC&MI blm@ 4%                -0.0694
A   tOEYEARS                                            uuso amou" bow                     - *0347t
INTO% VR 1-1O                                         hb mi r   9 catail                   - M139.
INT4%'VR I1-25                                         Pre*2 &V                            - WI 632.00
ISEQUALPAMPFRING,WIT                                   EquIP*p)ut1SWS                     - MS16S,000
Saucw: T"2.
Nd.: bthsV   ktdbifl2I - 29g1vmh kh w g pqsp.cg i.
1, mp&n k)w4~uSd  wdIocws Ass laBWN.
1.
% I



tdALAYSIA
Tlf RD FEICRA L6ND DeELotPteNT PROJS 
RUWBER - pELD COSTS PER HECTARE
YEAR                  1        2       3        4       5        6        7       s        9       to      i        12      13       14      is       16      17       is      19         20       30
__---___-____----____~- --_-------- - --------------------------                                       -__-----          - -----     - - -__------_ _--- -_ __ _ __                          _ _-
CLEARING A PLANTING
_ _ _   ----- ---_ _
FEUING   CLEeARING                  61s
ON-FARM ROADS                         7s                     s52
DRAINS                               So                        SO
TERRACES                            495
FENCES                              170
COVER CROPS                          150
UNING. PLANTWN                     1.130      80
SURVEY                              00      100
SUB-TOTAL                        2.n5      ISO       0      575        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0
MATERIALS
FERTILIZER. RUBDER                           210      log     160      170     160      ISO     155      ISO     145      145     145      45     14S      30 1    30 11     0      130 0   13       120      t7
FERT.COVERCROP                                SS
CIEMICALS                                     20      i15     13S       6       ss      s5       s0                40      40      40       40       40      35       35      3s       35      35       25      Is
STMULANTS                                                                                        4        4       6       30      10       30      10       25      25       2S       25      25       25      30
sPA&INSuRANCE                                 35       0      0       0      to       IS      IS           15  I5       is       Is      Is       is       15          15  1        15      Is       is      15
TAtPPING 1tFNSItS                                                                       260
SUB-TOTAL                           0      320      225     305      245     22s      480     22V       29     206      210     210      210     210      205     20s      205     2OS      205      18s      77
LABOR
wWLDIG                                       400     269      240    IS       110      110     10       95      SO       so      so       so      so       70      70       70      70       70      so       25
ESTCONTROL                                     5       10      la       0      10       10       5        5       S        5       S        s       s        5       S        S                        s        s S  S
FERTIUZING                                    36      37       35       35      40       36      32       29      23       23      23       23       3       20      20       20      20       20       is      to
CROP MAINTUANCE                                        is      30       45      30       20       5        s       s        s       5        s       5        5        s       5        s       s        s       5
SUPPLY PLANTWIG                               SO       0
INFRASTR.MAINTENANCE                                                    0      10        a      0o      30       5        5       s        S       5        5       5        5       5        5        5       s
CENSUS                                                  5       5        5      I5      l3       0       10
TAPINGOCOST                                                                                     530      782    L012   1.056    j.170    U.47    1.309    1.324   1332    L260   1.246   1.246    L.238   1.027
SUB-TOTAL                           0      49      336     320      220     215      396     702      936    3.130    I:04    12      I.365    1.427    1.429    1.437    L365    1.351    1.351    1.3ZI   t.077
TOTAL                            2785      99      561   L.200      465      40      676     926   L355    1.336    1.414    1.498    1575    1,637    L634    1,642    1.570    1556    556    0s6    .154
CUMUIIVBCOST                       2.785    3.776    4.337    ssn37   602    6.442    X.116   80$4   9.199   l0.535   11.949   3447   35.P22   .659   3.294   39.936  23.506   23.062  24.617   26 124 u2
YIEW   OAM                                                                                      S2      920   1.190   1.410   1.520    IAN        1.700    1.720   1130    1750    1730    1730    1720    5sTo
TACOST MISK  (d0)                                                                                m2    0.5       o.6s    0.77     0.77    0.77    0.77    0.77      077     0.2      0.72    0.72    0.72    O.
INCOME
LATEX IPRICE MSI                    2L.6    227    2.27       2.69    2.0      2.73    2.77    2.77    277                 3      26      29       2       2.69    2.       2.69    2.69              2.60    2.69
TOTAL INCOME                           0       0        0       0        0       0        0    l.440   24       3249    349    4069    4.35       4573   4.627   454   4.708    4654    4,654    4.627   4,062
NErTINCOME                        (2.785)   (99)   (561)  (1.200)   (46       (4o)   (676)    S14    L93    1.913   2.436    2590    2.72    2.936    2.99    3.012   3.138   3098    3.096    3.120   2.906
-----___ ----------- ---_------------------------_____-_-___---------------___-----------------_-_-----_------_---------- -----,E 
SOURCM FELCRA.
Nole:IdIiuIale  eyan2-  9Ii  .wdn   ae.O



nu~  3AAPoEEO?n?Ricr
REPRESENTAI1VE RUEDIE SCHBE
YEARS                   I       2       3       4       5       6       7       6       9      1o         I      _1 32    13     14      is      16       17     is       19   20      30
SCHEMEINCOME
1AN4TID AaREA(HA)                      200     200    2GD      200     200    200    200       200    200    200    200    20D    20           20C    20      200      200     200    200     200    200
ARBA INPRODUCIm014 (HA)               -       -                       _20                              200    2G0      200    200      200    200     200     200      20D    2c0      200    200    200
l aDmA( KGALADE + SCRAP)              -       -                               -       -        520    920   1.190   1.410   1.520   1620   1,700   1.720   1.730   1.750   1.730   1.730   1.720   1510
IRODUCIIOtN(IONS)                        0       0       0       0       0       0       0     104     184    235    282    304    324    340    344    346            350    346    346    344    302
?RICOxa. (SM)                         2.16    2.27    2.27    269    269    2.73    2.77    2.77    2.77    2.73    2.73    269    2.69    249    2.69    269    2.69    29    269    269    ze9
GROS REVE  UU(SM                        0        0       0       0       0       0       0     2s8     510    650    770       816    a72    915    925       931     942    931    931       925    812
1NVEST4rTOoST(S3'I0
-F11DEVELC oWCOsTs                   557      I9"     112    240      93      aS      135    IS5       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
-SCHEMEINFRASTRUClURE                   0      232      6       8       IS      S       s       s       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
-VEOCFESAEOU1UENr                      46       5       5       5       5       5      57       12      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
- MANAGEMErCOSIs                       22       22      22      22      22      22     22       22      0       0       0       0        J      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
TIrALINVETMENrCOSIS                    625     457     147    275      133     123      2      227       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
.................                    ...a   ...    ... ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ... ...    .....    .. .              .....    ...                           .... .  ..   .          ...               3
OlERANGCOSMI                                                                                                                                                                                                           1-
- MAERIALS                                                                                             44      41      42      42      42      42      41      41      41      41      41      37      Is              w
-LAOR(DI3SYS1E4)                                                                                      37      226    241    256    273    285    286    287           273    270      270    264    215
- SCI3E IRWFRA. MAIr.                                                                                   S       S       a       S       8       6       a       6       S       8       a       S       a
-VEMCIE*EOUIp.oaM                                                                                      12       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
- MANAGEMENT                                                                                           2S      28      28      2S      2S      2S      28      28      2S      2S      2S      28      20
TArALOPERATINGCOS13                     0        0       0       0       0      0       0       0      279    303      319    335    351    363       363     364    350       347    347    337    267
.-         ........... ... ......    ...    ....    .X...    ..., ...    ....    ...          ....   ,....    . ..    ...           .,___....    ...    ....    ...    .....   ..,.....  , ...   .....    ...    ...._
SCIEEMENHDXI4OME
lOTDLINVTrAOPERA11NGCOS1    625                457     147    275      13S     123    222    227    279    3G3    319    335    351           363    363    364       350    347    347       337    267
JOAL INCOMU                             0       0       0       0       0       0       0     288     510    650    770       8S1    872    915    925    931         942    931      931    925    812
NErINCO(E                             (625)   (457)   (147)  (275)   (13S)  (123)  (222)    61        231    347    451    482    521    552    563           567     592    5t4    584    588        546
IRR(FULLCOSTPRECOVERY)             120W
SOURV   TAKEI          MAGRCULtLtAL PERFORMANCE STUDY 1993 EECRA RECORDS FiNA   LANNINGAND MONrlRING DEm.
Noas  Vd&for indidayes2l - 29ea In pr*  Gfile
I0D X



THRD FEUM A L   DEsELONr PROEC
REPRESENTATIE RUIER SCHEIaE
CASHFLOWANALYSIS
NUER OF PARflCIPANrS: 80
PLANTED ECTARES          200
TPE OFSCHEbE             REHABILITATION
YEAR               1    2      3     4      5     6     7      8      9      10       11    12    13    14    15    16           17     18     19  20      30
SCHEME NCOllE
SI hSI$S& SCp                    0     0     0     0      0      0     0    288    510    650    770    818    872    915    925   931    942    931    931    925    812
FekwmamiToSewfls               557   198   136   240      93    88   130    193
TOWhl k%xw                    557   190   136   240      93   88   136   481    510    OS0   770    818    872    915    925   931    942    931    031    925    812
_______   n  ...   ...  ...  a..   ...   .. a ---. .__  _                  _.        _ _-. -- .        -        -- 
SCHEIE EXPENDITURE
______________
Filsld OvdqmunCo s            557   198   136   240      93    88   136    193
CpeC Cod                         0     0     0     0      0      0     0      0    279    303   319    335   351    363    303   364    350    347    347    337    267
SWe* LOWCwCe.(CAC)               0     0     0     0      0      0     0      a      6      6      6      a      6      6      6      6      6       6      a      6      6
RspivpitDel.Lw P&I               0     0     0     0      0      0     0      0      0      0    148    148    148    148    148    148    148    148   148    148        0
T1aIEiqdft                    557   198   136   240      93    88 136    10    285    309    473    489   505    517    517   518    504    50t   501    491    273
----------                               ...  ...    ...  ...  ..             ...    --- .- ...    ...    ...    .. a---.    ..              ...    ..    '   ' ...    ...
SdcmeSuipks WOODS                0     0     0     0      0      0     0    282    225   341    297    329   367    398    408    413    438    430    430    434    530 9
!AbDMd,mbflcy (MS)               0     0     0     0      0     0      0  3.525  2.813  4.263  3.713  4.113  4,58  4,075  5.100  5.103  5.475  5,375  5,375  5.425  6.73e            I
-ADO Tqps hIne                   0     0     0     0      0     0     0  3,065  3.065  3,065  3.055  3.055  3,055  3,055  3,065  3.065  3,055  3.065  3,065  3.065  3.055
(Laborf55  1 .Sults)
Net kncWorkirg SeW(M$)           0     0     0     0      0     0     0  6,590  5876  7,S2  6,778  7,178  7.653  8.040  8.105  8.228  8,540  8.440  8,440  8,490  9,803
.... ........... _ ..............    _   ....  ...    .....  ..._. ..... B  ...   ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...   _.__ ____ __.___.__.  , ...    .. _.__
DEVELOPMENW LOAN REPAYMENTS
CREODITERhS - LOANPERIOD25YRS                                           CIapireovewyotcr*4%            -   0.08014
---------  GRACE10YEARS                                                 btenfBRooeyFwtor               -  0.089014'15-1
INTO%YR 1-10                                             h1tutOFhigenTWu                .   MSs72,C000
INT4%YR 11-25                                            Pice OwS                       -   AlS1.640,0,000
15EOUALPAYMPRIN& tNT                                     Equal Pap-mt 15 ra             -   MS14,00OOO
SOURCE: TABLE S.
Noh: Vaes for hidb1if   yws  21 - 29 glm hi proud film.
Io x
%OO'



DV429NMPROR=
YOU41111            a     2      5      4      5      6      7      0      9      to       11    12    13    la    Is    Is    I?    to    it             0     21     n      is      24     25    35     n      a      n       n
-----------
A. MM PLANTRO
-----------
OMPALMOMOM                   2M   ON  L710  CM  "  tm  Lm  t.=  t"  sAw  t.%2o tAn  Sao S=  imt ime UN  Lias W   tM  106 IMO 'An   m    tu  114  du  60  c"  4"
TMIRAIM                       tu      "     12.4    LS    U       11    7.7    "      W       LS    Ls    u        Ls    u      Ita    as    "       Is    72    14    7i    73    7.2   7A           "      Si     49    4i      U      "
TM IfA t"3                           ILI    "      itA    43    #A    1.1    7.7    "        V       LS    ILt    ILI    u      Li    lLi    92    as    to    7A    7A    73    73    72             u      "      34    4.9   4LS    SA
?MHA 1194                                   IIA     "     ILO    63    U        72    7.7   11A    L7    Ls    u          Li    Li    u       IL2    L2    go    90    is    7J    73    73           la     u      ds    u       49    "
?mIIA t"S                                          iLl    "      gLe    AL3   ILI    72    7.7    u         IL7    23    Lt    at    ILI    el    u         u      ILO    "      73    IA    7J       is    la    74       69    SA    49
--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
StqMAL               IU    243          S?J   4M    3M      SU    27.7   30    M    SU     3"     "A    SU    323          US     nd    nS   n4   3"    3L9   liss         9U    20J   20A    2L5    2L4   US        215    ILI   IM
--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
Itu"MCOST111h                LM      "I    561   L200   463    440   9"   1.233   LS34  IA14  KAN   I"    SA37  L04  IA42  I.M   IAM   Ij%   t4oa  SAW   tAge  S,4W   !ilo   LSS    LMD   IJO   WM   S.1041  LM    U94
4$WHA 1102                    1364    42    2.7    58    Lt    LI    L4    is    6.4    "            7.2    ?Ld   is    72    7*    7J        73     73    1.3    69    as       "      "      63     "      42    3x    5.1    M        53
4MHAI"3                              13A     "      zi    Ss    92    Li    4A        13    49A    as    1.2    7L4   Tj    72    70          7.3   73    7i    1.2   as         as    as             as    Ls    G2    Ss        17    Li
4="A lo"                                    ISA    42    2.7   Ss    2.2    u         4A     is    4.4    M       7.2   7A    is    72    79    7J    7i    7J    14             69    69             Is     &2    is    ILI    52    17
4=nok RIP3                                         13A    4a      V     32    2.2    2A       u      Si     "     fLe   73    IA    7.9    ?A    7.9   7-4   7J    ?j    7.2    69    as              "      13    12    Ls    62    is
--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
SUMMAL               t3A   ILL   2M    2U    93A   tZB   14.9   14.3   ILS   212    239    2"    20A   3M    514   SU    3LI   30A    29.1   ZPA   203   27.11  272    21.8   213    14U   27A   ItA    213   2W
--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
(XI sclemcos.                 SIA   43A    S&I   703    47A   412   423   44A    SU    S"    392    6IJ    "I   42S   49A   617   O"    aS    41A   OM                   AS   37-9   XI   53A    U9    40          41A   4LO   41A   90
ACcenROADS                     La    $A    1.2    as        0
TRAR111040(50%)                1.7   S.?    0.7
FELCRAOVMMAD(19%)             SU    Its    IZA    W        "      Is    9A    PA       "      9A     9.0                        9.0   tio   OA              to    OA      9.0   PA    ta       VA     PA            VA    OA    VA    PA
TOrALDZVELCOW                 441   S"    7"             _!4                 -3-3A-  -;A;   _;'s    S-                                    -;a:$                                                          -4-R-9
------------                 ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...
PRO)ECT OENSM
;w;Zr                           0      0      0     1.7   !1.1   gj    I"      W      2u    21.1   2t.3   2LA   21.7   2LO   22.3   2LG   22A    22A   2t.2   20.2   IVA   IVA   194    IU    173    iLS   L"    14A    143   142
?2WHA 1192TOW                                      121   SL7   aA   IOCLI  ISLO   14U    1919   Ina   0341   RAI   OV    laO   1627   161.3  14U    ISM   1414   14LI   13*7   1962   13"    12"    ItU   1114   ""    SOLS  NM
72Wf41A lg"TONS                                           IU    30    WA   901ki  13LO   14211  1319   Ina   Iftt   19162  Ins   16M   1917   t6I.3  16LS   tnf   t414   14LI   Ilk?   INS   1319  12"    110    itiA   IOU    WU
IMMA 109$1                                                       OLZ   X7   GRA   IDMI   IJLS   14M    ISO    Ina   1341   SUZ   19%7  SaO   SW    iSL9   W3   ISU   1414   t4U    SSW    IMS   13"    124,6  tiltS   tILAo  NM
720011A t"ITONS                                                         t2.2   SO    68.4  IOMI   131A   140   131.10  Ina   ISU   0962   157.7  laO   IdLI   IOLS   I$L3   Ing   14SI   14U    131LI  130    13"   22"    SIU   2IL6
-z    ;;;;   ii;;   ;;i;   ---   W3;   ;,;   ;;;   ---   WL;   ---   ---    ---   ;;t;   ---   ---   ;O;   ---   ;,;;   ---                                   WLI-  ---   ;3;;
St.1111WALION PM          M             (W                                      43al                        6im           =0   4W       6417          079   6206           YM            33LS                               441.4
--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
OILPALMPRKE                  14"   1390   isto    160  IdOO   InD   13MO   3430   14LO   13dO   1320   12M   12LO   SIM   ligo   lige   ligo   tioto  ltto   site   A liw   ltto   logo   lsto   ltto   ttto   ISM   tice   tice   It=
CILPALAgVALUE                  an    M       SW     2S    7.41  IL2   32A   4U    6M    7U          773   71A    7U      M     743   73A   710   X4   713    712   702    SL3   "4   45A    "I   4W                37.7   $95    24    so
RUBMY                          0      0      0      0      0      0      0    310    M     1.190  1.410  IXD   IAO   1.700  1.720  1.730  1.130  1.730  1.130   L720   L710  1.701)  IAM   IAGO   IGS   tim    tm    L90    I"    I=
4111181110% IMTOW                                                              23    4A      V      as    7.3   1A       U      $3    83    0.4    LS    IO    OLS    0.2    L2    ILt    to    71    7.3   7.7    7A    73    7.2
"WHA IMTCNS                                                                           13    4.4    3.7   as    73    72    8.2   93    IL3    L4    83    83              93    92    92    el        IA    11    72    1.7    7A    7i
4100HA1094.010                                                                               Ls    4.4   9.7    "        7J    is      u      93    93    L4    63    63    L9    ILZ    92    tt    "              7.9    is     1.7   ?A
4MOHA WSTOM                                                                                         2.3   4A      17    "       73    72    IL2    LS    93    IL4   IL3    Ls    23    92    L2    Si    "                "      74    7.7
St.1111WALTOMIAIM             w       OA    0.0    OA    010    GM    u        2.3    69    12A   19A    24.2   27A   3MO   113    W         311   n3    33J    W        3M    3"    3V       MA    3M      US    31A    3LI   30    3u
RUIS0113tFILICZ               L16   L27   2.27   2AP   24P   L73   2M    2.77   2.77   2.77   L73   L71   2AD   20    2A)   2AP   2.0    2AN    &a    2AP   2AIP   LO    2AP   2LO    za    2a                     to    am      in    2"
Rtn VAIM                      ao    "      "      Go    OA      do    ea    69    194    SW        "     6"    74A   $M?   AW7   87A    0.1   NJ    VA    89J    9#0   SU    871    WYJ   IOU    US   MA    U5    Uj   MA
.........                    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...    ...
IMALPRORWrIENEM                u      no    OA    2a    7.9   IL2   11U        W      OZA   IOU    1364   1434   14IL2  1540   !JM   IUS   ISM   Id"    WO    la?   INS   IMP   ISU    1322   1419   14U   142A   RUO   SS"   L"t
rmogagm                      -491  -x2  -ns  -4124  -4116  -3W   -07    SA   22S    41A   4SIA   7JU   711A    UJ   MA    9"    92S    9U    142    "A   ftA    OM                     IV    IFTA    U3    K3   9U        MA    SU    W
M                             llqb
00    OM      IM    IM      SW    IJI   7JO   7JO   7JD   IJO   IM    7JO   7.30   7J&   74111  7M    7JO   1.30   7JO   7JO   7.30   7JO   7-V    ?A)   ?JO   MD   7M    ?JO   7.50   ?M
POOTDOCKWAINTALMIEWIT112  (46A)  (97.71  (7"         (BU)  ("       (ZL*  QL2)   0.9   3U    4PJ    OA    IOA   0126   04    9"    97J    WM            IOIA   190    IOMV   WA    "J    OL2   94S    OU        Mg   WA    9M    9LI   S"
am                            001,
,4
tA
cr
CD



- 116 -
ANNEX 6
Table 11
MALAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Product      Labor Cost       Productivity   ERR 2
Price                         Gain
Rubber
Case 1       Base (IBRD)        +2Z/yr          +2S/yr         12.0       Base
Case 2          -lOS                                           10.5
Case 3          -201                                            8.5
Case 4          +10                                           13.5
Case 5          Base                                           10.6
Case 6          -20                                0            7.1       Pessimistic
Case 7          Base                               3          14.5        Optimistic
Oil Palm
Case 1       Base (IBRD)        +21/yr        +2Z/yr          11.0        Base
Case 2          -10S                                            7.0
Case 3          -201                                            4.0
Case 4          +1OX                                           12.0
Case 5          Base                                           8.5
Case 6          -10x                              0             5.5
Case 7          +10X                              0           10.8
Case 8          Base                              3            12.0



- 117 -                        ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents in Prolect File
Documents Pregared by FELCRA
Preparation Report (for Preappraisal) of the Proposed Third FELCRA Land
Development Project, August 11, 1991.
Volume I Main Report
Volume II Appendices (Working Papers)
1. FELCRA's Performance
2. Basis for Agricultural Development Cost
3. Infrastructure Program and Costs
4. Vehicles and Equipment Costing
5. Costing for Village Development Program
6. Rural Industrialization Program
7. Cooperative Development in FELCRA
8. Institutional Strengthening
9. Proposal for FELCRA's Training Program
Revised Statements (for Appraisal):
Infrastructure Program and Costs
- FELCRA Road Projects
- Vehicles and Equipment Procurement
- Electricity Supply System for FELCRA Housing Schemes
- Water Supply Systems for FELCRA Housing Schemes
- Staff Quarters and Scheme Administration Buildings
Institutional and Manpower Planning
- Institutional Strengthening
- Engineering Services Division
Agricultural Performance Study
Manual for State Procurement (Translation of Procedures)
FELCRA's Detailed Financial Statements Including Sumiary of
Agricultural Schemes - December 1991
Performance of FELCRA Cooperatives up to 31.12.91



- 118 -                       ANFA 7
Page 2 of 2
Action Plans:
(i)     Proposed Action Plan for FELCRA's disengagement from direct
management from agrlcultural schemes
(ii)    Implementation of reduced frequency tapping systems
Consultant Reports contracted by the Bank as part of Proiect Preparation
Saxena, S.K.              Cooperatives in FELCRA - December 7, 1990
Eschback, J.M.            Report on (Reduced Frequency Rubber Tapping
System) for FELCRA - March 1991
Boonsue, K.               Women in Development Component of FELCRA Project
- June 1991
Naur, Maja                Village Redevelopment Program - Sociological
Aspects - October 25, 1991
Taylor, Donald M.         The Rural Industrialization Program of FELCRA -
November 1991
O.her Documents
Laws of Malaysia          Act 398, National Land Rehabilitation and
Consolidation Authority (Incorporation) Act
1966. Revised 1989
KPFB Holdings Sdn.         Five-Year Business Plan - December 1991
Bhd.
Government of Malaysia    A Guide to the Preparation of Terms of Reference
for Highway/Road Projects Department of
Environment, Kuala Lumpur - October 1989
Government of Malaysia    National Policy on Women.  Office of Women's
Affairs. Prime Minister's Department
Kuala Lumpur
Official Translation - April 15, 1991
Government of Malaysia    Malaysia: The Way Forward
Working Paper by The Prime Minister of Malaysia
- February 28, 1991



MALAYSIA
T1IRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizatonal Chart of FELCRA (1991)
Bowd
Iuiwy  Eduo D .   BudgtI
~~~. 
I ~     I
_ S"b~~~~~~~~~~~~eWs                                _       dan         _am~                 S        l
> - t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c~B7
VW8
,'O
aams o
lbdu                            .                       la
-evm        S      :       e$n            a          SW.o
AWAW                  So_gpi _oDv                 FkA '    ' '      , r          r_ 
I-n I00                oId _evi          I          I I I         I          I I
surosy  Edwoman & DBv.      Budge



- 120 -                                            FIGURE  2
MALAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Agricultural Development Process
SCHEDULED EVENTS                                RESPONSIBIUTY
Scheme Identiflcathn
Ownership \4rilcsn             |
Plannin,g & Development Dlhvllon
Feasibility Rprt Preparation
Exutie Approval Committee (EXCO)
|         lWaury, Federal Government         | }    Man em seAO          v    Blonudget setion
bchnkal Review andl
Contract Preparaton
CalAng of Tbnder
Up to M  o0.oo        Above MS50.000              chnlb d Servkes Dvsbon
State Oces       Head Office
Tbnder Evaluaton
1-------- Procurement Oomltme
Contract,Awad                                     lbnder Award Committee
Contract Award
Up to MS5,OOO         Above M$8O,000
EXCO Approval .- -                         EXCO
Ltr of Award                 |      llder Award Commie
Scheme Implementaton                    Statse Omce
odv5O7C



MALAYSIA
THIRD FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of Proposed Plantaton and Finance Dhsilons
-Rubber               bpigQualit control    AgnoultiWa Evaluatio
O- o crops
Cop and Envromental Protction
L _anm Dision
F-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
EDDbmic DM
A="m_es
l                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ckiU



MAP SECTION



IBRD 23771
100'           \s                               10I                                              10E41 
THIRD FELCRA PROJECT
FELCRA STATE OFFICES, TRAINING CENTERS
AND PALM OIL MILLS
A   STATE OFFICES UNDER CONSTRUCTION
Ka                                                                                  PROPOSED NIW STATE OFFICE
PEl0   1TIAo                                                                             NING CENTR
'C~ w    I                                                                             U       OOR SETAR  P IL MILLS
^   STATE CAPTALS           6
|   KEDAH  t        _Px         J      |                                mNATIONAL CAPITAL
=  xirtJDSTATE BOUNDMIES
V\-    INEWRNATIONAL BOUNOAES
Trengganu
P PINANG                                     KELANTA
\>   PERAK                                  -       TRENGGANU
SOUTH
t tNASARUDDIN                       )                                   t tJ  > CHINA
>\,PERAK                                   \>  h 7 SEA
4-                                                                                                                  4 <  u  >  25  .
10 b                                     PAHANG0
019                                                   MARAN 
T \ ~~SELANO  
(Y KUAPRL A99
0 W0R                                                 20  30  40  50  60
"BI d Df"   gn       m      ' NEGRI        \                    t         KI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VLOMETERS
.h. r"_mb r ,
f_ 0f,                   <   }             ~~~~~~~~~~              ~~KUALA       i
00.                         >             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PILAH  {g>
9   L^D    A   t                    <   MELAKA 7  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BUKr |
{)t  9  g   i                       ~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~ ~KEPONG 
tt >/ t X ~~~~~~~~~~JOHOR\ 
, hv v ~~~SC)TH   
Zo0\          ~~~~CHINA                                                       \JOR 
~~~~~~~~~~~(Sumcra)eX \
APPJL 1992



