Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3484 MA
              (Third FELCRA Land Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
      FEDERAL LAND CONSOLIDATION AND REHABILITATION AUTHORITY
                        Dated July 13, 1992
                                               Loan Number 3484 MA
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FEDERAL LAND
CONSOLIDATION AND REHABILITATION AUTHORITY (FELCRA).
      WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
MALAYSIA (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to ninety-four million dollars ($94,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that FELCRA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are set forth in this Agreement;
      WHEREAS FELCRA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
Page  2
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) FELCRA declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and FELCRA shall otherwise
agree, FELCRA shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. FELCRA shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
      Section 2.04. (a) FELCRA shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   FELCRA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the
performance by FELCRA of its obligations under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of FELCRA
      Section 3.01. FELCRA shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and agricultural practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff.
      Section 3.02. FELCRA shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
agricultural practices.
      Section 3.03. FELCRA shall take out and maintain with
Page  3
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) FELCRA shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   FELCRA shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                  and expenses and related statements) for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Bank;
             (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors
                  of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, FELCRA shall:
              (i) maintain in accordance with sound accounting
                  practices, separate records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
             (ii) retain until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
             (iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included
                  in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
                  of this Section and that the report thereof
                  contains in respect of such separate accounts, a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
                  the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn in respect of
                  such expenditures were used for the purposes for
                  which they were provided.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Page  4
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of FELCRA thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly notify FELCRA thereof.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      For FELCRA:
            Federal Land Consolidation and
              Rehabilitation Authority
            P.O. Box 12254
            50772 Kuala Lumpur
            Malaysia
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FELCRA                    MA 31789
                  Kuala Lumpur
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of FELCRA, or by FELCRA on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the
Director General or such other person or persons as the Director
General shall designate in writing, and FELCRA shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  5
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                              /s/ M. Callisto
                        By
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific
                        FEDERAL LAND CONSOLIDATION AND
                          REHABILITATION AUTHORITY
                              /s/ D. A. M. Mohamed
                        By
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in       Sections I and II of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Malaysia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for Agricultural Development (excluding fertilizers)
and contracts for civil works may be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertized locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; provided, however, that
contracts for Agricultural Development estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $40,000 each may be procured on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; provided further, that with the
Bank's prior approval, crop maintenance and planting material works
may be carried out by force account.
2.    Contracts for goods (excluding tractors, computer equipment,
and vehicles other than trailers, passenger cars and speedboats) may
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertized locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank; provided,
however, that contracts for goods (excluding tractors, computer
equipment, and vehicles other than trailers, passenger cars and
speedboats) estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000
per contract to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$1,000,000 may be procured on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
elegible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.    Contracts for planting materials may be procured directly from
Page  6
qualified suppliers in accordance with FELCRA's current procurement
procedures.
Part D:    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines shall apply.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist FELCRA in carrying out the Project, FELCRA
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
1.    FELCRA shall by December 31, 1992:
      (a) appoint an independent firm of accounting consultants, in
accordance with the provision of Section II of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, to carry out a financial management review of FELCRA's
accounting policies and practices;
      (b) establish and thereafter maintain a Plantation Division
and a Finance Division, each headed by a qualified and experienced
officer; and
      (c) incorporate into its planting directives and inspectorate
check lists, adequate environmental directives and guidelines.
2.    FELCRA shall, from time to time and at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank on its pilot program to devolve
to beneficiary institutions the management of palm oil processing
mills and agricultural schemes which have repaid their land
development loans, including the terms and conditions agreed upon or
proposed to be agreed upon.
